INTEGRATED REPORT 2012 INTEGRATED REPORT 2012 Summary 3. How to Read This Report 106. About the Report 4. Management Letter 108. Declaration of Application Level 8. Market Context 109. Correlations with the UN Global Compact Principles 10. Business Overview 110. Assurance Report 30. Corporate Identity 114. GRI Indices / Indicators 40. Business Model and Performance 145. Financial Statements 96. Risk Management 156. Report Production 100. Vision of the Future 2 How to Read This Report GRI 3.4 This report contains information on Votorantim Industrial (VID) The report also contains our complete audited financial for 2012. statements (FS), including the opinion of our external auditors and an assurance statement by an independent third party. In this report you will find information on our corporate identity, This information is also available on our website at: governance, businesses and their performance, risk management, www.votorantim.com.br/ri. actions on environmental issues and our relations with the community and other stakeholders. Your opinion on our report is very important to enable us to continually improve our reporting and management Throughout the report you will also find references to correlations processes. We would welcome your assistance by answering of Votorantim’s material issues with the indicators of the Global the questionnaire on our report at: http://www.votorantim.com. Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the principles of the United Nations br/en-us/pesquisarelatorioanual/pages/pesquisa.aspx. You can Global Compact (UNGC), both of which we use as guidelines also contact us by e-mail at: contato@vpar.com.br. for our operations and initiatives. We hope you find the report a good read! Guide to references GRI GRI UN Global Material Indicators Compact Issues Principles How to Read This Report Votorantim Industrial Report 3 Management For 2012 we have adopted the model of an integrated report Letter containing financial, social and environmental information. GRI 1.1,1.2,3.11 4 Three years ago, when we launched our first sustainability we developed a single combined annual report, which report, for the year 2010, we committed ourselves to dealing included financial information and sustainability indicators transparently with the opportunities and challenges which in one document. Now in 2012, we have taken a step further are inherent to Votorantim’s business activities and to and adopted the model of an integrated report (proposed continuing to invest in our growth in a consistent manner. by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)), which in addition to reporting on the organization’s financial Consequently, following our corporate governance principles, and sustainability information (financial, operational, social, in each new cycle of strategic planning we incorporated new and environmental), also relates this information to the market issues into our thinking and actions. At that time, we reported context, the business strategy and model, the corporate on our use of natural resources, on the generation of professional governance structure, and the group’s vision of the future. growth opportunities for our employees and of our increase in knowledge of the communities where our operations are located. From our very first sustainability report we have prepared Climate change and biodiversity issues were also on the agenda the reports according to the standards developed by the of issues most relevant to us at that time. Global Reporting Initiative. These standards have been adopted by a large majority of those major international companies It was also in that first sustainability report that we who are recognized for their high level of corporate governance. defined the material issues that were to be the key drivers Regardless of the classification that we would receive from GRI, of Votorantim’s strategy and actions in sustainability. our objective was to report only those indicators that we could From a strategic standpoint, these issues have become fully manage. In our first report in 2010, we reported on a total crucial factors in all of the Votorantim Group’s investment of 38 GRI indicators. In this report, we are now reporting on decisions, in order to ensure the sustainability of our business 62 GRI indicators. Much more than a mere numerical increase, in relation to both environmental limits and social questions. this represents a substantial advance in the maturity of the company’s approach to sustainability, which is now viewed In 2008, we had already validated our Sustainability Principles, as a management tool and linked to business development. which underlie the way we do business and the objectives we pursue. These Principles, allied to our Values, Management Beliefs Our strategic planning process now incorporates both and Vision, have contributed to motivating the group’s leadership short and long-term targets related to our material issues. and employees around common goals. Furthermore, we have linked our managers’ performance evaluation (and part of their variable remuneration) In 2011, we made a significant step forward, by committing to improvements in sustainability indicators. to adhere to the guidelines of the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, as part of our evolutionary approach, Management Letter Votorantim Industrial Report 5 “ We are investing R$ 15 billion between 2011 and 2013 to support our business growth. “ In relation to environmental issues, we spent more than In safety management, we regrettably recorded 12 fatalities R$ 520 million on activities and projects in 2012. We also in our operations in 2012, 6 in Brazil and 6 abroad. The occurrence conducted a major project to consolidate compliance with of these sad events led to a profound reflection in relation to our all of the environmental legislation requirements, which led operational controls and a reassessment of our procedures aimed to a significant improvement in our management of this area. at reversing this situation. These efforts are being coordinated In June 2012, we signed a memorandum of understanding with by the Thematic Teams of the Votorantim Management System, the State Government of São Paulo (SP) for the creation of the with the full involvement of the top leadership of the organization. largest privately-owned reserve of preserved Atlantic Rainforest in Brazil. The reserve extends for 35,000 hectares and is located The issue of safety has become even more relevant than before in the Juquiá river basin, in the southern part of the State of due to the rapid progress in our process of internationalization. São Paulo. Within the area of the reserve Votorantim operates The challenges associated with operating in more countries are a complex of eight hydroelectric plants. The surrounding area has even greater, not only in regard to safety issues, but also in been preserved for more than 50 years, in a clear demonstration of relation to the dissemination of Votorantim’s corporate identity, the long-term nature of the group’s vision of the future. Votorantim represented by our Sustainability Principles, Values, Management acquired the land surrounding the rivers in the region in order Beliefs and Vision. to avoid deforestation and to guarantee the preservation of the network of springs, thereby ensuring a plentiful and permanent Between 2011 and 2013, we plan to invest around R$ 15 billion supply of water for both the population in the region and the to achieve our expansion goals in Brazil and overseas. In 2012, operation of the plants. The partnership with the State Government in the Cement Business we completed the asset swap with aims to contribute to scientific research, ecosystem conservation, Cimpor and began to operate in five new countries in Europe, and development of programs, projects and actions involving Asia and Africa which are of great strategic importance to our local communities and governments, with the overall objective international expansion. These assets added 16.3 million tons (t) of making the reserve the nucleus of sustainable development to our production capacity. We also strengthened our presence in the region. in the basic construction materials market in South America, by increasing our shareholdings in companies in Uruguay In 2012, the Votorantim Institute celebrated 10 years of activities, and Argentina. with an accumulated amount of R$ 461 million in social investments, of which 70% were funded from its own resources. The Institute In the Mining and Metals Business, it was a year was instrumental in defining the approach to prioritizing the when companies around the world suffered from the effects municipalities directing our social investments, as from 2013, of the global economic situation. It was also a year when we in projects and local development initiatives. In a further initiative strove to bring our operational results into balance by focusing aimed at local community development, we completed new research on improving our customer relationships and product mix. on our supply chains with the aim of identifying opportunities We strengthened our mining business by giving support to create shared value in the locations where we operate. This to important projects that could be developed and made project will begin to be implemented in 2013. operational in the short term, such as metallurgical coal 6 “ We believe that sustainability is one of the most effective ways to generate value for the organization.” in Colombia and alumina in Pará, as well as our copper, zinc, For 2013 and the succeeding years our growth prospects lead and silver operations in Peru. are positive. We foresee an improvement in those international markets to which we export a large part of our production. In the Steel Business, we inaugurated our rolling mill at Sitrel We are confident in Brazil’s capacity to complete the major (Siderúrgica Três Lagoas) at the end of 2012, with an installed infrastructure projects necessary for the country’s development. capacity of 400,000 tons per annum (p.a.) of steel. This will We also see business opportunities, principally in cement, supply demand from the construction and infrastructure concrete, steel and aluminum, from construction related markets in the Center-West region. to the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympic Games in 2016. In the Pulp Business the highlight in 2012 was the setting up For a company that is reaching 95 years of history in 2013, of a joint-venture (JV) between Fibria and the American company continuing on the path toward sustainability, which we started Ensyn Corporation (Ensyn) for the production of bio-fuels from some years ago, means only the beginning of a long journey. biomass from timber, as an alternative to using eucalyptus fiber. Is also a journey of no return. Our challenges, as will be demonstrated throughout this report, are many. But we believe With respect to the Orange Juice Business we are now capturing in our ability to overcome them, as an organization, and with the synergies from the merger, in 2011, between Citrosuco and the commitment of our employees to this cause. Citrovita. In 2012, we completed the integration of the two companies and the new company adopted the name Citrosuco. We now face We operate in an increasingly globalized and dynamic the challenge of promoting the increased consumption of orange market, with easy access to technology and with the constant juice, especially in our international markets. emergence of new competitors in other countries some of which, on occasion, ignore certain ethical principles that for In the area of power generation we operate 30 hydroelectric us are non-negotiable. In this context, what ultimately makes plants and 5 cogeneration plants which together supply 58% of the a difference in the market is not only the technical quality and electric power consumed by the Votorantim Group. In 2013, we will operational efficiency of companies, but also the added-value of widen the focus of Votorantim Energia’s activities by marketing our their products and services. We are convinced that sustainability, expertise in energy management to future customers. in its broadest sense, is one of the most effective ways to add value to our business. In 2012 we restructured our risk management and compliance areas both in the corporate center and the business divisions, by the creation of a formal monitoring method. Risks were discussed and prioritized according to the degree of criticality and their impacts on costs and operations, whether financial, operational or strategic. José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes Raul Calfat Chairman of the Board Chief Executive Officer of VotorantimParticipações (VPar) Votorantim Industrial Management Letter Votorantim Industrial Report 7 Market In 2012, world growth was lower than forecast. Context Global market biggest economy, Germany, did not go into recession, but registered a mere 0.8% growth. At the other extreme, At the end of 2011, the market’s expectations for 2012 China and India, although growing less than expected, were grounded in cautious optimism. Despite an IMF report’s ended the year with robust growth rates of 7.8% and title of “Deceleration of Growth, Rising Risks”, this report, 5.4%, respectively. published in 2011, forecast relatively strong rates of growth for global Gross Domestic Product (GDP) for 2012 and 2013, 4.0% and 4.5% respectively. Brazilian market In line with this forecast, growth was in fact strong in the first Even though Brazil’s economic performance in 2012 caused quarter of 2012. Industrial production grew 7.5% worldwide frustration in world markets, with a growth in GDP of only and the future price index for metal commodities, as measured 0.9%, the National Confederation of Industry (CNI) announced by the Commodity Research Bureau, increased 10%. Markets positive results. were optimistic as to global economic stability in the following months since, in the US, an agreement was reached to resolve In 2012 industrial turnover, compared to 2011, rose in 12 tax issues and, in Europe, measures were agreed to maintain of the 19 industry sectors surveyed by the CNI. The largest the economic stability of Greece. increase was recorded in the pulp and paper industry, where the indicator rose 28.2% and in manufacturing, despite However, this positive situation soon evaporated and the adverse market conditions, sales rose by 2.4%. the markets returned to a vision of macroeconomic instability and slowed global growth due to the following factors: firstly, The real estate sector in Brazil suffered from the economic the impasse in Europe, which raised long-term interest rates and slowdown. However, the pace of the cement market remained destabilized important economies like Spain and Italy; secondly, above average, driven by favorable dynamics of the labor the electoral contest in the US, which made it impossible market. The country’s unemployment rate ended the year 2012 to negotiate a reasonable solution to soften the effects at 5.5%, according to the Monthly Employment Survey (PME) of the “fiscal cliff”; and, thirdly, the decision of the Chinese published by the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics government, fearful of generating new imbalances, to not apply (IBGE). Also, according to the IBGE, this was the lowest annual the same level of stimulus that had been introduced in 2009. figure since records began in March 2002. A study released by the magazine The Economist reported Government concessions and public-private partnerships that that the world economy had grown by 3% in 2012, for the construction of roads, railways, ports and airports despite it being a difficult year. The largest economy in the maintained the boom in the infrastructure sector and this will world, the U.S., grew a little over 2%, confirming a trend continue to be a growth factor for investments in the coming of gradual recovery which began in 2010, after the global years. In 2012, the Brazilian Development Bank (BNDES) financial crisis of 2009. approved R$ 133 billion in projects related to infrastructure and the total investment in the sector, according to estimates The euro zone countries as a whole were in recession by the Brazilian Association of Infrastructure and Basic Industry in 2012, with a fall in GDP of around 0.4%. The region’s (ABIDB), reached the level of 2.5% of GDP. Market Context Votorantim Industrial Report 9 Business We are celebrating 95 years of business Overview activities in 2013. In 2013, the Votorantim Group is celebrating 95 years GRI Business divisions of business activities. In this period of almost a century 2.1, 2.2, 2.3, 2.6, we have built a large Organization with a diverse range Votorantim Industrial (VID) is a privately2.7, 2.8, of businesses and opportunities and we strive continually 3.6, 3.8 held, 100% Brazilian-owned company. to conduct our activities in an ethical, responsible It is the industrial arm of the Votorantim and conscientious manner. Group, one of the largest business conglomerates in the country. We have In our daily routine we seek to effectively integrate a diversified portfolio of businesses sustainability issues into our strategy and business controlled by a centralized management operations, demonstrating that it is the same energy structure. We began our activities in 1918, and the same direction that inspire us to achieve results, in Brazil. whether of a financial or a non-financial nature. Our business model is based on investing Thus, we have, as the core driver of our strategy: in a diversified portfolio of businesses which offer a wide range of products, services Long-term growth, with responsibility. and business opportunities. In the following sections we have summarized the important At the end of 2012 we had 54,303* employees elements of our strategy, activities and performance for each (including permanent employees, trainees, of our business divisions. apprentices and temporary farm workers) and 75,231 third-party contract staff. *Note: the total number of employees in this report is different from the figure published in the Management Report due to updated numbers for the employees of Votorantim Cimentos North America (VCNA) and Milpo, Peru. In VID’s central corporate areas there are 900 employees. Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 11 Our business divisions can be summarized as follows: VOTORANTIM INDUSTRIAL (VID) – BUSINESS DIVISIONS Business Division Products / Services Aspiration Votorantim Cement, concrete, aggregates (gravel and sand) Remain as one of the largest building materials Cimentos and complementary products such as: mortar, companies in the world through vertical integration (VC) hydrated lime, lime paint, blocks, tiles, white and geographic diversification, observing standards cement and agricultural lime. that ensure a sustainable level of profitability. Votorantim Aluminum, zinc, nickel, copper, silver, metallic indium, • Zinc: To be among the leading integrated Metais (VM) metallurgical coal, cobalt, cadmium, anhydrous sodium low-cost producers and have a global presence. sulfate, copper sulfate, zinc oxide, sulfuric acid, • Nickel: To improve the competitiveness powdered lime and mineral concentrates. of our operational assets and broaden our base of mineral reserves. • Aluminum: To be the market leader in primary aluminum, downstream products and recycling in Brazil. • Other metals: To evaluate opportunities and develop or enhance exploration. Votorantim Long steel bars. To be a leading player in the Latin American market Siderurgia for long steel bars. (VS) Votorantim Company-owned electric power generation. To contribute to increasing the competitiveness Energia (VE) of the business divisions, by ensuring the supply of electric power and natural gas with competitive pricing and reduced risk. Fibria Pulp. To maintain our position as the market leader and be a preferred supplier to large customers. Citrosuco Orange juice (fresh and concentrate). To maintain our position as the industry leader in orange juice. 12 Geographical Distribution of Operations / Market Focus Commercial Activity • To grow organically by increasing our production capacity, • Operations and performance in Brazil. both by the expansion of our existing facilities and by the opening • Operations and performance overseas: of new plants. North America, South America, Europe, • To increase the degree of internationalization of our business Asia and Africa. through acquisitions and investments in increased capacity. • To offer an increasingly diverse range of products and services, making us a company specializing in basic construction materials. • To improve processes. • To strengthen the integrated production process. • Operations and performance in Brazil. • To ensure efficiency and offer quality products at competitive prices. • Overseas: operating plants in Peru, Colombia, the U.S. and China and • To seek viable opportunities for the exploration of new mineral reserves global commercial activities. and creation of new products. • To strengthen our operations in Peru. • To increase the participation of the steel business in VID’s portfolio. • Operations and performance in Brazil. • To develop new opportunities. • Operation and activities in Latin America: Colombia and Argentina. • To improve customer relationships and loyalty. • To integrate and coordinate all of VID’s company-owned power • Operations and performance in Brazil. generation operations. • To ensure the supply of electric power and natural gas to VID, thereby contributing to the increased competitiveness of the business divisions. • To coordinate VID’s Energy Efficiency Program. • To maintain our position as the world leader in the production of pulp • Operations in Brazil and worldwide from eucalyptus. • To manage renewable and sustainable forests. • To ensure access to timber for current operations and future growth. • To maintain our position as the largest producer of orange juice • Operations and performance in Brazil. in the world. • Overseas: operating facilities in the U.S. • To strengthen our export-oriented profile. and global commercial activities. • To strengthen our expertise along the entire production chain and seek out new opportunities. Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 13 Lighter-weight bicycles are made of aluminum. The uses of our products and services Our products and services are used in many everyday applications, such as: general construction, infrastructure projects, roof tiles, water tanks, floor coverings, cars, airplanes, electric power pylons, industrial machinery, gates, bicycle chains, crops, sunscreens, detergents, refrigerators, disposable diapers, cosmetics and many other items that people use every day. Zinc oxide is used in making cosmetic products. Buckles for handbags are made of zamac, which is an alloy made from aluminum, copper, zinc and magnesium. Metal posts, in general, are galvanized with zinc. Antennas are made from steel galvanized with zinc. Zamac (an alloy of aluminum, copper, zinc and magnesium) Tires contain zinc oxide is used in castings. and car wheels are made of aluminum. Electric power is used in industries, commerce and residences. Steel products such as rebar (in bars or coils), angle-brackets and wires are used in many types of construction activities. EN CIM TO Cement, concrete, mortar and aggregates are used in construction in general. 14 Aluminum is used in the manufacture of plane fuselages, buses and cars. Paving made from concrete is highly durable. Aluminum is used in the manufacture of wires and cables. Household appliances have paint that contains zinc and components that are galvanized with zinc or nickel. Orange juice is packed in cartons which are made of paper (from pulp) coated with aluminum sheet de Suco ja Laran Detergente Anhydrous sodium sulfate, a by-product of nickel production, is used by the soap and detergent industry. Paper for personal hygiene and general use are produced from pulp. Zinc oxide is used in fertilizers for agriculture. Agricultural lime is used to correct soil acidity. Automotive parts may contain zinc, nickel and aluminum. Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 15 Where we operate GRI Our headquarters are located in the city Compared to the previous year, we have undergone 2.4, 2.5, of São Paulo in Brazil and we operate in 21 changes to the geographical distribution of our business 2.9 countries overseas: Argentina, Australia, Austria, with the expansion of our international operations in Belgium, Bolivia, Canada, Chile, China, Colombia, Spain, India, China, Turkey, Morocco and Tunisia, as well Hungary, India, Japan, Morocco, Peru, South Africa, as a new mine in Peru. In addition, Votorantim Metais Spain, Switzerland, Tunisia, Turkey, the United opened an office in South Africa, to evaluate projects States, and Uruguay. in the whole of the African continent. 16 In total, we have the following plants and facilities: • Fibria: 3 fully-owned pulp plants and • Votorantim Metais VM: 4 aluminum plants; 1 pulp plant with shared management; 8 zinc plants; and 3 nickel plants; • Citrosuco: 5 orange juice plants; • Votorantim Siderurgia VS: 5 steel plants; • Votorantim Cimentos VC: 1 limestone mine, 3 iron-ore mines, 16 cut-and-bend 34 cement plants; 22 grinding mills; centers; 5 metal-recycling facilities; and 1 forested area. 13 mortar plants; 328 concrete plants; • Votorantim Energia VE: 30 hydroelectric power 84 facilities for aggregate products; plants (20 company-owned and 10 participations 2 lime plants; and 1 clinker plant. In addition in consortiums) and 5 co-generation plants in Brazil. we have participations in: 8 cement plants; 3 grinding mills; 65 concrete plants; 1 mortar plant; 18 facilities for aggregate products; 3 lime plants; and 1 clinker plant; Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 17 GRI Material issues 4.12,4.17 Our material issues (for sustainability) have been consultations was the validation of the proposed identified based on substantial research and analysis material issues, and some suggestions for the inclusion including: analysis of the impacts of environmental of further issues, which will be incorporated into the limits and social questions on the long-term strategic planning process in 2013. sustainability of our businesses using the methodology The Natural Step; discussions among senior All together we validated the 9 material issues management, with the support of specialized which are considered to be the most critical for VID. consultants, on the business implications of our These material issues have been integrated into our Sustainability Principles; and benchmarking with strategic positioning and represent our key challenges companies that had already undergone a similar process to advance towards the long-term sustainability where comparable to VID, either because they had of our businesses, and to ensure consistency with operations in the same industry sectors or because they both our corporate identity, represented by our also managed a diversified business portfolio. In 2012, Vision, Aspirations, Values, Management Beliefs we submitted these material issues to the scrutiny of and Sustainability Principles, and the specific strategies our principal stakeholder groups. The result of these of each business division. Our material issues are: 1 a 10 Responsible growth Pages Correlated 1 An organized approach to corporate governance is essential to ensuring 34, 40, 43, 79, 83, 85, 89, the realization of VID’s vision statement. 91 e 94 Products, services and customers 2 Through our diverse portfolio of products, we are in a position to promote 26, 80, 83, 91, 94 e 96 sustainability values in the supply chain and to stimulate responsible consumption. Supply chain 3 As the leading company in our supply chain we encourage suppliers to adopt 3, 33 e 47 sustainability practices which are in line with Votorantim’s compliance standards and best practices in order to reduce risks and maximize opportunities. Occupational health and safety, including of third parties 4 Ensuring the welfare, health and safety of our employees and contractors 48 is a basic premise of our operations, which, by their nature, involve certain kinds of risks. Employee development 5 Our employees are the foundation of value creation by the organization 50, 52 e 54 and are essential to promoting our growth. By the development of our employees’ skills we can contribute to building a more just and inclusive society. 18 Votorantim Institute: Project Supported in Minas Gerais Relations with, and development of, the communities where we operate Pages Correlated 6 We are a part of the communities where we operate and can contribute 57 e 58 to their development both socially and in the preservation of the environment, thereby creating value for all. Eco-efficiency and the responsible use of resources 7 We use large amounts of raw materials and energy in our processes 62, 64, 65, 68 e 69 and so we need to guarantee the availability and efficient use of these productive resources in the long term. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from industrial activity 8 As a large emitter of GHGs we are committed to following the best practices 68, 71 e 73 and international agreements on climate change and constantly seek to reduce our emissions. Biodiversity and ecosystem services 9 As owners and users of large areas of land located in regions which are important 74 from the perspective of biodiversity and ecosystem services we are committed to being in line with international conservation agreements in order to ensure the sustainability of natural resources in the long term. Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 19 Challenges and commitments Since our material issues were formalized in 2011, we have closely followed our progress on each issue. We have also defined short-term (2013) and long-term (2020) goals for each issue, which we believe demonstrates the consistency of our positioning and our transparency in regard to our sustainability commitments. OUR CHALLENGES (MATERIAL ISSUES) PUBLIC COMMITMENTS – 2012 STATUS 2012 To incorporate the results of stakeholder consultations 1. Responsible growth in the strategic planning process. Start to study the life-cycle assessment (LCA) of the most 2. Products, services and customers important products. Develop and publish a corporate policy for contracting 3. Supply Chain local suppliers. Standardize the treatment for critical risks in all VID’s business 4. Occupational health and safety, divisions (accessibility, signing, and investments in equipment including third parties vulnerable to critical risks). Define criteria and the process for data consolidation 5. Employee development on internal recruitment across all business divisions (fill vacancies with internal resources). Legend: Achieved In progress Under study 20 WHAT WE DID IN 2012 TARGETS FOR 2013/2020 2013: D evelop a corporate plan for engagement with strategic stakeholders. To have incorporated the results of the stakeholder consultations, which took place between the end of 2011 and the middle of 2012, in the 2020: The inclusion of sustainability issues in strategic strategic planning process. Specific targets have been set for each area. planning, systems, controls and management of goals, implemented in all of VID’s operations. Prepare LCA studies for zinc, nickel and aluminum. Certified the steel products of the Barra Mansa and Resende plants under the ABNT Environmental Label. 2013: Implement a pilot project to identify attributes of value creation for customers. Made a partnership with the Brazil Steel Institute, to test some methodologies for applying LCA in steel products. 2020: To have mapped the life cycle of our main products. LCA studies for exports of pulp to customers in Europe and the tissue paper segment are being developed 2013: Implement a pilot program to develop local suppliers. Developed a corporate policy for local suppliers and included minimum 2020: To have met the corporate policy requirements criteria in the process for supplier approval/registration. for contracting local suppliers for all VID’s business divisions. Implemented an audit protocol for critical risks. 2013: Implement an awareness program on risks Expanded training at the School of Health and Safety in the Votorantim and fatalities. Academy by inclusion of the “Safety Vision for Senior Management” program aimed at presidents, directors and general managers. 2020: A chieve a frequency rate of accidents with lost time Conducted two workshops for top management on Safety and of less than 1, in every business division. Management of Third Parties. Implemented a panel of indicators for human resource management (DHO). Four groups of indicators: short-term, long-term, culture and governance. The internal mobility program announced 165 vacancies of which 98 (59%) were filled by existing employees. 2013: Implement the “EVP” program (Employee Launched the “Indicar” program which seeks to receive suggestions Value Proposition). of candidates for recruitment from our employees. Developed the “Potenciar (Realize Potential)” program which brings 2020: To have 80% of leadership positions filled from together trainees and selected young employees to participate in internal candidates. a process of professional development with a leadership profile. At the management level we achieved a rate of 70% of internal recruitment and transfer between the business divisions. In 2011 this rate was 65%. Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 21 OUR CHALLENGES (MATERIAL ISSUES) PUBLIC COMMITMENTS – 2012 STATUS 2012 6. Relations with. and development of, Establish criteria for prioritizing locations for implementation the communities where we operate of socioeconomic development programs. Maintaining stability in consumption per ton produced. 7. Eco-efficiency and the responsible use of resources Complete the mapping of waste and the analysis of opportunities. 8. Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions from Apply carbon analysis to large VID projects industrial activity Customize a model for assessing impacts on ecosystem services 9. Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services for use by VID. Legend: Achieved In progress Under study 22 WHAT WE DID IN 2012 TARGETS FOR 2013/2020 2013: Implement a pilot program for the long-term Developed a tool for prioritizing the locations where we will planning of social activities. implement development actions which are aligned to the Millennium Development Goals. 2020: Implement social business strategy, aligned with the Millennium Development Goals, to qualify the Through the Networks program, a partnership between the relationship and to contribute to the development Votorantim Institute and the BNDES, 45 projects were selected to receive of communities in 100% of the operations classified non-refundable grants, aimed at fostering local production chains. as priorities.* Project and energy efficiency management that resulted in an 2013: Improving energy efficiency by 0.4% in our improvement of 0.37% in energy efficiency. Savings of 859,500 GJ industrial plants. equivalent to R $ 9.2 million. 2020: Improving energy efficiency by 5% per ton of Identified 8 possible projects for replacement of current biomass inputs. production (base 2010). Fortaleza de Minas / MG significantly increased the co-processing of waste (slag) for the cement industry. Continue with research into the opportunities for the re-use of red mud. Juiz de Fora began to process part of its Class I waste in its 2013: C  arry out a feasibility analysis for identifying waste polymetals facility. with recycling potential. Steel division reduced the amount of hazardous waste disposed of 2020: Reduce the disposal of hazardous waste to landfill by in landfills by 43% (26,000 tons in 2010 to approximately 15,000 tons 50% and the external use of dams for metallurgical in 2012). The main change was in relation to the disposal of electric mineral waste by 50% (base 2010 in relation to the arc furnace dust. This waste is now feedstock for the Juiz de Fora plant waste generated / ton product). of Votorantim Metais. Fibria developed alternatives for the re-use and re-cycling in its Aracruz and Jacareí plants, especially with the use of biomass as fuel. Developed and implemented a methodology for the analysis of new projects regarding the possible options for reducing the GHG emissions of 2013: C  onduct a study on the IFC’s Equator Principles the project and for the evaluation of the impact of carbon in its operations. aiming at the improvement of our social and Expanded the carbon inventory to include 32 suppliers, through an initiative environmental management. of the CEBDS Thematic Group for Energy and Climate Change. Paid for the 2020: Maintain or reduce the amount of carbon emissions training of these suppliers, which will enable the improvement of per ton of production (base 2010). Votorantim’s carbon footprint. Conducted a study to evaluate the tools for assessing dependency and the valuation of ecosystem services (in partnership with the Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development-CEBDS and other companies). Initiated the implementation of ESR (Ecosystems Services Review) methodology in a pilot plant, through the PESE (Business Partnership for 2013: Complete the pilot project for the ESR methodology. Ecosystem Services), an initiative of the WRI (World Resource Institute), 2020: Evaluate the impacts of ecosystems and value CEBDS and FGV. biodiversity at VID’s major plants. Expanded this methodology to four other Votorantim operations. Systematized information on biodiversity in regions where we have activities. Prepared a plan to map the degree of conservation of the priority areas. *Note: The target was changed in relation to 2011, with the aim of making it more objective, thereby facilitating its measurement. These overall commitments and targets for VID were broken down by business division and their respective strategic plans include formal commitments and targets from 2013 onwards. These commitments and targets will be used in the steering of each business division and will affect the variable remuneration of the management team. Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 23 GRI Stakeholder engagement 3.5, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, EIn 2012 the validation process for our identified public sector entities, civil society organizations 4.17 material issues and the possible identification of and trade associations. In total 51 interviews were new issues advanced to a higher level with the carried out. inclusion of stakeholder consultations, which we believe will contribute to the overall improvement The overall conclusion was that the nine of the Organization. material issues already being prioritized should be maintained. Other issues surfaced, such as: With the support of specialized consultants certain aspects of legislation and legal issues, (BSD Consulting) we defined the scope of our operating license management, mechanisms first consultation with external stakeholders at for identifying and resolving grievances and the corporate level. This consultation, by means conflicts, etc. The new issues will be analyzed of interviews, was carried out at the end of 2011 in the strategic planning process for 2013. and during the first half of 2012. The objective was to collect information and opinions that would help This consultation process will now take place every us to assess the challenges and commitments two years, with different groups of stakeholders, on the already identified priority issues as well so that we have access to information and opinions as to identify possible adjustments and new relevant to the continuous improvement of our material issues. operations and actions. This first consultation with VID’s external stakeholders Besides this consultation through interviews, included representatives of: institutional investors, the stakeholder engagement process also included experts, the financial sector, media, government, specific actions with each stakeholder group. Our Materiality Matrix is as follows: • Sustainable use of resources • Traceability and control • Succession • Pollution prevention and • Leadership and social influence of the production chain • Mechanisms for the identification and license management LEVEL OF IMPORTANCE FOR EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS • Contribution to Brazilian solution of complaints and conflicts • Community involvement industrial development • Employee training • Indirect economic impacts • Local development • Financial health • Sustainable consumption and fund-raising capacity • Guaranteeing workers’ rights • Management of impacts on biodiversity • Climate change • Fighting corruption and the formation • Worker health and safety/ • Respect for minorities • Integrated management of cartels Risks and accidents at work • Respect for rights and customs • Management remuneration practices • Social investment • Protection of the health and safety of the consumer • Protection and privacy of consumer information • Consumer service • Fair contractual practices Nível deIMPORTANCE LEVEL OF FORpara importância a empresa THE COMPANY 24 Strategy HumanRights SupplierManagement Environment Emissions Eco-efficiency Communication PublicPolicy Internationalization Safety Legislation Social Transparency WorkPractices Biodiversity Competition Production ResourcesandMaterials Climate Training Governance ValueChain LocalDevelopment Ratings Our high level of operational and financial management is reflected in our “investment grade” rating, which enables us to access lower interest rates on borrowings in both the national and international financial markets. Votorantim Industrial is classified as investment grade by three of the most important global rating agencies, as follows: Rating Agency National Scale Global Scale Perspective Last updated Standard & Poor‘s brAAA BBB Stable Nov/12 Moody‘s Aa1.br Baa3 Stable Apr/12 Fitch Ratings AAA(bra) BBB Stable May/12 In 2012, Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s maintained their Brazilian market. This increase in rating is in line with ‘BBB’ and ‘Baa3’ ratings respectively, while Fitch Rating raised our objective to achieve credit metrics which are consistent our rating from “BBB-” to “BBB” (on March 29). According with those required for the maintenance of an investment to Fitch Rating the rating increase was based on our strong grade rating. capital structure and the fact that we were well positioned to benefit from the increased demand for cement in the Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 25 Certifications We have obtained the following certifications: GRI 4.12 2 Certifications Nº. of Facilities Standard Description Certified Business International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 9001 Quality management systems. 35 VC/FIBRIA/VS/VM ISO 14001 Environmental management. 24 VC/FIBRIA/VS/VM ISO 50001 Energy management. 1 VC ISO 20000 Excellence in information technology (IT) management. 1 VID OHSAS 18001 Certification in occupational health and safety management. 7 VC/FIBRIA/VM ISO 17025 Certification in the general requirements for the operations of calibration laboratories. 3 FIBRIA/VM Social Accountability Standard SA8000 Social responsibility. 1 VC/VM Halal Certification of products prepared according to Islamic dietary rules. 5 CITROSUCO Kosher Certification of products prepared according to the dietary laws of Judaism. 7 CITROSUCO PDV Certification of food safety. 2 CITROSUCO SAS 70 Certification Statement on Audit Standard No. 70 Type II. 1 VID Rainforest Alliance Certified Environmental certification. 7 FIBRIA / CITROSUCO FSSC 22000 (Food Safety System Certification of safety management systems for food processing, including risk Certification) control in the supply chain. 2 CITROSUCO These Standards aim to ensure the safety of foods for animals along the supply chain. GMP+ The certification is for citrus pulp pellets destined for consumption by animals. 3 CITROSUCO SGF/IRMA (Sure-Global-Fair / International The SGF/IRMA is a voluntary control system that attests that raw material suppliers Raw Material for European industries are in conformity with the required conditions, principally Assurance) in relation to hygiene and processing. 4 CITROSUCO AIB (American Institute The AIB International consolidated standards are key requisites that must be of Baking) complied with by manufacturers for the safe processing of food. 2 CITROSUCO Falcão Bauer label of approval Environmental Performance. 2 VS Brazilian Association of Technical Standards (ABNT) environmental Voluntary standard which reflects global practices for the certification and labeling labeling of the environmental performance of products or services. 2 VS This standard attests that the products do not emit toxic substances that could affect Votomassa Greenguard air quality or people’s health. product line VC VC Certification of eco-efficient concrete products by the ReadyMixed Concrete CBM Ready Mix ECO Association of Ontario, Canada. 25 (Canadá) 1 VC Certification of energy efficient products by the Environmental Protection Agency of Suwannee American Energy Star the United States. Cement LLC (SAC) Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Certification of forest management. 5 FIBRIA Brazilian Program for Forest Certification (CERFLOR) Certification of forest management. 7 FIBRIA 26 VID implements Sarbanes-Oxley In 2012, we obtained an opinion from PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) indicating that our system of internal controls was in line with the rules established in the U.S. Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) legislation. SOX aims to improve the internal financial and accounting controls of companies, in order to ensure management transparency, accounting credibility and the security of confidential information. Although the SOX legislation established criteria for listed companies, i.e. those with shares traded on stock exchanges, VID opted to adhere to this process to demonstrate the high level of development of our corporate governance and internal processes and controls. Voluntary commitments GRI 4.12 1 a 10 We are signatories of, or voluntarily adhere to, the following commitments: GLOBAL VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS BRAZILIAN VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS • UN Global Compact: Since 2011, Votorantim Industrial has • Open Letter to Brazil on Climate Change: Votorantim been a signatory of the Global Compact. This is an initiative of Industrial is a signatory to this initiative, established in the United Nations (UN) whose aim is to mobilize the business 2009. The participating companies have made a series community to adopt certain internationally accepted and of commitments to reduce the impacts of climate change fundamental values and practices in relation to human rights, and also have presented proposals for action to the labor relations, the environment and the fight against corruption. Brazilian federal government. More information at: http:// More information at: http://www.unglobalcompact.org/ www.forumempresarialpeloclima.org.br/default.php • Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI): The CSI is an • Programa Na Mão Certa (“Right Direction international protocol adopted by a group of the largest Program”): Fibria and Votorantim Cement became producers of construction materials in the world, and that are signatories to the “Business Compact”, an initiative committed to sustainable development. The initiative promotes of Childhood Brazil and the Ethos Institute of Business the exchange of experiences between its participants and the and Social Responsibility, with technical support from the dissemination of best practices. The participating organizations International Labour Organization. The Business Compact take on voluntary commitments and targets related to social is an integral part of the “Right Direction” Program and and environmental issues. Votorantim Cimentos formally promotes the incorporation of the fight against the sexual adhered to the CSI as a founding member in 1999. More exploitation of children and adolescents on Brazilian information at: http://www.wbcsdcement.org/ highways into the social responsibility strategies of the participating companies. More information at: http://www.namaocerta.org.br Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 27 GLOBAL VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS BRAZILIAN VOLUNTARY COMMITMENTS • Carbon Development Project (CDP) Supply Chain: • Business Charter for the Conservation and Fibria is a participant in the CDP Supply Chain project as a Sustainable Use of Biodiversity: Fibria signed this sector leader. It was the first company in the global forestry charter in 2009, thereby assuming a set of commitments sector to achieve this status. Under this commitment the on preserving biodiversity in Brazil. More information at: company must take climate risks in its supply chain into http://www1.ethos.org.br/EthosWeb/pt/4635/servicos_do_ consideration in future investment decisions and also mobilize portal/noticias/itens/ethos_e_meb_articulam_protecao_da_ its suppliers to take on commitments to manage climate biodiversidade_no_brasil.aspx change within their own companies. More information at: https://www.cdproject.net/en-US/Programmes/Pages/ CDP-Supply-Chain.aspx • Water Footprint Network (WFN): Fibria is a member • Brazil Vision 2050: Votorantim Industrial participated in of the Water Footprint Network, which seeks to strengthen its drafting the guidelines for the document “Brazil Vision commitment to sustainable development through the strategic 2050”.The participating companies defined a work agenda management and rational use of water, based on the WFN that was later presented at the United Nations Conference guidelines. This initiative measures and discloses the impacts on Sustainable Development in Rio de Janeiro (Rio+20) of human consumption and production on water resources. Conference in June 2012. More information at: http://cebds. More information at: http://www.waterfootprint.org org.br/cebds-lanca-visao-brasil-2050-uma-nova-agenda-denegocios-para-o-pais/ • New Generation Plantations Project: Fibria • Atlantic Rainforest Restoration Pact: Fibria participates is a participant in this project, which involves businesses in this pact which aims to integrate the efforts of public and governments, and aims to evaluate and implement and private institutions, governments, businesses and the forest management concepts and techniques that best homeowners in order to leverage results in: the conservation meet the combined demands of forestry economic activity, of biodiversity; the generation of employment and income biodiversity conservation and human needs. This initiative was in the production chain for restoration activities; created by the World Wildlife Foundation. More information maintenance, valuation and payment for environmental at: http://www.newgenerationplantations.com/ services; and the development of an appropriate legal framework for the agricultural activities in the 17 states of the Atlantic Rainforest biome. More information at: http://www.pactomataatlantica.org.br • Forest Footprint Disclosure: Fibria participated in this survey • Charcoal Sustainability Protocol: Votorantim Siderurgia, which aimed to assess how companies operated in forest along with other steel companies operating in Brazil, signed management in terms of their “forest footprint” based on their a protocol in 2012 aimed at ensuring that the pig iron used dependence on five main commodities, namely, soy, palm oil, or manufactured employed charcoal produced from planted timber, cattle products and bio-fuels, in both their own eucalyptus forests as a raw material in its production. This operations and/or supply chains. The survey was first held in document was prepared under the supervision of the Brazil 2010 and the report indicated Fibria as a company which was Steel Institute (IABr) and applies to all its members. More committed to using 100% certified wood in the near future. information at: http://www.acobrasil.org.br/site/portugues/ More information at: http://www.forestdisclosure.com/ sustentabilidade/sustentabilidade-carvao-vegetal.asp 28 GRI Honors and awards 2.10 In 2012, the companies of the Votorantim Group The Juiz de Fora (MG) plant was the winner of the received a number of honors and awards, of which “Brazil Protection Prize 2012” in the category we would like to, highlight the following: “SST Policies for Outsourced Staff”, for its case study on “Management of Outsourced Staff”. • Antonio Ermírio de Moraes, businessman and former VM’s zinc division was awarded the prize for “Mining controlling shareholder of Votorantim, was decorated Environmental Management” by the Brazilian with the Bandeirantes Medal, which is considered Union for Quality (UBQ), with the support of the to be the highest honor awarded by the State government of the State of Minas Gerais, for its of São Paulo to its citizens. The medal was presented management practices and its focus on sustainability by Governor Geraldo Alckmin to Luís Ermírio employed at the Morro Agudo plant in Paracatu, MG. de Moraes, the son of Antonio Ermírio, and a member of the Board of Directors. • Votorantim Steel received the Ruy Ohtake Trophy (19th edition of the ranking for the industry’s • Votorantim Cimentos received the following reputation and image, organized by the magazine honors and awards: Revenda Construção). VS was awarded 2nd place for Survey on the Most Admired Companies in Brazil “Best supplier of steel bars”. This award was based on organized by the Carta Capital magazine in the a survey of retailers in the building materials sector. category: “Manufacturer of Construction Materials”. VS also received an “honorable mention” in the Pini Prize 2012: Best supplier to the construction Anamaco 2012 Awards in the category “Steel bars.” industry in the categories “Portland Cement” and “Concreto Dosado em Central”. • For Fibria we would like to highlight Anamaco Award 2012: 1st place in the following recognition: “Cement and Hydrated Lime” and 2nd place The “ANPEI Seal of the Innovative Company” in “Adhesive Mortars”. awarded by the National Association for Research T op Anamaco Award 2012: “Sales and Marketing” and Development of Innovative Companies for the projects “VC em Campo” and “Cartão (ANPEI), in recognition of companies that invest VC Mais”. in innovation and development in Brazil. 16th “Best Product of the Year” Award by Fibria was ranked among the 100 most the “Revenda Construção” magazine: 1st place in sustainable companies in Brazil by Imprensa the “Cement” category. In addition, we obtained magazine. The selection criteria were based 2nd place in “Textured Coatings” and 3rd place on publicly available information published by in the category “Mortar and Hydrated Lime”. magazines and newspapers in Brazil in 2011. • For Votorantim Metais we would like to highlight For information on all of our honors and awards the following achievements:: during 2012 please read the report available on our VM was included in the list of “Best Companies website: www.votorantim.com/relatorio. to Work For 2012”. This was the first time that the company had been included in this ranking. VM achieved the highest score among those companies that entered the ranking for the first time, and was voted “Revelation of 2012.” Business Overview Votorantim Industrial Report 29 Corporate Identity The foundations of our corporate identity guide our business GRI practices and our relations 4.8 with stakeholders. Our corporate identity is expressed Values • Talent development by a set of founding principles We invest time and effort in developing and guidelines, as follows: Our values are represented our talented employees because we by the acronym SEREU: believe in and trust them. • Vision • Meritocracy • Values • Solidity – To seek sustainable growth We believe that people are individuals • Aspirations with value creation. and deserve to be treated fairly • Management Beliefs • Ethics – To act responsibly and in accordance with their • Sustainability Principles and transparently. personal performance. • Respect – To respect people • Excellence These are the foundations and be willing to learn. We believe we can always do more of our essence and they guide • Entrepreneurship – To have and better, to overcome challenges our market positioning, our business the courage to grow, innovate with discipline, humility and practices and our relationships and invest. simplicity. with our stakeholders. • Union – The whole is stronger • Pragmatism than the sum of the parts. We believe it is essential to devote time and energy to what is most relevant, Vision with objectivity and without losing sight of the big picture and To ensure the growth and sustainability Aspirations the future trends. of the organization as a large family• Open dialogue owned group, which is respected and Our aspirations are summarized We believe that an atmosphere of trust admired by the communities where in two propositions: will foster open dialogue and ensure it operates, and focused on creating that all have room to speak and to be • To grow in the longterm and economic, environmental and social heard, and also that a diversity of in a sustainable manner. value, based on: opinions leads to better solutions. • To achieve world-class standards • Partnerships • Ethics and values that guide in our operations and management, We believe that our success responsible business conduct. comparable to those of the best global is a result of collaborative efforts, • Highly competitive companies. strengthened by genuine business divisions. relationships and partnerships • Constant drive to incorporate creative Management Beliefs in which everyone wins. and innovative products • Sense of ownership and services in its portfolio. Our Management Beliefs are: We believe in people who take on • People who are motivated responsibility, work with passion and to achieve high performance. lead by example, celebrating their achievements and using mistakes as opportunities for learning. Corporate Identity Votorantim Industrial Report 31 Sustainability Principles We seek the long-term survival and continuous expansion of our Increasingly companies are scrutinized both by the market business, based on appropriate and consistent results. We believe and by society in relation to sustainability. Our efforts and actions that sustainability is vital to ensure the permanent growth in sustainability are guided by our Sustainability Principles, which of the organization, as expressed through our corporate identity. are in turn aligned with the principles of the UN Global Compact. Our Sustainability Principles 1, 2, 8 1. To be recognized by society as a socially and environmentally responsible organization. 2. To have sustainability as a strategy, guiding governance, management, education, and decisions 1 a 10 and investments, thereby creating value. 3. To consistently improve our economic, social and environmental performance, striving to achieve world-class 3a9 standards of efficiency and operational reliability 3a6 4. To be recognized as a company that attracts, develops and retains talent for creating value and building a fair and inclusive society. 1a6 5. To be committed to the welfare, health and safety of our employees, customers and partners. 1, 2, 4, 6. To contribute to the development of the communities where we operate. 5, 8 7. To encourage the cooperation and participation of all employees and stakeholders in building partnerships 3, 4, 5, 6,10 and working together in order to generate value for all. VM: Alumínio 32 GRI Code of Conduct GRI Corporate Ombudsman 4.6 SO4, HR4, HR5, HR6, Votorantim first launched its Code of Conduct Our Corporate Ombudsman is accessible by HR7 in 2005, to establish guidelines for conducting all our stakeholders (both in Brazil and overseas), 4, 5 e 10 our business activities. In 2012, the code was such as employees, suppliers, customers, local updated to address, even more clearly, the issues  , 4, 3 communities, the media and others. The Ombudsman 5e6 related to the use of child labor and forced deals with any issue, but especially matters relating or compulsory labor, which we most explicitly to our Code of Conduct, such as harassment (moral repudiate. The Code also included more current or sexual), discrimination, suspicion of fraud, abuse 3 topics, such as information security responsibilities of power, embezzlement, unlawful acts and other and use of electronic information systems. forms of non-compliance. The code is available (in several languages) All requests and complaints are treated with to all of our employees in Brazil and overseas, confidentiality and impartiality (identification and also to contractors, partners, suppliers is optional). The Ombudsman can be accessed and other stakeholders, on our website in the following ways: at: http://www.votorantim.com/pt-br/ouvidoria/ codigoConduta/Paginas/codigoConduta.aspx.. New standards of anti• Phone: 0800-8911729 corruption measures • Website: http://www.votorantim.com/pt-br/ ouvidoria GRI SO4 10 Complaints are recorded in a specific stand-alone We have developed a Corporate Global system. Investigations are carried out by Corporate Anti-corruption Policy which applies Audit. The results are sent to the Corporate to all of our transactions. We have sought Ombudsman, who is responsible for responding to internalize the best international to the sender of the complaint. All incidents are practices by aligning them with the discussed and handled in bimonthly meetings US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the between representatives from the Corporate U.K. Bribery Act. This policy addresses issues Conduct Committee and the Business Division such as bribery and facilitation payments, Conduct Committees. A summary of the minutes accounting rules, internal controls and the of each meeting is sent to the VID’s Board and management of relations with third parties. to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). The text of the policy is available on our website at: www.votorantim.com The VID Corporate Conduct Committee is composed of representatives of the Business Division Conduct Committees, Internal Audit, the Legal Department, and the Corporate Human and Organizational Development Committee. It is responsible for handling special cases arising in the Business Division Conduct Committees, for establishing Corporate Identity Votorantim Industrial Report 33 criteria for cases not provided for in the Code Corporate governance and situations of conflict of interest, for ensuring 1 uniformity in the application of the criteria used, Our strategy of corporate governance is based and for championing the good functioning on the following factors: of the Ombudsman in the organization. • Family controlled. In 2012, we implemented an Ombudsman Policy, • Highly qualified management team. applicable to the whole organization, in order • Integrated vision. to standardize guidelines and policy interpretations • Control environment managed under high and to formalize the procedures and processes. standards of governance. • Business continuity in the long term. Our approach to remediation, for recurrent • Corporate policies and guidelines of the infringements, is based on rules for consequence Code of Conduct. management. These rules are defined in the code, namely: guidance, warnings, transfers or reallocations, We are committed to permanently improving and dismissals or termination of contracts. our governance model. A new corporate governance structure, we began to implement aiming to prepare In 2012, the Ombudsman handled 194 complaints. the organization to be controlled, in the long-run, by the next generation of shareholders, and to facilitate GRI Results of corporate audit actions the effective realization of new growth opportunities. SO4 New bylaws for Votorantim Industrial are being developed including specific regulations for the new structure of Board advisory committees. Although 47 48 Votorantim is a privately-held organization, it follows the high standards and practices adopted by major publicly-owned corporations that give great emphasis 38 to transparency and equality in their relations with their stakeholders. This includes the disclosure of quarterly financial results. 13 GRI Corporate governance structure 10 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, The Votorantim Group governance structure 3 4.7, 4.9 contemplates specific roles and responsibilities for VID, appropriate to its industrial nature. 2010 2011 2012 Total number of employees punished The Votorantim Group governance structure or dismissed for corruption. is as follows: Number of cases of contracts not renewed with The Board of Votorantim Participações partners due to violations related to corruption. The Board of VPar is the highest body of governance For 2013, our goal is to enhance the training in the Votorantim Group and is responsible for the of specialist ombudsmen through specific training strategic positioning and the overarching guidelines programs, to create a stronger Ombudsman culture for the operational performance of the group’s in all the business divisions and functional areas. industrial and financial business segments. 34 The Board of VPar consists of eight members. These are The Family Board consists of up to three members shareholders resident in Brazil, who are elected by the of each of the four family holding companies, with General Assembly for a term of three years. Re-elections a total of up to 12 members. Each family holding are permitted. These eight members represent the four company appoints its respective Board members. family holding companies. Each family holding company There are no independent members or executives selects and appoints its members. on the Family Board. The Board of Votorantim Industrial has the same The Board members do not have substitutes. In the composition as the Board of VPar. The Board of VID case of a Board member being absent or impeded is responsible for the strategy for all the industrial from carrying out his/her responsibilities, he/she can activities, focusing on the product portfolio, activities, be substituted. The term of office of each member operational performance and industrial projects in the is two years and may be renewed. industrial business divisions. These Boards do not have any independent or non-executive members. The internal structure of the Board is composed of: the President, the Vice President, and members. The Committees members appoint the President and Vice President from among themselves. The Vice President replaces VID’s Board is supported by four committees, the President in the case of temporary incapacity or called “Advisory Committees”: in the case of permanent impediment, until the end of the mandate. • Finance Committee • Compensation and Human Votorantim Institute Resources Committee • Corporate Responsibility and Reputation The Institute is the group’s social investment • Audit Committee arm and, working hand-in-hand with the business divisions, disseminates social responsibility concepts These committees are composed of members of VID’s and practices throughout the organization, with Board and non-shareholder members. The issues related an emphasis on the local communities where we to sustainability are addressed by all the committees. operate. It contributes to promoting long-lasting relationships and economic development in these There are also Executive Committees for specific issues communities, and also supports the business divisions and for supporting the business portfolio. in the evaluation of their social investment projects. Family Board Votorantim Institute Committee This represents the family shareholders, This committee reports directly to the Board disseminating and preserving their beliefs and of VPar and is responsible for the strategic values. It is responsible for the development of planning and annual budget of the group’s future generations, and focuses on the succession social investments. It has an external member process based on a sense of belonging and pride. (from the BNDES) and meets quarterly. Corporate Identity Votorantim Industrial Report 35 VID’s Sustainability Committee This committee establishes guidelines based on VID’s Sustainability Principles and sets the goals for the material issues and the voluntary commitments made by the business divisions. VID’s Sustainability Committee is a decision-making body and meets quarterly. It is chaired by the CEO of VID and is composed of the presidents / CEOs of the business divisions, as well as the managing directors of the corporate functional areas and the Votorantim Institute. The committee’s secretary is VID’s managing director for sustainability. All of VID’s senior managers have specific goals related to sustainability issues in their annual individual assessments and discussions on these challenges are an integrated part of the strategic planning process. Votorantim Family Board VPar Board Institute Board Votorantim Institute VID Board Compensation and Corporate Responsibility and Advisory Committees Audit Committee Finance Committee Human Resources Reputation Committee to the VID Board Committee CEO External Audit Internal Audit Ombudsman Director for Finance Director for Director for Legal Director for Mergers Director for Human and Director for Strategic and Investor Institutional Affairs and Acquisitions Organizarional Development Planning Relations Relations Image and Sustainability VID Executive Tax Risk Committee Reputation M & A Committee Committee Committees Committee Corporate functions Votorantim Votorantim Votorantim Votorantim Fibria Heads of the Business report in a matrix Cimentos Metais Siderurgia Energia Divisions report to the management structure CEO of VID Note: (1) The corporate areas of Information Technology and Risks and Compliance report functionally to the Finance and Investor Relations areas. (2) Citrosuco is formally a subsidiary of VPar. 36 A family group Since 2001, the Family Board has been running a Family Development Program, which is a process of further education, guided by the values and principles of the family along with a long-term vision. It aims to develop family members for professional success, whether within the Votorantim Group or not. Young family members join the program at the age of 15, and undertake a training program structured around three perspectives: Family, Individual and the Votorantim Group. The objectives of the program are firstly, to develop shareholders who can ensure the longevity of the Votorantim Group as a family business, and secondly, to train and prepare them to work as responsible Board members, who are able to make decisions together in the various Boards and committees that make up the governance of the group. We understand that each Board member must have market experience, self-confidence and strong qualifications. The program is currently preparing the 4th generation of family members. VE: Barra Hydroelectric Plant Corporate Identity Votorantim Industrial Report 37 Votorantim’s history, in brief GRI 1944 – Votorantim 2.9 built its second large-scale cement 1936 – Votorantim 1973 – José Ermírio plant, Cimento Poty, entered the cement de Moraes passed in the municipality sector, with the away, aged 73. of Paulista, construction of the The second generation Pernambuco. cement plant, of the family, 1951 – José Ermírio 1924 – José Ermírio St. Helena. Also that represented by Antonio de Moraes assumed the de Moraes married year, the group entered Ermírio de Moraes leadership of the group, Helena, the daughter the chemical sector, and José Ermírio following the death of of Pereira Ignacio, with Nitro Química. de Moraes Filho, Antonio Pereira Ignacio, and joined the Board took control of aged 77. of Votorantim. the business. 1918 1924 1928 1936 1938 1944 1949 1951 1955 1973 1981 1918 – Antonio Pereira 1949 – Construction 1981 – The Ignacio acquired the of the Brazilian Companhia Níquel Votorantim Textile Aluminum Company Tocantins began Factory in São Paulo. (CBA) was initiated in to produce 1938 – Steel the city of Mairinque, electrolytic nickel. production started São Paulo. at Cia. Siderúrgica, in Barra Mansa, Rio de Janeiro. 1928 – The Center for 1955 – CBA was the Industries of the State inaugurated, the largest of São Paulo, the embryo integrated aluminum of the current Federation company in the world. of Industries of the State of São Paulo (FIESP), was founded. José Ermírio was one of the founders of this Center. 38 2012 – As a result of the exchange of assets with 1988 – The pulp Cimpor, a Portuguese and paper segment was entered with the purchase cement company, we now 2008 – Votorantim 2010 – Votorantim of Cia. Guatapará Pulp operate in six more Steel was created to Cimentos acquired a stake and Paper, the precursor countries, Spain, India, integrate the group›s in Cimpor, a Portuguese of Votorantim Pulp China, Turkey, Morocco 2001 – St. Marys steel operations cement company. and Paper (VCP). and Tunisia, and have Cement in Canada was in Brazil, Colombia Votorantim Metais gained acquired a new limestone acquired, the first step in and Argentina. control of Milpo, mine in Peru. We also 1991 – Banco the internationalization consolidating its stake of obtained control of the Votorantim was opened of the group. Votorantim 50.02% through an Initial cement company Artigas in to increase the availability Participações and Public Offering. Votorantim Industrial Uruguay, by increasing our of credit within the group. Later the were founded. shareholding. The orange business was expanded juice business division and began to serve changed its name the general public. to Citrosuco. 1988 1989 1991 1997 2001 2002 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 – Fibria, a world leader in the 1997 – Votorantim pulp business, was Pulp and Paper founded from the launched its first merger between VCP 2011 – The Administrative offering of shares 2002 – Votorantim and Aracruz. Council for Economic on the New York Institute was founded, Defense (CADE) approved 1989 – Citrovita, Stock Exchange. with the initial goal to the merger of the orange the company responsible align, strengthen and juice companies Citrovita for the production upgrade the social (Votorantim) and Citrosuco of concentrated orange actions of Votorantim (Fischer). juice, was established in the community. in Catanduva, São Paulo. Hydroelectric plant named after Carlos Ermírio de Moraes In November 2012, in the year in which it marked ten years of operations, the Machadinho Hydroelectric Plant, located on the border of the states of Santa Catarina (SC) and Rio Grande do Sul (RS), was re-named Hydroelectric Plant Machadinho Carlos Ermírio de Moraes in honor of the former Chairman of the Board of Votorantim Participações, who passed away in August 2011 after having worked for over 30 years in the group. This tribute was an initiative of Murilo Ferreira, the President of the Vale do Rio Doce mining company. Machadinho is controlled by a consortium composed of Votorantim, Vale do Rio Doce and five other companies and is located on the Pelotas River, on the border between Piratuba (SC) and Maximiliano de Almeida (RS). The naming ceremony took place in Brasilia, and was attended by representatives of the electric power sector, shareholders of the Consortium Machadinho and relatives of Carlos Emírio de Moraes. At the opening of the event, a letter from Brazilian President Dilma Rousseff was read, highlighting the phrase “the tradition of a family that participates actively in the construction of modern Brazil.” Corporate Identity Votorantim Industrial Report 39 Business Model and Performance 1 VID • Multi-Year Plan and Budget Based on the above-mentioned broad discussions of macro-strategy, a five-year strategic plan is finalized, which Strategic planning defines the long-term goals for each business division. This long-term plan provides the basic parameters for setting Our long-term strategic plan (Five-Year Plan) is updated the next year’s annual budget targets and the breakdown annually and involves discussions between the corporate of these targets into variable compensation goals for all center and the business divisions. The strategic plan and levels of the organization. It is important to note that projected results are based on assumptions developed from these individual goals are also tied to the group’s material research on macroeconomic trends, market and industry issues, which contributes to reinforcing our commitment sector scenarios and competitive analysis. Our business to sustainability. We have integrated the Multi-Year Plan division plans incorporate the impacts of expansion projects/ and the sustainability strategic plan. investments, the performance management of the plants, risk analysis and the material issues linked to sustainability. The validation of the strategic plan is formalized after discussions with VID’s Board. In this process, the focus and performance of each business division are defined, and resources are allocated to investments on the basis of their economic return and impact on our competitive position. The evaluation of projects and the prioritization of strategies are based on criteria which consider the efficient use of resources, the adequacy of the Our strategic organizational structure, the material issues of sustainability planning reinforces and the technological development expected. our commitment The annual planning process involves the following key steps: to sustainability • Strategic Dialogue The main strategic paths to be pursued are decided upon, based on a broad discussion of our industry sectors, scenarios and trends among representatives from the business divisions, the corporate center and VID’s Board. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 41 Diagram of the strategic planning cycle: Planning Process Foundations Strategic Planning Breakdown/Budget Management/Impacts Aspirations Long-term goals Short-term goals Governance Industry Vision/ Dialogue Portfolio 5-Year Plan Breakdown/Budget Guidelines Strategic Analysis Aspirations and Macro LT Plans/Targets ST Plans/Targets and Investments Management Guidelines Model Guidelines, Plans, Targets Panel of Competitive Analysis – Management and Indicators (GRI) Common Targets (VID) indicators Adherence to Sustainability Principles and Material Issues Specific Targets Environmental in relation to LT Plans (Business Divisions) Budget Performance Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Strategic plan includes the material issues for sustainability The 5-year strategic plan, developed in 2012 for the period 2013 to 2017, included issues and projects related to sustainability, with emphasis on our 9 priority material issues. The preparation of the sustainability strategic plan involved the participation of 79 specialists from many functional areas in the business divisions and the corporate center, namely: Sustainability, Environment, Health & Safety, Energy, Sales, Procurement, Human and Organizational Development (DHO), Distribution/Logistics, Information Technology and Internal Communications, VID’s corporate center and the Votorantim Institute. Votorantim Management System (SGV) Thematic Teams: • Environment • Energy The Votorantim Management System was developed to facilitate • Health and Safety • Operations and Six Sigma the management and implementation of the strategic plan. • Capital Expenditure (Capex) The system assists us to continually improve our procedures • Logistics • Procurement and practices, by capturing synergies, by transferring skills between • Maintenance the business divisions and by implementing best market practices. The SGV system is administered by the Corporate Management Corporate Management Committees: Committees (coordinated by senior management) with the support • DHO • Legal Department of specialist Thematic Teams, which are made up of experts from • Information Technology the business divisions and coordinated on a rotational basis). • Sustainability • Risk Management • Advocacy A committee composed of the presidents and general managers of the Business Divisions meets quarterly to monitor the progress The Corporate Management Committees and the Thematic Teams of the Thematic Teams and define the guidelines for their activities. have annual targets derived from the strategic plan. These targets involve financial, environmental and social questions, which are then broken down further for allocation to the business divisions. 42 GRI Responsible growth In 2012, the result of Other Operational Income EC1 (Expenses) positively impacted the Statement We have a diversified portfolio of businesses, of Value Added (SVA), mainly due to lower several of which have a low correlation with each provisions for the impairment or loss of assets, 1 other, with their performance being linked to both as well as the completion of the transaction the domestic and overseas markets. Despite the exercising our options to purchase shares of Fibria. worsening global economic crisis and challenging In addition, we recorded extraordinary gains, macroeconomic conditions domestically, this as follows: R$ 267 million from the Cimpor asset diversification has proven effective and ensured exchange corresponding to the difference between strong results, reinforcing our confidence in our the fair value and the cost value of our participation ability to continue growing. in Cimpor, and R$ 73mm from the revaluation of our 38.39% stake in Cementos Artigas SA from the difference between its cost value and its fair value at the acquisition date. Total Income – DVA (R$ Millions) 2010 2011 2012 Product Sales and Services 24,779 28,100 29,513 Net Income Other Operational Income (Expenses) 3,210 (1,182) 88 Consolidated net income increased to R$ 24.8 billion Provision for Bad Debts 134 15 (14) in 2012, up 5% compared to 2011. The main reasons Total Income 28,123 26,933 29,587 for the increase were the higher volume of cement sales, as a result of the expansion of productive capacity, and the 17% devaluation of the real, since a significant portion of our income is tied to the Statement of Value Added/ SVA VID 2012 US dollar. Consolidated net income by segment was as follows: Cement 40%; Metals and Mining 1% 38%; Steel, 14%; and Pulp, 8%. 21% 50% Net Income (R$ Millions) 2010 2011 2012 Gross Income Product Sales 18,211 20,571 21,206 Export Sales 6,045 5,812 6,340 Energy Supplied 255 370 614 28% Income from Services 268 1,347 1,353 24,779 28,100 29,513 Taxes on Sales and Services and Other Taxes Deductions (4,105) (4,441) (4,721) Net Income 20,674 23,659 24,792 Remuneration of Third-Party Capital Salaries and Employee Benefits Remuneration of Own Capital Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 43 Net Income 2012 Net Income (*) (R$ billion) EBITDA (*) (R$ billion) Total Investments (*) (R$ billion) 23.7 24.8 5.3 5.4 5.1 5.8 20.7 1.6 4.3 0.4 3.7 0.6 4.2 3.9 3.1 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Margin (%) 25.4% 22.8% 20.6% Acquisition CAPEX (*) Note: Considered VID´s participation on Fibria of 29,42% distribuição por segmento 2012 Earnings before Interest, Taxation, Net Profit Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA) 7% 13% Net Profit was impacted by10%the combined effects EBITDA totaled R$ 5.1 billion, with a margin of discontinued operations and accounting 14% of 21%.This was 5% lower compared 7%to the prior adjustments for8%the value of certain investments year, primarily due to lower profitability in the and for the realizable value of deferred income tax. metals and mining segment. 40% EBITDA by segment The 60%biggest impact of discontinued operations was47% was as follows: Cement 60%; Metals and Mining due to the sale of our shareholding in the capital 20%; Steel 7%; and Pulp 13%. of Usiminas, which in 2011 had contributed R$ 868 million to our results. Total costs increased by 9% due to the start-up 38% 20% 35% of new cement plants and the Sitrel rolling mill, The most significant negative impact of accounting and the increased volume of purchases of adjustments was the recognition of R$ 1,145 million concentrate for the production of zinc and nickel. of impairment expenses related to the reduction of the value of deferred income tax in the metals and The selling, general and administrative increased mining segment and the writing-off of the goodwill Cimentos Metais Aços longos Celulose 52%, mainly as a result of increased freight on the purchase of our steel operations in Colombia. expenses for exports. On the other hand, the incorporation of the assets from the Cimpor asset swap generated a gain of R$ 569 million. The net profit for 2012 was R$ 87 million, lower than in 2011. 44 Distribution by Segment 2012 Net Income (*) (%) EBITDA (*) (%) Total Investments (*) (%) 8% 7% 8% 14% 13% 10% 40% 60% 47% 38% 20% 35% Cement Steel Metals Pulp (*) Note: Considered VID´s participation on Fibria of 29,42% Investiments Liquidity and debt Investments totaled R$ 3.1 billion in 2012, At the end of 2012, our gross debt totaled of which 54% was destined for expansion projects R$ 25.4 billion, an increase of R$ 3.0 billion compared and 46% for maintenance, modernization, safety, to year-end 2011. The increase in debt in Reais was health and environmental measures. We remain due mainly to the impact of the devaluation of the focused on expanding our cement production real on our US dollar denominated debt. In addition capacity and this represented 64% of the total our total US dollar debt increased during the year investments in new capacity. The new investments (equivalent to R$ 948 million) due to the incorporation contributed to diversifying our geographical reach in of the Cimpor assets. Brazil enabling us to provide better service to regions with strong demand to reduce the distribution costs Since we did not need additional financing during in these areas. Other highlights of 2012 included the the year our transactions in the capital and commercial expansion of our zinc mines at El Porvenir and Cerro bank credit markets were to further improve our Lindo in Peru, to ore processing capacities of 6,000 debt profile. We issued debentures in the amount and 15,000 tons/day respectively, and the completion of R$ 1.2 billion towards the end of the year to of the Sitrel plant in Mato Grosso do Sul (MS), which refinance part of our liabilities denominated in added 400 thousand tons/year in long steel US dollars, namely: a bond issued by VID maturing rolling capacity. in January 2014 and a loan taken out by VM for Cajamarquilla, its subsidiary in Peru. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 45 Our debt profile ended 2012 with a smooth repayment Net debt ended 2012 at R$ 18.4 billion, an increase schedule and average maturity of 7.5 years. This was of R$ 760 million. Our leverage measured by the ratio in line with our strategy of avoiding concentrating of Net Debt to EBITDA reached 3.61 times at the end maturities of principal in a single year and of keeping of 2012 partly due to a decrease of R$ 298 million our average debt maturity above seven years. in EBITDA. If we exclude the increased debt from the Cimpor transaction, our leverage would have been Our cash balance at the end of 2012 was 3.46times. Although this ratio has occasionally exceeded R$ 7.1 billion, an increase of R$ 1.0 billion from our goal, we continue to work towards maintaining the value of 2011, mainly due to the proceeds from a downward trend until we reach the goal set out the sale of Usiminas. in our strategy. Debt Amortization Profile (R$ billion) 4.1 3.4 3.6 3.4 2.7 2.3 2.3 2.0 7.1 1.7 1.8 1.5 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 Revolving Credit Facility Cash Average Debt Maturity (years) 5.5 7.1 7.5 2010 2011 2012 Votorantim issues 30-year bonds Although Votorantim is a privately-held company, it was the first Brazilian company to issue bonds with a 30-yearterm, raising US$ 750 million in April 2011 and another US$ 500 million (re-issue) in February 2012. This demonstrates the credibility of the group and the market’s confidence in our performance. 46 GRI Management of the supply chain SO4 By managing our supply chain we are able Also in 2012, we organized several workshops to identify opportunities for synergies between to set plans for the support of suppliers in the 1, 2, 7, 8 our various business divisions, minimize supply regions where we operate. This work resulted availability risks, set standards of performance in the development of various standards and in accordance with our values and our Code evaluation criteria that will enable us execute 3 of Conduct, and foster the development of projects aimed at the development of local suppliers in the regions where we operate. suppliers near our plants in 2013. To address supply chain management we have established the Procurement Thematic Team, which will focus on the development of standards Automatic blocking and practices common to all our business divisions. of suppliers with incomplete documentation In our day-to-day negotiations and relationships with our suppliers we require them to comply with current legislation, to act ethically and responsibly 4 and to put an emphasis on safety and security in dealing with environmental requirements and In 2012, we implemented a system human rights, in line with our group values. All to put an automatic block on suppliers suppliers are informed of our Code of Conduct. if they appeared on the list of companies classified as maintaining “workers in We conduct regular evaluations of suppliers slave-like conditions” as per ministerial with the support of our Audit department, decree n º 2/2011 issued by the Brazilian not only with regard to productivity, performance Ministry of Labor. Our system is updated and the solutions offered, but also in relation following each new publication of the to their adherence to legislation and respect list in order to block any business for human rights. relationships with these companies. All business divisions use a centralized system to manage contracts and issue orders. In 2012, we launched an internal standard for our operations in Brazil, defining the minimum criteria for acceptance as a Votorantim registered supplier with the aim of standardizing such requirements for all the business divisions and for our many different categories of materials and services. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 47 GRI Occupational health and safety LA6, LA7 Our operations, due to their nature and for Management of Health and Safety in every characteristics, involve certain risks. As a result the business division, composed of the directors 4 health and safety of our employees and business and specialists of that division, which discusses partners is paramount and are a top priority in our the results and the programs implemented planning and in our day-to-day activities. on a monthly basis. We have a dedicated management system on this In all of our plants we maintain internal subject that is coordinated by our Health and Safety committees that are responsible for implementing Team, which is composed of representatives of all the the management practices for health and safety business divisions. We also have a Committee in plant operations. GRI Employees represented by health and safety committees LA6 Period 2010 2011 2012 Over 75% OK OK OK We have implemented a number of initiatives in health and safety with the primary focus on prevention, as follows: • We have a Corporate Health and Safety Manual • The team also organizes programs on awareness which provides assumptions and guidelines to guide of safety and health and on the assessment prevention actions and to ensure the ongoing of occupational risks in plant operations. assessment of the risks associated with operations in each plant. This manual was updated in November • In 2012, we implemented a protocol of critical 2012 and the new version will be distributed to risks for the auditing of those business divisions each business division in early 2013, with a wide which have operations in the agribusiness sector disclosure campaign and the full support of the VID (mostly farms) i.e. Votorantim Siderurgia, Citrosuco leadership team. and Fibria. • The prevention controls are checked regularly. • We also have the program “Movimento Alerta”, The Health and Safety Team undertakes a critical which is a corporate initiative aimed at disseminating analysis of programs implemented on a monthly safety information, on an ongoing basis, to all VID basis and this analysis is then discussed by the employees. Under this initiative we encourage team and the Business Management Committee. behaviors appropriate to the work environment through the “Comportamento Seguro” program • In addition to regular internal audits that each in order to reduce the risk of accidents at work. business division conducts, the Health and Safety Team coordinates corporate audits related to the main safety risks. In these audits, the activities are checked for compliance with critical hazard protocols. In 2012, seven such audits were carried out. By following these procedures we are able to identify our best internal practices and prepare improvement plans for both the plant being audited and VID’s overall operations. 48 • We also have a workgroup focused on the • In the Votorantim Academy of Excellence there management of relations with third parties in is a School of Health and Safety which aims to order to strengthen the monitoring of occupational widen and reinforce management concepts and hazards which exist in the activities carried out practices for health and safety among the leadership by contracted service providers. team, particularly general managers and middle managers. There were 249 participants during 2012. Despite all the prevention efforts we have undertaken, we had an increase in accident frequency rates in 2012, as follows: GRI Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism LA7 and work-related fatalities 2010 2011 2012 Frequency rate of accidents of employees and third-party contract staff (permanent) 7,5 5,2 7,2 Frequency rate of accidents of employees and third-party contract staff with time lost (permanent) 1,7 1,1 1,8 Fatalities (*) employees and third-party contract staff (permanent and in projects) 6 3 12 (*) Note: Does not include accidents while commuting. In addition to the increased accident frequency • We have intensified our efforts in the monitoring rates in 2012 compared to the prior year, of existing occupational hazards under the Thirdwe unfortunately also had 12 fatal accidents Party Management Program. (6 in Brazil and 6 in other countries), which we deeply regret since we constantly strive • We conducted a debate at the Leadership Meeting to achieve the goal of zero fatal accidents. between the managing directors of the business divisions about the fatalities that occurred and the We have strengthened our actions focused on measures to be taken. health and security in the group, especially in the last quarter of 2012 and first quarter of 2013, In 2013, we will promote discussions with the of which we highlight: Health and Safety Managers from all of our business divisions, in order to find synergies, to enhance the • We held two meetings with our top management sharing of best practices and to plan and implement on the subject of safety (including a workshop new prevention and corrective actions. on the management of relations with third-parties) at the Votorantim Academy. General managers and directors participated. • We have programmed courses to reinforce health and safety training for specialists and middle and high level leadership, which will take place at the School of Health and Safety in the Votorantim Academy for Excellence. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 49 GRI Employee development LA1, LA10 Human Resources (HR) policies and managements 5 We believe in the power of talent. As our In 2012, we made progress on the following points businesses develop we increasingly seek to create related to the management of people: a high performance organization composed of professionals who have developed and • We implemented indicators for DHO progressed internally. In line with this positioning management, which are now being used by one of the organization’s Management Beliefs corporate and business areas and by the various is “Cultivation of Talents”. By promoting more committees integrating the Votorantim Leadership of our professionals from within the organization, System (SLV), such as Security, Maintenance, based on our Management Belief “Meritocracy”, Capex, etc. The indicators were based on a study we create the conditions which allow our people conducted in 2011 of a model for monitoring to develop the skills and competencies necessary human resources actions and topics, especially in to our operations, thereby growing with the relation to the retention and promotion of internal organization and rising to occupy key positions. staff with leadership potential. We took a fourpronged approach to these indicators: short-term, In 2012, we had 18 people who were promoted long-term, culture and governance. to leadership positions. • We reactivated the Functional Committees, Of these, half were professionals promoted composed of managers from a variety of business internally and half were professionals recruited functions, to share information and discuss in the market. career mobility, transfers and promotions, as well as to establish actions to improve the technical Our objective for the near future is to fill 80% of competence of the people who work in our leadership positions from internal promotions. these roles. The Votorantim Development System (SDV) • In relation to the process of disseminating was created with the goal of establishing a unified our Management Beliefs (which began in 2011 system of personnel development, based on the with training and communication initiatives), strategic advantages of our business divisions and we conducted additional communication actions anchored in our group values, thereby capturing in 2012 and made a review of processes and and leveraging synergies from our business and practices, based on these Management Beliefs. geographic diversity. Also in 2012, we launched our campaign on Management Beliefs at our overseas facilities, Our Corporate Management Committee including in North America, Colombia, Peru, for Human and Organizational Development Argentina and Austria. In these locations we use deals with day-to-day management processes our “Belief Meter” (“Crençômetro”) on a monthly and is responsible for the development of new basis to assess the perceptions, the level of policies, processes and programs, as well as knowledge and the practical application of these ensuring that they are being properly applied Beliefs by employees that was above 85%. throughout the organization. 50 Fibria: Três Lagoas Plant GRI Own Employees 2012 Brazil Other Countries LA1 Salaried Employees 28,099 86% 14% Hourly-Paid Staff 15,835 57% 43% Trainees 60 100% 0% Total Own Employees 43,994 76% 24% Temporary Farm Workers 8,872 100% 0% Interns and Apprentices Interns and Summer Interns 847 99.50% 0.50% Apprentices 590 98% 1.90% Total Trainees and Apprentices 1,437 99% 1.00% Service Providers Permanent Activity 32,017 Service Providers in Projects 43,215 Total Service Providers 75,232 GENERAL Own Employees+ Interns + Apprentices 54,303 80% 20% Service Providers 75,231 Grand Total 129,534 Notes: 1) For the purposes of better understanding this information, please note that the data reported here includes all of the organization’s plants and facilities, and not only those units shown in the Coverage Table. This information is available at: www.votorantim.com/report and in the chapter on “GRI Indices / Indicators” of this report. 2) Citrosuco: does not include temporary farm workers. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 51 Trainee Program 2012/2013 GRI Attracting and retaining talent LA12 We conduct annual performance evaluations of Committees of the business divisions meet in order our employees. Through this process, it is possible to align and consolidate the results and to define to identify development needs, set out the prospects the strategies and actions to be followed. The final for career development, define challenges to be results are analyzed by the Corporate Management overcome and encourage a constructive dialogue Committee of DHO, which then sets the general between leaders and other employees. Once the guidelines for the attraction, development and assessments are made, the Personnel Management retention of employees and succession planning. GRI Employees receiving regular evaluations on performance and career development LA12 Period 2010 2011 2012 % Employees with performance evaluations Profit and Results 5 Sharing Program (PPR) 82.0% 85.8% 75.5% % Employees with performance evaluations –Variable Compensation (RV) 18.0% 14.1% 22.2% % Employees with performance evaluations 100.0% 99.9% 97.7% In 2012, we continued with our “Programa In January 2013, we launched the “Indica” program, Movimenta”, which aims to promote the career in which employees can refer people to Votorantim development of managers through the promotion/ as candidates for open positions. As they are familiar transfer of employees to new jobs created in-house, with our values and beliefs they can more easily thereby giving our existing employees opportunities identify people known to them who are aligned with for growth and enabling those who are ready to take our corporate identity, thus increasing the chances of on new challenges and have new work experience. successful recruitment. In line with our Management Of 165 vacancies available, 98 were filled with Belief “Cultivation of Talents” our first option is to internal resources. value existing employees and fill vacancies through internal programs, such as “Programa Movimenta” or “Pool Sucessório”. If there is no possibility to fill the position internally then we use the programs for external recruitment. 52 In relation to diversity we have taken steps in were trained as apprentices, in the same way relation to gender and people with special needs. as in the “Primeiro Emprego (First Job)” program. We continue to work towards making the company Currently, 168 young people with handicaps are an attractive option for employment for women. employed at CBA. In 2012, Votorantim Siderurgia, In the administrative areas, 52% are female, while in partnership with the Municipality of Resende (RJ), overall, including the industrial operations, we have sponsored a training program for 80 people with increased this figure to 13% from 12% in the prior special needs to enter the job market in the year. In the trainee program the proportion southern region of the State of Rio de Janeiro. of females hired jumped from 27% to 38%. Votorantim Cimentos implemented a diversity program in 2012, which surveyed open positions In the case of people with special needs each with the aims of: increasing the recruitment of of our business divisions has taken on specific people with special needs; mapping accessibility; initiatives. In 2010, Votorantim Metais set up an and making presentations to the HR managers Apprentice Program for People with Special Needs of the production units to increase their awareness at the aluminum plant CBA (SP). The participants of this challenge. GRI LA2 6 Total Number of Employees and Rate of Employee Turnover by Age Group, Gender and Region Average Time Region Age Range Men Women at Company Other Under 30-50 Over Employees 2012 Brazil Countries 30 years years 50 years % % years Total Employees at 31/12/2012 (*) 41,157 33,311 7,846 11,153 24,363 5,641 87% 13% 7.0 Employees Dismissed in 2012 6,840 6,201 639 2,958 3,331 551 80% 20% 5.7 Turnover 17% 19% 9% 27% 14% 10% Note: 1) The calculation of the total number of employees used to calculate the turnover rate did not consider temporary employees, trainees and apprentices, since the employment contract is for a fixed period. 2) For the purposes of better understanding this information, please note that the data reported here includes all of the organization’s plants and facilities, and not only those units shown in the Coverage Table. This information is available at: www.votorantim.com/report and in the chapter on “GRI Indices / Indicators” section of this report. Votorantim’s trainee program attracts 26,000 applicants In 2012, 26,000 candidates applied for our trainee program, 29% more than in the previous year, and we hired 45. We increasingly seek to attract young people who adhere to and are compatible with our Values, Management Beliefs and Sustainability Principles and have potential to reach management positions. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 53 GRI Education and training and Safety, and Sustainability, to assess the existing level LA10 of knowledge on these subjects in the organization. The Votorantim Academy of Excellence (our corporate university) was established in 2006 with 5 We also created the “Potenciar (Realize Potential)” the following objectives: coordinate our initiatives program, which aims to facilitate the transition from in the development and training of our employees; academic life to professional life for young employees ensure control over the development of management who have recently graduated and demonstrate high practices and critical company knowledge; support growth potential. This program accelerates the cultural development; and contribute to the integration development of professionals with leadership potential. of our business divisions, thereby ensuring that we In 2012, there were 1,776 participants in the program. have trained employees who are focused on high performance and aligned with our corporate culture. Within the Votorantim Academy of Excellence we have launched a specific School for Human and Organizational We have developed an “Individual Development Development in order to train DHO professionals to Plan” (PDI) program which, based on individual work with cultural transformation processes. We set up performance evaluations, allows us to identify employee an internal forum to discuss the mission of DHO with training needs and evaluate each manager’s progress. 352 participants, and we also organized an international Through the PDI program, employees and managers seminar on career development. discuss development needs and prioritize the types of training or skills that must be developed. The Votorantim Academy of Excellence conducted another edition of “School of Challenges”, which was Each business division develops training which focuses created to accelerate the development of talent across on corporate and specific needs including: institutional the organization. During 2012, a total of 307 employees training; technical courses; scholarships for language participated, divided into eight groups. Each group courses; courses required by legislation; and training worked for a year on a topic relevant to the businesses, on health and safety developments. All of these are with the support of experts from the Academy. fine-tuned according to the functions and activities related to the specific business division. In total, 3,334 employees, at all functional levels, were trained at the Academy of Excellence. This training In 2012, for each business division we identified totaled 42,145 hours, representing an average of the strategic and critical “know-how”, i.e. the 13 hours of training per year per employee. knowledge which comes from experience in the function and which is not readily found in the market. GRI Calculation of the average number of hours This applies particularly to certain technical functions LA10 of training per year, per employee, and per where we need to invest more proactively in the employee category development of these professionals. This is called 2010 2011 2012 the “Development Map” project, and it involved Managing the participation of 132 specialists in six critical areas: Director/President 8.40 21.05 9.45 Maintenance, Capex, Environment, DHO, Health Manager 23.80 37.86 68.57 and Safety and Sustainability. Based on this project we Coordinator/ developed training plans to define the paths for the Consultant 17.00 65.05 29.09 development of “know-how” and the dissemination Technician/Analyst/ of knowledge to a wider audience. Supervisor 36.29 31.61 Trainee 27.80 295.60 362.85 Once this know-how was defined we evaluated Operator 25.68 72.43 522 professionals who were working in the areas Intern 5.79 11.13 of Maintenance, Capex, Environment, DHO, Health Apprentice 6.96 23.53 Média Geral 18.30 55.26 62.30 54 GRI Remuneration Other forms of employee recognition LA12 VID’s employees are entitled to variable We have a number of different ways to recognize compensation based on the criteria of our and reward our employees. Every year in December, Profit and Results Sharing Program in addition outstanding employees receive awards at our to guidelines issued by the Collective Management Meeting, a corporate event held Agreements with trade unions. to present the achievements of the year and address the prospects for the next year. Present at this meeting The PPR is tied to the goals of employees (which are top management and members of the Board are individual for managers and collective for other of Directors of Votorantim (altogether around employees) and to corporate goals, which are 350 participants). defined from the breakdown of our strategic plan and corporate budget. The goals encompass: During the event, the “Highlights of the Year” economic, social and environmental issues; are announced for each business division and those operational management issues; and strategic issues. teams that have made a significant contribution to their businesses are honored. Similarly, teams that have made GRI Benefits significant contributions to “Safety” are congratulated. LA3 Our benefits exceed the parameters defined in the Another important award at this meeting is the Collective Agreements. As well as the agreed benefits “Social Leader” award, which is sponsored by the 6 we seek to take into consideration the characteristics Votorantim Institute (the social responsibility arm of each business and regional needs. of the Votorantim Group). This annual award is for Votorantim’s own employees or contracted staff who In addition to the benefits provided by law (health have undertaken important initiatives, actions assistance; accident assistance; periodic medical or projects focused on sustainability. examinations; laboratory tests; maternity leave; paternity leave; variable compensation (PPR); uniforms; The objective of this award is to strengthen a culture and company and third-party transportation assistance), of sustainability. The award recognizes employees all of our employees are entitled to medical and dental at all levels who contribute to the implementation of assistance, group life insurance and private pension practices that generate benefits for business and society, plans. There are other additional benefits, which vary mobilize partners and organize networks. Currently, by business division. this award applies to the following countries: Brazil, Argentina, Bolivia, Colombia and Peru. All employees may choose to join the private pension plans that we provide through the Senator Joseph In December 2012, during the Management Meeting, Ermírio de Moraes Foundation (Funsejem), which the Votorantim Institute hosted the ceremony for the is a non-profit, closed-end, private pension company 6th edition of the Social Leader award. Each winner responsible for the administration of the plans. received a trophy that was presented by shareholders Funsejem, founded in 1994, is a long-term savings and members of top management. Further information scheme in which both the employee and the on the awards and the winning projects can be found organization contribute to the formation of individual at http://www.institutovotorantim.org.br, in the section employee retirement funds. “Votorantim Group / Social Leader Award”. In relation to our health plan, we invested Since the award was created in 2007, more than R$ 118.9 million in 2012 (R$ 133 million in 2011). 60 employees have been honored. In 2012, the total investment in employee benefits was R$ 584.8 million (R$ 481.9 million in 2011). Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 55 The employees representing the teams that in 2012 won the “Outstanding Performance Award” and the “Outstanding Safety Award” are shown in the table below: Plant Performance Award Safety Award Eduardo Russo: for conducting a project to design the VID Votorantim Reserve, which involved a multidisciplinary The award applies only to the business divisions. team from the corporate center and Votorantim Energia. VC Marcelo Chamma: for creating the Complementary John Moroz: for operating four years without accidents Products Business. in 2012 in the Canada Building Materials plant of VCNA Fernando Rezende: for actions taken in the Três Marias (MG) Carlos Barrena: for a 50% expansion of the ore VM plant which reduced rates of lost-time accidents by 50% processing capacity of the Cerro Lindo plant in Peru. from 2011 to 2012. Emerson Ribeiro: for excellence in the commissioning Javier Grosz (AcerBrag, Argentina): for the only VS plant with VS of the Sitrel plant. zero lost-time accidents. BórisWiazowski: for a project on the synergies CITROSUCO Fabio Mitsuru Saito (Citrosuco North America): for achieving between Citrovita and Citrosuco in the formation 4 million hours without lost-time accidents in 2012. of a new company. Claudia Steiner (Florestal Vale do Paraíba): Renato Bastos (Ottoni TrêsLagoas): for achieving 407 days FIBRIA for exceeding targets for costs, productivity without lost-time accidents. and operations. GRI Relations with trade unions LA4 In our Code of Conduct, which applies to all involves representatives of the trade unions that of our business divisions, we respect the right represent our workers. The results of negotiations 3 of our employees to free association including are disseminated to employees through our internal membership of trade unions. communication channels. We maintain ongoing relationships and open In 2012, we had no fines or warnings from dialogue with the unions representing the supervisory bodies with regard to the processes employees. We respect the freedom of association of association and collective bargaining. of employees and the collective bargaining process GRI Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 2010 2011 2012 LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements in relation to the total number of employees (%) 95.4% 98.0% 96.4% 56 Relations with and development 6 of the communities where we operates The presence of a Votorantim plant generates • A methodology for stakeholder engagement impacts and opportunities for local socioeconomic has been developed to provide tools for managing development. We are present in more than the impacts of operations on the relationships 300 municipalities in Brazil. with stakeholders and it was applied in 18 municipalities in 2012. After completing the The Votorantim Institute supports our business mapping of impacts and of stakeholder groups, divisions in finding solutions that contribute we developed 56 new plans for stakeholder to community relationships and development. engagement involving communities, suppliers, It is responsible for advising on social actions and and employees, among others. vetting the social investments made by the divisions and plants. The Institute not only provides guidelines • We set up the “Votorantim Partnership and tools for social investment actions but also for Education (PVE)” program that promotes contributes to the management and evaluation social mobilization and provides support to public of the impacts of such actions. administration entities in order to contribute to the improvement of the public educational The Institute’s work covers the following areas: system. In 2012, over 300 activities were organized in 27 municipalities that resulted in • Guidance and technical support for the business the mobilization of 3,053 participants and, overall, divisions regarding the diagnosis, planning and involved more than 78 thousand people. monitoring of their social action performance. Among the various initiatives was the essay • Development of social technologies. contest “Tempos da Escola”, which attracted • Support for projects. more than 6,000 entries and awarded prizes • Production of knowledge and information content. to 78 students. In 2012, PVE entered the competition “Prêmio Objetivos do Milênio Brasil” The following actions in 2012 are of note: sponsored by the Brazilian President’s Office and United Nations Development Programme, • Under the Networks program (a partnership and was commended for being among the between the Institute and the BNDES to encourage 50 finalists from the 1,680 entries. local production chains in municipalities), 115 projects received technical support for the • The PAIS Project Integrated Sustainable development of business plans. The projects were Agro-ecological Production was a partnership distributed across 25 municipalities in ten Brazilian between Votorantim Institute and Fundação States where VC, VM, VS and Fibria have Banco do Brasil that took place in the cities of operations. Of these projects, 45 were selected Fortaleza de Minas (MG) and Vazante (MG) and to receive non-refundable grants. In the third involved representatives of Votorantim Metais and phase of the program, which will end in 2015, Votorantim Siderurgia. The project involved the selected organizations will receive about 50 families and approximately 200 people R$ 33 million and the technical support of overall. The project achieved its objective of consultants specializing in business management, ensuring food security and also raised the average to put the proposed projects into practice and family income by 53%, according to data generate employment opportunities and income. collected in October 2012. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 57 • In 2012, the Votorantim Institute supported 36 cultural projects with funding from both its The methodology developed by own resources and government tax incentives. One of the partner organizations is Fundação Votorantim Institute has been adopted Dorina Nowill, which is dedicated to assisting by Critical Friends International people with vision impairment problems. Our joint project produced five audio books and 6 distributed 50 thousand copies to five thousand libraries across the country. In June 2012, the methodology developed by Votorantim Institute for stakeholder engagement was recognized for The Votorantim Institute completed ten years of its excellence and integrated into the platform, created by existence in 2012. Throughout this period it has Critical Friends International, which brings together the developed its activities around three key objectives: best practices of stakeholder engagement at a global level. The Institute’s stakeholder engagement methodology was • Integrated approach to the challenges established in 2009, based on the AA1000 standard of the of the business. non-profit organization Accountability, with the aim of • Commitment to relationships providing operating units with a management tool that and community development. could contribute to improving engagement processes • Technical and methodological rigor. and relationships with the communities where we operate. Following these guidelines the units hold planning workshops The consolidated amount of private social which bring together employees from different functional investment for all initiatives and all business divisions areas in order to identify strategically important stakeholder totaled R$ 65.9 million in 2012 (11% increase groups and to prepare engagement/development plans. over the total for 2011, R$ 59.4 million), of which These plans are intended to manage the impacts of R$ 51.5 million came from its own funds and operations on these groups and prioritize the opportunities R$ 14.4 million from investment incentives for relationships. The Institute monitors and guides the in support of public policy. This investment was implementation of the actions undertaken for three years. employed in 204 projects and benefited around From the fourth year onwards the unit assumes responsibility 1.3 million people. for the engagement process. The engagement plans, approved by the operating unit’s management team, seek GRI Social Investment to ensure that the proposed actions are aligned with our EC1 (R$ Millions) overall strategy and will also bring returns to its business 65.9 division and to VID. 59.4 6 14.4 16.6 In 2012, we held 60 workshops on stakeholder 44.9 engagement, totaling 480 hours of training and involving 14.6 291 employees. All of VID’s business divisions have adopted 51.5 this methodology and it has been applied in 18 municipalities. 42.8 30.3 The Stakeholder Engagement Manual is available on the Votorantim Institute’s website at: www.institutovotorantim.org.br. 2010 2011 2012 Resources from incentives Own Resources 58 Relations with other stakeholders GRI Government 4.13, SO5 On a daily basis we monitor parliamentary Investors and analysts activities, including committees and legislation, VID has an Investor Relations area to attend to the information 9 at the municipal, state and federal levels (Congress needs of investors and market analysts (fixed income and credit). and Senate), particularly those that are linked to the industry sectors or business areas of the Votorantim We organize an annual event in Brazil called “Meeting the Market” Group. Many politicians, when it comes to large for investors, analysts, and business partners and contacts. In these industrial projects, consult our executives meetings, we present and discuss issues such as: performance; to exchange information and opinions. business strategy; expansion plans and/or investments; changes in our portfolio of products and services; and sustainability. We also At an institutional level we are permanently host an annual meeting in New York called “Votorantim Day”. in contact with the governments of the municipalities in the locations in which we In addition, we hold quarterly meetings, via teleconference, operate, and participate in discussions about to present our latest results to the market. There are also “live” public policy and support for the development meetings for overseas operations, where we respond to questions of local communities. We also participate in forums coming from many different countries. at various levels of government, including ministries and other public bodies, to discuss and present In 2012, we continued with our “Welcome to the Analyst” our needs and/or proposals for regulations. program, which aims to strengthen our relationships with international financial market analysts, as well as to give us an We participated in an initiative of the Federal opportunity to highlight our competitive differentials, our focus Government in 2012, to put together the “Plano on excellence in our production processes and our sustainability Brasil Maior (Greater Brazil Plan)”, which is initiatives. During 2012, we welcomed 11 analysts and 6 investors a project to integrate measures to stimulate the from institutions in Brazil and abroad to our cement, pulp and Brazilian industry to ensure greater competitiveness aluminum facilities. The objectives of these visits were to improve in the manufacturing sector. the visitors’ knowledge about these operations and highlight to them our competitive differentials, products and projects. It is worth noting that the increased level of information provided by We invested Votorantim to the market and our increased support to analysts, R$ 65.9 million such as the launch of the “Welcome to the analysts” program, in social projects reaped benefits. In 2012 a total of nine analysts were spontaneously covering the performance of the company and our bond trading in 2012, 11% more market, compared to 6 in 2011. All of these analysts gave a positive than in 2011. recommendation for investments in our bonds. More details can be found on our Investor Relations website at www.votorantim.com.br/ ri under “Notice to Creditors / Analyst Coverage.” Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 59 GRI Political parties 4.13, SO6 In order to guide our relationships with candidates Policy on electoral for public office we have prepared a manual donations published on our Code of Conduct for electoral processes. The main aim is to provide institutional and legal In 2012 we published a Corporate Policy security for our participation in this process. on Electoral Donations that complements the Code of Conduct for Electoral Processes The manual provides background information issued in 2008. In addition to strengthening and recommendations that serve as guidelines for the scope of governance and Votorantim’s Votorantim’s corporate conduct during electoral participation in these processes, the policy processes. We understand that the behavior of the was made available to the parties and institution, as well as each of its employees, must candidates seeking election in 2012. follow principles of soundness, ethics, respect, Votorantim’s donations were made in entrepreneurship and unity and that participation accordance with the relevant legislation and in the electoral process should be guided by legality, details are available on the website of the ethics and transparency. TSE. For further details on policy, please consult our website: www.votorantim.com. The manual is updated periodically in accordance with the laws and criteria established by the government for each election. It is distributed to all of the organization’s managers. We understand that electoral donations contribute to the furtherance of democracy in Brazil. Our involvement, if and when it occurs, is not tied to In 2012, political ideologies or programs. We seek to maintain we began contacts with those candidates and elected officials who have a connection with the economic sectors construction of or the cities and regions in which the organization our “Reputation has operations. We only consider supporting Platform” candidates who are known to be ethical. All of our electoral donations are registered at the Superior Electoral Court (TSE) please see: http://inter01.tse. jus.br/spceweb.consulta.receitasdespesas2012/ abrirTelaReceitasCandidato.action. 60 Image and reputation With the purposes of deepening our knowledge of the organization’s key stakeholder groups and making progress Since 2011 Votorantim has taken a more structured approach towards a higher quality of dialogue, the area of Brand and to the management of the organization’s image and reputation. Corporate Communications conducted a survey, together with The first step was the creation of the Committee on Corporate the Reputation Institute, to better understand the perceptions Responsibility and Reputation, reporting directly to the Board of customers, the press, government and investors in relation of Votorantim. The goal was to establish and consolidate a more to Votorantim. robust system of corporate governance, under which the shareholders would act as the guardians of Votorantim’s image The research is now in the consolidation phase and we have and reputation and be guided by its values, beliefs and strategy. started to put together action plans for the relationship with each stakeholder group. The second step was to restructure the corporate Institutional Relations area in April 2012. This area took on the task of helping Relations with the media to build Votorantim’s image and reputation through a brand management process that was integrated with the processes We recognize the roles of the media as both moderators for government relations, media relations and sustainability in of public debate and as legitimate watchdogs of the activities order to create value in our relationships with our various groups of government and organizations. Accordingly, our relations with of stakeholders. the media are based on transparency in relation to the disclosure of information about the Votorantim Group. Brand and corporate communications Our Media Relations area is part of the corporate holding In 2012, we began construction of our “Reputation Platform” company and defines the guidelines to be adopted by the with the following objectives: business divisions (and all of their operating units) in their contacts with the media. These guidelines are consolidated • Prepare a proposal for the Board of Votorantim in the Handbook of Media Relations, accessible to all employees, on the governance of image and reputation management and its application is the responsibility of the Communication roles and responsibilities. areas of the business divisions and the holding company. • Define the image that we want to project and how we In 2013, based on the results of research carried out with want to be perceived, through both corporate positioning journalists Image and Reputation in the project, the contents and brand architecture tied to the business strategy. of the Handbook should undergo a revision. • Provide organizational guidelines on the form and content of actions that impact the image of Votorantim, ensuring consistency in our communications. • Discuss the opportunities for brand exposure, networking and/or quality dialogue that can result in the establishment of lasting partnerships with stakeholder groups, the minimization of risks and the strengthening of the image and reputation of the organization, both internally and externally. • Evaluate the perceptions of different types of stakeholder groups of Votorantim and its business and activities, through surveys, monitoring and mapping (indicators). Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 61 Eco-efficiency and the responsible use 7 of resources Since we operate in several basic industrial sectors of the economy we are acutely aware of the environmental impacts of our operations. Correspondingly, we have firmly committed to responsibility for the environment in our strategic positioning and are continually investing in the application of new technologies, research, studies and actions to make improvements and mitigate risks and impacts. To drive this process forward, we have established an Environment Thematic Team which discusses action plans for issues related to emissions, waste, water, biodiversity, and licenses for all the business divisions. We also set up a Thematic Team for Energy, which focuses on actions and projects for energy efficiency and flexibility and the overall optimization of the group’s energy matrix. The implementation of actions in the business divisions is carried out by teams of the Environmental and Sustainability departments. In order to manage and monitor our actions we have a system to consolidate all of our indicators, a proprietary methodology for classification of environmental risks, and centralized control for licenses and the related conditions. The management processes are based on the guidelines set out in our Corporate Manual for the Environment. In addition we monitor the ongoing international discussions on environmental issues. In 2012, we participated in conferences and made presentations on Votorantim’s best practices at environmental forums such as: Rio + 20; the UN Climate Change Conference (COP 18) in Doha, Qatar; and the Conference of Parties to the UN Convention on Biological Diversity (COP 11) in Hyderabad, India. In 2012, we invested more than R$ 520 million in environmental management actions and projects in VID, an increase of around 10% compared to the total for 2011 (R$ 472.6 million). This amount included outlays on both operational expenses and investments. Votorantim Reserve: Juçara Palmetto 62 Corporate management of licenses and related conditions In 2012, we implemented a new centralized system for controlling the operating licenses of our units: the Management System for Government Licenses (GLM). Prior to this the control of licenses was carried out locally at each plant. The new system allows us to manage deadlines, to anticipate license needs and to generate management reports that assist us in decisionmaking and budget control. In 2012, we registered 448 operations in this new system. Our goal is to achieve coverage of 100% of our operations within 2 years, including all of the countries in which we operate. Total Expenditure on Investments and Expenses for Environmental Protection, by type (R$ Million) 525 473 Environmental insurance Decommissioning / Remediation of contaminated sites (soil and water) DHO Environmental Area 310 Wastewater treatment Waste treatment Treatment of air emissions Preservation, reforestation and biodiversity Environmental education Environmental management Environmental prevention Other environmental expenses 2010 2011 2012 Provisions for Environmental Risks and the Decommissioning of Plants GRI EN30 7, 8, 9 In 2012, in order to adapt to new accounting rules, we undertook a project to review, update and standardize the calculation of environmental liabilities and contingencies and asset decommissioning obligations for accounting purposes. The project aimed to: strengthen the governance of the issues of environmental liabilities and contingencies from the accounting perspective; ensure the application of criteria for provision recognition and the bases for measurement appropriate to provisions and contingent liabilities; and disclose sufficient information in the notes to the financial statements to enable users to understand the nature, timing and amounts based on the prevailing accounting standards International Financial Reporting Standards, Accounting Pronouncement Committee (CPC) standards and International Accounting Standards). Following the completion of this review, we recognized processes with a possibility of loss in the amount of R$ 646 million, and we revised the provisions for asset decommissioning up to R$ 870 million. For more information please see our financial statements at: www.votorantim.com. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 63 GRI Raw materials consumption EN1, EN2 We strive to use raw materials in a responsible manner in all of our production processes. Raw materials are managed by each business division according to its operational characteristics and needs. 7 e 8 Materials Used by weight and volume (million ton) 7 2010 2011 2012 34.5 34.7 33.8 19.3 16.5 16.3 9.3 9.6 8.3 8.2 8.2 5.6 3 3.2 3.7 2.9 2.3 3.0 2.5 2.8 2.5 1.9 1.7 1.3 1 0.8 Citrovita Fibria VC VC VC Sand / VMA VMN VMZ VS Oranges Timber Limestone Limestone / Gravel / Bauxite Nickel Ore Zinc Ore Scrap for cement Gneiss granite Cement for / Basalt for Concrete Aggregates Resende – VSScrap Yard 64 GRI In order to reduce cost and risks and gain efficiency we have conducted research to seek alternatives to replace EN2 raw materials. Recycled materials used (million tons) 2010 2011 2012 7 e 8 Total raw materials used (EN1) 70.51 80.26 86.30 Total recycled materials used as inputs 3.77 5.07 5.60 Percentage of recycled materials used as inputs 5.3% 6.3% 6.5% GRI Recycled Materials Used EN2 86.3 80.3 70.5 6.5% Total raw materials used (EN1) 6.3% Total recycled materials used as inputs 5.3% Percentage of recycled materials used as inputs 5.6 3.8 5.1 2011 2010 2012 GRI Generation and consumption of electric power EN3, EN4 Votorantim Energia is responsible for the administration of energy supply contracts and the operation of the hydroelectric plants owned by VID, and also represents VID in the consortia in which we hold participations. 7 e 8 Electric Power Consumption and Generation (´000 MWh) 7 Electric power generated by Votorantim 3,539 Electric Power purchased under contracts 8,030 Co-generation 42% Electric power generated H/E Electric power exported to National Grid 7,696 58% 11,235 -347 Total Consumption 19,265 MWh Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 65 In 2012, we increased the cogeneration of electricity VE – Capim Branco Plant in our production processes by 7.5%, reaching a total of 3,538 million megawatt hours (MWh) distributed among: the Citrosuco plants in Catanduva, Matão and Limeira (SP); the Votorantim Metais plants in Cajamarquilla and Niquelândia (Goiás (GO); and the Fibria plants in Jacareí (SP), TrêsLagoas (MS) and Aracruz (ES). Fibria, in addition to using the energy from internal cogeneration by burning biomass, was able export 346,749 MWh of excess energy to the National Integrated Energy System. The power generation from group-owned hydroelectric plants was reduced by 12% compared to 2011. This reduction was due to a low level of rainfall during the year, significantly below the average levels of prior years. Due to this shortage of rain, some of the water in our reservoirs was channeled to the public water supply of nearby cities, thus negatively affecting the power generation capacity of these plants. GRI Electric Power (Amounts in mil MWH) EN3,EN4 8,745 7,696 2011 2012 3,539 3,273 305 347 Electric power Electric power Electric power generated H/E + co-generation exported to National Small H/E production process Grid (SIN) In 2012, our total power consumption for the group was 19,265 million MWh. This total included all of our plants and facilities in Brazil and overseas, mines, farms and plantations. Of this total, we generated 11,235 million MWh internally through our own hydroelectric and cogeneration plants, making us 58% energy self-sufficient during the year. 66 GRI Energy matrix EN3,EN4 Apart from electric power, we are also a large user of various types of fuels in our production processes, such as for combustion in furnaces and boilers and for transport, among others. We strive for energy flexibility in our operations and are constantly analyzing the possibilities of using renewable fuels. GRI Energy Matrix (in GJ) EN3,EN4 311 294 Electric Power Generated 256 Renewable Purchased Electric Power Other sources Purchased Electric Power Sources with incentives Black Liquor Other renewable inputs NonNG renewable Fuel Oils Coke 2010 2011 2012 In 2012, renewable energy sources in our energy GRI Energy Matrix Profile EN3,EN4 matrix totaled 181,477 million gigajoules (GJ), representing around 58% of our total consumption of inputs. This value was 2% lower than the value 42% for 2011 as a result of the inclusion of data for our PazDelRio plant, owned by Votorantim Steel in Colombia, which increased coal consumption. However, we can report on some actions that have contributed to the increased consumption of 58% renewable energy sources at some plants: • Fibria: Increased the consumption of black liquor in its Aracruz (ES) plant by 2%; met 21% of energy needs using renewable sources; achieved Non-renewable Renewable a proportion of 51% in the use of solid biomass for steam generation. • Citrosuco: Increased its consumption of energy from renewable sources by 72%; acquired plants in Matão and Limeira in the State of São Paulo which use solid biomass in their boilers for power generation. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 67 GRI Energy Efficiency Program GRI Energy Efficiency EN26 EN5 Since 2007 we have had an Energy Efficiency 860 Program and have measured the energy 7, 8, 9 performance of each industrial process in terms 7, 8 of the gigajoules consumed per ton produced. 7 We monitor the energy consumption of our 7, 8 manufacturing plants through a system called Energy Balance. This system maps the input of energy into each macro process of each industrial 25 plant, thereby allowing us to track how much energy is consumed at the process level, as well as 2011 providing information on the type of energy used, 2010 2012 i.e. electric power, natural gas, biomass, etc. We analyzed the total consumption of each input -254 required for each ton of product produced. Total energy saved due to improvements in conservation and efficiency (Thousands of GJ) Using this information we can compare the consumption year by year and monitor the energy efficiency of the entire organization. In this way we As a result of the implementation of the Energy can establish whether our energy efficiency is Efficiency Program in the production processes improving or deteriorating per ton of output. of our main plants we have achieved energy savings of around 6.5 million GJ (for the period 2007 The information on Energy Balance is inputted to 2012), which is equivalent to R$ 69.9 million monthly into the intranet site “Portal Votorantim” of savings in monetary terms. In 2012 the Energy by representatives of each plant and access is Efficiency Program was operational in 32 plants controlled to ensure the quality and accuracy in Brazil and 2 plants overseas. of the data. VS: Barra Mansa Plant 68 Overall we recorded a 0.37% improvement in energy GRI Waste management EN22 efficiency for VID, compared to 2011. This improvement Our activities, particularly in mining, generate was due to the positive results obtained in specific plants, significant quantities of waste materials. For this of which we highlight: 7 reason we pay close attention on a daily basis to the generation, storage, processing and disposal • Fibria: The positive result overall was mainly due to the good of waste in our industrial processes. performance of the Aracruz (ES) and Três Lagoas (MS) plants. A high level of production combined with good coordination The day-to-day management of water resources between the operation and maintenance departments led is carried out by each business division and to improvements in equipment performance according includes actions both to optimize use and to priorities set by the Internal Commission for Energy to reduce consumption. Conservation (CICE) and the Energy Workgroup. Our business divisions have invested in research • Votorantim Metais: VM appointed a Director and have implemented actions in production processes for Technology and a Manager for Energy with mandates and in the reuse and recycling of waste in order to meet to act on opportunities to reduce energy consumption both the regulations of the National Solid Waste Plan and increase the flexibility of the energy matrix. The most and our own internal target of a 50% reduction important projects were prioritized in the company’s strategic in waste disposal to landfills by 2020. plan and then developed in detail at a technical level. We are constantly undertaking studies on the Examples include: “Recovery Boiler” and “Vapor Recovery transformation of waste into products or into inputs in Autoclaves” in the Três Marias (MG) plant; “Micro-mill” for other activities. This is one of the topics within for water use in the Vazante (MG) plant; “Replacement the scope of our Environment Thematic Team. of Steam Ejectors” in the Niquelândia (GO) plant; and the evaluation of new opportunities to reduce natural gas In 2012 we generated a total of 4,270,869tons consumption in the CBA (SP) plant. of waste, which were disposed of as indicated in the table below: • Votorantim Siderurgia: The Resende (RJ) plant achieved a reduction in energy consumption of 7.15% compared to 2011, mainly from the improved performance of the steelmaking process due to chemical and electrical adjustments Total waste by type and disposal method in the furnace. The Barra Mansa (RJ) plant achieved a reduction (thousand tons) of 1.56% during the year from the month of September 3,022 onwards, mainly due to the resumption of normal production and the implementation of improvements in the continuous Waste injected casting mill. underground E xternal reuse / recycling with value-added 1,248 Internal reuse / recycling Landfill Unclassified disposal Composting Hazardous Non-Hazardous  thers directed O to specific uses Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 69 GRI Management of water and effluents The quality parameters of all effluents are EN8, measured daily in accordance with applicable laws. EN21 Given that we are a large consumer of water The quantities of water consumed are measured and that we have a wide range of operations in the same units and recorded in Environmental we must manage our different uses of water Performance Index (IDA) for each plant on the on a case-specific basis. group intranet “Portal Votorantim”. The day-to-day management of water Total water discharged (Million m³) resources is carried out by each business division and includes actions both to optimize use and 247.08 to reduce consumption. 221.69 220.8 The Environment Thematic Team holds meetings to discuss consumption trends and the results and prospects for our improvement initiatives. The business divisions also hold specific discussions within the scope of the Environmental Management System. In order to achieve constant reductions in water usage we are continually investing in projects for GRI re-circulating water in our production processes and EN8 in environmental education campaigns. 2010 2011 2012 Total Water Withdrawal by Source (in thousand m³) 2010 2011 2012 Surface water 185,164 217,093 254,892 Fibria: Seedlings irrigation / Três Lagoas Plant Ground water 2,193 6,450 13,619 Water supplied by municipalities or other 383 1,547 38,884 companies Rainwater 0 0 0 Condensed vegetable extract (a waste product 1,992 2,131 2,635 from the processing of oranges containing water) Use of effluents from 0 0 0 other organizations TOTAL 189,732 227,221 310,030 Note: T he total volume of water taken increased in 2012 due to the increased number of plants and alterations in measurement methodology. 70 GRI Greenhouse gas emissions from GRI GHG Emissions (Million tCO2eq) EN16, EN16,EN17 EN17 industrial activity 29 8 Greenhouse gases 26 Our operations are highly intensive in the use 22 13.38 of energy. Furthermore, in the case of cement 13.34 10.57 production, the main raw material (limestone) 0.404 releases a substantial amount of carbon dioxide (CO2) during the manufacturing process. Because 0.361 1.20 0.335 of these characteristics the group emits large 0.49 0.57 quantities of GHGs. 11.51 8.49 9.66 In view of this, and with the recommendation of our Capex Thematic Team, we included the 1.18 0.91 1.60 mandatory use of a GHG emission analysis tool in 1.67 1.06 0.71 our Procedures Manual for new projects in 2012. 2010 2011 2012 Through the use of this tool we can identify the options, in the process of choosing investments, Soil Nitrogen Fertilizer that promote the reduction of GHG emissions in our Soil Limestone processes as well as being able to assess the impact Scope 1 of carbon in the ongoing operations after start-up. Waste Treatment Process We continually strive to maintain or reduce our Mobile Sources Owned GHG emissions in order to have the lowest possible rate of emissions per ton produced. Stationary Combustion S3 S2 Electric power We were one of the first Brazilian companies to Mobile Sources Outsourced prepare and publish carbon inventories. Since 2009, we have prepared an annual corporate emissions inventory (covering direct and indirect emissions tCO2eq / ton product from all operations), which even includes both VID in-house and third-party transportation S2 Scope 2 (Scope 3). We are also founding members of the S3 Scope 3 Brazil GHG Protocol initiative (more information at: http://www.registropublicodeemissoes.com.br/), Note: The calculations for ton CO2e/ton product do not include Citrosuco’s production volumes. which aims to encourage a corporate culture for the preparation and publication of GHG emission Our forestry operations sequester and store inventories and provide participants with access carbon in significant amounts. The preparation to international tools and standards. of our inventory of emissions and carbon sequestration follows international accounting standards and is audited by an independent external body. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 71 Votorantim presented its GHG inventory methods at the United Nations Conference in Qatar In December 2012, Votorantim gave a presentation on its strategies for climate mitigation and adaptation at the UN climate change conference (COP 18) held in Doha, Qatar in a side event organized by the Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development (CEBDS). Also participating in the event were Tasso Azevedo, special advisor at the Ministry of the Environment, Paula Benatti, an advisor on the environment at the National Federation for Industry (CNI), and Thierry Berthoud, a director at the World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD). GRI Carbon Balance VID EN16,EN17 (Million tCO2eq) -28.53 18.86 2012 -25.67 19.51 2011 -22.50 21.84 -20 -10 2010 0 10 20 Total GHG Emissions Carbon capture We are closely following the opportunities in the carbon markets. In 2012, we certified a further 224,667 tCO2e of carbon credits, Since 2005, we have implemented projects with carbon credits for trading or compensation, arising from the second period that have already generated revenues. In 2009, we sold carbon of credits for a project certified by the UN under the Clean contracts totaling 106,000 tCO2e and generated R$ 5.3 million Development Mechanism (CDM). This project, named of revenues. “CDM for Hydroelectric Plant with Existing Reservoir – Votorantim/Pedra do Cavalo “, is located in the State of Bahia. This project can be reviewed on the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change website at: http://cdm.unfccc.int/Projects/DB/DNV-CUK1160397342.29/view. 72 GRI Initiatives to reduce emissions of greenhouse gases and the reductions achieved EN18 Projects which generated reductions Effective reductions in 2012 Location (tCO2e/year) Status H/E Plant with existing reservoir VC Pedra do Cavalo 224,667 2º issue of CERs approved 7, 8 Estimated reductions Projects on-going in 2012 Location (tCO2e/year) Status Fossil fuel substitution Citrosuco Catanduva 52,413 In the approval process Project approved by the UNFCC 8 Heat recovery (steam recovery in flash and being implemented at the autoclave tanks) VM Três Marias 10,245 plant Energy efficiency (substitution of S-900 Project terminated by the UNFCC steam injectors) VM Niquelândia 21,779 without generating credits Project terminated by the UNFCC Heat recovery VM Niquelândia 54,330 without generating credits Micro-mill Barragem Aroeira VM Vazante 240 Project in final technical design VCS Project (Voluntary Market) H/E plant with low rate of deforestation for reservoir VM Salto Pilão 168,000 VERs/year Project awaiting issue of VERs VCS Project (Voluntary Market) improved natural gas combustion With procurement, reviewing calcination VM CBA 7,563 VERs/year proposals for detailed design VCS Project (Voluntary Market) improved natural gas combustion With procurement, reviewing boilers VM CBA 13,768 VERs/year proposals for detailed design Fostering the preparation of carbon inventories in the supply chain Votorantim, together with other companies of the Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development, sponsored the training and preparation of the first carbon inventory by 32 suppliers. As a result, in the medium term, we will be able to improve the accounting for our carbon “footprint” in our core products. GRI Other emissions EN20 We monitor our manufacturing processes in order to comply with the emission parameters established in the licensing process, as well as with the criteria set by governmental environmental agencies. Our goal is to minimize other emissions, such as nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), particulate matter (PM) and heavy metal waste on the basis of production per ton. Emissions of NOx, SOx and PM (t) 2010 2011 2012 NOx Emissions 39,674 43,092 40,510 SOx Emissions 22,351 27,789 31,252 PM Emissions 7,438 10,130 12,511 Total Emissions of NOx, SOx and PM (t) 69,463 81,011 84,273 Emissions of Heavy Metals 2010 2011 2012 Emissions of Heavy Metals Mercury 0.24 0.34 0.18 Emissions of Heavy Metals Cadmium 0.07 0.15 0.64 Emissions of Heavy Metals Thallium 0.09 0.46 0.55 Total Emissions of Heavy Metals 0.40 0.95 1.37 Other Air Emissions 2010 2011 2012 Volatile Organic Compounds 587.97 609.53 439.94 Total Emissions 70,051 81,621 84,713 Note: The total absolute emissions have increased year on year due to the new industrial plants going into operation. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 73 GRI Biodiversity and ecosystem services EN11, EN13, Votorantim is the owner and user of large areas located in regions where the level of interest in conservation is high and, EN14 in many cases, which have a high rate of biodiversity and provide a significant level of ecosystem services. Undertaking research on these assets and employing a structured approach to their responsible use are essential factors in maintaining our industrial 7, 8 actions in such regions. 9 Votorantim Industrial’s operations in Brazil are located mainly in the Cerrado (savannah) and Atlantic Rainforest biomes although we do also have some plants in the Pampas and Caatinga regions. GRI EN13 Biome Total Area of Habitat (sq km) Actions Taken 1% restored, 3% protected, Atlantic Rainforest 1,982.32 97% restored and/or Protected 7, 8 Cerrado 1,006.65 100% restored and/or protected Cerrado and Atlantic Rainforest (transition zone) 0.12 100% protected TOTAL 2,989.09 GRI Biomes Protected EN13 Ecosystem services on the agenda 7, 8 Together with CEBDS, the Center for Sustainability Studies of the Getulio Vargas Foundation (GVces), the World Resources Institute (WRI), and other companies, in 2012 we founded the Business Partnership for Ecosystem Services (ESSP) 34% with support from the United States Agency for International Development. Under this partnership we will participate in a pilot project for the implementation of the tool developed by WRI and the World Business Council for Sustainable Development, called Ecosystems Services Review, which assesses the impact and dependence of a specific project in relation to the available ecosystem services. We completed the first phase of our pilot program 66% at our VM operation in Rondon do Pará (Pará (PA)) and, based on the knowledge acquired, our specialists applied the methodology to four other plants: an energy plant Atlantic Rainforest in Complexo Juquiá (SP); a steel plant in Resende (RJ); Cerrado a cellulose plant at Aracruz (ES); and a cement plant in Primavera (PA). The full study will be published in 2013. By using the ESR tool we expect to expand our knowledge about ecosystem services with a focus on dependence, thereby providing information above and beyond that obtained from environmental impact assessments. 74 With respect to biodiversity and ecosystem services, • In November 2012, we organized a seminar in São Paulo, we can highlight the following actions taken by VID in 2012: entitled “Biodiversity Beyond Valuation”. The purpose of the event was to discuss the outlook for biodiversity, ecosystem • We concluded the tasks in our partnership with the Brazilian services, payment for environmental services and the roles for Business Council for Sustainable Development and other the paper industry and government. We evaluated risks and companies, in relation to the study of the tools available to assess opportunities, presented good examples of ongoing initiatives aspects of dependency / impact and the valuation of ecosystem and identified the challenges yet to be met. In addition services. We evaluated the following tools: Artificial Intelligence for to Votorantim Industrial specialists, the seminar featured Ecosystem Services; Integrated Valuation of Ecosystem Services and presentations by: Fernando Tatagiba (Director of the Forestry Trade-offs; Ecosystems Services Review (ESR); Corporate Ecosystem Department of the Ministry of Environment); Fernanda Gimenes Valuation; and Business Ecosystems Training. After completing this (CEBDS); Elaine Lerda and Daniela Teixeira (Padma Consulting); evaluation process we selected the ESR tool for undertaking Helena Pavese (Conservation International Brazil / Brazil TEEB); pilot studies at selected plants. Jane Mauro (Petrobras); Daniel Black (Souza Cruz); Cynthia Machado (Fauna & Flora International); and Gabriela Burian, • We presented our initiatives on biodiversity and ecosystem Global Director of Sustainable Agricultural Ecosystems for services at the Conference of the Parties to the Convention Monsanto, who came from the company’s global headquarters on Biological Diversity (COP 11) in India. We also participated in the United States especially for the seminar. At the in discussions on the future of ecosystem services, conducted governmental level, we discussed the existing federal and state by CEBDS, and an event sponsored by The Economics laws that relate to payment for environmental services. of Ecosystems and Biodiversity (TEEB). Votorantim and the State Government of São Paulo signed a protocol for the establishment of the Votorantim Reserve The Secretary for the Environment for the State of São Paulo, acting on behalf of the State’s Forestry Foundation, and Votorantim signed a letter of intent for the creation of the Votorantim Reserve, which covers an area of about 35 thousand hectares and is located in Vale do Ribeira in the south of the State of São Paulo. This area has been preserved by Votorantim for over 50 years. It will be the largest privately-owned reserve in the Atlantic Rainforest biome. The reserve is located next to the Jurupará State Park and together they will form an ecological corridor running between the coast and the interior of the state. Under the agreement, the management of the reserve will be shared between Votorantim and the State Government. In addition to scientific and academic studies, the reserve will be used to host activities related to: environmental education; ecotourism; preservation of endangered species; and the socioeconomic development of the region. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 75 Business divisions Votorantim Votorantim Cimentos Siderurgia Number of employees 15,573 5,996 27.3 million 1.7 million Total sales tons of cement tons of steel % share of total EBITDA (VID) 60% 7% EBITDA (R$ millions) 3,167 351 % share of total CAPEX (VID) 47% 8% Investments on environmental projects (R$ million) 34.4 28.3 34 cement plants and Principal plants and facilities 22 grinding mills 5 steel plants Social investment in the locations where we operate (R$ millions)*** 10 4.2 *The energy generated by VE is used internally in Votorantim’s production processes. **Citrosuco is a subsidiary of VPAR. Notas: 1) Citrosuco does not include temporary farm workers, with a total of 8,872. 2) T he total number of employees in this report differs from the figure published in the Management Report due to the revised figures for the number of employees of VCNA and Milpo. VID’s corporate center areas have 900 employees. 3) Considered VID´s participation on Fibria of 29,42% 76 Votorantim FIBRIA CITROSUCO Votorantim Metais Energia 12,540 4,032 5,965 425 448,000 tons of Aluminum 34,000 tons of Nickel 5.4 million 152 million 11,2 mil MWh tons of pulp boxes of oranges energy generated* 672,000 tons of Zinc 20% 13% ** Consolidated results for the remaining 1,060 664 ** business divisions 35% 10% ** 43.7 143.1 1.6 4.3 Aluminum: 4, 30 hydroelectric plants 3 plants 3 plants Nickel: 3, Zinc: 8 and 5 cogeneration plants 6.8 11.7 0.7 3.5 Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 77 Votorantim Cimentos Organic growth by increasing our production capacity through Business profile both expansion projects at our existing facilities and the opening Votorantim Cimentos (VC), founded in 1936, is one of new plants. of the top ten cement producers in the world and the leading company in the cement sector in Brazil. Increased internationalization of our business through acquisitions and investments in growth. Our business portfolio consists of four major product lines: Increasingly, we are positioning ourselves as a basic • Cement construction materials company with a national reach • Concrete and a wide range of products and services to meet the • Aggregates many diverse needs of customers in this sector. • Complementary Products To achieve this ambition, we are investing in increased In Brazil, we have 16 cement plants, 11 grinding mills, capacity, not only in cement but also in concrete, aggregates 110 concrete plants, 28 aggregate plants, 8 mortar plants and complementary products. We seek to grow organically, and 1 lime plant. All of these are strategically located near major through expansion projects and acquisitions. consumer markets, which ensures logistical efficiency and good margins. In addition, we have a minority interest in the Mizu and In 2102, we concluded the asset swap related to our 21.21% Itambé companies, which own 3 cement plants, 2 grinding mills stake in Cimpor, the Portuguese cement company. As a result and 1 mixer. of this transaction we gained assets in 7 countries, Spain, India, China, Turkey, Morocco, Tunisia and Peru. This added In North America, our subsidiary Votorantim Cimentos North 16.3 million tons p.a. to our global cement production capacity, America operates plants in both Canada and the United States, which reached 52.2 million tons p.a. and represented an increase where overall we have 5 cement plants, 2 grinding mills, of 45% in our total capacity. In Brazil we ended 2012 with 140 concrete plants and 34 aggregate plants. a production capacity of 30.1 million tons p.a. In Europe, Africa and Asia, we have operations in China, Spain, We reinforced our presence in South America through the India, Morocco, Tunisia and Turkey. They are owned by our acquisition of control of the cement company Artigas in Uruguay; subsidiary VCEAA, which operates 13 cement plants, 8 grinding we now hold 51% of its capital. We also increased our share in mills, 78 concrete plants, 22 aggregate plants, 5 mortar plants, Avellaneda, Argentina to 49%. We are also present in Bolivia, 1 lime plant and 1 clinker plant. through Itacamba, a company controlled indirectly by Artigas, and Chile, through a 15% minority stake in Bio-Bio. In South America we operate through participations in Argentina, Bolivia, Chile, Peru and Uruguay. In these countries we have In 2012, we inaugurated a cement plant in Cuiabá (Mato Grosso 5 cement plants, 3 grinding mills, 65 concrete plants, 18 aggregate (MT), adding 1.2 million tons of installed capacity, and expanded plants, 1 mortar plant, 3 lime plants and 1 clinker plant. the grinding mills of Cimesa (Laranjeiras Sergipe (SE)) and Rio Branco do Sul (Paraná (PR)), adding a further 0.9 and 1.0 million The total number of employees in all of our operations was tons of installed capacity, respectively. Furthermore, we opened 15,573 at the end of 2012. 4 new concrete plants and 2 new aggregate plants. Our business strategy has been based on the expansion of our We are focused on the positive outlook for infrastructure projects operations, combined with increased operational and management and housing in Brazil and continue to invest in our sector. This efficiency, an expanding range of products and services and involves the opening and/or expansion of plants to increase constant cost management, and is divided into two major fronts: production capacity and thus sustain our growth in the industry 78 and maintain our position of market leadership. By increasing GRI Responsible growth EC1 our production of cement, concrete, aggregates and mortar, we are preparing to meet the forecasted increased demand The Brazilian construction market has been for the coming years, thereby reaffirming our commitment booming and government policies aimed at 1 to the development of Brazil. encouraging infrastructure projects have had a significant positive effect on the demand We increasingly seek to be recognized not only as a cement for our products and services. company, but also as a company with a broad range of services and wide variety of products. For example, in 2012 our concrete In 2012, our sales volume rose to 27.3 million tons business in Brazil initiated a process of diversification in terms of of cement and net sales revenues totaled R$ 9.8 billion, geographical distribution. Although primarily concentrated in the up by 5% and 9%, respectively, compared to 2011. State of São Paulo, the business has started to develop new markets, mainly in the Northeast and Midwest regions. Another This increase in sales volume was due mainly example is the performance of the complementary products to the start-up of operations of new plants and business, which has the second highest index for value generation grinding mills and improvements in our operational in Votorantim Cimentos (after the cement business itself), as the efficiency. It is also important to note that our construction commodity, architecture and agribusiness segments average cement price rose to R$ 222.00 / ton, have experienced significant growth. Our production in this 4% higher than 2011. business doubled from 2010 to 2012. Our goal is to continue growing by investing in increased production capacity. Cement production is a highly capital intensive activity and is based on the extraction and processing of natural resources. Thus, our cost structure is composed mainly of processing costs (energy) and the maintenance and operation of VC has renewed its membership plants. In 2012, the total amounts for “cost of and its targets in the Cement goods sold” and “selling, general and administrative expenses” increased by 10% and 30%, respectively. Sustainability Initiative This occurred mainly as a result of the start-up of operations of new plants and the increase Since we joined the Cement Sustainability Initiative (CSI) in US sales volume, which experienced increases in 1999 we have renewed our membership year on year. in maintenance, freight and labor costs. The CSI is an important global commitment for cement companies and is coordinated by WBCSD. This initiative Our adjusted EBITDA in 2012 was R$ 3.2 billion, is a common platform for the world’s largest producers with a margin of 32%, 11% higher than last year. of construction materials and stimulates the exchange This was driven mainly by price increases of 4% and of experience between the companies, to disseminate 12%, and volume increases of 4% and 17%, in the best practices and to establish a number of commitments Brazilian and North American markets, respectively. and voluntary targets aimed at compensating and mitigating the impacts of the cement industry on the environment. In 2012, the CSI charter completed its first seven-year reference period, beginning in 2006, for targets and indicators. As from 2013, we are now pursuing the goals for the second CSI reference period. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 79 Products, services and customers • With the “Open Doors” program we invited 2 customers to visit our plants and to learn about our In Brazil, we sell more than 40 products, including production processes. This program was initially cement, concrete, aggregates (crushed stone and designed to receive visitors from the local community sand) and complementary products such as mortar, but since 2011, we have developed a version more hydrated lime, lime paint, blocks, tiles, white appropriate for customers. The objective of the visit cement and agricultural lime. is to show the customer how we operate and how cement is produced. In 2012, we received around In Brazil our products are sold under the following 2,500 customers in 82 group visits. brand names: Votoran, Itaú, Poty, Tocantins, Aratu, Votomassa, Matrix, Engemix, Cimento Ribeirao, • Besides the initiatives mentioned above, we have Pavilit, Normalit and Blocolit. In North America, others which have been grouped together in a single Europe, Africa and Asia, we work with various project, aimed at improving the level of service brands, which include: St. Mary’s, Suwannee, and the quality of relationships with our customers. CBM, HuttonTransport, Prairie and Prestige, This project, initiated in 2012 and still in the pilot Cementos Cosmos, Palmer, AsmentTemara, phase, has ambitious goals for improving processes, JbelOust, Ybitas and Kamal. developing plants and enhancing products and services. We are constantly looking for ways to GRI improve the flow of orders and deliveries and all of Relationships with customers PR5 our logistic processes, to improve the quality of our Regarding our relationships with our customers, products, to facilitate supply agreements, to develop we can highlight the following activities in 2012: new funding strategies and to improve our communication with customers, thereby further • We continued to maintain a “Customer Council “, leveraging our strong distribution network and our which is a forum for discussion to analyze specific wide diversity of options of products and services. situations and to find new solutions in partnership with customers. The meetings aim to bring • It is also worth mentioning that, in 2012, we customers closer to VC, to increase mutual implemented the Mesh Logistics Optimizer (OML) understanding between the parties and to develop system. This software helps us to make market supply improvements, based on customer suggestions forecasts that take into consideration shortand and criticisms. Council meetings are held quarterly medium-term demands and covers deliveries scheduled in São Paulo, Campinas, Ribeirão Preto, Porto Alegre, to be made between 1 week and 15 months from Florianopolis, Brasilia, Goiania, Cuiaba, Recife, the order date. This project was implemented in the Fortaleza and Salvador. Each Council has a cement business. The Optimizer system centralizes membership of 20 customer businesses, of a variety all our data on production, inventory, transportation of sizes, selected by the sales team in each region. and tax issues and allows us, within minutes, to simulate scenarios and identify the best plan • We are also continuing with our program called for delivery routes. This analysis had previously “VC in the Field”, which organizes visits by VC taken as long as several days to complete. employees from a variety of functional areas, together with the sales team, to the customer’s premises. • The degree of overall satisfaction of VC’s Organized every six months, the goal of these visits customers has improved continuously in the is to disseminate the culture of focusing on customer last three satisfaction surveys we conducted: satisfaction throughout the company. In the two editions of the program (2011 and 2012) a total of 800 VC employees visited about 1,000 customers. 80 Number Overall Our solutions for mortar and concrete products Survey carried of customers satisfaction help to eliminate waste in the construction sites. out during: interviewed: index: One example of this positioning is our mortar 22/03 to 13/04 product line, Votomassa, which has obtained 2011 1,701 77% the Greenguard certification. This certification 10/10 to 24/11 attests that the product does not emit any toxic 2011 1,510 84% substances that could affect indoor air quality 01/06 to 30/11 or people’s health, according to guidelines 2012 2,330 87% set by the National Toxicology Program of the United States of America. Use of our products 10 GRI Regard to sustainable construction, in 2012, SO7 we conducted studies on the subject and, Cement cartel in 2013, began to prepare life-cycle In November 2011, the Secretariat of assessments of our products. We also plan Economic Law (SDE) of the Ministry of Justice to create a specific area to disseminate issued its opinion on the investigation, which sustainable construction solutions. began in 2006, into an alleged cartel in the cement sector. This opinion was delivered With the discovery of the “pre-salt” offshore to the Administrative Council for Economic deep-sea oil reserves the demand for cement for Defense (CADE), which is conducting the ever deeper oil-well drilling has risen sharply. VC investigation. In its opinion, the SDE accused was already producing cement for oil-wells and certain companies and executives of having now we are now developing a special product committed acts in violation of Brazil’s for these very deep wells. competition laws. The companies cited were: Holcim do Brasil S.A., Votorantim Cimentos At a global level, concrete is the second most S.A., Camargo Corrêa Cimentos S.A., used material in the world, second only to Cimpor Cimentos do Brasil Ltda., Itabira Agro water. Cement is an eco-efficient construction Industrial S.A., Companhia de Cimento Itambé, material that can contribute significantly to the Associação Brasileira das Empresas de Serviços sustainability of buildings because of its physical de Concretagem (ABESC), Associação Brasileira properties. In 2011 we reached our goal of de Cimento Portland (ABCP), and Sindicato producing 85% compound cement and 15% Nacional da Indústria do Cimento (SNIC). cement without additions. Compound cement is manufactured with the addition of recycled The Votorantim Group affirms that it has materials which, as well as reducing the always acted in accordance with the law and production cost, contribute to reducing carbon does not endorse anti-competitive practices. emissions and the consumption of raw materials. During the administrative process, the This 85% rate of production of compound company will present its defense, according cement contributed to our 25% reduction to applicable procedures. in carbon emissions (per ton of cement) in the production process. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 81 Votorantim Metais VM presents the Rondon Business profile Alumina Project Votorantim Metais (VM) was established in 1996 after In July 2012, we participated in “Expo Rondon”, a restructuring of the Votorantim group’s business model. an agricultural fair in Rondon do Pará (PA), in order VM is responsible for our businesses in metals including zinc, to introduce the company to the local community and nickel and aluminum, and other metals. give a presentation on the Rondon Alumina project. In Brazil, we own and operate four industrial plants and seven This is a project for the construction of an integrated mining and processing units. Overseas, we own and operate alumina refinery and a bauxite mine in Rondon do Pará. industrial plants in Peru (Cajamarquilla), the United States (USZINC) Alumina is produced from bauxite and is used for and China; metal ore mining in Peru (Milpo); metallurgical coal manufacturing aluminum, as well as in other applications mining in Colombia; commercial offices in the United States, China such as insulators and ceramics. A feasibility study of the and Austria; and metal ore mining offices in Argentina, Canada, project was undertaken in 2012. Peru, Colombia and South Africa. Following the approval of the project and the obtaining of the Production capacity: necessary environmental permits, the construction work is scheduled to begin in 2013 and the start-up of operations in • Aluminum: 475,000 tons / year. 2016. The annual production capacity is estimated at 3 million • Zinc: 739,000 tons / year. tons of alumina and 7.7 million tons of washed bauxite. • Nickel: 40,000 tons / year. The investment has been budgeted at R$ 6.6 billion. Surveys of market entities, such as the consultancy firm Brook Hunt, indicate that Votorantim Metais one of the top five global producers of zinc, the largest manufacturer of electrolytic nickel in Latin America and the Brazilian market leader in the production of primary aluminum. With our fully integrated production process, our business strategy is to ensure that we offer an efficient supply of quality products at competitive prices. We are also seeking to identify new opportunities for mining and to strengthen our operations in Peru. Besides the above-mentioned products, we aim to move forward in the coming years on projects related to the mining of bauxite reserves in Pará, for the production of alumina, and the expansion of our metallurgical coal mining in Colombia. VM ended 2012 with 12,540 employees. VM: Miraí Plant 82 GRI Responsible growth Products, services and customers EC1 2 The year 2012 proved to be a difficult year for the We currently offer the following products: zinc, global market for metal commodities. The average nickel, aluminum, cobalt, cadmium, anhydrous 1 London Metal Exchange prices were substantially lower sodium sulfate, copper sulfate, zinc oxide, sulfuric (aluminum: 16%; zinc: 12%; and nickel: 24%) due acid, metallurgical coal, metallic indium, powdered to weak global economic growth and the slowdown lime and mineral concentrates. of the Chinese economy. In addition, higher inflation in Brazil reduced the margins and profitability of the GRI Relationships with customers whole sector, including our operations. PR5 • In 2012, we organized the third edition of our The sales volume of our aluminum operations “Meeting the Customer”, an annual event that remained constant at 448,000 tons, with sales brings together representatives of a variety of VM to export markets up by 8%. The zinc sales volume customers. This meeting is aimed at strengthening decreased by 5% to 672, 000 tons due to the lower customer relationships; discussing scenarios, trends ore content in the concentrate used in production. and the prospects for the economy and the industry; The nickel operation increased its sales volume exchanging opinions on the metal consumer markets; by 3%, to 34,000 tons, spurred by higher and working together to identify opportunities for external demand. growth. The meeting attracted about 300 participants representing various clients. The event discussed the Net sales revenues in 2012 totaled R$ 9.2 billion, global conditions and market trends around the theme 3% higher than in 2011. Of this total, the revenues “Challenges for growth.” from aluminum rose to R$ 3.0 billion, 2% higher than in 2011; zinc operations (including the Milpo mine • In the aluminum market we are initiating a new results) reached US$ 4.8 billion, 6% higher than in form of relationship with the market based on 2011; and the nickel operations closed the year information from a customer survey of purchasing at US$ 1.4 billion, 4% lower than in2011. criteria, as well as trends and our knowledge of the market. This new commercial approach, which began The cost of goods sold for the aluminum operations to be implemented in 2012, will be the starting point rose 11%, due primarily to an increase in electricity to pursue a growth strategy. We have defined the civil consumption and the negative impact of the construction, packaging and energy segments as devaluation of the real against the dollar on natural gas our main targets and areas where we can leverage prices. The costs of the zinc operations were 20% our competitive advantages. We have redefined higher than in the prior year, mainly impacted by higher our market approach and restructured the marketing electricity rates and higher amounts of concentrate and customer segmentation process. We will develop consumed in the production process. The cost of goods a specific approach for each customer segment. sold for the nickel operations totaled R$ 1.2 billion, 7% We hope that, as from 2013, we will be able higher than in 2011, mainly due to the increase in the to capture more value by serving customers cost of concentrate, the main raw material. in a more tailored way. EBITDA fell by 37%, to a total of R$ 1.1 billion, with zinc operations accounting for 74%, aluminum for 24%, and nickel for 2%. Contributing to this result were a 5% decrease in zinc volume and an increase in expenses for concentrate and electric power. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 83 Use of our products Our products and services are used in many applications in everyday life. In the case of Votorantim Metais our products are designed mainly for the market segments of civil construction, consumer goods, packaging, transportation, pharmaceutical and energy (wires and cables). Our zinc, nickel and aluminum products have the following main uses: Zinc Special high grade zinc Galvanized processes and electrolytic galvanizing in various formats: ingots, jumbos and pellets. Zamac Die casting and centrifuged casting. Special zinc alloys Zn4E, Galfan, ZnNi alloys and other alloys developed according to customer specifications. Zinc dust Production of alkaline batteries and paints for corrosion protection. Vulcanization of rubber; cosmetics; zinc phosphate; medicines; glazed ceramics; polymers; Zinc oxide agribusiness; animal nutrition; etc. Zincal 200 Soil pH correction and maximization of fertilizer effects. Concentrates Manufacture of metallic lead, silver and lead. Sulfur dioxide Bleaching of cellulose, sugar and kaolin, preservatives for food products and the production of bisulphites. Sulfuric acid Manufacture of fertilizers for agriculture. Copper sulfate Applications in agriculture, livestock farming, mining, electroplating and the chemical industry. Cadmium Fabrication of nickel-cadmium batteries, paint pigments and metal alloys. Nickel Electrolytic nickel Electroplating, super alloys and non-ferrous alloys. Nickel coins Titanium baskets. Production of super alloys, magnetic alloys, cutting tools, chemical products, batteries, fertilizers, Cobalt animal feed, among others. Anhydrous sodium Chemical products, pottery, textiles and related products, detergents and soap, glass, and pulp sulfate and paper. Sulfuric acid Sugar-ethanol (ethyl alcohol) complex, pulp and paper, chemicals in general and fertilizers. Aluminum Castings Manufacture of coils, ingots, slabs, billets and properzi rebars. Processed Plates, coils, sheets, profiles, wires and cables. In 2012, we can highlight the following: • The Colombian government has approved an extension Zero waste at the Morro Agudo plant (for another 26-years) of a contract with PazDelRio, to develop and sell metallurgical coal. Production is forecast to increase VM’s plant at Morro Agudo (in Paracatu, MG) is working from 200 thousand tons per year to 2.5 million tons per year on the concept of “zero waste”. Through changes in the by 2020. manufacturing process, the company has managed to turn material that was once waste into a product and source • The São Miguel Paulista (SP) and Niquelândia (GO) plants began of income. The tailings from our operations, which had to sell, on a larger scale, products derived from the processing previously been divided into industrial limestone powder of nickel which have applications in the agribusiness and chemical (PCI) and agricultural lime powder (PCA), are now converted industries. Prior to this these by-products were marketed on a small 100% into PCA, thereby ending the generation of industrial scale. Examples are cobalt, sodium sulfate, etc. waste at the plant. The new product was named Zincal 200. In 2012, we sold about 700 thousand tons of powdered • We are currently analyzing our processes for operations, sales, agricultural lime for the correction of soil acidity. The marketing and technical assistance services, as well as assessing partnership with Votorantim Cements was essential to the the feasibility of doing life-cycle assessments for all products improvement of distribution logistics and the introduction in order to improve their quality and to enhance customer contacts. of Zincal 200 to new markets such as Mato Grosso, Piauí, We are initiating life-cycle assessments for aluminum foil as well Goiás and São Paulo. as primary zinc and nickel. 84 Votorantim Siderurgia Business profile New metal recycling unit opens Votorantim Siderurgia (VS) was established in July 2008 with the objective of improving the positioning of the Steel Business division In November 2012, we inaugurated our fifth Metal within the overall structure of the organization. The establishment Recycling Unit (RMU) in São Paulo with the capacity of VS was also as a reflection of the growth of the steel market, its to handle up to 15 thousand tons of scrap per increasing importance on the national and international scene and the month and process about 7 thousand ton per specific characteristics of the sector, such as technology and product month. We operate three more RMUs in São Paulo diversity. We have operations in Brazil, Argentina and Colombia. and one in Minas Gerais. The RMUs are strategic to our operations because scrap represents 70% of the raw In Brazil, we have three plants in operation Barra Mansa (RJ), Resende material cost of steel. When we buy recycling material (RJ) and the recently opened Sitrel lamination plant in Três Lagoas from smalland medium-sized producers we can obtain (MS). Overseas, we have a controlling stake in PazdelRio, Colombia’s a lower price which makes the steel more competitive. only integrated steel plant producing long steel bars, and also own In the RMUs the scrap is stored and processed before AcerBrag, the second largest producer of long steel bars in Argentina. being sent to the plants. In 2013, we plan to open We strive to be recognized by customers as the best supplier of long another RMU, in Paraná. Our goal is to reach eight steel bars in the Americas. metal recycling facilities in the coming years. Production units: • Brazil: 3 steel plants; 1 forested area; 7 cut-and-bend centers; 5 metal-recycling facilities; GRI Responsible growth EC1 • Colombia: 1 steel plant; 1 limestone plant; 3 iron-ore mines; Despite stable demand and a significant increase 6 cut-and-bend centers; in the volume of steel imported into Latin America, • Argentina: 1 steel plant; 3 cut-and-bend centers. 1 mainly from China and Turkey, the long steel segment recovered strongly in 2012, enabling Production capacity: VS to increase its net income by 9% and its EBITDA by 72% compared to 2011. • Brazil: 1,292 thousand tons / year. • Argentina: 291 thousand tons / year. In 2012 the sales volume totaled 1.7 million • Colombia: 396 thousand tons / year. tons, 2% lower than in 2011, since the increases Note: Finished goods (long steel). in sales volume in Brazil and in Argentina were more than offset by the decrease in sales volume Our strategy is to provide the best products and service in the Colombian market. Net revenue totaled to our customers by focusing on customer relationships R$ 3.3 billion, driven mainly by price increases and loyalty and developing new business opportunities. of 7% and 11% and increased sales of 2% and 1% in Brazil and Argentina, respectively. In 2012, we completed testing and obtained the certification of our Sitrel plant (Siderúrgica Três Lagoas MS), which started The total cost of goods sold increased by 7% operations in January 2013. Sitrel is a company which is jointly in 2012, as a result of increased primary production owned by Votorantim Siderurgia and the businessman Alexandre (in Brazil and Argentina) and the high inflation Grendene. The initial production capacity is 400 thousand tons in the Argentine market. The total selling, general of rolled steel per year. VM ended 2012 with 5,996 employees. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 85 and administrative expenses decreased by 16% Products, services and customers 2 to end the year at R$ 653 million, mainly as a result The main VS products are long steel bars of the optimization of freight expenses. sold under the brands Votoraço (Brazil), AcerBrag (Argentina) and Acerías PazdelRio (Colombia). EBITDA totaled R$ 351 million as a result The steel we produce is used mainly in the civil of increased net revenues and operating efficiency and mechanical construction segments. Among and reduced sales and administrative costs, the products manufactured are rebar rods and especially freight expenses. reels for reinforced concrete, cut and bend materials (“ObraFacil” brand), annealed wires, latticework frames, soldered screens, profiles, Expansion of forest area angles, carbon-steel machine wire for drawing and cold rolling, round bars and flat bars. We have increased our forest area in order to supply vegetable charcoal to our Curvelo We also operate iron ore and limestone mines as (MG) plant. We own Coal Production Units well as maintaining a forestry unit in Minas Gerais, (UPCs) and we built new furnaces in 2012. comprising four eucalyptus plantations for the The Curvelo (MG) plant was leased by VS production of vegetable charcoal and pig iron. and has a blast furnace which produces pig iron for use in our industrial plants GRI Relationships with customers in Rio de Janeiro (Resende and Barra Mansa). PR5 This plant, which began operations in 2012, • In 2012, we launched the “VS Leadership produces 120 thousand tons of pig iron on the Attack” project in which senior per year, which is equivalent to about managers from the various functional areas 30% of our demand for pig iron. Our goal of VS made visits to strategic customers. is to gradually reduce our share of purchased The goal of this project is to forge closer pig iron and vegetable charcoal and, in the and closer ties with our customers, as well coming years, we plan to produce 100% as obtaining market knowledge. This project of our charcoal requirements. is part of the “Performance and Customer Service” program, which aims to promote our Management Belief “Sense of Ownership” among senior managers in their daily activities. The first edition of the program brought together 40 managers drawn from the business divisions, administrative support staff, and staff from 14 sales areas. • In 2012, we also implemented a program of visits by our customers to our plants in Barra Mansa (RJ) and Resende (RJ). During the year we received 274 visitors at these two plants. 86 VS: Barra Mansa Plant GRI • In 2012, Votorantim Siderurgia was the official of some of the beams and walls which support the weight PR5 sponsor of the 67th International Conference, of the slabs, thus saving time and materials. An example organized by the Brazilian Association of Metallurgy, is the construction of the new Administrative Center for Materials Mining (ABM), from July 31st to August the Federal District (CADF) in Brasília, which is also the first 3rd in Rio de Janeiro. The conference brought application of BubbleDeck technology in Brazil. We will together business leaders and industry professionals supply about 1,800 tons of steel for use in the BubbleDeck from the mining, steel and non-ferrous segments, system. The building is expected to be completed in 2013. from Brazil and abroad, as well as experts from universities and research centers, consultants, • One of the most import differentials for VS in its customer suppliers of equipment and services and students. relationships is the “ObraFácil (Easy Job)” product. This conference is recognized as an important forum VS delivers cut and bent steel in the client’s own molds. for discussions and business relationships in the It is a solution which rationalizes costs and waste and metals and mining sectors in Latin America. improves quality at the construction site, since the product is already sized according to the needs of the project, Use of our products thereby providing greater value to the customer. • VS became the first steel company in Brazil to manufacture The “ObraFácil” system of cut and bent steel products electro-soldered screens and metal frames for construction provides more convenience and savings for construction sites using the Danish “BubbleDeck” system of building floor `sites. We currently have 7 “Obra Fácil” facilities in slabs, which uses plastic balls in the concrete. By using this the cities of São Paulo (SP), Betim (MG), Rio de Janeiro (RJ), system, the slabs are up to 35% lighter, thereby allowing Praia Grande (SP), Camaçari (BA), Curitiba (PR) wider unsupported spans. This also results in the elimination and Aparecida de Goiânia (GO). Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 87 Votorantim Energia We operate 20 company-owned hydroelectric plants and participate in 10 consortia in other plants, in addition to 5 co-generation plants, with a total installed capacity Business profile of 4.5 million MW. We have a portfolio of projects of over 400 MW planned to come on-stream in the coming years. Votorantim Energia (VE) was established in 1996 as part We intend to use this capacity to meet demands from both of the reorganization of the management structure of the the business divisions and the market. Votorantim Group. VE has the mission of contributing to the improvement of the competitiveness of the business divisions In 2012, we managed around 2.7 million MW of energy through the following principal activities: contracts as well as 583 million cubic meters of natural gas for VID’s manufacturing operations. • Integrate and coordinate all of the company-owned power generation operations of VID. Also, in 2012, we undertook a series of studies and analyses • Ensure the supply of electric power and natural gas regarding the expansion of the scope of our mandate. For to meet the growth of VID’s industrial operations 2013, we are preparing to participate in the energy markets, in the short, medium and long-terms. offering solutions in energy management and energy contracts • Coordinate VID’s Energy Efficiency program. to customers in the industrial, commercial and service sectors. We also have the mandate for the following activities: At the end of 2012 VE had a total of 425 employees, management of the electric power produced by company distributed in the hydroelectric plants and our other activities. plants; allocation and control of energy demand; construction management of new hydroelectric plants; studies and proposals for optimization measures; advice on regulatory issues; and support for the business divisions in analyzing the viability of new energy sources. VE: Pedra do Cavalo Plant 88 GRI Responsible growth New law is beneficial to our businesses EC1 Since Votorantim Energia generates no A new, Provisional Measure (MP) 579, passed revenue from external sales to third-parties, by the federal government in 2012, dealt with 1 we highlight some of the actions that brought the extension of concessions for generation, internal cost-reduction gains to the Votorantim transmission and distribution of energy, as well Group companies: as the reduction of the tax burden on electric power consumption. The new law is very beneficial • The energy costs avoided for the year, i.e. to all of our businesses, since we operate mainly the amount that the Votorantim Group saved in manufacturing industries which are very in the purchase of electric power, amounted dependent on the use of electric power. to R$ 900 million, which contributed to increasing the group’s EBITDA. This government policy decision will produce a chain reaction of gains by reducing both the taxes • We achieved savings of about R$ 20 million on energy sales prices and the transmission expenses in the operations of company-owned of supplying power to our plants. In our case, hydroelectric plants by optimizing the costs furthermore, the benefits of the new law will also of operations, construction, maintenance apply to the power supply that is generated in our and environmental measures. company-owned plants. This law will enable Brazilian industry to reduce its costs, bringing it closer to the • We have reduced the area of vegetation being level of its international competitors. cut down along our transmission lines in the Sorocaba and Juquiá complexes (SP). The regular Another important point addressed by MP 579 cutting of vegetation is necessary to avoid was that the concessions for own production of contact between the high-voltage transmission hydroelectric power not exceeding 50 MW could lines and the native forest, which could cause be extended for up to 30 years. VE’s Juquiá complex, shutdowns or accidents. for example, is covered by this rule. This will guarantee about 20% of the energy consumption of our • This new policy led to a reduction of 4.12 million aluminum company, CBA, owned by Votorantim square meters in the area cut down per year Metais, for the next three decades. (equivalent to 501 football fields) and generates savings of about R$ 800 thousand per year (or R$ 16.2 million saved over the next 20 years). Besides these savings there is the benefit of an increase in the area of forest cover in the region. • The hydroelectric plant at Salto Pilão (SC), in which Votorantim owns a 60% stake, increased its installed capacity from 182.3 megawatts to 191.89 megawatts (which is sufficient to power a city with 700,000 inhabitants). This change will bring VE a gain of about R$ 3 million per year. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 89 Fibria Ensyn is a US company which owns a technology used to produce liquid fuel from renewable materials, such as waste timber and biomass, and which can be used to replace fossil fuel oil in power Business profile generation and heat, for example. This fuel is obtained from waste wood and biomass. Fibria was created in 2009 by the merger of Aracruz with This partnership marks the entry of Fibria into “bio” business Votorantim Pulp and Paper, and is the world leader in short-fiber and provides opportunities for us to act in areas which are pulp. Fibria owns 3 industrial units and holds a stake in the pulp complementary to pulp production, thus maximizing the value company Veracel. It also owns a forest area of 1,105 thousand of our renewable forest plantations. hectares, of which 412 thousand are destined for environmental conservation. In addition, Fibria has contracts with independent Fibria ended 2012 with 4,032 employees. timber suppliers, which in 2012 totaled 3,321 contracts and 102 thousand hectares of eucalyptus production. Our annual production capacity is 5.3 million tons of pulp from 3 company-owned plants located in Três Lagoas (MS), Genetic improvement Aracruz (ES), Jacareí (SP) and from our participation in the and biotechnology Veracel plant in Eunápolis (BA), in the joint-venture StoraEnso. In partnership with Cenibra, we operate the Portocel port facility We brought 15 new types of eucalyptus clones into in Aracruz (ES). This is only Brazilian port which specializes the operational phase in our nurseries. Most important in loading pulp. We operate an integrated system of logistics, are the first hybrid clones (of Eucalyptusglobulus) which combines road, rail and sea routes, for the efficient which have been developed specifically for the climatic transport of timber and cellulose from the forest to the port. conditions of the states of Espírito Santo and Bahia. The entry into operation of these new clones will Our strategy is based not only on guaranteeing our supply bring benefits in both forest productivity and industrial of timber for both our current and future operations by managing earnings. Productivity in terms of ton of pulp per hectare renewable and sustainable forests, but also by pursuing per year is expected to increase by over 3%. We have excellence in our manufacturing operations and logistics. implemented a new and innovative system of seedling production “in vitro” which uses temporary immersion In terms of innovation we are one of the companies in our bioreactors, developed specifically for the cultivation sector that most invests in research and we have done so of eucalyptus. This new system provides a productivity consistently for over 40 years. We are constantly evaluating gain on the order of 30 times compared to the world-class cutting-edge technologies for forestry and pulp traditional system of laboratory seedling production production. In 2012 we invested approximately R$ 42.0 million and will ensure the delivery of 100% of cloned garden in new technologies, 8% more than the R$ 38.8 million invested seedlings to all our commercial nurseries. in 2011. In 2012, we can highlight the establishment of a strategic alliance between Fibria and Ensyn Corporation. The agreement included the purchase of shares and the formation of a joint-venture (50:50) for the production of bio-fuels. Furthermore the JV includes the development of a fuel production unit in Brazil. We acquired a 6% stake in Ensyn for US$ 20 million. 90 Fibria: Jacareí Plant Fibria ended 2012 with a solid financial GRI Responsible growth EC1 position, an improved capital structure and Despite the instability in the global macroeconomic reduced leverage. In April 2012, Fibria conducted situation and the many challenges for the pulp a public offering of primary shares in an amount 1 industry in 2012, the increased the pulp demand of R$ 1.4 billion. Additionally, we sold forest areas from emerging markets enabled Fibria to increase and other land assets in the south of Bahia and its sales volume to 5.4 million tons, 4% higher completed the agreement for the sale of the than in the previous year, exceeding even the level Losango forest area in Rio Grande do Sul. of production in the period. The net debt was reduced to the lowest level since the company was founded in 2009. Net sales revenues in 2012 totaled R$ 6.2 billion, 5% higher than in 2011. The cost of goods sold totaled R$ 5.2 billion, Products, services and customers 2 up 2% compared to 2011, due primarily to the higher pulp volume sold (4%) and the appreciation Fibria serves clients in 42 countries through eight of the dollar (vs. the Real). The selling, general distribution centers and 6 sales and representation and administrative expenses totaled R$ 584 million offices in cities in Europe, Asia and North and South in 2012, down 7% compared to 2011, as a result America. Our offices are located in São Paulo of the organizational restructuring process and (Brazil, headquarters), Nyon (Switzerland), Csomád lower expenses for third-party services and travel. (Hungary), Miami (US), Hong Kong and Beijing (both in China). EBITDA was R$ 2.3 billion, representing a margin of 36%, an increase of 15% compared with the prior year. This result can be explained by the higher volume of pulp sold, by the 7% increase in the net price of pulp in Reais (due to the 17% appreciation of the dollar vs. the Real in the period) and the lower administrative costs due to the organizational restructuring. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 91 GRI Relationships with customers Use of our products PR5 Fibria has a high concentration of sales: the four In 2012, 90% of the pulp produced by Fibria was exported largest customers account for over 50% of sales. and used in the manufacture of paper for personal hygiene (54%), printing and writing (29%) and special situations (17%). Because of this the sales area is staffed by account managers that serve the customer from the start The pulp produced at Fibria’s plants in Aracruz (ES), Jacareí (SP) to the end of the commercial process. The daily and Três Lagoas (MS) is in accordance with international standards routine of these account managers includes the for use in the manufacture of packaging for various types of food. monitoring of sales, deliveries and even product In particular we obtained an opinion from Isega, the German development for customers. Thus, we are constantly certification institute, that these plants were in compliance with receiving customer feedback and so that we can the provisions of the Food and Drug Administration, the agency respond immediately. responsible for regulating and supervising the safety of foods, drugs, cosmetics, and other materials in the US. In the second half of 2011, Fibria prepared its first customer satisfaction survey, conducted Since pulp is a product which is stable under normal conditions by a specialist company. The results were made of handling and storage, it offers no risks to the health and safety available in the first half of 2012 and resulted in of the customer. Moreover, the product has been evaluated at the four initiatives, grouped into an overall action plan, various stages of its lifecycle, i.e. product concept development, to address the needs for improvement in product research and development, certification, manufacturing quality, sustainability and logistical services. and production, marketing and promotion, storage, distribution One of the initiatives, introduced in 2012, and supply, use and disposal service, and reuse or recycling. was the signing of an agreement among Fibria, the Landless Workers Movement (MST), the government of Bahia, the School of Agriculture Luiz de Queiroz (ESALQ USP) and the National Institute for Land Reform (INCRA), which resulted New forest certifications in a project to create an agricultural settlement In 2012, we obtained certification by the Forest for about 1,200 families on 12,000 hectares Stewardship Council for forest management and in the far south of Bahia. The project also included the chain of custody in our operations and forests training and support for agro-forestry production. in Espírito Santo, Bahia and Minas Gerais. All of our Aracruz plants (ES / BA / MG) are FSC certified. The In order to adapt the evaluation of customer certification is based on social, environmental and satisfaction to the new reality of the market, economic indicators and attests that the wood used in 2012 we initiated the development of a new in the production of pulp comes from managed process for evaluating customer satisfaction. This forests which are economically viable, environmentally revised process will be implemented during 2013. appropriate and socially beneficial. This covers forestry After completion of the survey we will review the operations, the transport logistics and the industrial process with a view to making further process up until the final sale to the customer. All of improvements in 2014. Fibria’s facilities have obtained the FSC certification, and the company is now the largest supplier of FSC certified pulp in the world. 92 Citrosuco Citrosuco: Araras Plant Business profile In 2012, we completed the most critical phase of the operational process of the merger between Citrovita, of the Votorantim Group, and Citrosuco, of the Fisher Group. The company resulting from this process, called Citrosuco S/A Agroindústria, began operations in July 2012. It is the largest producer of orange juice in the world and also accounts for 40% of all orange juice produced and exported by Brazil. The management of the company is shared with the two founders, each holding a 50% stake. The company’s CEO responds to the Board of Directors, which is made up of representatives of both shareholders. Citrosuco operates along the whole production chain of orange juice, from farming to the distribution of the product through terminals all over the world. Plants and facilities: • 4 plants in the State of São Paulo (Matão, Catanduva, Limeira and Araras) and 1 in Florida (US). • 6 offices Brazil, China, Austria, US, Australia and Japan. • 7 shipping terminals Brazil, Belgium, US, Japan and Australia. • 5 company-owned ships and 1 multi-cargo vessel. • 29 farms in the states of São Paulo and Minas Gerais. Our processing capacity is 152 million boxes of oranges per year. We established a project for synergies in order to capture the synergies that had been identified during the merger process. Gains were identified in the following areas: farming, sales, logistics, industrial processing, human and organizational development, raw materials, information technology, controlling and finance. Citrosuco ended 2012 with 5,965 employees. In addition to our own employees we hired 8,872 temporary farm workers to work during the harvest (“safristas”). Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 93 GRI Responsible growth Products, services and customers EC1 2 Following the finalization of the merger in July 2012, Citrosuco is strongly export-oriented, and has clients Citrosuco began its operations. In the first 6 months in over a hundred countries. Our largest markets are 1 we focused on generating value from capturing the Europe (around 65%) and the US (15%). synergies resulting from the merger. In this way these synergies contributed to the creation of value from GRI Relationships with customers the optimization of operational processes involving PR5 the distribution, product portfolio, energy matrix, We have very close relationships with our customers etc. Other support functions were similarly evaluated which are, in large part, global brands that are and optimized. Overall, these actions resulted in concerned about ensuring responsible behavior in improvements in the quality of the final products, their supply chains. In this respect we share common along with higher efficiency in the procurement principles. Based on our focus on sustainability we chain and in costs. have adopted a series of good practices in relation to the environment, our employees and society Altogether we completed 60 projects involving in general. These same practices are in consonance 10 business areas, thereby strengthening with the certifications we have obtained. the company’s commitment to responsible and sustainable growth. Citrosuco: Itapetininga Plant 94 Our plants are visited regularly by our global clients. We Use of our products have an active after-sales service and keep in constant contact with our clients’ research and development and Our main products are whole orange juice (ready to drink) quality control areas, in order to exchange information and orange-juice concentrate (which has had the excess and to develop products in accordance with consumer water removed). There are also some by-products, such tastes in our various markets. as oils, essences, alcohol and pulp, which have varied applications in a number of industry sectors. In terms of customer satisfaction, we have an evaluation process, which is based on the perceptions of our sales teams during their contacts with customers (at fairs, conferences and technical visits) Study identifies the benefits and on the frequency of complaints during the period of drinking orange juice being evaluated. The sales team checks the level of service provided during the period, such as: product A study was conducted in 2012 to assess whether regular availability, delivery, documentation, customer consumption of orange juice, by normal or overweight technical support, and quality of the product received. individuals, modifies anthropometric (weight, height, waist If any commentaries are deemed necessary these are circumference, etc.), biochemical, immunological, oxidative sent to the Quality Assurance area for further action. and nutritional parameters. The study was conducted by Moreover, in the case of any spontaneous remarks Universidade Estadual Paulista “Julio de Mesquita Filho” by the customer, these are analyzed by the sales (UNESP) Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences of Araraquara area and then forwarded to the Quality Assurance (SP), with support from Citrosuco. area for further action. The results showed that regular consumption of orange juice does not contribute to weight gain and decreases the risk of cardiovascular events, the oxidizing capacity, the immunological response and lipid profile.. Citrosuco began its operations in July 2012 as the largest orange-juice manufacturer in the world. Business Model and Performance Votorantim Industrial Report 95 Risk In 2012 we made progress in building our risk Managements management platform. GRI 4.11 VID In 2013, we will work to integrate and standardize the approach to risk management in of all the business We have a structured platform for risk management, which divisions, so as to take advantage of the synergies that has been evolving towards its current configuration since exist in some processes and activities. We also seek 2008. The management of risk is the responsibility of our Risk to develop indicators, in an automated management and Compliance area. It is based on the Corporate Risk Policy system, and increase training for risk managers. and is aligned to our strategic planning process. Votorantim Cimentos (VC) All our risks, whether financial, operational, commercial, technological, environmental, reputational, etc., are identified, Strategic risks are evaluated in the context of VC’s analyzed and classified into categories according to their long-term strategy. We have prepared a matrix degree of criticality and impact on our costs and operations. of strategic risks and actions, focusing on: The risk analysis considers economic, social and environmental aspects. There is a routine periodic monitoring • Expansion of production volume. of all identified risks with their respective risk managers. • Regulatory environment. • Emissions of pollutants, disposal and/or reuse In 2012, we completed the stage of data collection and of waste, usage of water and soil, and mining. analysis of risks and moved forward with the task of building • Climate change. a risk management platform, step by step, as follows: • Socio-geographic and economic impacts in the communities where we operate. • Standardization of the information to be collected. • Identification and detailed description of risks that had Operational risks and controls are evaluated in light not previously been mapped. of current conditions. In 2012, we prepared a matrix • Discussion meetings on the most critical risks with of operational risks and implemented measures the participation of the CEO and senior managers for control and improvements, as well as reexamining of the corporate center and the business divisions. the processes for the environmental issues associated • Development of specific action plans for each with our operations. business division. • Strengthening of the training of professionals involved in the topic. • Inclusion of risk management as a permanent item on the agenda of all of our principal corporate committees, not only in the Risk and Audit Committees, as was previously the custom. The CEO participates in the monthly meetings on risks in the Audit Committee. Risk Management Votorantim Industrial Report 97 VM: Aluminio Plant Votorantim Metais (VM) Votorantim Siderurgia (VS) VM’s business risks have been identified and addressed by Our strategic risks have been identified using a methodology the functional areas and their managers through the use that is aligned with VID’s Corporate Risk area. For these risks, of methodology which is aligned with that used by VID’s Risk we have prepared a corporate risk matrix with the risk factors and Compliance area. and the monitoring actions. Our priority risks are already being monitored by managers, Risks have been prioritized and are followed up in a timely on a collective basis, at regular meetings. Specific actions for manner by the business areas under the guidance of VS’s the mitigation of the causes of each risk are routinely monitored. Corporate Risk area. For material operational, financial and Our risk matrix has a strong focus on the volatility of metal prices business risks we have prepared action plans that are monitored, and exchange rates, as well as on material operational aspects on a collective basis, under the responsibility of VID’s Corporate of logistics, procurement and the regulatory environment. Risk area. In 2013, we will ensure that the ongoing discussions of business In 2013, the focus will be on the identification of risk indicators risks continue to be part of VM’s agenda, and we will focus on for each of the prioritized risks. identifying indicators for the constant monitoring of these risks. 98 Fibria Citrosuco We have a Risk Management Policy which establishes guidelines Citrosuco is a “new company”, formalized in July 2012 for the company and a Corporate Risk Management area which as a result of the merger between Citrovita, Votorantim Group, helps us to identify and analyze our material risks and recommend and Citrosuco, Fischer Group. Therefore we are still establishing the appropriate actions to take. We consider a wide range of risks a set of policies and practices for the company at the level including: market, operational, credit, reputational, environmental, of rigor and detail that we require. natural physical events and regulatory. We view risks as factors that impact corporate results and require constant monitoring Votorantim Energia (VE) in relation to growth goals and profitability expectations. In line with the application of VID’s corporate risk strategy to the Climate change can impact our economic and financial results, business divisions, we identify all the risks related to the business, due to the nature of our business, which is based on the use and establish preventive and mitigating actions. of natural resources. We evaluate issues such as the equilibrium of ecosystems, the productivity of crops, and the availability In terms of environmental risks, in 2012, 17 new plants began of water and energy for industry. We adopt the precautionary using an Environmental Risk Rating Tool (FCRA) to identify the risks principle in the management and operation of our industrial associated with the construction and operation of VE’s hydroelectric and forestry activities. We have adopted measures for the plants. This tool has already been applied in three existing plants controlling and monitoring of production, such as agronomic Pedra do Cavalo (BA), Picada (Juiz de Fora, MG) and Sobragi (MG) studies and genetic improvement in the production of eucalyptus. These measures take into consideration factors such as the In 2013, we will ensure that the ongoing discussions of business risks adaptation of species to different climatic conditions and the continue to be part of VE’s agenda, and we will focus on identifying monitoring of water consumption in forest areas, among others. indicators for the constant monitoring of these risks. Also as part of our climate change management we have prepared an emission inventory of greenhouse gases for Fibria’s operations. Citrosuco: Catanduva Plant Risk Management Votorantim Industrial Report 99 Vision We believe that 2013 will be marked by a complex global of the Future economic environment, but we remain optimistic. We believe that 2013 will be marked by a complex population in 2010 was 6 billion inhabitants, with global economic environment, but we remain optimistic. around 3 billion (50%) living in urban areas. For 2050, the projection is that the world population will reach The measures to stimulate the industry announced 9 billion people, with about six billion (70%) living in cities. by the Brazilian government in 2012 were a major In addition, we expect the US economy to continue on its breakthrough in supporting the industrial development route to recovery, the economies of the euro zone to show of the country. Factors such as lower interest rates, some sign of improvement and China and India, and other a repositioning of the exchange rate, new legislation emerging countries, to continue with a consistent level on ports, measures to prevent tax wars between states, and of growth. tax exonerations in general demonstrate the government’s concern with stimulating industry growth and increasing Considering this context, we will continue with our plan its competitiveness. We believe that institutions in Brazil to invest selectively in expansion projects, following the are converging strongly towards a return to a healthy trend of recent years. We remain steadfast in our goal and sustainable level of growth for the country. to increase the efficiency of our operations, grow our businesses sustainably and reduce financial leverage According to projections by the Confederação Nacional da as measured by net debt / EBITDA towards our goal. Indústria (CNI), the Brazilian economy should grow by around In parallel, we are working on internal initiatives that 4% in 2013. For the industrial GDP, which grew 0.9%in 2012, contribute to improved profitability, with a focus on the expectation for 2013 is an expansion of 4.1%. reducing operating costs and increasing the effectiveness of our management systems. The search for synergies and Among the various industry sectors, we are optimistic about continuous improvement processes will also be a constant, infrastructure: there are huge opportunities in Brazil, examples as well as offering a product mix that maintains the being the World Cup in 2014 and the Olympics in 2016. The highest customer satisfaction. expectations for 2013 are expected to be characterized by a qualitative change in the growth of the construction sector. In parallel, we will work on internal initiatives that add value Firstly, the market for housing credit should continue to be to the organization, such as reducing operating costs, healthy, and secondly, the government initiative to accelerate reducing risk, seeking out new opportunities and increasing the package of concessions for infrastructure investment the effectiveness of our management systems. The search for could stimulate the continuation of the current cycle of synergies and the continuous improvement of our processes growth in the sector. will also be a constant concern in 2013. Our overarching goal is to offer a product mix that meets the dynamic realities of At a global level, the demand for raw materials is forecast the market, while maintaining a high level of customer to continue growing. According to WBCSD, the world satisfaction with all of Votorantim’s products. Vision of the Future Votorantim Industrial Report 101 José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes talks about development In December 2012, the financial newspaper “Valor Econômico” published a special supplement on the economic perspectives for 2013, including interviews with prominent businesspeople and economists. The Chairman of the Board of Votorantim, Mr. Jose Roberto Ermírio de Moraes, was interviewed as a representative of Brazilian industry. In his interview he highlighted some of the key issues as follows: Valor: In your view, what is likely to happen to Brazilian industry in the coming year? José Roberto Ermírio de Moraes: On average, its performance should be better than in 2012 […] Valor: And the issue of education: you have mentioned Since the outlooks for the US and Europe do not appear this constantly... to be worsening, with even a slight improvement for the US, then this suggests good prospects for Brazil.[…]. Ermírio de Moraes: This is a point I want to emphasize: the quality of education in Brazil. The budgets made Valor: And the measures taken [by the Government] this year, by the […..] governments have been very generous, how do you see them? but Brazil, in international assessment tests, still leaves much to be desired. It is this leap in quality that we need Ermírio de Moraes: Here we are at a very particular moment: to make to create a modern economy, with a view it’s the first time that I have seen a strong alignment of everyone, to manufacturing products with a higher added-value. seeking to improve the competitiveness of Brazilian industry. It is the step that China has been making for the last A conclusion like this, an alignment between all the sectors 30 years: they have attacked the issue of infrastructure. – government, society and business – I consider to be a great Very soon they will compete with the Koreans, the advance. […] The reduction in interest rates, the exchange rate, Japanese, Germans, with high-tech products, quality, the law on ports, and now the measures […] to equalize the and competitive costs. Brazil has to move in this direction. rates of ICMS [value-added tax on goods and services] among We can no longer continue to be just a producer of raw the states at 4% in order to avoid future fiscal wars. During the materials and semi-manufactured products. That will crisis in 2008, all of the stimulus effort was directed to the end not lead to a per capita income of US$ 40,000 in 30 years. of the industry chain, through incentives to consumers. Now, we It will continue to be around US$ 15,000.. see that it is moving to investment. The full version of the interview can be found at: http://www.iedi. Valor: But which questions need to be tackled? org.br/artigos/imprensa/2012/iedi_na_imprensa_20121219_ resultado_deve_ser_melhor_que_em_2012.html. Ermírio de Moraes: Those questions that have still not been well resolved: flexibility in the labor laws (the model is extremely antiquated and not compatible with today’s needs), the tax burden, which the Government is reducing, but which can’t be done from one day to the next. […] 102 VID’s leadership team discusses the economic scenario and outlook VID’s annual Leadership Meeting was held in December 2012. Following the presentation of the achievements of the prior year, the leadership team discussed the economic situation and the outlook and prospects for the coming year. From the presentation given by our Corporate Strategic Planning and Management area, we can highlight the following points: China and India should continue to grow strongly. Global GDP Ranking 1980 2050 1980 2000 2010 2050 10 10 10 10 China 20 China 30 India 50 China 100 India 11 0 China 120 India 130 India 200 200 200 200 Vision of the Future Votorantim Industrial Report 103 • Other emerging countries, besides the BRICS (Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa), will gain significance in the global economy. The participation of the BRICs in global GDP ...and other emerging market countries will gain relevance should double in the coming yeras... for global growth Share in the Global GDP 100% Share of Global GDP Growth 100% Developed Markets Developed Markets BRICs BRICs Other Developing Markets Other Developing Markets N 11 0% N 11 80 50 80-89 40-49 • Population and economic growth will lead to a demand for additional natural resources, as much as 250% above the level of the 1990s. Primary Energy QBTU Steel Iron Ore (mm ton) Water Cubic km Land Mm ha farmed +178 +32% +57% +139% +249% 620 1790 2150 620 160 1330 105 470 1140 470 130 1850 870 13 340 460 460 900 50 70-115 270 300 1990-2010 2010 30 1990-2010 2010 30 1990-2010 2010 30 1990-2010 2010 30 Increase Increase Increase Increase in supply in supply in supply in supply Incremental Supply Replacement of Supply (historical rates) 104 • Bottle-necks in “supply of resources” result in ever increasing exploration expenditures in increasingly inhospitable regions. Increasing demand for copper ore accelerates the depletion of resources... Example: Copper Number of discoveries and exploration expenses Mining Industry before 2000 after 2000 2000 World Class Other significant discoveries ...mining moving to more unstable and challenging regions Texto ilegível Areas being mined 2011 Areas being mined in developed countries with easy access New mines likely to de in areas of difficult access Vision of the Future Votorantim Industrial Report 105 transparency About the Report and responsibility in reportings GRI Last year we made the strategic decision 3.1,3.2, to publish, for the first time, a single report 3.3,3.7, for the year 2011.This combined information With this in mind, this report covers 3.9,3.10, which, in prior years, had been published our strategies, activities, products, services, 3.13 in two separate Annual and Sustainability projects, operations and business divisions Reports. We called this report the Votorantim of Votorantim Industrial (Votorantim Industrial Integrated Report 2011. Cimentos, Votorantim Metais, Votorantim Siderurgia, Votorantim Energia, Fibria and As another step in our constant search Citrosuco), with the main focus on our for improvement of the reporting process, performance in 2012. With respect to the we have developed this year’s report, information related to the GRI indicators, on the results of financial year 2012, specific limitations on the scope or boundary according to the preliminary guidelines of these indicators are mentioned throughout on integrated reporting issued by the the report in the form of notes. International Integrated Reporting Council. The IIRC has championed Our report has been audited by PwC for the importance of companies publishing financial and for non-financial information. an integrated report and is working on The report has also been reviewed by the the development of reporting format (due Global Reporting Initiative. to be released in 2013) that can serve as a model for the wider business community. This report will be published in English, The essence of an integrated report Portuguese and Spanish versions and in print, (explaining in a simplified manner) is PDF, Web and iPad formats. Additionally, to present financial and non-financial specific reports on each business division will information in an integrated, cohesive be issued for distribution to employees and manner, with a clear narrative and with to external audiences. sustainability issues embedded in the organization’s strategy, market positioning We value your opinion and would be and business activities. pleased to receive your views on this report, by accessing a questionnaire at the following Our goal is to be increasingly transparent link: http://www.votorantim.com.br/en-us/ and responsible in our reporting, disclosing pesquisarelatorioanual/pages/pesquisa.aspx. in a structured manner our strategies and activities to our principal stakeholder All reports will be available on our website at: groups and to society in general. www.votorantim.com/relatorio. About the Report Votorantim Industrial Report 107 Declaration of Application Level 108 Correlations with the UN Global Compact Principles Here at Votorantim we believe that sustainability is not a goal that they are dependent on a continual effort to mitigate per se but a continuous process of improvement that must be the social and environmental impacts of our operations and to foster applied transversally to all of our operations. We face many challenges the development of the surrounding local communities. because of the broad scope and long reach of our activities. To address them we have improved our governance and Our formal commitment to the UN Global Compact was an important management systems, year on year, in order to incorporate step in this direction. Its principles on human rights, the environment, sustainability issues in our strategic planning process. work relations, anti-corruption measures and other issues have become guidelines for our activities and practices. The correlations We believe that a pathway of growth is only possible if it is between the UN Global Compact Principles and our strategies, compatible with the sustainable development of society. business activities, products, services and processes are referenced We seek sustainable results, for the long-term, recognizing in the table below. Principle Pages Principles of Human Rights 1. Respect and protect human rights 18, 27, 28, 32, 47 2. Prevent human rights violations 18, 27, 28, 32, 47 Principles of Labor Rights 3. Support freedom of association at work 18, 27, 28, 32, 33, 56 4. Abolish forced labor 18, 27, 28, 32, 33, 47 5. Abolish child labor 18, 27, 28, 32, 33 6. E liminate discrimination in the workplace 18, 27, 28, 32, 33, 53, 55 Principles of Environmental Protection 7. S upport a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 18, 27, 28, 47, 63, 64, 65, 68, 73, 74 8. Promote environmental responsibility 18, 27, 28, 32, 47, 63, 64, 65, 68, 73, 74 9. E ncourage technologies that do not harm the environment 18, 27, 28, 32, 33, 59, 63, 68 Principles against Corruption 10. Combat corruption in all its forms including extortion and bribery 18, 27, 28, 32, 33, 81 This report and further information about the shares of Votorantim Industrial in the Global Compact are available at: www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/14362 Correlations with the UN Global Compact Principles Votorantim Industrial Report 109 Assurance Report Independent auditor's limited assurance report on the Integrated Report for 2012 To the Board of Directors Votorantim Industrial S.A. São Paulo SP Introduction We have been engaged by Votorantim Industrial S.A. and its subsidiaries (the Company ) to present our limited assurance report on the compilation of social and environmental information included in the Integrated Report for 2012 of Votorantim Industrial S.A. and its subsidiaries, related to the year ended December 31, 2012, as well as on the compliance with the requirements established by GRI-G3 for reports with Application Level B. Management's responsibility for the Integrated Report for 2012 The management of the Company is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the social and environmental information included in the Integrated Report for 2012 in accordance with the criteria described in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) for Application Level B, and for such internal control as it determines is necessary to enable the preparation of Information that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor's responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion on the social and environmental information included in the Integrated Report for 2012, based on our limited assurance engagement carried out in accordance with the Technical Communication CTO 01 Issuance of an Assurance Report related to Sustainability and Social Responsibility , issued by the Federal Accounting Council (CFC), based on the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than Audit and Review , also issued by CFC, which is equivalent to the international standard ISAE 3000 Assurance engagements other than audits or reviews of historical financial information , issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board (IAASB). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and perform our engagement to obtain limited assurance that the social and environmental information included in the Integrated Report for 2012, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement conducted in accordance with the Brazilian standard NBC TO 3000 and ISAE 3000 mainly consists of making inquiries of management and other rofessionals of the Company involved in the preparation of the information, as well as applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to issue a limited assurance conclusion on the information taken as a whole. A limited assurance engagement also requires the performance of additional procedures, when the independent auditor becomes aware of matters that lead him to believe that the social and environmental information taken as a whole might present significant misstatements. The procedures selected are based on our understanding of the aspects related to the compilation and presentation of the social and environmental information included in the Integrated Report for 2012, other circumstances of the engagement and our consideration of the areas in which significant misstatements may exist. The following procedures were adopted: (a) planning the work, taking into consideration the materiality and the volume of quantitative and qualitative information and the operating and internal control systems that were used to prepare the information included in the Integrated Report for 2012; (b) understanding the calculation methodology and the procedures adopted for the compilation of 110 indicators through interviews with the managers in charge of the preparation of the information; (c) applying analytical procedures to quantitative information and making inquiries regarding the qualitative information and its correlation with the indicators disclosed in the Integrated Report for 2012; (d) comparing the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records; (e) interviewing the members of management responsible for the information during technical visits to the following business units: Fibria (Corporate São Paulo), Votorantim Agroindustrial (Limeira), Votorantim Energia (Corporate São Paulo), Votorantim Cimentos (Araçariguama, Cajamar, Jaguaré, Rio Branco, Santa Helena, Corporate São Paulo and Corporate Curitiba), Votorantim Metais (Alumínio, Niquelândia and Juiz de Fora and Corporate São Paulo), Votorantim Siderurgia (Resende and Corporate São Paulo) and Votorantim Industrial (Corporate São Paulo), considering the assessment of the materiality of these units in relation to the group of industrial and corporate units of the Company; (f) Verifying, with regard to the units above, the following GRI.G3 indicators selected as the most significant for each business unit visited: Fibria Corporate business unit São Paulo: . Environmental performance: EN8, EN21. . Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA4, LA7. . Social performance referring to the society: SO3. Votorantim Agroindústria Business unit of Limeira: . Environmental performance: EC2, EN3, EN4, EN8, EN11, EN21, EN28, EN30. . Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA4, LA7, LA8, LA10, LA13. . Social performance referring to the society: SO3, SO8. Votorantim Energia Corporate business unit São Paulo: . Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA8, LA10. . Social performance referring to the society: SO3. Votorantim Cimentos . Business unit of Araçariguama: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN3, EN4, EN22. . Business unit of Cajamar: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN3, EN4, EN8, EN21, EN22. . Business unit of Jaguaré: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN8, EN22. . Business units of Rio Branco and Santa Helena: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN8, EN20, EN21, EN22. . Corporate business unit São Paulo: .. Environmental performance: EN28, EN30. .. Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA4, LA7, LA8, LA10. .. Social performance referring to society: SO3. . Corporate business unit Curitiba: .. Economic performance: EC1. .. Environmental performance: EN16, EN17, EN20. Assurance Report Votorantim Industrial Report 111 Votorantim Metais . Business units of Alumínio, Niquelândia and Juiz de Fora: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN2, EN8, EN20, EN21, EN22. .. Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA4, LA7, LA8, LA10. .. Social performance referring to society: SO3. .. Environmental performance specific to the mining and metals segment: MM1 and MM3. . Corporate business unit São Paulo: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, EN8, EN20, EN21, EN22. .. Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA4, LA7, LA8, LA10. .. Social performance referring to society: SO3. .. Environmental performance specific to the mining and metals segment: MM1 and MM3. Votorantim Siderurgia . Business unit of Resende: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN2, EN8, EN20, EN21, EN22. .. Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA4, LA7, LA8, LA10. .. Social performance referring to society: SO3. . Corporate business unit São Paulo: .. Environmental performance: EN1, EN2, EN8, EN20, EN21, EN22. .. Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA4, LA7, LA8, LA10. .. Social performance referring to society: SO3. Votorantim Industrial . Corporate business unit São Paulo: .. Economic performance: EC1. .. Environmental performance: EN3, EN4, EN11, EN13, EN16, EN17, EN28, EN30. .. Performance referring to labor practices and decent work: LA1, LA10, LA13. .. Performance referring to human rights: HR4. .. Social performance referring to society: SO8 (g) Verifying the compliance with the requirements established by GRI-G3 for reports with Application Level B. We believe that the evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our limited assurance conclusion. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance engagement are substantially less detailed than those applied in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion on the social and environmental information included in the Integrated Report for 2012. Consequently, we were unable to obtain reasonable assurance that we would become aware of all significant matters that might be identified in a reasonable assurance engagement, the objective of which is the issuance of an opinion. If we had performed an engagement with the objective of issuing an opinion, we might have identified other matters and possible misstatements in the social and environmental information included in the Integrated Report for 2012. Therefore, we do not express an opinion on this information. Non-financial data are subject to more inherent limitations than financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate and estimate these data. Qualitative interpretations of the relevance, materiality and accuracy of the data are subject to individual assumptions and judgments. Furthermore, we did not consider in our engagement the data reported for prior years, nor future projections and goals. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, described herein, no matter has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the social and environmental information included in the Integrated 112 Report for 2012 of Votorantim Industrial S.A. and its subsidiaries has not been complied, in all material respects, in accordance with the specific guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI-G3) for reports with Application Level B. São Paulo, April 24, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Auditores Independentes CRC 2SP000160/O-5 Manuel Luiz da Silva Araújo Contador CRC 1RJ039600/O-7 S SP Assurance Report Votorantim Industrial Report 113 GRI Indices / Indicators GRI Indicators gri Description 1. Strategy & Analysis 1.1. statement by the Chairman 4, 5, 6 and 7 page 1.2. Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4, 5, 6 and 7 2. Organizational Profile 2.1. name of the organization 11 2.2. main brands, products and / or services 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 2.3. operating structure 11 and 13 2.4. Address of the organization’s head office 16 2.5. geographic distribution 16 page 2.6. Legal nature 11 2.7. markets served 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 2.8. size of the organization 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 2.9. significant changes in the year 16, 17, 38 and 39 2.10. Awards 29 Report Parameters 3.1. reporting period 107 3.2. previous report 107 3.3. Frequency 107 3.4. Contact data 3 3.5. Definition of content 24 3.6. Limits of the report 11, 12 and 13 3.7. report scope and boundary limitations page 107 3.8. basis for the report 11, 12, 13, 14 and 15 3.9. Data measurement techniques and calculation bases 107 3.10. Consequences of the restatement of information 107 3.11. significant changes 4, 5, 6 and 7 3.12. gri summary 113 3.13.external verification 93 Índice GRI / Indicadores GRI Indices / Indicators Votorantim Votorantim Relatório Industrial Report Industrial 115 112 Indicadores GRI gri Description 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement 4.1. governance structure 34, 35, 36 and 37 4.2. identification of the key executives 34, 35, 36 and 37 4.3. For organizations with a single administration structure, statement of the number of independent or non-executive page members of the highest governance body 34, 35, 36 and 37 4.4. mechanisms for shareholders and employees to make recommendations or provide instructions to the highest governance body. 34, 35, 36 and 37 4.5 relationship between remuneration for members of the highest governance body, the executive board, the other executives (including termination agreements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance. this information is strategic. 4.6. processes at the highest governance body to avoid conflicts of interest. 33 4.7. process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body. 34, 35, 36 and 37 4.8. Values, codes of conduct, relevant and in-company principles page for the economic, social, and environmental performance as well as the stage of their implementation. 30, 31, 32 4.9. performance of the board in evaluating the sustainability performance. 34, 35, 36 and 37 in all board meetings discussions are held and 4.10. processes for the self-assessment of the performance also the board evaluates its own performance. of the highest governance body, particularly regarding every three years the board’s mandate is put the economic, environmental, and social performance. forward for election by the other shareholders. 4.11. the precautionary principle 96, 97, 98 and 99 4.12. Charters, principles, and initiatives 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 26, 27 and 28 4.13. participation in associations 59 and 60 4.14. List of stakeholders engaged by the organization 24 page 4.15. mapping of stakeholders 24 4.16. engagement of stakeholders 24 4.17. 4.17. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and measures adopted by the organization 18, 19, 24, 58 and 83 113 116 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS economic performance eC1 Direct economic value earned and distributed, including income, 43, 44, 45, 46, 58, 79, 83, 85, 86, 89, 91 and 94 operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings and payments to capital providers and governments. CompLeteD Composition of Value-Added (r$ / thousand) 2010 2011 2012 DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 1) Income 1.1) Sales of products and services 24,779 28,100 29,513 1.2) Other net operational income (expense) 3,210 (1,183) 88 1.3) Provision for bad debts 15 (14) total income 28,123 26,932 29,587 2) Inputs acquired from third parties 2.1) Cost of goods and services sold (14,895) (14,834) (16,904) 2.4) Gross value-added 13,228 12,098 12,683 3.1) Depreciation, amortization and depletion (1,881) (2,128) (2,544) 4) Net value-added produced 11,347 9,970 10,139 5) Value-added received by transfers 5.1) Equity pick-up 319 356 122 5.2) Realization of other investment write-downs (91) 5.3) Financial income 2,047 672 869 2.6) Total value-added received by transfers 2,366 1,028 900 2.7) Total value-added available for distribution 13,713 10,998 11,039 7) Distribution of value-added 3.1) Personnel costs and payroll taxes 1,421 1,894 2,301 7.1.1) Direct remuneration 1,140 1,574 1,917 7.1.2) benefits 281 320 384 7.2) taxes and contributions 6,023 4,997 5,547 7.2.1) Federal 2,514 2,976 3,239 7.2.2) state 2,801 2,632 2,709 7.2.3) municipal 27 32 34 7.2.4) Deferred taxes 681 (643) (435) 3) remuneration of third-party Capital 3,111 2,825 3,104 7.3.1) Financial expenses 2,998 2,680 2,876 7.3.2) rental payments 113 145 228 4) remuneration of own Capital 3,158 1,282 87 7.4.1) Dividends 626 291 35 7.4.2) participation of non-controlling shareholders 856 57 (64) 7.4.3) retained earnings 1,578 66 116 7.4.4) net income from discontinued operations. 98 868 8) Value-added distributed 13,713 10,998 11,039 “1. ViD’s systems not allow us to discriminate the investments for the local community that are contained in operational costs. Comments: 2. the economic value generated is equal to the economic value distributed. 3. total operating costs are equivalent to the total income less the total economic value to distribute.” ViD proDUCtion (miLLion oF tons) period 2010 2011 2012 Votorantim industrial (vid) production 67.12 71.16 70.66 GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório VotorantimVotorantim Industrial Report Industrial 114 117 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS eC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities table of contents for the organization’s activities due to climate change CompLeteD Financial implications (r$ / thousand) 2010 2011 2012 insurance costs 69,590.00 Carbon credits 0.00 irrigation projects 6,886.74 17,482.00 8,230.99 energy with incentives 2,600.00 5,203.76 0.00 other 0.00 Total 22,685.76 77,820.99 “there was a significant increase in the total amount due to including the costs of insurance in 2012. 1. besides the carbon-credit projects underway we have identified opportunities for emission reduction projects through the sustainability and Corporate environmental Areas of the business Divisions. 2. through the CebDs ( brazilian business Council for sustainable Development), a consortium of companies was set up to sponsor the preparation of a study to assess the impacts of adaptation to climate change. the study was completed in 2012 and will be released and published on the site CebDs in April 2013. 3. ViD participates in a number of business forums in order to contribute to the discussion the regulation of brazil’s climate change legislation, including: the brazilian Forum on Climate Change; the Climate Focus group (of CebDs); the Climate thematic group of “”plano indústria”” (Ctpin); the business initiative for the Climate (gVces); the brazilian ghg protocol program (gVces); and the Climate Forum (ethos). Comments: 4. Ve constantly monitors weather conditions and the forecasts for the medium-term it carries out simulation studies of rainfall levels, reservoir levels and availability of water for power generation. 5. Due to the merger, our investments in irrigation have been restructured. 6. in view of this, and with the recommendation of our CApeX thematic team, we included the mandatory use of a ghg emission analysis tool in our procedures manual for new projects in 2012. through the use of this tool we can identify the options, in the process of choosing investments, that promote the reduction of ghg emissions in our processes as well as being able to assess the impact of carbon in the on-going operations after start-up. 7. insurance: ViD’s business divisions, in brazil and abroad, contract insurance for their operations, with first-line insurers. Among the various policy coverages we have is “”Flooding””, to covers damage to our operations resulting from this risk, and civil responsibility (rC) for emergency pollution, which covers damage to third parties resulting from accidental pollution. eC3 Coverage of defined benefit pension obligations table of Contents of the fund offered by the organization CompLeteD pension pLAn (in%) 2010 2011 2012 Coverage by the Votorantim prev plan. 103% 106% 102,0% Coverage by the Votorantim ne plan. 108% 104% 104,0% employee participation in pension plans 71% 83% 90,0% participation of plant employees in pension plans 2010 2011 2012 Votorantim Cimentos VotopreV + VCne * (2) 61.8% 81.0% 90.0% VCne 87.8% 82.2% Fíbria Celulose 87.3% 93.9% 89.1% Votorantim energia 30.8% 100.0% 97.2% Votorantim metais 95.7% 92.6% 89.4% Votorantim siderurgia*(3) 52.2% 94.2% 94.2% Votorantim Citrosuco (Agroquímica) 18.1% 22.0% 35.4% Votorantim industrial & participações*(1) 57.1% 81.8% 80.0% Atlas 92.5% 99.0% other business Divisions (VotopreV + VCne) 60.9% 100.0% estimated total value of pension plan obligations (r$) 2010 2011 2012 total amount contributed by the sponsor 2,621,520.25 38,845,503.65 25,964,670.88 total amount contributed by the participants 4,229,299.23 180,450,368.10 51,396,094.36 estimated total value of pension plan obligations 825,401,117.78 964,440,719.48 115 118 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS eC3 Cobertura das obrigações do plano de pensão de benefício Índice remissivo definido que a organização oferece CompLeto “the group offers pension plans to its employees through the Foundation ermírio senator José ermírio de moraes (FUnseJem), a closed-end, non-profit, private pension company, responsible for the administration of the plans. established in 1994, the plans administered by FUnseJem are structured in the form of “”defined contribution”” funds and provide participants with the formation of a long-term savings fund for retirement, in which both the participating employee and Votorantim make contributions over the years, the FUnseJem has evolved through improvements proposed and approved in the regulations of the Votorantim prev benefit plan. in the year 2012 improvements were made in the plan and disclosed to participants via the website and the Futuro journal. FUnseJem discloses the benefits of pension plans to employees through correspondence, lectures, training by the Dho’s, and also through the integration meeting. in these meetings, the newly-hired employees can clarify all their doubts and receive a information kit for FUnseJem, containing the statutes, regulation of the Votorantimprev plan, the explanatory booklet and application forms. As a result the percentage membership of the plan, after considering turnover, is 90%. Furthermore, in 2012, four videos on the plan Votorantim prev were launched on the group’s website, in the section on financial education and welfare of employees. they address issues such as the benefits of the plan, contributions, the investment profiles and the tax impacts. FUnseJem also launched an e-learning (distance learning) course on Votorantim prev, on the group training portal, designed for Dho professionals, and Foundation partners, for the dissemination of the plan among employees. the Dho also opened an exclusive portal with operating procedures, forms, contacts, among others, to facilitate access to information from the plan. A relationship area was created, directed to serving the needs of participants and sponsors. Due to the merger of Citrosuco and Citrovita, this pension plan has been suspended pending approval by preViC. Comments: 1. the values for 2010 and 2011 have been amended in accordance with the methodology used in 2012 to allow comparability. eC8 Development and impact of infrastructure and services provided table of Contents investments primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. pArtiAL “ Votorantim invests in infrastructure projects in order to generate benefits for society. the business units have autonomy in defining these investments which are typically focused on: Construction of roads, improvement of urban roads, purchase of goods (motorbike, boat, trailer ..) for use by public agencies, for inspections, conducting regional events, construction and renovation of hospitals and schools. the results from the projects described above were: reduction of truck traffic on urban roads; improved quality of life of the Comment: surrounding communities; improvements in the inspection procedures of public bodies; improvements in health and education indicators. the amount invested in 2012 was: r $ 118,078,603.11 1) includes only the operations of Vs, Ve, VC and Fibria. 2) this indicator is being reported for the first time in 2012 (base year) ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE materials 64 en1 materials used per weight and volume CompLeteD Consumption of the main materials (million tons) 2010 2011 2012 Citrosuco oranges 2.50 2.70 5.59 Fibria timber 8.31 8.16 8.17 VC Limestone for cement 33.80 34.50 34.71 VC Limestone / granite / gneiss / basalt for Aggregates 16.50 16.30 9.34 VC sand / gravel / Cement for Concrete n/D 9.60 19.28 VmA bauxite 2.90 2.30 1.89 Vmn nickel ore 3.20 3.70 3.05 VmZ Zinc ore 2.50 1.70 2.81 Vs scrap 0.80 1.30 1.46 Total volume of materials (million tons) 70.51 80.26 86.30 Consumption of main materials (million tons) 2010 2011 2012 Consumption of seedlings Fibria 90.00 68.03 1. VC Limestone: total aggregates and other materials, such as sand and concrete. 2. Vs: inclusion of data for the pazDelrio plant (integrated plant) 3. Vm: inclusion of data for milpo Comment: 4. All of the above materials are direct materials (are present in the final product). except for oranges (Citrosuco) and timber (Fibria) all the materials are non-renewable. 5. Ve: indicator not applicable. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 119 116 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE materials 64 and 65 en2 percentage of materials used from recycling CompLeteD recycled materials Used (million tons) 2010 2011 2012 materials used by weight and volume (en1) 70.51 80.26 86.30 recycled materials used 3.77 5.07 5.60 percentage of materials used from recycled materials 5.3% 6.3% 6.5% in 2012 the criterion for recycled materials was changed, and now considers only those materials that are present in the final product. 1. indicator does not apply to Votorantim energia. Comment 2. percentage calculated based on the main materials used in production. 3. Vs: inclusion of data for the pazDelrio plant (integrated plant) 4. Vm: inclusion of data for milpo energy en3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary energy 65, 66 and 67 source (thousands of gJ) CompLeteD Direct energy non-renewable (enr) 2010 2011 2012 Fuel oil 11,877 11,942 12,123 natural gas 22,089 16,770 18,347 Coke 63,057 75,750 82,387 other non-renewable 5,346 12,678 16,793 Total Consumption of Non-renewable Direct Energy (NRE) 102,369 117,140 129,651 Direct renewable energy 2010 2011 2012 black Liquor 76,466 85,701 87,497 solid biomass 10,724 10,324 grindings 2,111 5,946 other renewable 676 8,942 24,405 Total Consumption of Renewable Direct Energy (RE) 89,977 110,913 111,902 Total Consumption of Direct Energy (NRE and RE) 228,053 241,553 1. Citrosuco, VC and Fibria: the increase of non-renewable inputs was due to the consumption of petrol and diesel for transport. 2. Citrosuco increase of renewable energy due to: the accounting for ethanol for transport which had not been included in prior years; the increased consumption of biomass due to the acquisition of plants, in Limeira and matão (Citrosuco), that utilize cane sugar in the boiler for electric power generation. Comment 3. Vm: increase in the consumption of diesel (for transportation) due to the inclusion of milpo. 4. Vs: increase in coke consumption due to inclusion of paz Del rio plant 5. Fibria: increase of non-renewable energy consumption (diesel and gasoline), since were not accounted for in prior years. 6. Ve: indicator not applicable. en4 indirect energy consumption by primary source 65, 66 and 67 (thousand gJ) CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 electric power own generation 43,088 43,031 40,445 electric power general purchases 20,036 23,018 28,908 electric power purchase with incentive 265 179 222 Total Consumption of Indirect Energy 66,228 69,575 1. increase in co-generation of electric power in manufacturing processes was due to the inclusion of new Citrosuco plants. 2. this reduction in electric power from own generation was due to a low level of rainfall during the year, significantly below the average levels of prior years. 3. included values of both own and consortium plants (general purchase). Comments: 4. Votorantim does not consume non-renewable indirect energy. 5. indicator does not apply to Votorantim energia. 6. Vm: inclusion of information on the milpo plants 7. Vs: inclusion of information on the pazDelrio plant. energy matrix (en3 + en4) 2010 2011 2012 Total Consumption of Energy (Direct + Indirect) 255,735 294,281 311,128 percentage of non-renewable energy (nre) in the matrix 40.0% 39.8% 41.7% percentage of renewable energy (re) in the matrix 60.2% 58.3% 120 117 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE energy en5 energy saved due to conservation and efficiency 68 and 69 improvements (gJ) CompLeteD important: the data that make up this indicator are taken from the carbon inventory spreadsheet period 2010 2011 2012 total energy saved due to improvements in conservation and efficiency (thousands of gJ) 25 -254 860 improvement in energy efficiency (%) en5 2010 2011 2012 percentage improvement in efficiency of energy utilized 0.02% -0.11% 0.37% the positive result was due to: 1. Fibria positive result overall mainly due to the good performance of the Aracruz and três Lagoas plants. A high level of production combined with good coordination between the operation and maintenance departments led to improvements in equipment Comments: performance carried out according to priorities set by CiCe (internal Commission for energy Conservation) and the energy workgroup. 2. Vm: Due to CbA’s result. 3. Vs: mainly due to the resende plant where a project was undertaken to improve the management of energy use. water 70 en8 total water withdrawal by source CompLeteD withdrawal by source (thousand m3) 2010 2011 2012 surface water 185,164 217,093 254,892 Underground water 2,193 6,450 13,619 rainwater water supply companies 383 1,547 38,884 effluents from another organization 0 0 0 Vegetable water condensate 1,992 2,131 2,635 Total water withdrawal by source 189,732 227,221 310,030 1. the increase in total water withdrawal was due to: Vs: inclusion of data for the pazDelrio plant Vm inclusion of data for milpo Comment 2. VC: the specific increase in water from water-supply companies was due to the inclusion of new units. 3. Votorantim does not account for rainwater. 4. indicator not applicable to Ve. biodiversity en11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in 74 protected areas, or adjacent to, and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas pArtiAL inside the conservation biome of the area plant located inside conservation area (UC) (Km ²) area or adjacent to it 53% inside Atlantic rainforest 1,879.11 and 47% adjacent Cerrado 99.01 100% inside Cerrado and Atlantic rainforest (transition zone) 114,78 100% inside Total inside conservation/protected area 2,093 1. there was a change in the process of consolidating the information for this indicator, therefore the information for 2011 has not being included. 2. type of operation found in the biomes: manufacturing / production and extraction. Comment 3. the data do not include information on VC. 4. Vm: milpo plant was not considered . 5. Vs: inclusion of data for the pazDelrio plant 6. Citrosuco inclusion of farms. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 121 118 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE biodiversity 74 and 75 en13 protected or restored habitats pArtiAL Área total Definição geographical location of the area (state) do habitat (Km²) do habitat bioma biodiversity management plan Vidal ramos 10.12 protected area Atlantic rainforest Area restored / Area 1 Atlantic rainforest 1,879.51 protected Atlantic rainforest Area restored / Area 2 Cerrado 1,003.55 protected Cerrado Area restored / Area 4 restinga 54.03 protected Atlantic rainforest reforestation App piraju 0.23 protected area Atlantic rainforest maintenance of reforestation App piraju 2.13 protected area Atlantic rainforest enclosure of piraju 0.01 protected area Atlantic rainforest restoration plan for degraded areas in piraju 0.08 restored area Atlantic rainforest reforestation App h/e ourinhos 16.60 protected area Atlantic rainforest enclosure of App h/e ourinhos 0.01 restored area Atlantic rainforest maintenance of reforestation App h/e ourinhos 1.38 protected area Atlantic rainforest maintenance of reforestation related to the restoration plan for degraded areas in ourinhos 5.64 restored area Atlantic rainforest Atlantic rainforest / maintenance of enclosure in App salto do rio Verdinho 0.12 protected area Cerrado maintenance of enclosure App picada 0.04 protected area Cerrado itamarati de minas project 0.06 restored area Atlantic rainforest project miraí 0.57 restored area Atlantic rainforest poços de Caldas project 4.57 restored area Atlantic rainforest Fortaleza de minas project 5.29 restored area Atlantic rainforest Juiz de Fora project 0.14 restored area Atlantic rainforest project morro Agudo 0.15 restored area Cerrado project Vazante 2.19 restored area Cerrado Area restored / barra mansa Faixa do bananal 0.15 protected Atlantic rainforest Area restored / Apps and Legal reserve resende 1.76 protected Atlantic rainforest Forest areas gravel pits and quarries disabled 0.73 restored area Cerrado Area restored / Area of coal mine barra mansa 0.04 protected Atlantic rainforest TOTAL 2,989 1. there was a change in the process of consolidating the information for this indicator, therefore the information for 2011 has not being included. Comment: 2. Vs: inclusion of information on the pazDelrio plant. 3. Vm: milpo plant was not considered . 4. Citrosuco no information was reported. en14 strategies, current actions and future plans 74 and 75 for managing negative impacts on biodiversity CompLeteD 1. information available throughout the report. 2. VC: indicator first reported in 2012. Comment: 3. Vs: inclusion of information on the pazDelrio plant. 4. Vm: milpo plant was not considered . 5. Citrosuco: no information was reported. 122 119 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE biodiversity en15 number of iUCn red list species and national conservation list table of Contents species with habitats of in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. CompLeteD number of endangered species per risk level 2010 2011 2012 Critically endangered 11 14 19 endangered 13 24 50 Vulnerable 23 61 93 near threatened 0 53 72 Least concern 0 2,321 3,575 note: Classification according to the iUCn red List. 1. the increase in the number of species was due to the improvement in the process of information management and expansion of information gathering. Comments: 2. information regarding plants on brazil. 3. VC: no information was reported. 4. Citrosuco no information was reported. emissions, effluents and residues en16 total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions, 71 and 72 by weight (ghg) CompLeteD Direct ghg emissions (tCo2eq) 2010 2011 2012 stationary Combustion 8,491,052 9,663,864 11,512,454 mobile sources owned 486,613 567,797 1,199,640 process 10,569,319 13,339,980 13,378,520 waste treatment 50,971 67,550 44,633 soil Limestone 27,172 24,913 26,352 soil nitrogen Fertilizer 26,262 37,725 60,412 Total Direct Emissions Scope 1 19,651,389 23,701,829 26,222,013 indirect emissions (tCo2eq) 2010 2011 2012 electric power 1,177,481 907,802 1,596,112 Total Indirect Emissions Scope 2 1,177,481 907,802 1,596,112 1. the increase in total emissions is related to comments from en3 and en4. Comment: 2. the methodology used was the ghg protocol. For processes where the ghg has not defined methodology, the ipCC guidelines were used. 3. indicator does not apply to Votorantim energia. en17 other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions, 71 and 72 by weight CompLeteD other inDireCt ghg emissions (tCo2eq) 2010 2011 2012 transportation by third parties (cargo, goods, etc.) 1,667,639 1,058,331 714,237 Total 1,667,639 1,058,331 714,237 Total Emissions 22,496,509 25,667,962 28,532,361 Carbon capture 21,840,783 19,595,939 18,860,156 stock 103,649,523 105,329,708 112,105,785 suppression 31,844 302,804 2,285,730 1. the increase in total emissions is described in the comments on the en3 and en4 indicators. 2. the methodology used was the ghg protocol. For processes where the ghg has not defined methodology, the ipCC guidelines were used. Comment: 3. indicator does not apply to Votorantim energia. 4. Carbon capture 95% refer to Fibria’s forestry activities. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 123 120 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE emissions, effluents and residues en18 en18 initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 73 reductions achieved (ghg) CompLeteD projects that generated emission effective reductions reductions in 2010 Um site in tCo2e / year status h/e plant with existing reservoir VC pedra do Cavalo 59,485 Awaiting 2nd issue of Cers Fuel swap VC Cubatão 2,074 Awaiting 2nd issue of Cers plants with the energy 6,562 (corresponding to energy efficiency efficiency program the years 2007 to 2010) program in progress effective reductions in projects on-going in 2010 Um site tCo2e / year status replacement of Fossil Fuel Citrosuco Catanduva 20,000 a 100,000 preparation of pDD VCs project (Voluntary emissions market) h/e with a low deforestation project approved by VCs in nov/2010 waiting rate for the reservoir Vm salto pilão 290,876 for verification heat recovery Vm três marias 10,245 project approved by the UnFCC in December/2010 energy efficiency Vm niquelândia 21,764 eoD review report heat recovery Vm niquelândia 53,197 eoD review report projects that generated emission effective reductions reductions in in 2011 Um site in tCo2e / year status h/e plant with existing reservoir VC pedra do Cavalo 59,485 Awaiting 2nd issue of Cers 9,829 (corresponding to the crediting period of the project from Fuel swap VC Cubatão 2004 to 2011) project finalized effective reductions projects on-going in 2011 Um site in tCo2e / year status replacement of Fossil Fuel Citrosuco Catanduva 52,413 in the approval process project approved by the UnFCC and being heat recovery Vm três marias 10,245 implemented at the plant project in process of approval by the designated energy efficiency Vm niquelândia 21,779 operational entity (eoD) project in process of approval by the designated heat recovery Vm niquelândia 54,330 operational entity (eoD) VCs project (Voluntary emissions market) h/e with a low deforestation rate for the reservoir Vm salto pilão 168,000 Vers/ano project awaiting issue of Vers projects that generated emission effective reductions reductions in in 2012 Um site in tCo2e / year status Uhe em reservatório existente VC pedra do Cavalo 224,667 Approved 2nd issue of Cers effective reductions projects on-going in 2012 Um site in tCo2e / year status replacement of Fossil Fuel Citrosuco Catanduva 52,413 in the approval process project approved by the UnFCC and being energy efficiency Vm niquelândia** 10,245 implemented at the plant heat recovery (steam recovery in flash project terminated by the UnFCC without autoclave tanks) Vm três marias 21,779 generating credits project terminated by the UnFCC without heat recovery Vm niquelândia 54,330 generating credits micro h/e barragem Aroeira Vm Vazante 240 project in final technical detailing VCs project (Voluntary emissions market) h/e with a low deforestation rate for the reservoir Vm salto pilão 168,000 Vers/ano project awaiting issue of Vers with procurement, reviewing proposals for improved ng efficiency calcination Vm CbA 7,563.01 Vers/ano initiating the detailed design with procurement, reviewing proposals for improved ng efficiency boilers Vm CbA 13,798.6 Vers/ano initiating the detailed design Comments: 121 124 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE emissions, effluents and residues en20 nox, sox and other significant air emissions, 73 by type and weight CompLeteD emissions of nox, sox and pm (t) 2010 2011 2012 nox emissions 39,674 43,092 40,510 sox emissions 22,351 27,789 31,252 pm (particulate material) emissions 7,438 10,130 12,511 total emissions of nox, sox and pm 69,463 81,011 84,272 emissions of heavy metals (t) 2010 2011 2012 mercury (hg) 0.24 0.34 0.18 Cadmium (Cd) 0.07 0.15 0.64 thallium (tl) 0.09 0.46 0.55 total emissions of heavy metals 0.40 0.95 1.37 other air emissions (t) 2010 2011 2012 Volatile organic Compounds (VoC) (or thC) 587.97 609.53 439.94 Total Emissions 70,051 81,621 84,713 1. emissions increase was due to: Vm: improvement in information management and the inclusion of milpo plants. Vs: inclusion of data for the pazDelrio plant 2. VC: the emission values, reported in 2012, have risen in absolute terms, part of which is proportional to the organic growth of the Comment: company. however, considering this growth, the amount of emissions should have been much higher. this did not occur because there were major investments in new technologies, especially related to retrofit, with lower rates of emissions. 3. indicator does not apply to Votorantim energia. 4. hazardous air pollutants (hAp) and fugitive emissions were not reported because they were not significant. 70 en21 total water disposal, by quality and destination CompLeteD Discharge of water, by treatment (m³) 2010 2011 2012 waste-water with treatment 220,829,924 141,341,353 238,263,606 waste-water without treatment 99,462,087 0 Total water discharged 220,829,924 240,803,440 238,263,606 Discharge of water, by destination (m³) 2010 2011 2012 ocean / sea 67,955,571 68,003,010 66,037,063 rivers 149,887,797 177,302,917 125,173 Lakes 1,401,408 207,032 155,529,945 other 1,585,148 1,573,786 0 Total water discharged 220,829,924 247,086,745 221,692,181 1. we included the following units: VC Vs: pazDelrio Comment: Vm: milpo 2. indicator does not apply to Votorantim energia. 3. part of the discharged water is reused within Votorantim processes. however, there is no reuse of wastewater by other organizations. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 122 125 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE emissions, effluents and residues 69 en22 total weight of waste, by type and disposal method CompLeteD total weight of waste (tons) 2010 2011 2012 NON-HAZARDOUS waste disposal 1,261,359.00 1,425,359.00 3,022,271.90 Composting 45,214.00 90,503.00 87,970.13 internal reuse / recycling 519,933.00 457,525.00 513,133.15 external reuse / recycling with value-added 61,481.00 533,334.00 613,963.61 external reuse / recycling without value-added 98,180.00 18,595.00 recovery 0.00 15.00 81.33 incineration (or use as fuel) 22.00 1,012.00 8,124.00 Co-processed / refined 1,999.00 20,601.00 68.00 Landfill 106,055.00 5,811.00 411,500.46 industrial landfill 420,113.00 289,455.00 1,029.00 waste injected underground 0.00 0.00 1,216,927.00 others directed to specific uses 8,362.00 8,508.00 62,900.06 Unclassified disposal 106,575.16 HAZARDOUS WASTE DISPOSAL 105,478.00 94,466.00 1,248,596.87 Composting 0.00 0.00 internal reuse / recycling 28,128.00 438.00 22.02 external reuse / recycling with value-added 21,052.00 13,599.00 416,271.26 external reuse / recycling without value-added 142.00 4,291.00 recovery 2.00 1,655.00 0.00 incineration (or use as fuel) 338.00 904.00 557.36 Co-processed/ refined 19,494.00 31,396.00 37,334.27 Landfill 450.00 780.00 industrial landfill 35,260.00 40,242.00 17,561.36 waste injected underground 0.00 0.00 others directed to specific uses 612.00 1,161.00 754,269.26 Unclassified disposal 22,581.34 TOTAL WASTE DISPOSAL 1,366,837,00 1,519,825.00 4,270,868.77 Composting 45,214,00 90,503.00 87,970.13 internal reuse / recycling 548,061,00 457,963.00 513,155.17 external reuse / recycling with value-added 82,533,00 546,933.00 1,030,234.88 external reuse / recycling without value-added 98,322,00 22,886.00 recovery 2,00 1,670.00 81.33 incineration (or use as fuel) 360,00 1,916.00 8,681.36 Co-processed / refined 21,493,00 51,997.00 37,402.27 Landfill 106,505,00 6,591.00 411,500.46 industrial landfill 455,373,00 329,697.00 18,590.36 waste injected underground 0,00 0.00 1,216,927.00 others directed to specific uses 8,974,00 9,669.00 817,169.31 Unclassified disposal 129,156.51 1. the increase in the quantity of waste, hazardous and non-hazardous, was due to: VC: inclusion of new plants. Vs: inclusion of data for the pazDelrio plant Comment: Vm: inclusion of milpo. 2. the item “”other intended for specific purposes”” refers to: donations, symbolic sales, among others. 3. Disposal “”not classified”” relates to the portion of VC’s waste where the management criterion differs from that of ViD. 4. not including data from Ve. 126 123 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE products and services en26 initiatives to mitigate negative impacts of environmental 68 products and services and extent of impact mitigation. CompLeteD 1. Vs: the steel flue dust from the resende and barra mansa plants is sent to the Vm Juiz de Fora plant for recycling to recover the metals present in the waste (especially zinc) 2. Citrosuco the composting plant produced 46,130 tons of compost in 2012. the raw material of this compost is ash residue from the Comment: chimney and boiler at the Catanduva plant and activated sludge from treatment facilities at the matão and Araras plants. the compost is used as fertilizer in the orange plantations, avoiding that this waste be sent to a landfill. 3. VC: Votorantim developed a furnace for the large-scale production of pozzolan. the furnace can produce 1,000 tons / day. the production of pozzolan results in emissions from fuel combustion, but not emissions of limestone dust. Compliance en28 monetary value of significant fines and total number table of Contents of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 number of non-monetary sanctions 18 9 8 total monetary value of significant fines r$35,002.00 r$204,627.99 14,448,313.56 Lawsuits through arbitration mechanisms 0 0 0 1. the increase in the monetary value of fines was due to: implementation of the new corporate standard. VC: the VCnA plants are now included. Vm: milpo plants were not included. Comment: Vs: included the pazDelrio plant. Ve: the amounts of environmental processes at company-owned and consortium plants are included in 2011, only company-owned plants were included. 2. this item was considered the requests received and amounts paid, including both lawsuits and administrative proceedings. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 127 124 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE overall en30 total environmental protection expenditures 63 and investments, by type CompLeteD environmental investments and expenditures (r$) 2010 2011 2012 CAPEX (Investments) 166,085,736 306,699,892 255,406,314 environmental education 181,966 0.00 170,000.00 environmental management 3,836,778 16,837,030.00 16,161,771.65 Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 31,705,095 877,073.00 10,538,577.24 environmental prevention 874,945 4,812,082.00 28,396,299.25 treatment of air emissions 9,774,705 71,971,047.00 61,224,655.76 waste treatment 67,252,197 121,510,762.00 112,440,905.36 wastewater treatment 13,213,985 24,345,156.00 17,409,834.44 Dho environmental Area 5,097,391.25 Decommissioning / remediation of contaminated sites (soil and water) 231,149.00 environmental insurance 280,870.00 other environmental expenses 39,246,065 66,346,742.00 3,454,860.08 OPEX (Expenses) 144,305,747 165,884,073 269,490,362 environmental education 966,653 4,284,237.00 2,835,017.57 environmental management 26,715,431 31,587,516.00 27,704,162.79 Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 5,097 1,015,312.00 33,639,231.08 environmental prevention 18,092,766 30,021,602.00 13,659,700.75 treatment of air emissions 21,523,202 42,878,894.00 19,387,585.06 waste treatment 25,140,254 33,782,699.00 95,077,731.52 wastewater treatment 36,647,484 3,016,477.00 44,579,639.24 Dho environmental Area 18,238,286.26 Decommissioning / remediation of contaminated sites (soil and water) 7,859,308.45 environmental insurance 48,351.16 other environmental expenses 15,214,860 19,297,336.00 6,461,347.66 Total 310,391,483 472,583,965 524,896,676 environmental education 1,148,619 4,284,237.00 3,005,017.57 environmental management 30,552,209 48,424,546.00 43,865,934.44 Conservation, reforestation and biodiversity 31,710,192 1,892,385.00 44,177,808.32 environmental prevention 18,967,711 34,833,684.00 42,056,000.00 treatment of air emissions 31,297,907 114,849,941.00 80,612,240.82 waste treatment 92,392,451 155,293,461.00 207,518,636.88 wastewater treatment 49,861,469 27,361,633.00 61,989,473.68 Dho environmental Area 23,335,677.51 Decommissioning / remediation of contaminated sites (soil and water) 8,090,457.45 environmental insurance 329,221.16 other environmental expenses 54,460,925 85,644,078.00 9,916,207.74 1. Changes in CApeX and opeX were due to a review of internal procedures in Votorantim to meet current accounting standards. in addition, there was a reduction in the amount of CApeX due to the economic environment experienced in 2012, primarily for the mining and steel industry. Comment: note: the total CApeX and opeX in this report differs from the figure published in the report of the management due to: Updating of the value of opeX in VC brazil. review by our auditors, pwC. 128 125 Social Performance Labor Practices employment LA1 total workforce by employment type, employment 50 and 51 contract, and region pArtiAL period 2010 2011 2012 salaried employees 22,053 24,538 28,099 hourly-paid staff 11,670 10,628 15,835 temporary Farm workers 82 2,332 8,872 Trainees and Summer Interns 82 85 60 Total Own Employees 33,887 37,583 52,866 trainees and summer interns 526 682 847 Apprentices 360 480 590 Subtotal Trainees and Apprentices 886 1,162 1,437 permanent Activity 24,348 26,240 32,017 projects 11,482 10,468 43,215 Subtotal Service Providers 35,830 36,708 75,231 total employees + trainees + Apprentices + seasonal workers 34,773 38,745 54,303 total service providers 35,830 36,708 75,231 Grand Total 70,603 75,453 129,534 employees by job category 2010 2011 2012 Own Employees Director/president 108 114 manager 743 1,039 Coordinator / Consultant 2,497 2,745 technician / Analyst / supervisor 5,576 6,660 Trainee 85 60 operator 26,242 33,165 Total Fixed-time Employees 35,251 43,783 trainee 682 847 Apprentice 480 590 temporary Farm workers 2,332 8,872 Own Employees+ Trainees +Apprentices + Seasonal Employees 38,745 54,092 1. the number of employees increased due to: Vm: inclusion of milpo Vs: inclusion of pazDelrio VC: inclusion of Cimpor Citrosuco: merger between Citrovita and Citrosuco. inclusion of pickers in the category of seasonal employees. Comment: 2. Data reported includes all the group’s units, not only the units shown in the organization charts of the business divisions the figures include only the number of active employees broken down by type of contract. 3. the total number of employees by job category does not consider the employees of Citrosuco international. note: the total number of employees in this report differs from the value published in the management report due to: revised number of employees for VCnA and milpo. Use of different criteria for consolidation. the management report included both active and suspended employees but excluded Citrosuco’s employees. Votorantim’s report considered only active employees, but including Citrosuco’s employees. LA2 total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, 53 gender and region. pArtiAL period 2010 2011 2012 employees (excluding seasonal workers) 33,805 35,251 41,157 employees 33,887 37,583 50,043 Dismissals (excluding seasonal workers) 4,831 5,736 6,840 Dismissals 9,901 7,895 9,249 turnover (excluding seasonal workers) 14.3% 16.3% 17% Total Turnover 29.2% 21.0% 18.5% 1. the turnover rates, without seasonal employees, have remained constant, but the company has a goal to reduce them. Comment: 2. Data reported includes all the group’s units, except for the international units of Citrosuco and Cimpor, and not only the units shown in the organization charts of the business divisions the figures do not include dismissals of apprentices / trainees. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório VotorantimVotorantim Industrial Report Industrial 129 126 Social Performance Labor Practices employment LA3 benefits provided to full-time employees, that are not provided 55 to temporary or part time employees, by the major operations. CompLeteD benefits required by Law Applicable to employees sickness and accident assistance CitrosUCo, FibriA, Vm, CJm, ep, Ch, CL, At, Vs, pDr, VC periodic and laboratory medical examinations CitrosUCo, Vm, CJm, ep, Ch, CL, At, Vs, ACer*, pDr, Ve, VC, VCnA* maternity / paternity leave CitrosUCo, Vm, CJm*, ep, Ch, CL, At, Vs, pDr, Ve, VC, VCnA* Variable remuneration (ppr) CitrosUCo, Vm, Vs, ACer, pDr, Ve, VC, VCnA* Chartered transportation CitrosUCo, Vm, ep, CL, Vs, ACer, pDr, Ve, VC Uniform CitrosUCo, Vm, CJm, ep, CL, At, Vs, pDr, VC, VCnA* transportation vouchers CitrosUCo, Vm, CJm, ep, At, Vs, Ve, VC Additional Corporate benefits Abrangência mo quadro de pessoal Dental Assistance CitrosUCo*, FibriA, Vm***, CJm*, ³ Vs, VC, VCnA* medical Assistance CitrosUCo, FibriA, Vm***, CJm, ep, Ch, At, ³ Vs, Ve, VC, VCnA* pension plan (Votorantimprev) FibriA, Vm***, CJm*, Vs, Ve, VC, VCnA* group life insurance CitrosUCo, Vm***, CJm, Ch, At, Vs, Ve, VC, VCnA* basic Food hamper VC, FibriA, Ve, Vm***, Vs, CitrosUCo Company special arrangements with pharmacies VC, VCnA*, Vm***, Vs³, CitrosUCo Company special arrangements with opticians VCnA*, CJm*, Vs³ Assistance for children with special needs VCnA*, CitrosUCo,FibriA Child day-care assistance VC, FibriA, ³ Vs, CitrosUCo Funeral assistance VC, VCnA*, FibriA, Ve, CJm*, At, Vs, CitrosUCo, Vm*, Ch Christmas toys / children’s day Agre, Cim, VCnA**, FibriA, Ve, At, CL, Ch, ep, Vs, ACer, Vm* School Kit FibriA, At, ep, Vs, ACer Christmas hamper VC, FibriA, Ve, Vm***, CJm, At, CL, ep, Vs, ACer, CitrosUCo Company special arrangements with private gyms VCnA**, CJm, ACer Company special arrangements with social clubs (s system senAi, sesi, sesC, sest, senAt). VC*, VCnA*, Vm***, Vs³, pDr, CJm* Coverage for disability / invalidity VC, VCnA*, Vm***, CJm, At, Ch, Vs, pDr, CitrosUCo, ep Food stamp / Food Card VC, FibriA, Vm***, CJm, At, ³ Vs, pDr, CitrosUCo Amounts invested in benefits 2010 2011 2012 Amounts invested in benefits (£ / millions) 448.21 481.91 584.84 1. Vs: they do not include the Forestry Units * benefits offered to full-time employees but not offered to temporary employees and part-time. ** not all plants have this benefit. *** the benefits offered to part-time employees, but not offered to temporary employees. Comment: Legend: VC: VCnA: north America; Agre: Aggregates; Cim: Cement. Vm: CJm: Cajamarquilla, At: Atacocha, CL: Cerro Lindo, Ch: Chapi, eL: el povenir. Vs: ACer: Acerbrag, pDr: pazDelrio. LA4 percentage of employees covered by collective 56 bargaining agreements CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 employees covered by union agreements (%) 95.4% 98.0% 96.4% 1. the reduction percentage of employees covered by union agreements was due to: inclusion of international units of milpo. Comment: improved information management process. 2. employees who are not part of collective bargaining are at the managerial level, where adjustments are made based only on meritocracy. 3. Vs and VC: international units were not included. 127 130 Social Performance Labor Practices workplace health and safety LA6 percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint 48 and 49 management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise the occupational health and safety programs. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 over 75% oK oK oK Comment: 1. Does not include information for milpo. LA7rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and 48 and 49 work-related fatalities, by region. pArtiAL Own employees and permanent contractors period 2010 2011 2012 Fatalities 6 3 12 man-hours worked (own employees and third parties) 100,329,423 134,978,764 151,014,737 no. of total injuries (Level 1) 1.226 1.303 no. of total injuries (Level 2 and 3) 549 833 no. of total injuries with loss time (Level 4 to 6) 150 284 Frequency rate of accidents with and without lost time 7.495 5.179 7.218 Frequency rate of accidents with lost time 1.714 1.111 1.775 injury rate (tL) 1.499* 1.036 1.458 rate of occupational illness (tDo) 0.006* 0.000 0.038 rate of Days Lost (tDp) 8.421* 6.994 32.548 Absenteeism rate (Accidents at work) 15.558 258.804 Absenteeism rate (occupational illness) 1.458 0.000 Absenteeism rate (non-occupational illness) 45.602 247.439 Absenteeism rate (Accidents outside work) 4.156 32.426 totAL Absenteeism rate 66.764 538.486 major programs of 2012 1. the increase in the rates was due to: improvement in the information management process implementation of the Corporate standard of work safety inclusion of units (pazDelrio, milpo, VC) 2. ViD has a criterion for classification of accidents, which considers the severity of the injury and financial impact, and classifies accidents into six distinct categories. there is a “”cut-off line”” between accidents with lost time (levels 4, 5 and 6) and without lost time (levels 2 and 3). For the purposes of brazilian law, and the rates reported above, accidents with lost time that resulted injury are reported (Levels 2 to 6). Accidents when traveling to/from work are not included in the rates. Comment: Level 1 includes outpatient treatment of low gravity without risk of deterioration. Level 2 includes simple injury without risk of deterioration. 3. Votorantim manages this indicator according to nbr 14280. 4. Votorantim does not segregate contract workers in a specific category that corresponds to “”independent contract employees.”” As a result, the rates for this category were not reported separately. 5. Frequency rate of accidents with or without lost time = number of accidents with or without lost time / man-hours x 1,000,000; man-hours corresponds to the sum of the hours during which workers were available in the period, including overtime;1,000,000 is an adjustment factor for a million man-hours, to allow comparison between different organizations. 6. the unit Chapi of Vm was not considered. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 131 128 Social Performance Labor Practices workplace health and safety LA8 education, training, counseling, prevention and risk control table of Contents programs in place to assist workforce members, their families or community members regarding serious diseases. CompLeteD the organization has training programs for employees, their families or community members regarding serious diseases? 83% have for employees and 33% have for their families the organization has counseling programs for employees, their families or community members regarding serious diseases? 83% have for employees and 50% have for their families the organization has programs for prevention and control of risk to employees, their families or community members regarding serious diseases? 100 % have for employees and 33% have for their families the organization has treatment programs for employees, their families or community members regarding serious diseases? 83% have for employees and 50% have for their families VC: main risks: noise and mineral dust, besides working at heights, confined environments, vehicles of varying sizes, high voltage; VS: there is no recent history of a high incidence of specific diseases; main risks: heat, noise, dust, manual work; Citrosuco: sun exposure (risk of dehydration), Are there workers involved in occupational activities in whom there venomous animals. VE: work in confined space and submerged space, high is a high incidence or high risk for specific diseases? voltage, conveyor operation, working at heights and venomous animals. VM : work in confined spaces, dust. Fibria: noise, exposure to sun, radioactive contamination (sensors for measuring the thickness of a sheet of cellulose and the level of input tanks), venomous animals. • Healthy Eating • More Life Health Promotion and Quality of Life • Prevention of Cardiovascular Risks • Prevention of Neoplasms • Pregnant Women • Vaccination campaigns • PAE Employee Support Program: provides professional service for main programs in 2012 evaluation, referral and brief counseling, in order to assist employees and their families in resolving personal problems. • Control of risk and prevention of: nutrition, quality of life, respiratory protection, hearing conservation, ergonomics (for prevention osteo-musculoarticular diseases) • The therapeutic approach of risk factors in the orientation and counseling for nutrition, giving up smoking and physical activity • Daily Security Dialogue.” 1. the percentage refers to the business units that have some program for workers and their families. Comment: 2. the definition and management of programs is carried out by each business division. 3. more information about the programs is available on the Votorantim website. 132 129 Social Performance Labor Practices training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 50 and 54 by employee category; CompLeteD period (main hours of training per year per employee by employee category). 2010 2011 2012 Average Hours of Training 18.3 55.3 62.30 president/Director 8.4 21.1 9.45 manager 23.8 37.9 68.57 Coordinator / Consultant 17.0 65.1 29.09 technician / Analyst / supervisor 36.3 31.61 trainee 27.8 295.6 362.85 operator 25.7 72.43 trainee 5.8 11.13 Apprentice 7.0 23.53 temporary Farm worker 3.0 1. the Academy of excellence, went through a restructuring process in 2012. 2. the following international units were included: VCnA, milpo and pazDelrio. Comment: 3. Vs: included the Curvelo and sitrel plants. 4. Citrosuco Due to the merger process, this information was not reported LA12 percentage of employees receiving regular performance 52, 55 and 56 and career development reviews. CompLeteD performance Assessment 2010 2011 2012 employees with performance evaluated (%) 100% 99.87%* 98% Career Development evaluation 2010 2011 2012 employees with development evaluated (%) 100% 100% 100% 1. the reduction in the percentage of employees receiving performance reviews was due to: Comments: Citrosuco was excluded due to the merger process. Vs: international units were not included. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 133 130 Desempenho Social Práticas Trabalhistas Diversity And equal opportunities LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of table of Contents employees per category According to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. pArtiAL Composition of minority groups in the organizations 2010 2011 2012 employees over 50 years 2,884 3,856 6,198 Female 4,115 4,005 6,012 Composition of Leadership 2010 2011 2012 Directors/president 101 108 114 managers 722 743 1,039 Breakdown of employees per category according to gender and age Age range Age(%)range (%) period positions 2012 2012 Under 30 Under 30 years 30-50 years 30-50 years years over 50 years + 50 anos at company period male company % atFemale % Director/president 114 114 0.00 0.00 44.74 44.74 55.26 55.26 6.24 92.98 6.24 7.02 manager 1,039 1,039 1.25 1.25 68.82 68.82 29.93 29.93 7.93 88.93 7.93 11.07 Coordinator / Consultant 2,745 2,745 13.99 13.99 73.73 73.73 12.24 12.24 6.99 77.81 6.99 22.19 technician / Analyst / supervisor 6,660 6,660 24.29 24.29 62.93 62.93 12.78 12.78 7.82 76.53 7.82 23.47 trainee 60 60 100.00100.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.04 71.67 0.04 28.33 operator 33,165 33,165 26.45 26.45 59.58 59.58 13.98 13.98 6.41 90.72 6.41 9.28 Subtotal Employees 43,783 43,783 24.77 24.77 61.07 61.07 14.15 14.15 6.70 87.69 6.70 12.31 trainee 847 847 97.17 97.17 2.83 2.83 0.00 0.00 0.16 49.94 0.16 50.06 Apprentice 590 590 99.15 99.15 0.68 0.68 0.17 0.17 0.13 66.44 0.13 33.56 temporary farm workers 8,872 8,872 33.75 33.75 51.86 51.86 14.39 14.39 60.13 39.87Total Employees 45,220 45,220 27.10 27.10 59.20 59.20 13.71 13.71 0.00 0.00 0.00 1. Data reported includes all the group’s units, (except for the international units of Citrosuco), and not only the units shown in the Comments: organization charts of the business divisions the figures include only the number of active employees broken down by functional category. Social Performance Human Rights Freedom of Association and Collective bargaining 33 and 34 hr4 total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken CompLeteD Cases of Discrimination occurred 2010 2011 2012 Complaints received by the ombudsman 210 382 572 Cases deemed founded 81 112 194 “1. the increase in cases and complaints received by the ombudsman was due to: inclusion of milpo units Comments: more structured actions of communication, and training at the plants. 2. Citrosuco: due to the merger process, the indicator includes information Citrovita for the first half of 2012. (i.e. only 50% of Citrosuco). hr5 operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of 33 and 34 association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk and actions taken to support these rights. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 operations where the right of employees to exercise as freedom is at risk 0 0 0 1. in 2012 Votorantim did not record any process or warning by inspection agencies for occurrences concerning freedom of Comments: association and collective bargaining. 134 131 Social Performance Human Rights Child Labor hr6 operations identified as having significant risk for incidents 33 and 34 of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor CompLeteD period 2012 number of transactions that may be at risk for cases of child or young workers exposed to hazardous work 0 1. the issues of slave and child labor are handled through the code of conduct and also through operational control audits. in the ombudsman system there is not presently any specific topic called slave or child labor. this will be inserted into the tool in 2013. however it is possible to make a complaint in these cases in other topics, such as image and reputation. suppliers involved blacklisted ibAmA or the ministry of labor are excluded automatically from sAp, in addition, there are specific clauses in contracts related to this issue. 2. the Citrosuco adheres to the Abrinq certification that includes guidelines to prevent the occurrence of child labor. 3. Annual audit plans are prepared, aiming to assess the main risks of each business unit. these plans are discussed and validated with the senior management of the business units so that they have a reasonable level of coverage according to the number of units of each Comment: business, applying also the principle of rotation of emphasis. Additionally the existence of an ombudsman, supported by a systemic tool that shows already consolidated facilitates access of employees and other stakeholders if infractions are observed. supporting this process we have the ombudsman, as a reliable system, with easy access to employees and other interested parties for reports of infractions, if these are observed. internal Audit uses a risk map of the main processes of the organization for execution of its work, and for the evaluation of risks involving the use of child labor. this aspect is verified in the governance process, by evaluating the specific risk of inappropriate conduct not in accordance with the Votorantim Code of Conduct. Forced and Compulsory Labor Core hr7 operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of 33 and 34 forced or compulsory labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. CompLeteD period 2012 number of operations with the risk of forced or slave labor 0 1. the issues of slave and child labor are handled through the code of conduct and also through operational control audits. in the ombudsman system there is not presently any specific topic called slave or child labor. this will be inserted into the tool in 2013. however it is possible to make a complaint in these cases in other topics, such as image and reputation. suppliers involved blacklisted ibAmA or the ministry of labor are excluded automatically from sAp, in addition, there are specific clauses in contracts related to this issue. 3. Annual audit plans are prepared, aiming to assess the main risks of each business unit. these plans are discussed and validated with the senior management of the business units so that they have a reasonable level of coverage according to the number of units of each Comment: business, applying also the principle of rotation of emphasis. Additionally the existence of an ombudsman, supported by a systemic tool that shows already consolidated facilitates access of employees and other stakeholders if infractions are observed. supporting this process we have the ombudsman, as a reliable system, with easy access to employees and other interested parties for reports of infractions, if these are observed. internal Audit uses a risk map of the main processes of the organization for execution of its work, and for the evaluation of risks involving the use of child labor. this aspect is verified in the governance process, by evaluating the specific risk of inappropriate conduct not in accordance with the Votorantim Code of Conduct. Social Performance Society Corruption so2 percentage and total number of business units analyzed table of Contents for risks related to corruption CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 business Divisions evaluated (%) 100% 100% 100% number of plants evaluated 89 50 plants evaluated (%) 31% 28% 17% 1. the reduction in the percentage of evaluated plants was due to reevaluation of the audit in order to prioritize aspects Comments: of management and strategy. 2. Citrosuco Due to the merger process, audits with a specific focus on corruption were not conducted in 2012. so3 percentage of employees trained in organization’s table of Contents anti-corruption policies and procedures. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 managers trained (%) 29.7% 22.2% 35.5% non-managers trained (%) 44.2% 50.9% 27.2% Total Employees Trained (%) 43.2% 48.6% 27.8% 1. the percentage reduction of the total number of employees trained is because the training is available only to new employees Comments: hired during the year. Furthermore, all employees sign the attached statement of Commitment to the Code of Conduct. 2. “”managers””: we considered the employees with a job category equal or greater than consultant. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório VotorantimVotorantim Industrial Report Industrial 135 132 Social Performance Society Corruption 33, 34 and 47 so4 measures taken in response to cases of corruption CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total number of employees punished or dismissed for corruption 38 47 48 supplier contracts not renewed due to the occurrence of corruption 3 10 13 1. All of the employees involved (48) were dismissed and all of the suppliers involved (13) had their contracts blocked. in some cases police investigations were initiated in order to recover amounts already paid. Comments: 2. Fibria: of the 8 allegations of corruption, fraud and bribery investigated by internal audit, 5 were completed, of which none were considered to be founded. the remaining cases are still under review in 2013. public policy so5 public policy positions and participation in public policy 59 development and lobbying. CompLeteD 2012 Company representative Committee in which representative is participating name of institution AbAF bahia Association of Forest-based Leonardo genofre Vice president enterprises Luis Carlos Loureiro Filho Director primary producer AbAL brazilian Aluminum Association AberJe brazilian Association of Corporate malu natel Freire weber board Communication AbesC brazilian Association of Concreting Alan svaiter board of Directors services AbiApe brazilian Association of investors in otavio Carneiro de rezende board Company-owned energy paulo Villares musetti/ricardo board member Abm brazilian Association of metallurgy henriques Leal AbrAmAt brazilian Association of the industry marcelo Chamma Director of Construction materials orivan Cássio matiuzzo/ AbrAmAt brazilian Association of the industry board member paulo Villares musetti of Construction materials José Luciano penido Chairman of the board Association of paraíba Valley ecological Corridor José Luciano penido Chairman of the board brACeLpA brazilian Association of pulp and paper José roberto ermírio de moraes Vp Advisory board brACeLpA brazilian Association of pulp and paper raul Calfat Advisory board brACeLpA brazilian Association of pulp and paper marcello Castelli Vice Chairman of the board brACeLpA brazilian Association of pulp and paper CebDs technical Chamber for energy and David Canassa president Climate Change of the brazilian business Council for sustainable Development boris Alessandro wiazowski Coordinator Citrusbr national Association of exporters of Citrus martin Vroegh environment manager Coalition of Fair Construction practices DrrCC Durham region roundtable on martin Vroegh environment manager Climate Change FiCem Federation inter-Americana led Luiz Alberto Castro santos Director of strategic planning memento Fiesp Federation of industries of the state José roberto ermírio de moraes Vice president / board of são paulo Albano Chagas Vieira Chairman of the board iAbr brazil steel institute Jones belther board ibrAm brazilian mining institute Francisco martins president iCZ institute of nonferrous metals José Luciano penido board member instituto ethos ossgA ontario stone sand and gravel John moroz Vice Chair of de board Association Fortunato tetzner board member sgF international global sugar Fair sindirações national Association of Animal Ariovaldo Zani executive Vice president Feed industry Carlos Alberto de oliveira roxo membro do steering Committee tFD the Forests Dialogue 1. Votorantim does not assume a specific position in relation to public policy, but it takes a stance on their formulation through the entities Comments: of which it is part. Votorantim’s lobbying and political positions are convergent with sustainability issues. 133 136 so6 total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political 60 parties, politicians and related institutions by country CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total Contributions (r$ / thousand) * 5,827,500 * information is available on the website of the tse (http://spce2010.tse.jus.br/spceweb.consulta.receitasdespesas2010). Comments: 1. in 2011 there were no contributions. Anti-Competitive behavior so7 total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, 81 antitrust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly 7 8 2 Lawsuits which are on-going for Unfair Competition, and Monopoly Practices Trust, up until 2012. Citrosuco 0 Votorantim energia 0 Votorantim Cimentos 4 3 2 Votorantim metais 4 0 Votorantim siderurgia 1 0 Fíbria 0 1. in 2012 we implemented a new corporate standard. 2. VC: the VCnA plants are now included. 3. Vm: milpo plants were not included. Comments: 4. Vs: included the pazDelrio plant. this includes the requests received and amounts paid, including both lawsuits and administrative proceedings. 6. the two lawsuits mentioned are on-going. Compliance so8 monetary value of significant fines and total number table of Contents of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total value of significant fines r$17,935,631.46 r$ 20,104,671.05 r$3,583,524,754.05 number of non-monetary sanctions 890 838 31 Lawsuits moved through arbitration mechanisms 0 0 0 in 2012 Votorantim conducted a review of internal procedures aimed at improving the management of this indicator. 1. the increase in the monetary value of fines was due to: implementation of the new corporate standard. Comments: VC: the VCnA plants are now included. Vm: milpo plants were not included. Vs: includes the pazDelrio plant. 2. this includes the requests received and amounts paid, including both lawsuits and administrative proceedings. Social Performance Liability for the Product product and service Labeling pr2 total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and table of Contents voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 0 0 2 1. Vs: Acerbrag: the two items shown correspond to an observation indicated in a quality audit conducted by inti national institute of industrial technology and a customer complaint. in both cases the low height of the transversal nerves in the 6mm DnA bars. the internal processes are being reassessed to prevent the final product meets the specifications. Comments: 2. VC: the VCnA plants are now included. 3. Vm: milpo plants were not included. 4. Vs: includes the pazDelrio plant. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 134 137 Social Performance Liability for the Product product and service Labeling pr3 type of product and service information required for labeling table of Contents procedures and percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 percentage of products covered by the labeling procedures (%) 100% 100% 100% The information required by the organization’s procedures relating to information and labeling of products and services outsourcing of parts of the product or service 40% Content, particularly with respect to substances that may cause environmental or social impact. 40% safe use of the product or service 80% Disposal of product and environmental / social impacts 60% other 40% 1. the percentage refers to the business units that have requirements for labeling procedures. 2. VC: the VCnA plants are now included. Comments: 3. Vm: milpo plants were not included. 4. Vs: includes the pazDelrio plant. 5. Ve: not applicable. pr5 practices related to customer satisfaction, including results 80, 81, 83, 86, 94 and 95 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. CompLeteD period periodicity 2010 2011 2012 results for Level of Customer satisfaction for products and services offered by Votorantim industrial (%) Citrosuco Annual 65% VC bi-annual 83% 82% 87% Vm bi-annual 86% 80% 80% Fíbria bi-annual Vs bi-annual 82% Total 79% 81% 83% 1. every business division has its own methodology. in this table values are on a relative basis to make them comparable. 2. Ve: indicator is not applicable. 3. Citrosuco the survey was not conducted due to the merger process. Comments: 4. VC: the VCnA plants were not included. 5. Vm: milpo plants were not included. 6. Vs: included the pazDelrio plant. pr7 total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and table of Contents voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 Cases of non-compliance with marketing regulations that resulted in a fine or penalty 0 0 Cases of non-compliance with marketing regulations that resulted in warning 0 0 1. Ve: indicator is not applicable. 2. VC: the VCnA plants are now included. Comments: 3. Vm: milpo plants were not included. 4. Vs: included the pazDelrio plant. 138 135 Social Performance Liability for the Product Compliance pr9 monetary value of (significant) fines for non-compliance with table of Contents laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 significant fines 0 r$ 20,313.71 r$3,669,546.74 1. the increase in the monetary value of fines was due to: implementation of the new corporate standard. VC: the VCnA plants are now included. Comments: Vm: milpo plants were not included. Vs: included the pazDelrio plant. 2. this includes the requests received and amounts paid, including both lawsuits and administrative proceedings. Food Sector Indicators Fp5 percentage of production volume certified by an independent table of Contents third part according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 100% 100% 1. Applicable only to Citrosuco. 2. the Citrosuco holds certifications by sure global Fair sgF in relation to security controls and quality, hygiene, authenticity, traceability, sustainability and labeling according to the rules of control AiJn Code of practice. in addition, it has undergone audits for Kosher and halal Comments: certification. it also has a program called sgo (operational management system) covering quality systems: iso 9001; iso 14001; iso 22000; ohsAs 18001; and certifications for good manufacturing practice gmp, and hazard Analysis and Critical Control point hACCp. every year Citrosuco undergoes audits by certifiers applicable to each product, in order to maintain or renew certifications. Fp6 percentage of total sales of products lowered in fat, saturated table of Contents fat and trans fat, sodium and added sugars (%) CompLeteD period 2012 reductions in saturated fat reductions in trans fat the product is 100% natural, i.e. the product has the natural characteristics present in the fruit. For this reason, Citrovita does not segregate products in reductions in sodium different categories. replacement of sugar by artificial sweeteners Comments: 1. Applicable only to Citrosuco. Fp7 percentage of total sales volume that contain a large amount table of Contents of minerals, phytochemicals and functional food additives (%) CompLeteD period 2012 Fibres Vitamins minerals the product is 100% natural i.e. there is no segregation of our product into categories related to amount of nutritional ingredients, fiber, vitamins, phytochemicals among others. Additional food additives other Comments: 1. Applicable only Citrosuco. Mining Sector Indicators mm1 Amount of land disturbed by the extractive mining activity table of Contents (hectares) CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total land changed and not yet rehabilitated, in hectares. 2698.68 2,939.00 total amount of land recently changed during the reporting period, in hectares. 755.12 241.22 total amount of land newly rehabilitated during the reporting period and for final agreed use, in hectares. 262.9 133.34 total area affected and not rehabilitated. 3,190.90 3,046.88 1. indicator reported only by Vm. Comments: 2. Vm: milpo plants were not included. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 139 136 Mining Sector Indicators mm2 number of units that have a biodiversity management plan table of Contents in accordance with the law. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 number of units that have biodiversity management 0 6 percentage of units that have management on biodiversity 0 24% 1. indicators reported by Vm and VC. 2. VC: included only the units in brazil. the units that have a biodiversity management plan are: Vidal ramos and Companhia Cimentos ribeirão grande. Comments: 3. Vm: information on milpo not included. the units that have a biodiversity management plan are: morro Agudo, Vazante, Fortaleza de minas and niquelândia. mm3 total amounts of overburden, rock, tailings, and sludges table of Contents and their associated risk. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total quantities of overburden, tailings and sludge generated (tons) 22,794,782.11 38,278,032.88 the waste (tailings) from mining and metallurgy operations are classified, acording to the brazilian standard nbr 10.004, into the following “Classes”: i hazardous; ii A non-hazardous (reactive) or ii b non-hazardous (inert). in general Vm’s waste is classified as i or ii A and the classification is what determines the form in which the waste is stored. Considering that Vm is a metal mining and manufacturing company the main risk is the presence of residual amounts of heavy metals, which could leach out and contaminate soil or water resources, and it is for this reason that we control the projects Associated risks and management of the disposal areas 1. the increase in the consolidated figures refers to the inclusion of units milpo. there are several studies ongoing aimed at Comments: identifying opportunities to achieve the zero disposal of metallurgical and mineral waste (targets for 2020). mm5 total number of operations taking place in or adjacent to table of Contents indigenous people’s territories and the percentage of sites that have formal agreements with indigenous people’s Communities. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total units located in indian reservations 0 0 total units located in other traditional communities 0 0 total area of operations in areas of traditional communities 0 0 1. indicator from information collected in Vm. Comments: 2. Vm: information on milpo not included. 3. “other traditional communities”: quilombolas for example. table of Contents mm10 number and percentage of operations with closure plans. pArtiAL period 2010 2011 2012 number of company operations that have closure plans. 8 52 percentage of total number of operations. 67% 53% 1. the increase in the number of operations was due to the inclusion of information from VC brazil and VCnA. Comments: 2. Vm: information on milpo not included. 137 140 Energy Sector Indicators eU1 installed capacity broken down by primary energy source table of Contents and regulatory system. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 total installed capacity by plant, in mw h/e Alecrim 72.00 72.00 h/e barra 40.40 40.40 small h/e boa Vista 0.80 0.80 h/e França 29.52 29.52 h/e Fumaça 36.40 36.40 h/e itupararanga 55.00 55.00 small h/e Jurupará 7.20 7.20 h/e ourinhos 44.00 44.00 h/e paranapanema 32.10 32.10 h/e pedra do Cavalo 160.00 160.00 h/e picada 50.00 50.00 h/e piraju 80.00 80.00 h/e porto raso 28.40 28.40 small h/e rio novo 1.28 1.28 h/e salto das nuvens em construção em construção h/e salto de iporanga 36.87 36.87 h/e salto do rio Verdinho 93.00 93.00 small h/e st. helena 2.24 2.24 h/e serraria 24.00 24.00 h/e sobragi 60.00 60.00 h/e tijuco Alto em construção em construção small h/e Votorantim 3.00 3.00 Total 856.21 856.21 1. the installed capacity of each plant does not change. overall capacity only increases when new plants are built. Comments: 2. Applicable only to Ve. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 141 138 Energy Sector Indicators eU2 net energy output broken down by primary energy source table of Contents and regulatory system. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 h/e Alecrim 504.93 478.00 420.66 h/e barra 286.11 270.69 225.76 small h/e boa Vista 1.40 1.20 1.35 h/e França 193.53 178.98 139.52 h/e Fumaça 266.53 247.75 205.95 h/e itupararanga 211.43 118.12 144.94 small h/e Jurupará 26.47 24.86 22.92 h/e ourinhos 225.15 212.58 172.87 h/e paranapanema 228.80 215.20 240.61 h/e pedra do Cavalo 232.82 241.46 58.99 h/e picada 302.21 300.60 278.66 h/e piraju 548.71 435.05 501.02 h/e porto raso 210.16 195.67 171.45 small h/e rio novo 3.70 4.10 3.65 h/e salto das nuvens Under construction Under construction Under construction h/e salto de iporanga 290.00 266.17 234.41 h/e salto do rio Verdinho n/D 589.38 539.58 small h/e st. helena 12.72 8.73 10.91 h/e serraria 193.31 181.20 153.52 h/e sobragi 354.29 356.32 336.01 h/e tijuco Alto Under construction Under construction Under construction small h/e Votorantim 18.62 12.79 15.66 Total Electric Power generated (GWh) 4,110.39 4,338.85 3,878.46 1. the electric power generation for 2012 was lower, compared with 2011, due to the low inflows of water recorded. Comments: 2. All units the primary energy source is water, and the regulatory regime is “”open market own-production””. 3. Applicable only to Ve. eU16 and policies regarding health and safety requirements table of Contents of employees and employees of contractors. CompLeteD period 2012 the policies are included in the procedures for critical risks, related to working conditions, namely: heights; confined spaces; hot conditions; chemicals; poisonous animals; lifting loads; light vehicles; machinery protection; and also to risk assessment. besides these critical risks, there are other health and safety procedures, for legal compliance, such as: standardization of epi procedures; investigation of accidents and incidents; what are the policies and standards regarding the health and hiring of diving services; contracting services for land-clearing and safety of employees and contractors? reforestation and installation of safety signs. Comments: 1. Applicable only to Ve. 139 142 Energy Sector Indicators eU18 percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees who table of Contents have undergone relevant health and safety training. CompLeteD period 2012 percentage of employees of contractors that underwent training on health and safety at work 100% percentage of employees of sub-contractors (of the contractors) our contractors are prevented contractually of performing their activities that underwent training on health and safety at work through subcontracting. 1. the training provided to third parties include: integrations, poisonous animals, daily security discussions. Comments: (Ve’s contractors provide services for: security, cleaning, land-clearing and maintenance). 2. Applicable only to Ve eU30 Average availability factor of the plant by energy source table of Contents and regulatory system. CompLeteD period 2010 2011 2012 Average plant availability factor by type of energy h/e Alecrim 99.98 98.55 h/e barra 99.98 99.67 small h/e boa Vista 100.00 100.00 h/e França 99.95 89.49 h/e Fumaça 99.93 99.32 h/e itupararanga 91.11 99.75 small h/e Jurupará 100.00 92.04 h/e ourinhos 96.05 92.44 h/e paranapanema 91.97 69.92 h/e pedra do Cavalo 98.52 99.96 h/e picada 98.57 96.06 h/e piraju 99.55 98.62 h/e porto raso 99.98 96.01 small h/e rio novo 100.00 99.36 h/e salto de iporanga 99.99 100.00 h/e salto do rio Verdinho 99.78 95.88 small h/e st. helena 100.00 99.94 h/e serraria 99.95 98.43 h/e sobragi 98.2 94.29 small h/e Votorantim 98.2 99.18 Factor average plant availability by type of regulatory regime. h/e ourinhos 96.64 88.92 h/e pedra do Cavalo 93.16 95.15 h/e picada 95.65 95.53 h/e piraju 97.99 97.51 h/e salto do rio Verdinho 94.25 94.80 h/e sobragi 95.16 94.90 1. Applicable only to Ve 2. For availability factor, we note that: All plants are in brazil. the 14 plants of the Juquiá, sorocaba and santa Cruz complexes are not connected to the brazilian national interconnected system sin) and are not distributed by the national electric system operator (ons), since the energy generated is consumed exclusively by the brazilian Aluminum Company (CbA), installed in the region. therefore the availability factors of these Comments: plants are generated internally. the remaining 6 plants in operation under the management of Ve are connected to sin, and are distributed by ons, so the availability factors are calculated by the ons, according to regulations. 3. in all units the primary energy source is water, and the regulatory regime is “”open market own-production””. GRI Indices / Indicators Relatório Votorantim Votorantim Industrial Report Industrial 143 140 DMAs – DISCLOSURES ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH /FORMS OF MANAGEMENT DmA Dimension Aspect Level of page economic 3 table of Contents indicators economic performance partial (eC2 and eC3) market presence eC indirect economic impacts partial table of Contents (eC8) materials Completed 64 and 65 energy Completed 65, 67 and 68 water Completed 70 biodiversity Completed 74 and 75 emissions, effluents, and waste Completed 70, 71 and 73 products and services Completed 68 and 69 in conformity Completed table of Contents (en28) transport environmental 63 and table of en indicators general Completed Contents (en30) employment Completed 50 and 55 relations between workers and management partial 56 48, 49 table of occupational health and safety Completed Contents(LA8) training and education Completed 50, 54 and 55 LA Labor indicators Diversity and equal opportunities partial 53 management practices and investments non-discrimination Completed 33 and 34 Freedom of Association Completed 33 and 34 Child Labor Completed 33 and 34 Forced / slave Labor Completed 33 and 34 human rights safety practices hr indicators rights of indigenous peoples Community 33 table of Contents Corruption Completed (so3) public policies Completed 59 and 60 81 table of Contents Anti-competitive behavior Completed (so7) so society indicators in conformity Completed table of Contents (so8) Customer health and safety partial 81, 84 and 92 Labeling of products and services Completed 80, 83, 86 and 92 marketing Communications partial table of Contents (pr7) Customer privacy pr product indicators Compliance Completed table of Contents (pr9) 144 141 Financial Statements 146. Consolidated balance sheet 148. Consolidated statement of income 149. Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 150. Statement of changes in equity 154. Consolidated statement of cash flows Financial Statements Votorantim Industrial Report 145 Consolidated balance sheet as at December 31 All amounts in millions of Reais Note 2012 2011 Assets Current assets Cash and cash equivalents 9 3,280 1,380 Financial investments 10 3,744 3,398 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 86 241 Trade receivables 11 2,088 2,154 Inventory 12 3,894 3,507 Taxes recoverable 13 1,273 930 Dividends receivable 15 1 9 Receivables from sale of ownership interests 17 (e) (v) 2,362 Other 626 790 14,992 14,771 Assets held for sale 14 875 189 15,867 14,960 Non-current assets Long-term receivables Financial investments 10 79 26 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 14 75 Taxes recoverable 13 781 1,103 Related parties 15 1,412 1,294 Deferred income tax and social contribution 23 (b) 3,735 3,450 Call options 16 157 104 Advances to suppliers 218 223 Judicial deposits 24 (e) 497 328 Other 548 430 7,441 7,033 Investments 17 1,712 3,361 Property, plant and equipment 18 29,086 26,269 Biological assets 19 1,129 1,117 Intangible assets 20 12,858 11,366 52,226 49,146 Total assets 68,093 64,106 The notes are available on Votorantim’s website at: www.votorantim.com/ri 146 Note 2012 2011 Liabilities and equity Current liabilities Borrowing 21 1,707 2,028 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 131 171 Trade payables 2,867 2,576 Payables trading 22 54 24 Salaries and payroll charges 927 731 Income tax and social contributions 128 329 Taxes payable 356 383 Dividends payable to the owners of the Company 15 58 596 Dividends payable to non-controlling interests 15 115 92 Advances from customers 230 136 Use of public assets 25 55 60 Payables for interest acquisition 17 (e) (iv) 328 Other 768 725 7,724 7,851 Liabilities related to assets held for sale 14 274 7,998 7,851 Non-current liabilities Borrowing 21 23,712 20,406 Related parties 15 893 610 Deferred income tax and social contributions 23 (b) 3,336 3,443 Provisions for tax, civil, labor and environmental contingencies 24 1,409 1,482 Derivative financial instruments 6.1.1 84 186 Use of public assets 25 857 780 Provision for asset decommissioning 26 870 557 Other 1,148 825 32,309 28,289 Total liabilities 40,307 36,140 Equity 27 Share capital 19,907 19,925 Revenue reserves 6,053 6,687 Carrying value adjustments (1,436) (1,630) Total equity attributable to owners of the Company 24,524 24,982 Non-controlling interests 3,262 2,984 Total equity 27,786 27,966 Total liabilities and equity 68,093 64,106 Financial Statements Votorantim Industrial Report 147 Consolidated statement of income Years ended December 31 All amounts in millions of Reais, except for earnings per share Note 2012 2011 Continuing operations Net revenue from products sold and services rendered 28 24,792 23,659 Cost of products sold and services rendered (18,832) (17,259) Gross profit 5,960 6,400 Operating expenses Selling (1,419) (1,261) General and administrative (2,370) (2,023) Other operating income (expenses), net 29 88 (1,183) (3,701) (4,467) Operating profit before equity results and finance result 2,259 1,933 Result from equity investments Equity in the results of investees 17 122 356 Realization of other comprehensive income in the investment write-off (91) 31 356 Finance costs (2,118) (2,014) Finance income 869 672 Foreign exchange gains (losses), net (758) (666) Finance result, net 30 (2,007) (2,008) Profit before income tax and social contribution 283 281 Income tax and social contributions 23 Current (631) (510) Deferred 435 643 Profit for the year from continuing operations 87 414 Discontinued operations Profit for the year from discontinued operations 35 868 Profit for the year 87 1,282 Profit attributable to the owners of the Company 151 1,225 Profit (loss) attributable to non-controlling interests (64) 57 Profit for the year 87 1,282 Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares from continuing operations (in Reais) 4,97 24,05 Basic and diluted earnings per thousand shares from discontinued operations (in Reais) 50,43 Weighted average number of shares 17,509,603,386 17,211,360,685 148 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 All amounts in millions of Reais 2012 2011 Profit for the year 87 1,282 Other comprehensive income for the year Foreign exchange gains (losses) on foreign investments 914 1,410 Actuarial gains (losses) on retirement benefit obligations (63) (25) Hedge accounting of net investments in foreign operations (442) (559) Hedge accounting for the operations of subsidiaries (41) (6) Realization of other comprehensive income in the investment realization 91 Other effects of operations of subsidiaries and associates (108) (369) Other comprehensive income for the year 351 451 Total comprehensive income for the year 438 1,733 Comprehensive income attributable to Owners of the Company 345 1,242 Non-controlling interests 93 491 438 1,733 Financial Statements Votorantim Industrial Report 149 Statement of changes in equity All amounts in millions of Reais Revenue reserves Note Share capital Legal Profit retention As at December 31, 2010 19,367 464 5,289 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year Components of comprehensive income for the year Total comprehensive income for the year Total contributions by and distributions to stockholders Capital increase 558 Acquisition of non-controlling interests Allocation of profit for the year Legal reserve 27 (c) 61 Dividends paid and proposed (R$ 24.05 per share) 27 (b) Profit retention 873 Total contributions by and distributions to stockholders 558 61 873 As at December 31, 2011 19,925 525 6,162 150 Revenue Carrying value Equity attributable to the reserves adjustments owners of the Company Non-controlling interests Equity (1,567) 23,553 2,522 26,075 1,225 1,225 57 1,282 17 17 434 451 1,225 17 1,242 491 1,733 558 558 (80) (80) (29) (109) (61) (291) (291) (291) (873) (1,225) (80) 187 (29) 158 (1,630) 24,982 2,984 27,966 Financial Statements Votorantim Industrial Report 151 Statement of changes in equity All amounts in millions of Reais Revenue reserves Tax Profit Note Share capital incentives Legal retention As at December 31, 2011 19,925 525 6,162 Total comprehensive income for the year Profit for the year Components of comprehensive income for the year Total comprehensive income for the year Total contributions by and distributions to stockholders Capital increase 27 (a) 402 Capital decrease 27 (a) (420) Decrease in non-controlling interests Merger of Votorantim Cimentos América (“VCA”) Increase of non-controlling interests in Itacamba and VCEAA Effects of operations of consolidated subsidiaries Allocation of profit for the year Tax incentive reserve 5 Legal reserve 27 (c) 8 Dividends paid and proposed (R$ 4.97 per share) 27 (b) (750) Profit retention 103 Total contributions by and distributions to stockholders (18) 5 8 (647) As at December 31, 2012 19,907 5 533 5,515 152 Retained Carrying value Equity attributable to the earnings adjustments owners of the Company Non-controlling interests Equity (1,630) 24,982 2,984 27,966 151 151 (64) 87 194 194 157 351 151 194 345 93 438 402 402 (420) (420) (62) (62) (32) (32) 72 72 207 207 (5) (8) (35) (785) (785) (103) (151) (803) 185 (618) (1,436) 24,524 3,262 27,786 Financial Statements Votorantim Industrial Report 153 Consolidated statement of cash flows Years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 All amounts in millions of Reais Note 2012 2011 Cash flow from operating activities Profit (loss) before income tax and social contributions from continuing operations 283 281 Profit from discontinued operations 868 Adjustments of items that do not represent changes in cash and cash equivalents Interest, monetary and foreign exchange gains (losses) 2,466 1,733 Equity in the results of investees 17 (c) (122) (356) Realization of other comprehensive income on the investment realization 91 Depreciation, amortization and depletion 18,19 e 20 2,544 2,128 Net result from the sale of PP&E (23) (17) Net results from sales of investments 6 Gain on remeasurement of the fair value of the initial investment in Cimpor 17 (e) (i) (267) Gain on remeasurement of the fair value of the initial investment in Artigas 17 (e) (iv) (73) Change in the fair values of call options (53) 347 Provision for goodwill impairment 464 Provision for investment impairment 586 Provision for losses on assets 156 Provision for PP&E impairment 94 101 Changes in the fair values of biological assets 19 (84) (100) Capital gains on disposals of investments (1,248) Fair value adjustment of derivatives (11) (79) Provisions 337 23 5,653 4,423 Changes in assets and liabilities Financial investments (371) 1,182 Derivative financial instruments 177 240 Trade receivables 81 (44) Inventory (175) (700) Taxes recoverable 21 (211) Related parties 890 (183) Other receivables and assets 132 205 Trade payables 240 (81) Payables trading 30 (371) Payables for the acquisition of shares 0 (423) Salaries and payroll charges 190 171 Taxes payable (375) 9 Advances from customers 91 27 Other obligations and liabilities (533) 883 154 Note 2012 2011 Cash from operations 6,051 5,127 Interest paid 21(c) (1,527) (1,307) Income tax and social contribution paid (832) (356) Net cash provided by operating activities 3,691 3,464 Cash flow from investment activities Purchases of property, plant and equipment 18 (2,872) (3,335) Purchases of biological assets 19 (247) (520) Additions to intangible assets 20 (481) (287) Acquisition of investments (58) (109) Related parties (484) 183 Proceeds from disposals of investments 195 609 Proceeds from disposals of PP&E 240 523 Proceeds from the sale of interests 17 (e) (v) 2,362 Proceeds from disposals of investments 30 Dividends received 206 135 Net cash used in investing activities (1,109) (2,801) Cash flow from financing activities New borrowing 21 (c) 4,835 6,138 Derivative financial instruments (161) (98) Repayment of borrowing 21 (c) (4,410) (6,650) Related parties 283 (509) Payment of dividends (1,300) (538) Net cash used in financing activities (753) (1,657) Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 1,829 (994) Effect of fluctuations in exchange rates 71 40 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1,380 2,334 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 3,280 1,380 Financial Statements Votorantim Industrial Report 155 Report Production General Coordination and Production Sustainability General Management Translation English (US): Richard Wightwick Person Responsible: David Canassa Spanish: Sylvia Gabe Sustainability Team: Angelino Maneskul, Aricely Lamontanha, Photographs Frineia Rezende (Coordenação). Votorantim Image Bank, Votorantim Memory, Egberto Support Team: Nogueira / Ímã Foto Galeria, Ricardo VID: Beatriz Rivero, Malu Weber, Marcio Minoru Miyakava, Telles, Adriano Ganbarini e Luciano Candisani. Renato Delmanto. Infographics Instituto Votorantim fmcom Rafael Luis Pompeia Gioielli Printing and Finishing Negócios Printer: WE Citrosuco: Boris Alessandro Wiazowski, Marcos de Freitas Barbosa Print run: 100 copies Fibria: Cristiano Resende de Oliveira, Vinicius Suassuna Gonçalves dos Reis Paper: FSC Certificated Duo Design 300 g/m² VC: Carlo Linkevieius Pereira, Patricia Monteiro Montenegro VE: Agnes Chaim Dias Branco, José Raul Fabbri Typography Frutiger Typeface, Adrian Frutiger, 1975 VM: Ana Claudia de Araujo Lima, Andre Luis Machado de Vasconcelos, Ricardo Barbosa Dos Santos Publication Date VS: Filip Lacerda Tonon e Rocha, Marco Tulio Xavier Lanza April/2013 We would like to express our appreciation for the support and cooperation of the management and staff of the corporate Contact: center, business divisions, and Votorantim Institutein the Votorantim Industrial collection and analysis of the information contained in this report. Rua Amauri, 255 – 10º andar Itaim Bibi – São Paulo – SP Editorial Consultant CE P: 01448-000 Eduardo Dantas C/O: Sustainability General Management GRI Consulting and Graphic Design E-mail: contato@vpar.com.br Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Auditors of GRI Indicators and Financial Information PwC Independent Auditors GRI Opinion Global Reporting Initiative 156 www.votorantim.com contato@vpar.com.br
