Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Annual Report 2012 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank ag Quick facts and figures Financial year ended 31 December 2012 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Founded in 2008 in Vienna The official development bank of the Austrian government Wholly owned subsidiary of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank AG Member of the Association of European Development Share capital: EUR 5,000,000 Finance Institutions (EDFI) 25 employees, 2 Executive Board members (at year-end) Projects implemented in 2012 Number of projects signed 23 Investment Finance EUR 226.45 million (13 projects) Equity Investments EUR 3.0 million (1 project) Advisory Programmes EUR 5.91 million (7 projects) Foreign Trade Programme EUR 4.51 million (2 projects) Contribution to development The projects of OeEB contribute to progress towards the achievement of Millennium Development Goals 1 (halving poverty and extreme hunger), 7 (ensuring environmental sustainability) and 8 (fostering a global partnership for development). Number of people employed in OeEB-financed projects 101,300 Number of businesses gaining access to credit: Micro businesses 2,740 Small & medium enterprises (SME) 355 Financing for climate protection projects EUR 60 million Key financials Total assets EUR 347.2 million Profit for the year EUR 901,726 Unallocated profit for the year EUR 229,640 Standard & Poor’s long-term issuer rating: AA+; S&P short-term issuer rating: A-1+ Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Better living conditions in developing and newly industrialised countries through vibrant economies. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, the official development bank of the Austrian government, has been operating since March 2008. Combining business and development, OeEB strengthens Austria’s ties to countries that wish to achieve sustainable improvement in prosperity through private sector development. Our services complement and support the work done by Austrian policy, investors, banks and civil society for development in the world’s poorer countries. Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Funding tomorrow’s prosperity. Annual Report 2012 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG OeEB – Annual Report 2012 In the interest of readability, this report may in some cases use wording that is gender-specific. However, all references to positions, titles and people should be construed as gender-neutral. OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Contents Letter from the Executive Board 7 A. General Information 9 1. Profile of OeEB 9 2. Corporate Governance 13 3. Sustainability and UN Global Compact – Implementing the principles 15 B. Management report of Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG 23 I. Business and financial review 23 II. Outlook and risks for the bank 30 III. Research & development 34 C. Financial Statements 2012 36 1. Balance sheet at 31 December 2012 36 2. Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 38 3. Notes to the financial statements 40 D. Auditor’s Report 54 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Letter from the Executive Board In 2008, under the slogan “Funding tomorrow's prosperity”, we set out to establish development finance as a policy instrument for Austria. In 2013 we can look back on five years of contributing to a better quality of life in developing and newly industrialised countries through projects we have financed. In doing this work, it is important for us to be effective in advancing development. We have documented our development contribution in the Development Report, published for the first time in 2012. In the past five years OeEB has grown incrementally thanks to the great efforts of our entire team. In 2012 we continued to expand our activities. The growth was driven both by the newly added scope for making equity investments and by sustained strong success in our lending operations. For smaller international projects of Austrian companies, since 2012 OeEB has additionally been contributing to economic development by co-financing the business partnerships of the Austria Development Agency (ADA). As high risks and new regulations are making it more difficult for commercial banks to finance projects in developing countries, OeEB's products and services have never been more urgently needed than now. The strong demand underscores this fact and we thus look to the future with confidence in the relevance of what we do. Sustainable practices both in our project activities and in-house are highly important to us: Under the umbrella of the proven sustainability management of the OeKB Group, we have made significant strides in this respect over the past five years. From now on, OeKB will handle not only the execution of our sustainability management but also its documentation: Beginning with this year's review of 2012, OeEB's sustainability reporting will form part of the OeKB Group report. As a participant in the UN Global Compact, we are committed to the principles of this framework as well and give them ample space in our annual Communication on Progress. For us as a development bank, human rights, labour and social standards, environmental and climate protection, and anti-corruption measures are fundamental themes integral to our activities. Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann 7 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 8 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information A. General information 1. Profile of OeEB Since 2008, Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG International focus (OeEB) finances private sector projects in developing and newly industrialised countries and thus facilitates Consistent with the international focus of its activities, sustainable development. True to the goal expressed in OeEB works closely with other bilateral development the mission statement, banks and international financial institutions (IFI). OeEB is a member of EDFI (the Association of European DeOeEB works for better living conditions for people velopment Finance Institutions), has had a seat on the in developing and newly industrialised countries Board of Directors of EDFI since 2011, and in 2012 by boosting private enterprise. hosted the EDFI annual general meeting for the first time, on 3 and 4 May in Vienna. The special mandate of OeEB is set out in the Export Guarantees Act. The bank's role is to contribute to the The Executive Board and staff of OeEB occupy impordevelopment mainly of the private sector in developing tant positions both at the project implementation level and transition countries, using long-term financing inand in working groups and international bodies. In struments. To cover its lending risk, OeEB applies to 2012 OeEB again attended the annual meetings of the the Ministry of Finance for a guarantee from the Austrian World Bank and the EBRD and frequently acted as a government for every financing operation. door opener abroad for Austrian industry, such as on a market exploration trip in October to southern Russia. OeEB also has access to funds of the Ministry of Finance to use for equity investment projects and, under the Advisory Programmes, to heighten the net developAiming for sustained growth ment benefits of the projects undertaken. As Austria’s official development bank, OeEB serves Given OeEB's strategic focus, the central thrust of its a public mandate. It therefore bears special responsiactivities is to support the financial sector as a prime bility to society, its partners and clients as well as its mover of the real economy. In projects that directly own staff. When considering projects in developing target the real economy, the emphasis is on infrastruccountries for long-term financing, the most important ture, especially renewable energy, energy efficiency, things for OeEB to ensure are that the long-term busienvironment and climate protection. As well, projects ness performance of the partner enterprises is posiare financed in small and medium-scale manufacturing tive, the development criteria are met, and the environindustries, with a demand-oriented policy of respondmental, social and working conditions are carefully ing open-mindedly and flexibly to requests from any examined in each and every case. sector. OeEB's activities are concentrated mainly in the Western Balkans/Eastern Europe (non-EU countries) – particularly the Black Sea region, the South Caucasus – and in Central Asia, Central America and Sub-Saharan Africa. 9 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information i. Shareholders and share capital The sole owner of OeEB is Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB). OeEB has a share capital of EUR 5 million. ii. Supervisory body The Supervisory Board of OeEB had the following members: Rudolf Scholten Chairman of the Supervisory Board Ferdinand Schipfer Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board Maria-Christine Dangl Member of the Supervisory Board Holger Rothenbusch Member of the Supervisory Board (until 30 Sep. 2012) Kurt Bayer Member of the Supervisory Board (since 20 Dec. 2012) KPMG Austria AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft has been appointed as the independent auditor. 10 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information iii. Organisational structure and management system Executive Board Michael Wancata Andrea Hagmann Advisory Programmes and Investment Finance Foreign Trade Programme Loan Processing Equity Investments Information Technology Credit Risk Management Country Analysis Legal Accounting, incl. Investments Joint responsibilities Organisation, Lobbying/Public Relations, International Peer Contacts Human Resources Risk Management 1 Internal Audit 1 Responsibility for the operational implementation of risk management rests with Executive Board member Michael Wancata. 11 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information Internal division of responsibilities Under section 39 Austrian Banking Act, the Executive The position of compliance officer for securities transBoard is required to inform itself of the relevant risks of actions is outsourced to OeKB by written agreement; in banking transactions and banking operations and to addition, OeEB has its own in-house initial contact for manage, monitor and mitigate these risks through apcompliance matters. The function of the anti-money propriate strategies and procedures. The roles of the laundering/anti-terrorist financing officer resides in the operational risk manager and financial risk manager Legal department within OeEB, as closeness to the are performed by employees of OeEB. For the responbusiness operations is critically important in making sibilities named, OeEB is to work closely with OeKB. the related judgments. iv. Supervisory Board report In the financial year under review, the OeEB Supervisory The audit by the independent auditor, KPMG Austria Board convened for four regular meetings and attendAG Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgeselled in detail to the institution’s business performance. schaft, found that the accounting records, the 2012 The Supervisory Board received prompt and compreannual financial statements and the management hensive written and oral reports from the Executive report fulfil the legal requirements. An unqualified audit Board. The Supervisory Board was involved in all deciopinion was issued. The Supervisory Board is in agreesions of fundamental significance and in all decisions ment with the result of the audit. where required by law, by the Articles of Association or the Supervisory Boards’ rules of procedure. The Supervisory Board approves the annual financial statements prepared by the Executive Board, which are The members of the Supervisory Board deliberated on thereby adopted. For the excellent work done in the fundamental questions of business strategy, the bank’s year completed, the Supervisory Board would like to development as an organisation, its planning systems, express its gratitude and appreciation to the Executive management systems and control systems, and its Board and every employee of OeEB. financial position, results of operations and cash flows. Any urgently required decisions by the Supervisory Special thanks go to Holger Rothenbusch for his active Board were reached by communicating in writing berole as a member of the Supervisory Board until 30 tween board meetings. September 2012. In connection with the Executive Board’s risk management concept, the Supervisory Board advised on the For the Supervisory Board business strategy and risk strategy. The Supervisory Board has reviewed the financial statements (including the notes to the financial statements) for the year ended 31 December 2012 and the management report, including the Executive Board’s proposal for the appropriation of earnings. Rudolf Scholten The final result of this review did not give rise to any Chairman of the Supervisory Board reservations. Vienna, March 2013 12 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information 2. Corporate governance The Austrian Code of Corporate Governance (the Executive Board Code) was created as a framework of principles for the responsible direction and control of Austrian The two-member Executive Board of OeEB has recompanies with the aim of generating sustained sponsibility for managing the bank. Its decisions comvalue. ply with all relevant laws, the Articles of Association and the Executive Board’s rules of procedure (i.e., its The Code is intended primarily for companies listed charter). The division of responsibilities and the interon a stock exchange. While OeEB is not listed and nal cooperation within the Executive Board are set in fact has only one owner, the Code is nonetheless out in its charter. a key benchmark for the bank in its continuous improvement process. Moreover, many of the Code’s The Executive Board's compensation includes fixed provisions represent legal requirements, which OeEB and performance-based variable components, which complies with as a matter of course. are aligned with the long-term interests of OeEB. The disclosure of details concerning executive compensaThe Austrian Code of Corporate Governance in its tion is omitted in reliance on section 241 Austrian full wording is available at Commercial Code. www.corporate-governance.at Supervisory Board Cooperation between the Supervisory Board The Supervisory Board has responsibility for superand Executive Board vising the Executive Board and supporting it in the management of the company, particularly in reaching The Executive Board provides the Supervisory Board decisions of fundamental importance. In the year with regular, prompt and comprehensive reports on under review, the Supervisory Board included four all relevant business matters and developments, shareholder representatives. The composition of the including the risk situation and risk management of Supervisory Board is presented above. None of the OeEB. The goal of good corporate governance in Supervisory Board members held board seats or managing the bank’s business is pursued through other positions in listed companies. open discussion and communication between and within the Executive Board and Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board’s remuneration is determined at the Annual General Meeting and is disclosed in The Executive Board sets OeEB’s strategic direction the notes to the financial statements under “Boards”. together with, and subject to the approval of, the The Supervisory Board has a Nomination and RemuSupervisory Board and regularly discusses the status neration Committee that deals with the relations of strategy implementation with the latter Board. between the company and the Executive Board The Supervisory Board meets at least four times per members and monitors and implements the compenfinancial year. sation policy. OeEB does not have an audit committee, in reliance on section 63a Banking Act and section 92 Stock Corporation Act, and in view of the size of the Supervisory Board and the fact that the bank’s sole shareholder maintains an audit committee. 13 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information Principal Transparency and auditing In view of its special mandate, OeEB's strategic As a result of the ownership structure of OeEB, comdirection is approved by the bank's principal. munication with the sole shareholder is direct and detailed. In the communication with the other stakeholders as well, openness and transparency are particularly important to OeEB. The Executive Committee and OeEB's corporate communication continued to honour this priority in 2012. In addition to other communication channels, up-to-date information on the Group and its business segments is always available on the OeEB website at www.oe-eb.at. The company financial statements and company management report were audited by KPMG Austria AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft as the auditor appointed by the Annual General Meeting. The independent auditor’s report is found in section D, Auditor’s Report. 14 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information 3. Sustainability and UN Global Compact – Implementing the principles Development must be broad-based and sustainable if it The careful use of resources, responsible practices in is to achieve a real improvement in living conditions for project execution, and respectful relations with all everyone. players are fundamental to the work of OeEB. Our sustainability policy is framed accordingly: ■ We act in accordance with all legal requirements and from a holistic mindset. In our projects this means that we respect and consider the people affected, their intercultural setting, and environmental and other social aspects. ■ Good communication with all stakeholders is important to us. We see dialogue as an opportunity to improve OeEB and as helping to put sustainability into practice in our work. ■ We only carry out projects in which the risks seem calculable and manageable, in order to ensure an effective contribution to the sustainable economic success of our clients and OeEB. ■ Long-term business success involves the responsible use and management of natural resources that we believe will be vitally important to future generations. Such responsible stewardship also safeguards the basis for our flexibility and strengthens our position as a development bank recognised for sustainable action. Sustainability at the Vienna office and in project activities As part of the OeKB Group, OeEB is integrated in the All corporate responsibility aspects related to OeEB's proven sustainability management of OeKB. The staff presence in Vienna – as a tenant of OeKB at the members of OeEB benefit from the diverse services on Strauchgasse address – are published in the OeKB offer – for example, in-house healthcare, use of the Group's comprehensive Sustainability Report (see OeKB cafeteria, and resources for making work and www.oekb.at) family life more compatible. 15 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information Development responsibility In addition, the development impacts of OeEB's activiTo measure the accomplishment of the developmentties are assessed, such as job creation, tax revenues related, economic and strategic goals of OeEB, the and foreign currency revenues in the project countries. framework assigns various indicators to them, which At OeEB these effects are evaluated using the Corporate are analysed at the portfolio level (indicators such as Policy Project Rating Tool (GPR©) developed by DEG the amount of newly installed capacity from renewable (Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft, energy, the geographic distribution of projects and the the German development finance institution). number of people who have benefited from capacitybuilding activities). OeEB has also developed a Results Framework, a planning and management tool that both presents the obThe results are published in the Development Report: jectives set and measures the degree of their achievement, thus providing information on how well OeEB http://www.oe-eb.at/de/osn/DownloadCenter/ fulfils its mandate. OeEB-Development-Report-2011.pdf New business in 2012 Development effects of OeEB projects Corporate Policy Project Rating Tool (GPR©): GPR© average overall score 2.1 GPR© average development score 1.9 Number of people employed in OeEB-financed projects 101,300 Number of businesses gaining access to credit Micro businesses 2,740 Small and medium enterprises 355 Renewable energy projects Financing for climate protection projects EUR 60 million 16 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information The GPR© evaluation of the projects implemented in The OeEB projects make a significant contribution in the 2012 also demonstrates that they contribute to the ecological dimension and thus to ensuring environmenachievement of the Millennium Development Goals tal sustainability (MDG 7). (MDG): The projects are also an important factor in private secFor instance, the involvement of OeEB in microfinance tor development in disadvantaged regions and are thus and the financing of small and medium enterprises in the highly relevant to MDG 8, fostering a global partnership agricultural sector is instrumental in making progress for development. towards MDG 1 – halving poverty and extreme hunger. UN Global Compact The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a valsoundness of the financed projects – which is the only ues-based platform that enables companies and other way to achieve lasting and fundamental improvement stakeholders to network on the basis of a shared comin the life situation of people in developing countries mitment to human rights, labour standards, environand emerging economies. That aspiration is also enmental protection and the fight against corruption. shrined in the mission statement: to “create better OeEB became a signatory to the UN Global Compact living conditions by promoting a healthy economy” in 2008 and supports its aims, both at the bank's office in Vienna and in its project work. When financing projects, in addition to OeEB’s own adherence to applicable local and national environIn the words of the OeEB mission statement, “the bank mental and social standards, the bank also strives for finances sustainable development”. the alignment of its clients’ business practices with international environmental, social and human rights This requires OeEB always to remain mindful of the enstandards. vironmental and resource management and the social Project classification according to environmental and social risks OeEB's financing and equity investment projects are Germany's DEG: In OeEB’s Investment Finance segclassified into categories according to the risk of ment, the categorisation is performed according to possible negative impacts on the environment and the share of risky projects in the portfolio of the banks on people. This is done using the Environmental that receive OeEB financing. and Social Risk Indicator (EaSI) tool developed by 17 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information Category/risk Number of projects in 2012 Projects in 2012 by risk category Category C: Low risk 2 Category B: Medium risk 5 Category B+ 2: Elevated medium risk 2 Category A: High risk 5 2 EDFI decided to add Category B+ for project and corporate finance. This classification by risk is the first step in the enviAs a fundamental benchmark in all projects, OeEB ronmental and social assessment. In the second step, observes the ecological and social standards agreed based on the risk category, the lenders in a project by the EDFI (the Association of European Development (typically under the coordination of the lead arranger) Finance Institutions) for joint projects: These include, perform the detailed assessment. The governing prinfor all projects, adherence to local and national law ciple is: the higher the risk, the more intense the and the International Labour Organization's Core scrutiny. The initially identified potential impacts on Labour Standards. In addition, for higher-risk projects, people and the environment are analysed in greater the following international standards are applied: the depth (often by independent specialists) and mitigaPerformance Standards on Social and Environmental tive measures are formulated together with the client Sustainability developed by World Bank subsidiary IFC to address any negative effects. This package of (which have become the established market benchmeasures is frequently put in the form of an action mark) as well as the Environmental, Health And Safety plan that is incorporated as a binding condition in the Guidelines of the World Bank Group. In working with loan agreement. As the client is ultimately responsible financial institutions and funds, care is taken to ensure for the actual implementation of these measures, the they are able to pursue compliance with the applicable assessment also considers the client’s willingness, standards according to the risk profile of the portfolio expertise and capacity in this respect. financed. OeEB backs only those projects where the project The compliance with environmental and social stanpartner is prepared to fulfil its responsibility for the dards is regularly monitored over the life of the project. measures determined by this process. Through the In projects with high environmental and social risks, use of resources from the Advisory Programmes, the monitoring must be performed by independent OeEB is able to support clients’ efforts in this regard experts. Client relationship management generally (for example, by providing funding for the services also calls for on-site visits to verify the information of specialist consultants). received. 18 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information i. Human rights Upholding human rights is an inviolable principle for as of other population groups within a project's area OeEB. This not only applies to the activities in Vienna of influence. The IFC Performance Standards on Social and the respectful treatment of employees but is also and Environmental Sustainability approach human reflected in the assessment of project operations to rights as implicitly embedded in the standards, but ensure they contribute to beneficial, sustainable dealso refer to human rights explicitly. velopment. That contribution requires the safeguarding of human rights. Besides general protection for the people affected, the IFC Performance Standards include special The environmental and social impact assessment provisions in the case of resettlement, and for referred to above therefore takes the human rights projects with an effect on indigenous groups. Last effects into account. This assessment criterion conyear OeEB had no projects which fell into these siders the situation of the project employees as well two categories. ii. Labour and social standards Regarding its employees, as part of the OeKB Group, OeEB's minimum requirements in this regard are the OeEB both complies with the legal requirements and ILO's Core Labour Standards. This means that, among participates in OeKB's programmes (see the Sustainother disqualifying factors, child labour and forced ability Report of the OeKB Group at www.oekb.at). labour are automatic reasons for eliminating projects from consideration. The companies receiving financing Thus, to help staff balance the demands of work and must also meet minimum standards regarding employfamily, the fee-based use of the company day-care ee pay and work hours. Also important is work safety, centre is available. OeEB's employees also have lowsuch as the use of protective clothing and similar precost access to OeKB's cafeteria and sports centre, as cautions, particularly in hazardous activities. well as to health care initiatives and the services of the company doctor. For higher-risk projects, working conditions are another aspect in which conformity with the IFC Performance Standards on Social and Environmental Sustainability Standards in project activities is sought. These standards were expanded in 2011: In supply chains as well, compliance with labour protecOeEB has the aim of helping create better income option requirements is now a priority. portunities for people in developing and transitional economies through jobs in companies that it finances. When OeEB projects involve sectors where risks to What matters here is not just the number of jobs but workers are especially high, such as the metalworking their quality. Compliance with basic labour and social or textile industry, the assessment may also incorpostandards in the projects is therefore something that rate other international standards (for instance, the OeEB insists upon beforehand and that it subsequently SA8000® Standard or certified management systems verifies. under OHSAS, the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series standard). 19 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 General Information iii. Environment For OeEB the careful use of resources and care for the As a result of the revision of the IFC Performance environment begin in-house: Under the sustainability Standards in 2012, more importance is now attached management of OeKB, environmental performance to environmental aspects than ever: The assessment parameters are diligently adhered to and monitored. criteria were expanded with regard to projects' resource More information (especially on the EMAS environefficiency and a greater focus on potential impacts on mental management system and reporting under the biodiversity. GRI Initiative) is provided at www.oekb.at. However, in keeping with the imperative of sustainable OeEB also, since 2011, compensates for air travel development, the projects themselves also contribute miles. Almost all of OeEB's project locations are outto a better environment: Focal themes for OeEB are the side Europe and most business travel is therefore by use of renewable energy in the developing and transition air. The carbon dioxide emissions from business trips economies and the improvement of energy efficiency. are offset by OeEB through a reforestation project Both are important ways to counter climate change. in Ethiopia conducted by Vienna’s University of Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences (see From 2008 to 31 December 2011 (the end of the prior http://www.boku.ac.at/co2-klimaschutzprojekt.html year), OeEB had committed EUR 29.4 million of loans ?&L=1). Additionally, OeEB contributes its expertise for renewable energy projects, whose total volume ran via this project's advisory board at the university. to EUR 216.2 million. The financing from OeEB for climate protection projects by the end of 2011 amounted to EUR 70.2 million. In the 2012 financial year Projects' environmental safeguards and benefits alone, OeEB signed another EUR 60 million of lending commitments for climate change projects. Examples In the course of the project activities, the financing of these projects are a geothermal power plant in projects are categorised as described above and asNicaragua, a hydroelectric generating station in Honsessed, and environmental measures are formulated duras, and credit lines for energy efficiency measures with the clients. Beyond the IFC Performance Stanto partners such as Russian bank Center-invest. Simidards on Social and Environmental Sustainability, for larly, OeEB's equity interest in the Interact Climate all projects rated as higher-risk, OeEB also applies the Change Facility (ICCF) supports the use of alternative World Bank Group's technical Environmental, Health energy sources such as wind and solar. and Safety Guidelines. http://www.oe-eb.at/de/projekte/ iv. Anti-corruption and anti-money laundering Given OeEB’s specific mandate, the client base is An exact verification of client identity is made, in line predominantly concentrated in the private sector in with the Austrian Financial Market Authority's circular developing countries. OeEB thus attaches particular on ascertaining and verifying identity. Also, specific importance to careful handling of the issues of corrupregulations on anti-money laundering and terrorism tion and money laundering and to employees’ awarefinance were developed for OeEB’s personnel to ensure ness of potential related risks in day-to-day business that the appropriate anti-money laundering measures activities. are taken during the course of the institution’s projects – from checking client identities, to the loan disbursement stage, all the way to the time of loan repayment. 20 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 21 22 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report B. Management report I. Business and financial review i. Business activities and terms of reference Acting on behalf of the Austrian federal government, Working with the client, OeEB develops solutions OeEB supports the development and expansion of that are tailored precisely to the specific project, the private sector projects in developing countries. current financial and business situation and the risk profile of the country in question. The legislative basis for the activities of OeEB was created by an amendment to Austria’s Export GuaranA key aspect of client selection is the application of tees Act (in German: Ausfuhrförderungsgesetz, or responsible-finance principles: In this regard, OeEB AusfFG). bears in mind environmental and social criteria as well as transparency and corporate governance stanOn this basis OeEB lends its support to projects that dards. require long-term financing and that have the ability to repay it out of their own resources. Every project Development transactions by their nature entail high must also have a positive sustainable impact on local project and country risks, which OeEB neutralises and regional economic development. through guarantees from the Austrian government. For this cover, OeEB pays a risk-adjusted premium to Project eligibility for OeEB support is not tied to the the Ministry of Finance. involvement of Austrian goods and services. However, the use of expertise and capacity available in Austria Before individual deals are presented for approval is intended and encouraged. In principle, any compato the Supervisory Board and to the panels specified ny based in an industrialised or developing country for this purpose by law, the project risk and country can become a client of OeEB. OeEB provides solurisk are carefully analysed. Some elements of this tions not offered by commercial banks in the various assessment are outsourced to OeKB under a service developing countries; its role is thus only supplemenagreement. tary to that of commercial banks. OeEB offers the full range of long-term financing options, from equity finance to loans. ii. Business in the year Investment Finance segment In the year under review, OeEB was approached with Africa, the South Caucasus, Western Balkans, Eastern numerous suggested potential projects. For the 13 Europe, Central America, South Asia and, suprareprojects approved in the year, contracts totalling gionally, in the Black Sea region and Southeastern EUR 226.45 million were signed. Europe. One-third of the credit lines were extended directly to companies, for projects in Eastern Europe, The required approvals for these projects were obthe Western Balkans and South Asia. tained from the Supervisory Board, the Business & Development Committee and the Advisory Board. As a member of EDFI, the association of 15 bilateral In the 2012 financial year, about two-thirds of the European development finance institutions, OeEB project contracts signed related to credit lines for also works together with other bilateral and multifinancial institutions in West Africa and Sub-Saharan lateral developments banks – particularly for large 23 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report investment projects – in order to marshal higher About half of the project contracts were signed in the amounts of financing and for reasons of risk-sharing. second half of the year and disbursements under these Of the volume of loans signed in 2012, about one-third projects will therefore not begin until 2013. was already disbursed in the financial year. Number Off balance On balance Total project of sheet sheet volume projects EUR million EUR million EUR million Movement in project volume in the Investment Finance segment Project volume at 1 January 2012 as per 2011 financial statements 29 292.15 Valuation effect of change in USD exchange rate, at 31 December 2012 -2.06 Project volume at 1 January 2012 290.09 (at 2011 year-end exchange rate) Of which undrawn credit facilities 69.82 Of which contingent liabilities 36.16 Disbursements under financing commitments from prior years -35.74 New contracts signed in 2012 13 226.45 Equity investments, loans, guarantees Of which undrawn credit facilities 106.00 Of which contingent liabilities 55.08 Repayments received in 2012 -3.69 -18.96 Limit adjustment on facilities from prior years 0.00 0.00 Total project volume at 31 December 2012 42 497.58 Of which off balance sheet 227.63 EUR/USD rate at 31 December 2012: 1.3194 The values given above are net of accrued interest. 24 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report Advisory Programmes segment Foreign Trade Programme Through technical assistance under OeEB’s Advisory With its expertise in development and foreign trade, Programmes (AP), projects are prepared and imOeEB provides advice to the Ministry of Finance, proved to enhance their development effectiveness. especially in collaborations with international finanExamples of measures that may be funded with AP cial institutions (IFIs). monies are studies, fees to hire specialists, projectrelated training and upgrading of qualifications, as The aim of the participation in IFI programmes is the well as the introduction of international standards. resulting transfer of know-how to Austrian businesses In the 2012 financial year, the Ministry of Finance and the greater support by IFIs to improve business approved AP funds of approximately EUR 1.87 milconditions for companies in selected countries. The lion. IFI programmes are as a rule selected by the Ministry of Finance. In 2012 two further projects were identiIn 2012, OeEB concluded contracts for 7 AP projects fied: the Balkans Renewable Energy Programme and totalling EUR 5.91 million. These contracts also inthe Sustainable Energy Finance Programme. clude projects approved in the prior financial years but signed in 2012. For administering the Advisory Programmes and Foreign Trade Programme, OeEB receives a fee. In 2012, OeEB's fifth year of operation, most projects related directly to investment finance or equity investment. For example, projects initiated the introEquity Investments segment duction of new credit products, improvements in environmental and social standards, and institutional The offering of OeEB was expanded in January 2012 development. The focus on energy continued to be by a new product: equity investments using Austrian deepened, such as in a project with an Austrian comfederal government funding. Acting as a trustee for pany and the Ugandan energy regulator. the Federal Ministry of Finance (the trustor), OeEB may enter into equity investments by acquiring direct As well, a study was completed that analysed the interests or buying fund units. legal and economic context for the development of hydropower projects up to 20 MW in Peru. In the 2012 financial year OeEB received a large number of suggestions for potential projects, of which five In 2012, OeEB disbursed EUR 6.81 million of AP equity investment projects were ultimately presented funds to project partners. The disbursements are tied to the Business and Development Committee and to progress in the respective projects and thus help then approved by the Ministry of Finance. An investensure the achievement of development objectives. ment in a microfinance fund in Sub-Saharan Africa and Asia was already committed in the year. The other equity investment projects are expected to be signed in the first quarter of 2013. In this first year of availability of the equity investment vehicle, OeEB strove, in keeping with its strategy, to achieve good geographic and sectoral diversification of the portfolio, with special attention given to certain focal development themes and regions. 25 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report Financial results The federally funded equity project approved in 2012 The financial year under review closed with profit for invests in infrastructure in Sub-Saharan Africa, in the year of EUR 901,726 (prior year: EUR 848,910). small and medium businesses in the South Caucasus, After transfers to reserves and before distribution or and in renewable energy in the Western Balkans. retention, the unallocated profit for the year was EUR 229,640 (prior year: EUR 274,095). Disbursements to the project partners are made incrementally for funds' individual client companies in Thanks to the higher project volume, operating income the case of fund investments, and via capital increases rose significantly from the prior year’s EUR 5.47 million, in the case of direct equity investments. The project to EUR 6.41 million. An important determinant of status and the general, financial and development income – alongside combined net interest income performance of the equity investments are regularly and securities income of about EUR 5.82 million documented. In selected equity projects, OeEB also (prior year: EUR 3.59 million) – was the net fee and takes an active role on the supervisory board or in a commission income of about EUR 0.49 million (prior similar supervisory function. year: EUR 1.86 million). The fee and commission income includes various fees from financings, fees for In 2012 approximately EUR 1.1 million was disbursed. OeEB’s management services rendered under the To date no income was received on the equity investAdvisory Programmes and investment finance projments. ects for the Ministry of Finance, and fees for developmentand foreign-trade-related consulting services to the Ministry. Other Activities segment The operating expenses of approximately EUR 4.31 In 2012 the cooperation with other development million (prior year: EUR 3.48 million) reflected the banks continued, particularly through the Neighbourbank’s growth and consisted largely of staff costs of hood Investment Facility (NIF) of the European EUR 2.62 million (prior year: EUR 2.38 million) and Commission and the Western Balkans Investment other administrative expenses of EUR 1.68 million Framework (WBIF). OeEB is a member of the Financial (prior year: EUR 1.08 million). Institutions Group of the NIF and of the WBIF. In addition, OeEB is active in the EU-Africa Infrastructure The resulting operating profit in the financial year was Trust Fund (EUAITF), which supports infrastructure about EUR 2.10 million, up from EUR 1.99 million in projects in Africa. These facilities are to generate the prior year. After valuation effects and taxes, profit financing projects with co-financing from OeEB. for the year was approximately EUR 0.90 million (prior year: EUR 0.85 million). In view of the good result, EUR 0.67 million of this profit was transferred to reserves (prior year: EUR 0.57 million), thus further strengthening OeEB's capability to generate future growth. At the year-end, profit available for distribution was EUR 271,239 (prior year: EUR 315,099). 26 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report iii. Office locations The registered office of OeEB is located at OeEB has no branch offices in Austria or other Strauchgasse 3, 1010 Vienna, Austria. countries. iv. Financial and non-financial performance indicators Regulatory capital requirement under section 22 Austrian Banking Act 2012 2011 EUR ’000 Financial performance indicators Risk-weighted assets under section 22 (2) Banking Act (credit risk) 166 560 Risk-weighted assets under section 22i Banking Act (operational risk) 5,381 4,236 Minimum regulatory capital requirement under section 22 (1) Banking Act For credit risk (2012: 8% of 166; 2011: 8% of 560) 13 45 For operational risk (2012: 15% of 5,381; 2011: 15% of 4,236) 807 635 For market risk (open foreign currency positions) 0 0 Total 820 680 Available regulatory capital under section 23 (14) Banking Act 8,835 7,507 OeEB held sufficient regulatory capital throughout the financial year. Earnings per share As the share capital is divided into 50,000 no par-value registered shares and as profit for the year was EUR 901,726, earnings per share amounted to EUR 18.03. 27 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report Non-financial performance indicators Staff At the end of the year, OeEB had 25 employees, one For graduates of vocational schools and higher eduof whom was on parental leave. This total does not cational institutions, the salary scale starts above include the Executive Board, which is provided by collective agreement levels. OeKB. The bank’s compensation policy uses both perforOeEB’s staff primarily sees to the implementation of mance criteria and market benchmarks. Care is taken the projects, and also transacts the banking business to ensure an appropriate proportion of fixed to variaper se. The main activities are project acquisition and ble pay. The variable component is based partly on structuring; risk assessment; compliance tasks; negoindividual performance as discussed in the perfortiation and conclusion of new contracts; processing mance appraisal interview, and partly on various and monitoring of existing projects; evaluation of decorporate-level performance indicators. Appropriate velopment relevance; formulation and implementation controls ensure that variable compensation is paid of ways to improve development relevance; and deveonly when the bank’s earnings allow it. This approach lopment-related communication and policy work. is followed at all levels of the organisation, including senior management. OeEB has a service agreement with OeKB under which various services are procured from OeKB. This ensuMotivated staff members providing service to high res access to proven know-how and raises additional standards of quality and professionalism, and doing synergies. so in a costand risk-conscious manner, are critical to OeEB’s sustained success as Austria’s official The service agreement is approved by the Financial development bank. Market Authority and covers accounting and reporting, human resources management, information OeEB therefore invests in practice-oriented training technology, internal audit and other services. As well, and staff development. In the year under review, in OeEB is authorised to outsource the compliance addition to in-house training events offered together officer function for those business segments covered with OeKB, OeEB also made a point of providing by the Standard Compliance Code (SCC) and the opportunities to take part in external seminars. SCC’s minimum standards (securities compliance). The function of the anti-money laundering/anti-terroCommitted to being a responsible employer, OeEB rism finance officer is performed by the Legal departuses appropriate staff development tools to help ment of OeEB. create the right conditions for employee satisfaction and productivity. The employee interview discusses With the exception of the Executive Board, which is performance against productivity objectives set in provided by OeKB, all OeEB staff members are directly the prior period, as well as work quality and team employed by OeEB. They bring considerable breadth relations. Performance objectives and the conditions of experience to their positions from their previous required to achieve them are set anew each year. work. As personal and professional qualifications are A sustainability target is also agreed. the only criteria for employee evaluation at OeEB, employee pay is independent of gender. All salaried OeEB employees receive discounts on meals in the employees of OeEB are covered by the collective OeKB staff cafeteria. Other benefits are access to the agreement of the commercial banking sector. company doctor, vaccinations and the annual health 28 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report week event. As part of the OeKB Group, the staff also For employees with more than one year of service at has the (fee-based) use of the company day-care OeEB, contributions were paid to an external pension centre and the sports centre. OeEB offers all employees fund for the banking sector. flexible working hours. No benefits or services are reserved for full-time staff. Environmental responsibility As it is OeEB's mandate to contribute to sustainable are carefully adhered to and monitored (EMAS, GRI). development, consideration of the environmental The performance data can be found in the Sustainadimension both in the project activities and at the bility Report of OeKB. Strauchgasse office is integral to the bank's operations. The lending and equity investment projects As a result of the international nature of OeEB's undergo an environmental and social impact assessactivities, almost all travel is by air. OeEB is therefore ment. Also, in the project business, OeEB fosters offsetting the CO2 emissions from its air travel, by the use of renewable energy (see the section Sustaisupporting a reforestation project in Ethiopia conducnability and the UN Global Compact). ted by Vienna's University of Natural Resources and Applied Life Sciences (see http://www.boku.ac.at/ As part of the OeKB sustainability management co2-klimaschutzprojekt.html ?&L=1). system, environmental performance parameters Significant events after the balance sheet date There were no significant events after the balance sheet date. 29 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report II. Outlook and risks for the bank i. Business outlook Based on numerous conversations with clients and OeEB therefore plans for growth of the overall portdevelopment partners, OeEB’s business is expected folio. The probable increase in business should lead to grow vigorously in 2013. There are signs of strong to a corresponding rise in revenue. market demand for the support of development banks. ii. Significant risks and uncertainties In difficult times, and as a result of tightened regulatory be stable and dependable partners and to go where requirements (Basel III), commercial banks avoid prothe need is. jects in risky markets Yet, from the standpoint of safeguarding growth in developing countries, implementing However, the impact of the euro area crisis on OeEB's projects is especially important now. In these times target countries remains difficult to gauge and this mamore than ever, the role of development banks is to kes it unclear whether certain projects can be realised. iii. Overview of risk policy and strategy Strategic approach to risk management To cover the very high project and country risks, OeEB Finance and Advisory Programmes business processes receives a 100% guarantee from the Austrian governand the Foreign Trade Programme segment. These ment for every financing deal. systems of internal control are reviewed annually. Project risks are assessed conservatively, which also As a wholly-owned subsidiary of OeKB, OeEB is covehas the effect of reducing reputation risk to OeEB. red by the Group ICAAP, or Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process. As the key metric in the measuIn view of the backing by the Republic of Austria rement and management of risk, the calculated ecothrough government guarantees, OeEB’s share capital nomic capital required is compared against the econoof EUR 5.0 million represents and meets the minimum mic capital available at different levels of scenario requirement under the Austrian Banking Act. In the severity. next several years OeEB will therefore not undertake any projects on the basis of its equity without obtaiThis is done in the calculation of risk coverage. At ning an Austrian government guarantee. individual-institution level, OeEB opts not to perform a Pillar II calculation of risk coverage. However, despite OeEB is a wholly-owned subsidiary of OeKB and folthe relative insignificance of the risk, economic capital lows a risk policy and strategy consistent with that of is determined for the investment risk arising from the OeKB Group. In 2010, internal control systems OeEB's own investment portfolio (the banking book), within the meaning of the Austrian Banking Act were using the Value at Risk concept. developed together with OeKB for OeEB’s Investment 30 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report Risk management organisation Under the Austrian Banking Act the full Executive Operational risk management by OeEB involves the Board is responsible for managing OeEB’s risks relamonitoring and control of the operational risk profile, ting to banking transactions and banking operations, the development of strategies and processes for the for ensuring capital adequacy in respect of the risks control of operational risk, and business continuity taken, and for establishing the organisation that this management in collaboration with OeKB’s operational requires. In this context, regard must be had to the risk manager. proportionality of the bank’s enterprise-wide risk management (i.e., of the methods, systems and procesFor emergencies and various crisis scenarios, the operases of risk management) with the structure and size tional risk management policy sets out emergency and of the bank’s risks. crisis response teams, responsibilities and procedures. In the interest of this proportionality, and given OeEB’s There is also a designated staff member tasked with business sector and the nature and scale of its speciassuring that the internal control system (ICS) comfic business and risk structure, the Executive Board plies with legal requirements. This employee works considers that an FMA-compliant risk management closely with the designated ICS officer at OeKB and/ organisation is appropriate. The Risk Management or the operational risk manager at OeKB and the orgaCommittee has the authority and responsibility to nisation section of OeKB’s OBUS department (OBUS decide on appropriate actions and processes for imstands for Organisation, Construction, Environment plementing the risk policy and strategy set by the and Security). Executive Board and approved by the Supervisory Board. Like the bank’s risk management as a whole, the internal control system is subject to ongoing scrutiny by Internal Audit. Risk types considered in bank-wide risk management ■ Credit risk Credit risk is the risk of unexpected loss as a result – Counterparty risk/default risk: the risk of loss of a counterparty's default or deterioration in credit as a result of a borrower’s failure to honour quality. To a degree consistent with the nature of its its payment obligations or of the default of a business activities and with the bank’s size, OeEB counterparty (such as a borrower) observes the “FMA Minimum Standards for Lending and Other Transactions Subject to Default Risks” – Concentration risk: the risk of loss as a result issued by the Austrian Financial Market Authority in of high credit exposure to individual borrowers 2005. In the light of its business structure, OeEB or to groups of related borrowers. Country limits distinguishes the following types of credit risk: and customer limits are in effect and are reviewed quarterly. 31 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report ■ Market risk everyday risk management in their sphere of accountability. OeEB works closely in these areas with OeKB Market risk is the risk of loss as a result of changes in (and has its office within OeKB’s premises). market parameters. It can be subdivided into interest rate risk, currency risk, equity risk and other price For emergencies and various crisis scenarios, the operisks. rational risk management policy identifies emergency and crisis response teams and sets out responsibilities and procedures; an emergency response manual ■ Liquidity risk is also in place. Liquidity risks can be divided into term liquidity risk and withdrawal/call risk, as well as structural risk ■ Other risks (funding liquidity risk). Other risks are: Liquidity is currently managed and made available on a project basis in coordination between OeEB and – Strategic risk: the risk of negative effects OeKB. Term liquidity risk is the risk of change in the on capital or earnings as a result of strategic length of time for which capital is committed to or by business decisions and/or changes in the OeEB. Withdrawal/call risk is the risk that deposits business environment. received are unexpectedly withdrawn or that loan commitments to borrowers are unexpectedly utilised. – Reputation risk: the risk of adverse consequences Both term liquidity risks and withdrawal/call risks are from the way in which the organisation is perceived low as a result of OeEB’s business structure and conby stakeholders (the shareholder, staff, clients, tractual arrangements. Liquidity is monitored and conthe Austrian government, and others). trolled with the aid of weekly cash flow projections. – Business risk: the risk of deterioration in earnings As OeEB’s funding is obtained largely through OeKB, as a result of unexpected changes in business the latter’s standing in the market facilitates the avaivolume or in margins. lability of financing to OeEB at any time. Strategic risks and reputational risks to OeEB arise primarily from its special position. As a result of its ■ Operational risk mandate, OeEB’s only principal is the Republic of Austria. A quantitative assessment of this risk would Operational risk is the risk of loss resulting from the be difficult to perform and no such assessment is inadequacy or failure of internal processes, people or planned. OeEB continually monitors potential changes systems, or from external events. Operational risk inin its operating environment that have fundamental cludes legal risk. significance for its business activities and considers such developments in its business strategy. The central integration of operational risk management (including information security) in the bank-wide management of risk, as well as the corporate culture, business continuity plans, insurance cover and similar centrally manageable measures, together form the framework within which the individual staff members are required to exercise personal responsibility for 32 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report Key features of the internal control system in relation to the accounting process OeEB outsources all accounting activities to its parent ■ Control environment institution, Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB). The specific requirements are defiThe most fundamental aspect of the control environned in a service agreement. In terms of the accounment is the corporate culture in which management ting process, the internal control system thus meets and employees operate. OeEB continually works to the same standard as that of OeKB. improve communication and the transmission of its basic corporate values. Within the Executive Board of OeEB, Michael Wancata has responsibility for the accounting function and for The manner of implementation of the internal control the establishment and design of a system of internal system in respect of the accounting process is set out control and of risk management that meets the bank’s in the written internal policies and procedures of the needs, particularly in relation to the accounting proaccounting function. The responsibilities in relation to cess. The implementation of the internal control sythe internal control system have been adjusted to fit stem is effected jointly with or solely by OeKB, accorthe company’s organisational structure, in order to ding to the specific requirements of OeEB. ensure a satisfactory control environment that meets the requirements. The key features of the internal control system can be described based on the definition of the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commis■ Risk assessment sion (COSO). The COSO framework consists of five interrelated components: the control environment, Risks relating to the accounting process are identified risk assessment, control activities, information and and monitored by OeKB Group management and OeEB communication, and monitoring. management, with a focus on material risks. The purpose of the internal control system is to supThe preparation of the financial statements regularly port management such that it is able to ensure effectirequires the use of estimates. This involves the inheve and continually improving internal controls regarrent risk that future developments will differ from ding accounting. The system is intended to ensure these estimates. As all loans extended by OeEB are compliance with policies and regulations and to create guaranteed by the Republic of Austria, this estimation conditions conducive to the effectiveness of specific risk is particularly relevant to, for example, assumpcontrol activities in the key accounting processes. tions regarding the stability of the value of interests in companies. The Group-level Internal Audit function (performed by the OeKB Group's Internal Audit department) independently and regularly verifies the adherence to ■ Control activities internal rules, including also the accounting rules. The head of Group Internal Audit reports the findings In addition to the Supervisory Board and Executive directly to the Executive Board of OeEB. The Internal Board, the general control environment also encomAudit activities are outsourced to OeKB under a servipasses middle management, such as the department ce agreement. heads. 33 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Management report All control activities are applied “in-process” during As well, the Group accounting staff members involved the regular ongoing operation of the business procesreceive frequent training regarding changes in interses in order to ensure that potential errors in financial national accounting practices in order to be able to reporting are detected and corrected. detect risks of inadvertent reporting deficiencies at an early stage. The Executive Board, working with OeKB, is responsible for ensuring that the levels of the reporting hierarchy are structured such that a given activity and the ■ Monitoring controls on the activity are not performed by the same person (i.e., ensuring the strict separation of responsiUltimate responsibility for the enterprise-wide ongoing bilities). monitoring of business processes rests with management and the Supervisory Board. The respective deControl activities regarding information technology partment heads are responsible for the monitoring of security represent a cornerstone of the internal conthe relevant areas of activity; for example, checks and trol system. Thus, the segregation of sensitive responvalidations are conducted at regular intervals. Group sibilities is supported by the restrictive assignment of Internal Audit is also involved in the monitoring proIT privileges. SAP ERP Central Component 6.0 softcess. The system of internal control likewise performs ware is used for accounting and financial reporting. a monitoring and oversight function. The functioning and effectiveness of this accounting system is assured, among other ways, by automated IT The findings of the monitoring activities are reported controls installed in the system. OeEB’s IT function to management and the Supervisory Board. The Exehas been outsourced to OeKB; as a result, the same cutive Board regularly receives summarised financial high security standards are applied as at the parent reports such as monthly financial statements as well institution. as risk reports. Financial statements intended for publication undergo a final review by accounting management staff (at Group and OeEB level) and by ■ Information and communication the OeEB Executive Board before being forwarded to the OeEB Supervisory Board. The financial reporting requirements are regularly updated by management and communicated to the staff concerned. III. Research & development As a result of its particular mandate, OeEB does not conduct R&D. Vienna, 31 January 2013 Andrea Hagmann Michael Wancata Member of the Executive Board Member of the Executive Board 34 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 35 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 C. Financial Statements 2012 1. Balance sheet at 31 December 2012 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR ’000 Assets 01 Balances at central banks 101,404.78 1 02 Loans and advances to banks 194,253,601.09 112,522 a) Repayable on demand 60,781,461.70 25,038 Of which fiduciary assets 38,542,608.29 0 b) Other loans and advances 133,472,139.39 87,484 Of which to intra-group companies 60,780,190.24 25,037 03 Loans and advances to customers 60,977,015.28 31,222 04 Bonds and other fixed income securities 2,996,613.99 3,001 a) Of other issuers (i.e., non-public sector issuers) 2,996,613.39 3,001 05 Equity shares and other variable income securities 76,073,700.34 67,468 06 Interests in companies 31,100.00 31 07 Non-current intangible assets 1,500.00 7 08 Other assets 12,655,275.48 11,987 Of which fiduciary assets 12,314,054.97 11,205 09 Prepaid expenses 69,532.88 54 Total assets 347,159,743.24 226,293 Memo items 1. Foreign assets 287,807,119.34 202,242 36 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR ’000 Liabilities and equity 01 Deposits from banks 270,594,393.96 186,147 a) With agreed maturity or withdrawal notice 270,594,393.96 186,147 Of which from intra-group companies 251,568,286.82 176,118 02 Other financial liabilities 65,942,525.22 31,039 Of which fiduciary liabilities 50,856,663.26 11,205 03 Accruals and deferred income 1,747,303.43 996 04 Provisions 1,467,844.37 1,332 a) Termination benefit provisions 32,044.00 0 a) Tax provisions 104,287.00 282 b) Other provisions 1,331,513.37 1,050 05 Share capital 5,000,000.00 5,000 06 Retained earnings 2,129,233.81 1,457 a) Statutory reserve 182,233.81 137 b) Other reserves 1,947,000.00 1,320 07 Liability reserve under section 23 (6) Banking Act 7,203.50 7 08 Profit available for distribution 271,238.95 315 Total liabilities and equity 347,159,743.24 226,293 Memo items 1. Contingent liabilities (guarantee obligations incurred and assets pledged as collateral security) 87,700,578.64 36,262 2. Off-balance sheet credit risks 140,077,074.40 70,311 3. Available regulatory capital under section 23 (14) Banking Act 8,834,937.31 7,507 4. Minimum regulatory capital requirement under section 22 (1) 820,458.69 680 Banking Act 5. Foreign liabilities 19,032,577.39 10,032 37 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 2. Income statement for the year ended 31 December 2012 2012 2011 EUR EUR ’000 1. Interest and similar income 6,782,451.52 3,665 Of which from fixed income securities 31,888.21 54 2. – Interest and similar expense 3,912,241.79 2,784 I. Net interest income 2,870,209.73 881 3. + Income from securities and share of profit of other companies 2,949,390.36 2,713 a) Income from equity shares, other ownership interests and variable income securities 2,949,390.36 2,713 4. + Fee and commission income 3,601,754.08 3,851 5. – Fee and commission expense 3,107,923.16 1,990 6. + Other operating income 99,052.69 13 II. Operating income 6,412,483.70 5,468 7. – Administrative expenses 4,299,519.85 3,468 a) Staff costs 2,622,049.24 2,384 aa) Salaries 2,080,501.43 1,921 bb) Statutory social security costs, pay-based levies, and pay-based other compulsory contributions 410,274.88 385 cc) Other social expenses 42,824.78 34 dd) Expenses for retirement and other post-employment benefits 32,018.74 22 ee) Expenses for termination benefits and contributions to termination benefit funds 56,429.41 22 b) Other administrative expenses 1,677,470.61 1,084 8. – Impairment of non-current intangible assets 5,954.59 6 9. – Other operating expenses 2,815.88 3 III. Operating expenses -4,308,290.32 -3,477 IV. Operating profit 2,104,193.38 1,991 10. ± Net loss on valuation of loans and advances and securities -673,746.21 -640 V. Profit before tax 1,430,447.17 1,351 11. – Income tax 528,720.91 502 38 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 2012 2011 EUR EUR ’000 VI. Profit for the year 901,726.26 849 12. – Transfer to reserves 672,086.31 575 Of which transfer to liability reserve 0.00 2 VII. Unallocated profit for the year 229,639.95 274 13. + Profit brought forward from the prior year 41,599.00 41 VIII. Profit available for distribution 271,238.95 315 39 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3. Notes to the financial statements 3.1 Accounting policies 3.1.1 Basis of presentation and general principles applied The annual financial statements of Oesterreichische In measuring the individual assets and liabilities, the Entwicklungsbank AG (“OeEB”, “the bank”) were preprinciple of individual measurement was observed and pared by the Executive Board of OeEB in accordance the bank’s continuing operation was assumed. with the provisions of the Austrian Commercial Code (UGB) and the bank-specific provisions of the Austrian The principle of prudence was observed by reporting Banking Act (BWG). only those profits realised at the balance sheet date. All identifiable risks and impending losses accrued in The financial statements were drawn up in accordance the 2012 financial year were recognised. with accounting principles generally accepted in Austria and with the guiding principle of presenting a true The financial year under review was the full calendar and fair view of the bank’s financial position, results of year. operations and cash flows. The financial statements were prepared in accordance with the principle of completeness. 3.1.2 Securities Securities classified as current assets are measured In accordance with section 9 Export Guarantees Act using the conservative lower-of-cost-or-market ap(the “Ausfuhrförderungsgesetz”), OeEB’s investment proach (i.e., measured at the lower of cost or the financing transactions are covered by a federal govquoted market price at the balance sheet date). ernment guarantee from the Austrian Federal Ministry of Finance in the amount of their cost. The bank does not hold securities for trading and therefore does not maintain a trading book. In view of the full government guarantee, the expected dividends and interest income for the year under Securities classified as non-current assets are these transactions are recognised in the balance measured using the modified lower-of-cost-or-market sheet item “equity shares and other variable income approach (i.e., measured at cost or, if permanently securities” on an accrual basis in the amount of the impaired, at a lower quoted market price at the funding costs, which represent the maximum amount balance sheet date). guaranteed. 3.1.3 Interests in companies Interests in companies are measured at cost, less equity investments, which are accounted for as any lasting material impairment losses. (Note: interfiduciary assets.) ests in companies do not include federally funded 40 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.1.4 Intangible assets Intangible assets are recognised in the balance sheet Amortisation is provided on a straight-line basis only if they have been purchased. They are measured over a useful life of 5 years, i.e., at a rate of 20% at cost less amortisation and impairment. Intangible per year. assets generated internally, and small assets with an individual acquisition cost of less than EUR 400, are Impairment losses existing at the balance sheet expensed immediately. date are recognised if the impairment is expected to be of a lasting nature. 3.1.5 Loans and advances and other assets Loans and advances to banks and customers, and demand), and the loans and advances to customers, other assets, are recognised at face amounts. For are covered by a federal guarantee under section 9 identifiable credit risks in respect of borrowers, Export Guarantees Act in the amount of their cost. In impairment losses are individually assessed. view of the guarantee, the expected interest income is recognised on an accrual basis and recorded in The loans and advances to banks shown under “other the respective balance sheet item. loans and advances” (i.e., those not repayable on 3.1.6 Deposits from banks and other financial liabilities Deposits from banks and other financial liabilities are recognised at repayable amounts. 3.1.7 Provisions Provisions for termination benefits are determined on The item “other provisions” represents all risks, and the basis of generally accepted actuarial principles, all liabilities of uncertain amount or nature, identifiable using the projected unit credit method in accordance at the time of preparation of the financial statements, with International Accounting Standard 19. The calcuand measured as dictated by prudent business lations assume a discount rate of 3.50% and an age at judgment. retirement of 63 years 9 months for men and 58 years 9 months for women, and are based on the computation tables “AVÖ 2008 P” by Pagler & Pagler. 41 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.1.8 Foreign currency translation The reporting currency is the euro. Foreign currency amounts are ordinarily translated at middle rates of exchange. 3.2 Notes to the balance sheet and income statement 3.2.1 General information The structure of the balance sheet and income statement is as specified in Annex 2 to section 43 Austrian Banking Act. 3.2.2 Supplementary disclosures 3.2.2.1 Loans and advances 3.2.2.1.1 Loans and advances to banks 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR Loans and advances to banks repayable on demand Loans and advances denominated in EUR 58,905,132.72 25,029,901.35 Loans and advances denominated in USD 1,876,328.98 8,285.69 Total 60,781,461.70 25,038,187.04 Other loans and advances to banks Loans and advances denominated in EUR 102,080,222.55 60,141,822.09 Loans and advances denominated in USD 32,241,916.84 27,892,036.09 Total 134,322,139.39 88,033,858.18 The above table does not reflect an impairment loss of EUR 850,000.00 (prior year: EUR 550,000.00) recognised under section 57 Austrian Banking Act. 42 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.2.2.1.2 Loans and advances to customers 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR Loans and advances to customers Loans and advances denominated in EUR 19,120,338.88 267,615.27 Loans and advances denominated in USD 42,706,676.40 31,454,817.72 Total 61,827,015.28 31,722,432.99 The above table does not reflect an impairment loss of EUR 850,000.00 (prior year: EUR 500,000.00) recognised under section 57 Austrian Banking Act. 3.2.2.2 Non-current assets The changes in individual non-current asset items assets” at the end of the notes to the financial and the breakdown of amortisation and impairment statements. are presented in the table “Movements in non-current 3.2.2.3 Securities The securities in the balance sheet item “bonds and The fund shares and trust preferred securities recorded other fixed income securities” are classified as current in equity shares and other variable income securities” assets; they are admitted to trading on a stock exare classified as non-current assets and were purchased change and are listed securities. At 31 December for the purpose of investment financing; they are not 2012 the difference between their market value and admitted to trading on an exchange. carrying amount was EUR 9,829.00. The amounts in the following table are shown net of No bonds or other fixed income securities will be reaccrued interest of EUR 1,039,518.14 in the year deemed in the subsequent financial year Also, interest under review (prior year: net of accrued interest of in the amount of EUR 542.39 for 2012 will come due in EUR 1,117,442.94). the subsequent year. 43 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR Securities denominated in EUR 59,000,000.00 50,000,000.00 Securities denominated in USD 16,034,182.20 16,350,181.62 Total 75,034,182.20 66,350,181.62 3.2.2.4 Interests in companies At the end of the financial year, OeEB held a 7.63% OeEB also held a 7.69% equity interest in Interact equity interest in European Financing Partners S.A., Climate Change Facility S.A., measured at cost at a company based in Luxembourg; the investment is EUR 6,000. Both companies are based in Luxemmeasured at cost at EUR 25,100. bourg. 3.2.2.5 Other assets EUR Remaining maturity Remaining maturity Carrying up to one year more than 1 year amount 2012 Other assets outside Austria 115,175.92 127,320.05 242,495.97 Tax assets 46,963.18 46,963.18 Other 51,761.36 51,761.36 Total 213,900.46 127,320.05 341,220.51 2011 Other assets outside Austria 651,704.68 129,809.54 781,514.22 Other 1,022.09 1,022.09 Total 652,726.77 129,809.54 782,536.31 Other assets included accrued income of EUR 330,182.94) that will be received after the EUR 146,897.55 for 2012 (prior year: balance sheet date. 44 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.2.2.6 Fiduciary assets and liabilities The transactions overseen by OeEB as trustee, and in the amount of EUR 50,856,663.26 (prior year: which represent neither financial nor legal exposure for EUR 11,204,628.39). OeEB, are recognised in the balance sheet as fiduciary assets in the amount of EUR 38,542,608.29 under The fiduciary assets and liabilities were generated loans and advances to banks (prior year: EUR 0) and under the Advisory Programmes of the Austrian in the amount of EUR 12,314,054.97 under other Ministry of Finance and through the federally funded assets (prior year: EUR 11,204,628.39). Within other equity investments. financial liabilities, these transactions are recognised 3.2.2.7 Deposits from banks and other Other financial liabilities included accrued expenses for financial liabilities 2012 of EUR 861,535.12 (prior year: EUR 722,558.67) that will be paid after the balance sheet date. 3.2.2.8 Amounts due from and to The specific amounts of loans and advances to, deposits Group entities from, and trade payables with Group companies at the balance sheet date were as follows. 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR Assets Intra-group loans and advances to banks 60,780,190.24 25,036,870.03 Liabilities Intra-group deposits from banks 251,568,286.82 176,117,749.56 Intra-group trade payables 111,850.27 129,663.75 The security for the deposits from banks consists of EUR 270 million (prior year: EUR 185.6 million), as the assets recorded in loans and advances to banks well as the assignment of any relevant claims under and to customers, and the shares recorded in “equity the Austrian government guarantee issued by the shares and other variable income securities”, totalling Ministry of Finance. 45 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.2.2.9 Provisions The provision for termination benefits was calculated EUR 32,044.00 (prior year: EUR 0). The item “other proin accordance with the principles of IAS 19, using a visions” had the following composition: discount rate of 3.50%. This provision amounted to EUR 1 Jan. 2012 Added Used Released 31 Dec. 2012 Provision for vacation pay 92,820.00 93,162.91 92,820.00 93,162.91 Provision for legal, audit and consulting expenses 75,000.00 75,000.00 60,188.75 14,811.25 75,000.00 Guarantee premiums 546,177.00 815,925.00 546,177.00 815,925.00 Other 336,026.19 347,425.46 281,486.99 54,539.20 347,425.46 Total 1,050.023.19 1,331,513.37 980,672.74 69,350.45 1,331,513.37 3.2.2.10 Equity The share capital of Oesterreichische EntwicklungsIn 2012, no amount was transferred to the liability bank AG of EUR 5 million is divided into 50,000 no-par reserve under section 23 (6) Austrian Banking Act. This value registered shares, each representing an equal left EUR 271,238.95 of profit available for distribution portion of the share capital. (including profit of EUR 41,599.00 brought forward from the prior year). Profit for the year was EUR 901,726.26. Of this, EUR 45,086.31 was transferred to the statutory The proposed dividend to be paid in the subsequent reserve and EUR 627,000.00 to uncommitted year for the 2012 financial year is EUR 229,000.00, reserves. or EUR 4.58 per share. 3.2.2.11 Total amounts of assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies The foreign currency positions at the balance sheet The difference in amounts between these assets and date had the following values in euros: liabilities resulted in part from differences in interest rates between the project investments made and the Assets: EUR 93,600,761.64 related borrowing. These interest rate differences in (prior year: EUR 76,410,171.96) turn are explained by the fact that the income guaranteed by the federal government was higher than the Liabilities: EUR 92,557,749.44 borrowing costs. There were also a USD bank account (prior year: EUR 75,506,925.93) and USD-denominated receivables in connection with project investments. 46 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.2.2.12 Maturity analysis as per section 64 (1) (4) Austrian Banking Act Loans and advances to banks not repayable on demand had the following maturity profile: 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR Loans and advances to banks not repayable on demand Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year 18,789,601.33 – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 57,624,606.25 67,050,003.86 More than 5 years 56,802,885.60 21,526,618.13 Total 133,217,093.18 87,576,951.99 The amounts in the table above are shown net of Act of EUR 850,000.00 (prior year: EUR 550,000.00). accrued interest of EUR 1,105,046.21 (prior year: Loans and advances to customers not repayable on EUR 456,906.19). They also do not reflect an demand had the following maturity profile: impairment loss under section 57 Austrian Banking 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR Loans and advances to customers not repayable on demand Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year – – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 16,163,479.59 15,723,408.79 More than 5 years 45,415,275.12 15,795,656.83 Total 61,578,751.42 31,519,065.62 The amounts in the table above are shown net of They also do not reflect an impairment loss under accrued interest of EUR 248,263.86 (prior year: section 57 Austrian Banking Act of EUR 850,000.00 EUR 203,367.37). (prior year: EUR 500,000.00). 47 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 Deposits from banks not repayable on demand had the following maturity profile: 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 EUR EUR Deposits from banks not repayable on demand Up to 3 months – – More than 3 months and up to one 1 year 18,789,601.34 – More than 1 year and up to 5 years 99,822,268.05 109,123,594.28 More than 5 years 151,218,157.43 76,322,604.96 Total 269,830,026.82 185,446,199.24 The amounts in the table above are shown net of accrued interest of EUR 764,367.14 (prior year: EUR 700,803.52). 3.2.2.13 Obligations from the use of off-balance sheet property and equipment The future lease obligations from the use of off-balance and about EUR 1,350,000.00 for the five-year period sheet property and equipment are currently forecast from 2013 to 2017. at approximately EUR 253,000.00 for the year 2013 3.2.2.14 Information on derivative financial instruments At the balance sheet date of 31 December 2012, OeEB did not hold derivative financial instruments. 48 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.2.2.15 Information on off-balance sheet transactions under sections 237 (8a) and 199 Austrian Commercial Code Contingent liabilities: Credit risk: This item represents guarantees in the amount of For off-balance sheet credit risks, an amount of EUR 87,700,578.64 (prior year: EUR 36,262,131.57) EUR 140,077,074.40 (prior year: EUR 70,310,773.75) issued by OeEB to Kreditanstalt für Wiederaufbau and was recognised as a memo item below the balance to Deutsche Investitionsund Entwicklungsgesellschaft sheet. It related to undrawn commitments to lend mbH. (unused limits on credit facilities, and securities purchase obligations). To secure the risks, OeEB receives a 100% guarantee of the Republic of Austria for every transaction. 3.2.3 Notes to the income statement 3.2.3.1 Interest income and expense Fiscal year 2012 Fiscal year 2011 EUR EUR Interest and similar income from lendings and investments From loans and advances to customers 2,449,422.32 643,268.30 From loans and advances to banks 4,301,140.99 2,968,219.85 From fixed income securities 31,888.21 53,881.62 Total 6,782,451.52 3,665,369.77 Interest and similar expense For deposits from banks 3,890,124.65 2,781,874.41 For deposits from customers 22,117.14 2,123.08 Total 3,912,241.79 2,783,997.49 49 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.2.3.2 Fee and commission income and expense The fee and commission income was in relation princiThe fee and commission expense consisted mainly pally to the reimbursement of expenses incurred in the of the accrued guarantee fees payable to the Austrian course of partly fiduciary services rendered by OeEB to Federal Ministry of Finance for the government guaranthe Federal Ministry of Finance, and to management tee in accordance with section 9 Export Guarantees and monitoring fees received in connection with credit Act. commitments. 3.2.3.3 Other administrative expenses Other administrative expenses (i.e., non-staff costs) The auditor’s remuneration is included within other consisted largely of costs for leases, purchased serviadministrative expenses and consisted of an expense ces, and auditing and consulting. of EUR 56,100.00 for the audit of the 2012 company financial statements (prior year: EUR 52,800.00). 3.2.3.4 Staff count In the year under review, OeEB had an average of 26 employees (prior year: 20). 3.2.3.5 Expenses for termination benefits and contributions to termination benefit funds The amounts in this item consisted of an expense of In reliance on section 241 Austrian Commercial EUR 32,044.00 for the termination benefit provision, Code, no analysis of the amounts in terms of and EUR 24,385.41 of contributions to the employersalaried employees, managers and Executive Board funded termination benefit fund. is presented. 3.2.3.6 Deferred taxes A deferred tax asset of EUR 425,000.00 (prior year: in the financial statements; other, similar items are EUR 262,500.00) relating to the impairment loss insignificant in amount. under section 57 Austrian Banking Act is not included 50 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 3.3 Additional information 3.3.1 Boards In the financial year, the following individuals were In the financial year, the following individuals were members of the Executive Board: members of the Supervisory Board: Andrea Hagmann Rudolf Scholten (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Michael Wancata Ferdinand Schipfer (Vice-Chairman of the Supervisory Board) The two Executive Board members jointly represent Maria-Christine Dangl the bank. In reliance on section 241 Austrian CommerHolger Rothenbusch (until 30 Sep. 2012) cial Code, no analysis of the Executive Board’s Kurt Bayer (since 20 Dec. 2012) compensation is presented. The total expense for compensation of the Supervisory Board for the year under review was EUR 14,613.74. 3.3.2 Related party transactions under section 237 (8b) Austrian Commercial Code Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, which has its The only related party transactions in the year under registered office in Vienna (OeEB, Companies Register review were with OeKB and were conducted at arm’s Number 304601v, Vienna Commercial Court) is a length. wholly-owned subsidiary of Oesterreichische Kontrollbank Aktiengesellschaft (OeKB, Companies Register Under a service agreement between the two instituNumber 85749b, Vienna Commercial Court) and is tions, OeKB provides services to OeEB. The service fully consolidated in the OeKB Group financial stateagreement is approved by the Financial Market Authoments. rity and covers accounting, human resources management, information technology, internal audit and other Disclosures under sections 26 and 26a Austrian services. Banking Act are presented in the consolidated financial statements prepared by OeKB. In order to ensure the availability of sufficient funding at all times, OeEB’s transactions are largely financed by OeKB. Vienna, 31 January 2013 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG The Executive Board Andrea Hagmann Michael Wancata 51 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 Movements in non-current assets in 2012 EUR At cost at Additions Disposals ReclassiAt cost at 1 Jan. 2012 fications 1 Dec. 2012 Intangible assets 28.135,24 0,00 0,00 0,00 28.135,24 Software 28.135,24 0,00 0,00 0,00 28.135,24 Financial assets 66.381.281,62 8.684.000,58 0,00 0,00 75.065.282,20 1. Interests in companies 31.100,00 0,00 0,00 0,00 31.100,00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets ** 66.350.181,62 8.684.000,58 0,00 0,00 75.034.182,20 Total 66.409.416,86 8.684.000,58 0,00 0,00 75.093.417,44 EUR Accumulated Carrying Carrying Amortisation amortisation amount at amount at and impairment and impairment 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 for the year Intangible assets -26.635,24 1.500,00 7.127,04 5.627,04 Software -26.635,24 1.500,00 7.127,04 5.627,04 Financial assets 0,00 75.065.282,20 66.381.281,62 0,00 1. Interests in companies 0,00 31.100,00 31.100,00 0,00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets ** 0,00 75.034.182,20 66.350.181,62 0,00 Total -26.635,24 75.066.782,20 66.388.408,66 5.627,04 * Excluding small assets of EUR 327.55. ** Excluding accrued income of EUR 1,039,518.14. 52 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Financial Statements 2012 Movements in non-current assets in 2011 EUR At cost at Additions Disposals ReclassiAt cost at 1 Jan. 2011 fications 1 Dec. 2011 Intangible assets 28.135,24 0,00 0,00 0,00 28.135,24 Software 28.135,24 0,00 0,00 0,00 28.135,24 Financial assets 60.857.684,94 5.523.596,68 0,00 0,00 66.381.281,62 1. Interests in companies 25.100,00 6.000,00 0,00 0,00 31.100,00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets ** 60.832.584,94 5.517.596,68 0,00 0,00 66.350.181,62 Total 60.885.820,18 5.523.596,68 0,00 0,00 66.409.416,86 EUR Accumulated Carrying Carrying Amortisation amortisation amount at amount at and impairment and impairment 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2010 for the year Intangible assets -21.008,20 7.127,04 12.754,09 5.627,05 Software -21.008,20 7.127,04 12.754,09 5.627,05 Financial assets 0,00 66.381.281,62 60.857.684,94 0,00 1. Interests in companies 0,00 31.100,00 25.100,00 0,00 2. Securities classified as non-current assets ** 0,00 66.350.181,62 60.832.584,94 0,00 Total -21.008,20 66.388.408,66 60.870.439,03 5.627,05 * Excluding small assets of EUR 683.97. ** Excluding accrued income of EUR 1,117,442.94. 53 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Auditor's Report D. Auditor's Report Report on the Financial Statements We have audited the accompanying financial statements, including the accounting system, of Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG, Vienna, Austria, for the fiscal year from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 These financial statements comprise the balance sheet as of 31 December 2012, the income statement for the fiscal year ended 31 December 2012, and the notes. Management's Responsibility for the Financial Statements and for the Accounting System The Company's management is responsible for the accounting system and for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. This responsibility includes: designing, implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Auditors' Responsibility and Description of Type and Scope of the statutory audit Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with laws and regulations applicable in Austria and Austrian Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with professional guidelines and that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor's judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the Company's preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 54 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Auditor's Report Opinion Our audit did not give rise to any objections. In our opinion, which is based on the results of our audit, the financial statements comply with legal requirements and give a true and fair view of the financial position of the Company as of 31 December 2012 and of its financial performance for the year from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012 in accordance with Austrian Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Report on Other Legal Requirements (Management Report) Pursuant to statutory provisions, the management report is to be audited as to whether it is consistent with the financial statements and as to whether the other disclosures are not misleading with respect to the Company's position. The auditor's report also has to contain a statement as to whether the management report is consistent with the financial statements. In our opinion, the management report is consistent with the financial statements. Vienna, 31 January 2013 KPMG Austria AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsund Steuerberatungsgesellschaft signed by: DDr. Martin Wagner pp Mag. Renate Vala Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin (Austrian Chartered Accountants) This report is a translation of the original report in German, which is solely valid. Publication of the financial statements together with our auditor's opinion may only be made if the financial statements and the management report are identical with the audited version attached to this report. Section 281 paragraph 2 UGB (Austrian Commercial Code) applies. 55 OeEB – Annual Report 2012 Publication Information Owner and publisher: Layout and graphic design: Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Gerald Schuba Corporate Communications+, Strauchgasse 3, 1011 Vienna, Austria Peter Chalupnik office@oe-eb.at Photography: www.oe-eb.at istockphotos (Cover) OeEB (p. 2, 21, 35) Companies Register number: FN 304601v, OeEB/Christina Häusler (p. 11) Vienna Commercial Court OeEB/Geyer (p. 35) Data Processing Register number: DVR 3003269 VAT number: ATU 63944539 Translation: Martin Focken Translating & Editing 56 Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank AG Strauchgasse 3 1011 Vienna, Austria Tel. +43 1 533 12 00-0 office@oe-eb.at www.oe-eb.at Oesterreichische Entwicklungsbank ag
