® G lobal Compac t Pro gress Rep or t 2013 Welcome to Progress Report 2013 This Progress Report 2013 constitutes the Table of Contents: reporting commitments of kk-electronic in 2013. The purpose of the Progress Report 2013 is to provide our stakeholders with a Progress and highlights 2 013 4 fair and balanced picture of our sustainability efforts in 2013. Our continuous focus on sustainability 6 The Progress Report 2013 also serves as our annual communication on progress in Human Rights 8 sustainability, as required by the United Nations Global Compact. The basis of the Environment 12 report is based on a dialogue with main Employees 19 stakeholders. CSR initiatives in our joint venture KK-QIANWEI in China 24 Progress on CSR and the CSR scope for 2013 26 k ke l e c t ro ni c develops, and m anufac tu res co ntro l systems fo r win d tu rbin e s. M ore t han 1 8 , 0 0 0 wind t ur bines wo rld wid e u se k kelec tro n ic co ntro l systems p ro d u ce e l e c t r icit y in a s us t ainable way. PRO GR E SS A ND HI G HL I G HTS 2 0 13 For 2013 we wish to highlight the following key areas in which we have made significant progress and achievements: kk-electronic is a dedicated green tech company We will continue improving by setting ambitious within the renewable energy industry. We believe targets, implementing processes and procedures to HUMAN RIGHTS that the most positive impact we as a company support sustainability and continue to obtain insight In the past year we have conducted a risk assessment of our suphave is through our products. We regard our core into the areas of CSR. Our ambition is to advance, pliers in regards to compliance with our Code of Conduct. Furtherproducts as sustainable as we focus on improvbut also advance in a responsible manner. more we have integrated CSR measures and our Code of Conduct in ing companies’ ability to produce environmentally screening and assessment of new suppliers. friendly energy by means of control technology and We signed the Compact in 2010 and continue to innovations. support this initiative. ENVIRONMENT Our ambition is to continuously develop and improve our sustainability efforts and in the past year we In the past year we have continued our work with product developtook a number of steps to strengthen our efforts ment that can contribute to the optimisation of renewable energy. within CSR and further integrate the area into our This work has resulted in a partnership to extend the lifetime expecprocesses. tancies of wind turbines. We have high ambitions in regards to increasing our positive impact and commitment to the Global Compact. EMPLOYEES Tommy G. Jespersen CEO In the past year we continued our work to promote safety and to obtain the OHSAS 18001 certification (Occupational Health and Safety Management System). We obtained the OHSAS 18001 certification in November 2012. OUR CONTINUOUS FOCUS ON SUSTAINABILITY THE TEN PRINCIPLES OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT ( U N G C ) We have consciously been working with various asHUMAN RIGHTS pects of sustainability and sustainability has been 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights part of our agenda for many years. With the signing of the UN Global Compact in 2010 we have been 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses striving to address the ten principles and integrate CSR efforts in our processes and daily work. LABOUR In 2011 we issued our first communication on prog3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right ress and in order to keep a constant focus on our to collective bargaining CSR activities we introduced the CSR cycle to our 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour organization in 2012. We introduced the CSR cycle to continuously follow plans and processes as well 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour as the progress of our CSR efforts. The flow of the CSR cycle constitutes our annual efforts and serves 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation as an evaluation of action plans as well as target ENVIRONMENT setting. Besides being a planning tool, the purpose of the CSR cycle is to keep all employees informed 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges about our activities and progress within the areas of 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility CSR. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies ANTI-CORRUPTION 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVITIES We are committed to the protection of human rights S UP P L I E R P RO G RE S S and have made a formal commitment by the signing of the UN Global Compact. We support the United We have set a high level of expectation when it Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights and comes to our business standards and interaction OUR CODE OF CONDUCT COVERS: the International Labour Organization’s Declaration with suppliers. During 2012 we have initiated a on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. program to secure commitment from suppliers to our • Collaboration Code of Conduct. Clear communication of expectaWe recognise that we will have to continuously work tions and cooperation to existing and new suppliers • Human rights to make certain that we have the right measures are needed to secure a high level of ethical sourc• Labour and assessment in place when it comes to ensuring, which we and our customers require. ing respect for human rights in our operations. We • Child Labour realise that it requires continuous training and inteAs a part of our normal supplier introduction progration to our processes to achieve implementation. cess, we normally visit, audit and make assess• Discrimination For that reason part of our strategy is to first of all ments at suppliers before introduction. CSR meafocus on our employees and our suppliers. sures have been integrated into our tools when • Health and safety assessing new suppliers and new suppliers not conWe encourage our suppliers to respect their emforming to our Code of Conduct will not be chosen. • Environment ployees’ human rights and provide them with decent • Corruption and bribery working conditions. We require that our suppliers sign our Code of Conduct. To ensure our standards • The right to freedom of association and will be met we have made a risk assessment of our H U M A N R I GHTS suppliers in regards to compliance with our Code collective bargaining kk-electronic acknowledge the increasingly imporof Conduct. Furthermore we have integrated CSR tant role human rights play in today’s society and (Corporate Social Responsibility) measures and our our responsibility to ensure respect for human rights Code of Conduct in the screening and assessment in our operations. of new suppliers. HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVITIES HUMAN RIGHTS ACTIVITIES S UPP L IE R R IS K A S S E S S M E N T Shown below is the risk categorisation, the actions P L A N F O R S UP P L I E R P RO G RE S S 2 0 1 3 required along with data on suppliers within the All our existing suppliers have been rated through a category. In 2013 we will continue to put focus on the group number of risk parameters. These parameters have of suppliers with relative high risk. We want to enhelped to prioritise the effort into screening our Current status is that 78 of the suppliers have sure compliance with the Code of Conduct therefore supplier base. Our scope this past year has been signed commitment to our Code of Conduct. We are these suppliers will be asked to do an assessment the suppliers ranging within the categories from low currently investigation the 6 suppliers that have not and we will conduct an on-site audit. If there are to high risk. This scope amounted to 84 suppliers signed our Code of Conduct or shown similar proconditions which do not meet our requirements, the representing 94 % of our purchase volume. gram rolled out internally. supplier must draw up a plan for corrective actions in dialogue with our supplier audit team. The plan will be combined with a follow-up visit to check whether conditions have improved. VERY LOW RISK LOW RISK MEDIUM RISK HIGH RISK With this plan our aim is to continue to detect and prevent human rights risks in our operations and seek conformity with our Code of Conduct. AC T IONS REQUIR E D ACTIONS REQUIRED AC TION S R EQU IR ED AC TION S R EQU IR ED • Ou t o f c u r r e n t s c ope • S i gnat ur e of C ode o f • Si g n a tu r e o f C o d e o f • Si g n a tu r e o f C o d e of C onduc t C o n d u ct C o n d u ct • No a c tio n th is y e ar S U P P LI E R D ATA • Fu r th e r i n ve sti g a ti o n • Se l fAsse ssm e n t SU P P L IER DATA 41 s uppl i er s r epr ese n ti n g SU PPL IER D ATA • Su p p l i e r vi si t 168 s u p p lie r s r e p r es ent i ng 40 % of pur c has e sp e n d 6 % o f p u r c h a s e spend 2 9 su p p l i e r s r e p r e se n ti n g SU PPL IER D ATA 38 s uppl i er s hav e si g n e d 2 1 % o f p u r ch a se sp e n d our C ode of C ondu ct 1 4 su p p l i e r s r e p r e se nting 2 7 su p p l i e r s h a ve si g n e d 3 3 % o f p u r ch a se sp end o u r C o d e o f C o n d u ct 1 3 su p p l i e r s h a ve si gned o u r C o d e o f C o n d u ct ENVIRONMENT ACTIVITIES develop but also our focus on the environmental the lifetime expectancies of wind turbines. The folimpact of our own activities. lowing is a detailed description of our efforts. Our production facilities are certified according to A NE W G E NE RAT I O N O F CO NT RO L the environmental and international standard, e.g. S Y S T E MS ISO14001, ISO9001. This ensures a continuous focus on and systematic organisation and docuTowards the end of 2011 we started the final stage mentation of internal environmental procedures. of a major development project scoping the next We measure and monitor environmental indicators generation of control system from kk-electronic. such as waste consumption, water consumption, The company acquired a 2 MW wind turbine. The emissions etc. To further strengthen our focus on turbine is placed on the west coast of Denmark environmental indicators we will in the coming year with ample access to wind resources. The existing set up standards for measuring this on a corporate turbine had been operating for approx. 5 years, level for all our production facilities. and therefore historical performance data were available. In the field of energy we face a constant challenge in finding alternatives with a sustainable profile The wind turbine was purchased in order to test and this has put wind on the agenda as an alterour ‘C’ control system in real life situation. But the native source of energy. However for wind to be turbine is also used for other testing purposes and an alternative to traditional fossil energy it has to therefore not classified as a production turbine. become more competitive. Therefore we at kkThe dismantling of the existing control system and EN V IR ON M E NT electronic seek to advance by continuously improvthe installation of our ‘C’ control platform in the ing our products. In the past year we have continturbine was completed by December and after two As part of the renewable energy industry kkued our work with product development that can weeks of concentrated work the turbine once again electronic wants to have a positive impact on the contribute to the optimisation of renewable energy. produced electricity. environment – not only through the products we This work has resulted in a partnership to ext end ENVIRONMENT ACTIVITIES ENVIRONMENT ACTIVITIES RECOMMISSIONING The control system has opportunities to increase electricity production, and of course these opportuThe status of the wind turbine as a ‘test turbine’ nities were exploited. gave us the opportunity to modify it according to our purposes. The objective of kk-electronic was to To spur the interest for the turbine among the emensure that the ‘C’ control platform could perform as ployees, we have developed a small “APP”, which scoped in the development projects. kk-electronic’s people can download and follow the electricity objectives were to develop a control platform with: production live. • A very high availability The total production of electricity in 2012 amounted to almost 4 million kWh. This is not the turbines full • High reliability under any weather conditions, capacity, but we used the wind turbine for a long The kk-electronic wind turbine is equipped with the offshore and onshore, cold and warm climate, row of product verification, tests and optimisation following kk-electronic products: high altitudes, etc. projects. The produced amount of electricity is fully • The kk-electronic C-control system, consisting of adequate to cover the consumption of electricity of • A control system, which enables continuous kk-electronic’s premises. the a number of control mod ules, which form the improvement processes during the lifetime of the basic elements of the control platform turbine A DVA NCE D CO NT RO L S • A data acquisition logger to ensure proper data • A flexible concept that made customisation and After a 4 months testing period the ’C’ control syscollection, and KK-PILOT, SCADA system, to customers’ differentiation very easy. tem and the converter was launched in April 2012. ensure proper data analyses Documented performance is a necessity in the wind • A customised converter, grid measuring power industry, and fortunately the control system unit, and a rebuilt grid connection The kk-electronic turbine was primarily intended to and converter is typically running with daily availfirmly document the availability and reliability of our abilities higher than 99 %. This figure is a strong • Finally, we added a variety of instrumentation to new control solutions. However this that does not indicator for product reliability. allow a high degree of flexibility in the type of mean that the turbine did not produce electricity. control algorithm that can be implemented Control systems are important in the overall trend ENVIRONMENT ACTIVITIES to capture more energy from the wind. Turbines are which again might reduce the over-dimensioning of getting bigger and bigger, and control engineers the construction. This will in turn allow reductions of have to develop new control solutions in order to the capital investment and increase the ROI of wind balance the energy production with the loads in turbines. order to prevent damage to turbines and possible system failures. L IFETIME EXTENSIONS OF WIND TURBINES The ‘C’ software is also improved by adding new methods and functionalities in the wind turbine The wind power industry started in the 1980’s and controller in order to predict the future wind turbine has grown ever since. This also means that the behaviour and control based on this prediction. accumulated number of wind turbines have passed Data accessibility, analysis, and pattern detection 200,000 units globally. combined with a Turbine Optimising Tool Chain (TOTC) will provide the customers with predicOperating as a stand-alone power generator for tive models giving maximised production based on 24/7/365 the wind turbine is constantly in motion, stable operational conditions and will also enable and therefore wear and tear becomes an issue. Meproactive maintenance plans (to lower maintenance chanical parts will be exchanged, lubrication must costs and increase the lifetime of the turbine). be made and components must be replaced in order to keep the turbine operational. The ‘C’ platform has anticipated this trend and consequently ‘C’ is much more than just a controlkk-electronic has recently launched a control system ler. The individual parts of ‘C’ make out a complete package for wind farm owners, allowing them to concept, which enables users to simulate, test and increase the lifetime of wind turbines. verify diverse control schemes. The purpose is of course to optimise wind turbines in relation to loads Research has shown that 42 % of problems can be for all kinds of wind conditions. As one result, ‘C’ traced to component failures, while another 21 % might improve the structural integrity of the turbine, can be attributed to the failure of control systems ENVIRONMENT ACTIVITIES that are unable to resist the harsh environment for When focusing on our employees we want to promote extended periods of time. This results in downtime health and safety in the workplace. Therefor we have – loss of production – and with increasing age of in the past year continued our work to obtain the the turbine also increasing difficulties of obtaining OHSAS 18001 certification (Occupational Health and replacement components. Safety Management System). This certification ensures our commitment to continuous implementation Therefore kk-electronic and a cooperating partner and improvement of the way we manage our health B & R (Austria) have developed an alternative apand safety systems. We obtained the OHSAS 18001 proach, the installation of a new control system. certification in November 2012. With this step, kk-electronic is focused on the requirements of the customers and the industry. By In January 2013 we have also been audited by Intercombining kk-electronic’s decades of experience as tek in regards to Workplace Conditions Assessment provider of controller design, safety strategy and (WCA) for our main production facility in Poland. This system integration with B&R’s proven expertise in audit covered assessment of labor conditions, wages, the field of PLC’s, the two companies have come up working hours, health, safety, management systems with a solution that drastically improves the availand environment. The result of the audit was overall ability and productivity of existing wind turbines. It and on each area, an above average score compared does so by retrofitting the control electronics while with the benchmark both locally in Poland, within the leavi ng the mechanical design intact, which means industry and globally. minimal downtime for implementation and near ly imEMPLOYEES medi ate ROI. At kk-electronic we are convinced that each of our OHSAS 18001 CERTIFICATION PROCESS Today, kk-electronic is the world’s largest employees is essential to our success. Our employsupplier of control systems for offshore wind During 2012 we finalised our implementation of OHees make all the difference in our efforts to fulfil the SAS 18001 by getting our Management System certiturbines. company’s strategy in an ever changing environment fied according to the OHSAS 18001 standard by DNVwhere rapid growth, technology development, comDET NORSKE VERITAS. The following describes the petition and internationalisation continue to be the overall actions taken to achieve the certification: constant. EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES ANALYSIS OF REQUIREMENTS 1 As the company already had a certifi ed quality and environmental system the first step was DNV BUSINESS ASSURANCE DNV BUSINESS ASSURANCE to conduct a gap analysis. The existing QHSE policies (Quality, Health, Security and Environment) were compared with the content and the requirements in OHSAS 18001. Based on this gap MANAGEMENT SYSTEM CERTIFICATE APPENDIX TO CERTIFICATE analysis an action plan was prepared to ensure that requirements in OHSAS was incorporated in Certificate No. 128080-2012-AHSO-DEN-DANAK This appendix refers to certificate no. 128080-2012-AHSO-DEN-DANAK the existing quality and environmental system. This is to certify that kk-electronic a/s kk-electronic a/s Locations included in the certification are as follows: TRAINING AND AUDITS 2 In order to be able to perform future internal audits in compliance with OHSAS 18001 an interBøgildvej 3, DK-7430 Ikast, Denmark Site Name kk-electronic a/s Address Bøgildvej 3, DK-7430 Ikast P-number 1.011.075.424 Scope Development, production, delivery and service of electrical and electronic based control systems has been found to conform to the safety management system standard: nal auditor team was trained by the certification agency DNV. The internal audits were perkk-electronic Polska sp. z o.o. (Szczecin) Ul. Goleniowska 62, PL-70-847 Szczecin Development, production, delivery and service of electrical and electronic based control systems DS/OHSAS 18001:2008 formed with emphasis on the working environment. After the internal audits additional training kk-electronic a/s, Aalborg Pontoppidanstræde101, rum 15, DK-9220 Aalborg Development of electrical and electronic based 1.014.732.884 control systems and involvement of employees was done through the management system. An OHSAS intro was and Danish occupational health and safety regulation no. 87 dated 31th of January 2005 Ø. prepared for the management to go through with their departments. Finally DNV conducted a This certificate is valid for the following product or service ranges: pre-audit and corrective actions from this audit were integrated in our workbook for continual Development, production, delivery and service of electrical and electronic based control systems improvements. Locations included in the certification will appear in the appendix. Place and date: Hellerup, 2013-01-04 Place and date: CERTIFICATION AUDIT This certificate is valid until: DET NORSKE VERITAS, Hellerup, 2013-01-04 2014-11-30 BUSINESS ASSURANCE, DANMARK A/S This certificate is valid until: 3 DET NORSKE VERITAS, DANAK 2014-11-30 BUSINESS ASSURANCE, DANMARK A/S DANAK The audit has been performed under the Certification audits were conducted i n October and November of 2012 and after some corrective SYSTEM Reg.nr. 6503 supervision of: The audit has been performed under the SYSTEM Reg.nr. 6503 supervision of: actions the company got the OHSAS 18001 certificate. Certificate that kk-electronic has been Jens Østergaard Lead Auditor Lars Appel Managing Director Jens Østergaard Lars Appel found to confirm to the safety management system standard DS/OHSAS 18001:2008. Lead Auditor Managing Director Lack of fulfilment of conditions as set out in the Certification Agreement may render this certificate invalid. Lack of fulfilment of conditions as set out in the Certification Agreement may render this certificate invalid. ACCREDITED UNIT: DET NORSKE VERITAS, BUSINESS ASSURANCE, DANMARK A/S, TUBORG PARKVEJ 8, 2., DK-2900, HELLERUP, DANMARK, TEL:+45 39 45 48 00, WWW.DNVBA.COM ACCREDITED UNIT: DET NORSKE VERITAS, BUSINESS ASSURANCE, DANMARK A/S, TUBORG PARKVEJ 8, 2., DK-2900, HELLERUP, DANMARK, TEL:+45 39 45 48 00, WWW.DNVBA.COM EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES O HS AS 1 8 0 0 1 LE A R N I N GS We have always had a focus on health and safety The process towards the certificate and the certiaspects in the workplace. Through our QHSE polification feedback from DNV has given us improvecies (Quality, Health, Security and Environment) we ment proposals and an increased awareness of set the company objectives. We ensure compliance occupational health and safety issues such as how with the standards DS/EN ISO 9001:2008 and DS/ to register, handle, prevent and communicate on EN ISO 14001:2004 for which the company is certiall levels of our organization. These insights will fied. benefit us in the continual work with maintaining and developing of our Management System for years In the certification process of OHSAS 18001 we to come. experienced that a vast majority of our previous efforts and existing targets were in compliance with PL AN FOR WORKING ENVIRONMENT environmental and occupational standards. However PROGRESS 2 0 1 3 we also recognised that safe operations depend not only on policies and procedures, but also on the The yearly management evaluation of the QHSE mind-set and behaviour of our employees. Theresystem takes place in the month of August. On the fore, we learned that it is necessary to build even management evaluation meeting the top managemore awareness among all employees, as we canment will set the new targets covering the fiscal not always count on internal standards and mandayear 2013/2014. The goal this year is to align and tory requirements to ensure safety in the workplace. create corporate objectives to support our integraWe therefore have to further develop and integrate tion of CSR in our daily performance in health and a strong “safety awareness” culture amongst our safety related issues. empl oyees. EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES EMPLOYEE ACTIVITIES C SR I N I T I AT I V E S I N O UR JO I NT their own discretion. By now all the employees • Company meetings are being and will continuhave joined the union. ously be held informing employees about the VEN T U R E K K Q I A NWE I I N CHI NA progress of the company and the possibilities kk-electronic’s joint venture collaboration with • In 2012 a collective contract has been signed within the company. QIANWEI, a part of the CSIC group, also demands by the company and the trade union on behalf of the employees and with the effect that the com• A common employee handbook will be developed for a focus on CSR and how to conduct our busipany increased the wages with a rate above induring the next year putting all existing policies nesses. kk-Qianwei has made a CSR report on their flation. In 2013, all the terms included in the coltogether in one place. initiatives showing their focus on CSR, with guidance and audit from the organisation of sustainable lective contract will be continually executed. investments, IFU. The following provides status on • kk-Qianwei supports increases the likelihood of commitment and achievements and plans for 2013. NO NUS E O F CHI L D L A B O UR I N T HE S UP its employees buying their own property as contributions to the national housing funds are part P LY CHA I N kk-Qianwei has fulfilled the commitments about human rights and non-use of child labor set out in the of the remuneration. All kk-Qianwei suppliers have signed a Code of Global Compact throughout 2012 and some action • All kk-Qianwei employees’ salary is above Conduct which states their commitment not to use plans have been made for 2013. minimum salary specified by the local governchild labour. All the supplier ’s renewed business ment; in 2012 there was no excessive overtime licenses have been received which means that they HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS complied with the labour law in China which states working, all the overtime working was paid according to the labour law of China. clearly: “The employer shall be banned from recruitkk-Qianwei supports internationally proclaimed huing juveniles under the age of 16”. man rights in all of its spheres of influence. • kk-Qianwei has never used child labor, no kkQianwei staff is under the age of 18. In 2012 all Chinese suppliers have signed clauses • kk-Qianwei has set up its own labour union to on human rights and checks have been carried represent the employees’ right, and a union for • The recruiting policy ensures no one below 18 out with no violations found. In 2013 the structure female employees was also set up to protect is hired and that male and female have sam e around supplier evaluation will be further strengththe female staff ’s right. The company provided opportunity. As a consequence kk-Qianwei now ened involving more departments. the unions with all the necessary conditions for carrying out its activities. All the employees in has higher representation of female workers than the company are allowed to join the union at comparable companies. CSR P R O GR E S S I N 2 0 1 2 A ND THE CSR SCOPE FOR 2013 CSR SCOPE FOR 2013 In the following we will provide an overview of our CSR activities and show the compliance with the ten This section also states our commitments for 2013: principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC): C S R Co mmitme nt 2012 C S R Ac t i vi t i es 2012 UNG C Pri nci p l e CSR Com m itm ent 2 0 1 3 CSR Ac tivities 2 0 1 3 U NG C Pr in c iple I mp lementatio n o f o ur Co de o f R i sk as s es s ment of s u p p l i ers 17, 10 Continuous im plem entation of our Conduc tion confor m it y audits with h ig h 1-7, 10 Co n d u c tt w ith o ur su p p l i e rs Code of Conduc t with our supplier s r isk supplier s S i gni ng of ou r Cod e of Cond u c t I nte grat i ng C S R meas u res i n s creeni ng p ro ces s of new s u p p l i ers Per for m ance indicator s in relation Align cor porate per for m ance indicato r s to CSR ac tivities on environm ent and set com m on targ e ts 7-9 Co mp lian ce w i t h a n d ce r t i fi c at i o n R ev i s i ng exi s t i ng QHS E p ol i ci es to meet o f O cc u p atio n a l H e a l t h a n d S a fe t y re q ui rement i n OHS A S 18001 Creating policies on hum an r ights Creation of policies 1, 2 and no -use of child labour Tra i ni ng and au d i t cond u c t i on I m plem entation of policies Ce r t i f i cat i on i n Novemb er 2012 Pro mo te enviro n m e nt a l l y te c h O p t imi s i ng ou r cont rol s ys tems 9 no lo gies th ro u gh o u r p ro du c t develo pment Pro longi ng l i fet i me of w i nd t u rb i nes ® kk-e le ctro n ic a /s Bo e g ild ve j 3 DK-7 4 3 0 Ika st De n ma rk www.kk-e le ctro n ic.com Te l: +4 5 9 6 9 2 4 3 0 0
