Sustainability report 2012 Sustainability Sweden’s leading report forest company Sveaskog will be the most proﬁtable forest Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner and sells sawlogs, pulpwood and company in the short and long term. This will be biofuel to approximately 170 customers, primarily in the pulp and paper and achieved among other things by being best at sawmill industries. Sveaskog also works with land transactions and develops combining proﬁtable forestry with environmental the forest as a venue for hunting, ﬁshing and other nature-based experiences. responsibility. The subsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor AB is the Swedish market leader within Sustainability awareness is a natural part of forest regeneration and seedlings. Sveaskog’s business and is clearly stated in the The forest and its assets are Sveaskog’s core business. Conducting forestry owner’s, the Swedish state, owner policy. operations and developing new business opportunities and applications for Sveaskog has been reporting on its sustainwood raw material, wood products and forest land are a major responsibility. ability initiatives in accordance with the Global Sustainable development permeates every aspect of Sveaskog’s business. Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) guidelines since 2008. A tree that is planted today will be harvested in 50–120 years. The growing GRI is an international standard for presenting forest and production of wood raw material make a substantial contribution to and reporting and a way of working in order to counteract climate change. govern sustainability initiatives internally as well Sveaskog owns land worth approximately SEK 30 billion, has annual sales as fulﬁlling the assignment from the owner. of SEK 6.3 billion and approximately 700 employees throughout Sweden. Sustainability reporting is also a way of Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state. The main geographic market is providing an open and transparent description Sweden. of the business and its challenges, presenting sustainability targets and target performance, and increasing knowledge of the company. The 2012 Sustainability report is submitted by 170 timber customers Sveaskog’s Board of Directors. The report meets 36 ecoparks GRI’s application level B+ and is reviewed by PricewaterhouseCoopers AB, the company’s 702 employees auditors. 9.5 GWh electricity consumption 10,000 Contents felling sites 5% yield target 3 The past year 20% women 4 CEO’s comments 5 Chairman’s statement 6 Assignment, strategy and objectives 30 billion kronor 7 Sveaskog’s business 14% of Swedish in forest value 10 Targets and performance forest land 12 Sustainability 8,400 different leases 14 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality assessment 16 Debate and society 10.7 million m3sub 6.3 billion 20 Environment and conservation timber deliveries kronor in sales 24 Climate initiatives and carbon footprint 26 Employees 32 About the report 33 GRI G3 index with page references Financial calendar 39 Board signatures and Auditors’ Assurance 22 April Interim report January–March and AGM Report 19 July Interim report January–June 40 Risk and sensitivity analysis 24 Oct Interim report January–September 44 Corporate governance report Jan 2014 Year-end report 2013 48 Board of Directors 50 Group management Reports can be accessed at www.sveaskog.se –2– 2012 The past year The economic slowdown which started in 2011 continued in 2012. Prices of wood raw material fell which contributed to a lower operating proﬁt from continuing operations for Sveaskog. Sales volumes were maintained, however, in 2012 and were on a par with the previous year. The storm Dagmar in late Sveaskog’s railway terminal in Nattavaara, 60 kilometres south of Gällivare, was inaugurated in June. Sveaskog has invested SEK 10 million in the terminal and owns the 400-meter track, the signal system and switching gear. The terminal means that more raw material can be shipped by rail instead of by 2011 resulted in additional road which reduces carbon costs of SEK 70 million for dioxide emissions and leads to processing the storm-felled lower transport costs. timber. Three ecoparks were Operating proﬁt from inaugurated during the continuing operations decreased to SEK 848 million (1,085). year, Forsmark in northern Uppland, Tranuberg in north-west Dalarna Proﬁt for the year after tax increased to SEK 2,155 million (899) and Tjadnes-Nimtek in Norrbotten. Tjadnes-Nimtek has a total area mainly due to a reduction in the corporate tax rate starting in 2013. of 22,000 hectares and is approximately 30 kilometres long, making This affects deferred tax and the earnings impact is SEK 1,328 it Sweden’s largest ecopark. Sveaskog has decided on 36 ecoparks, million. which correspond to about 5% of the company’s productive forest land. The ﬁrst was opened in In the second quarter Sveaskog paid a dividend of SEK 4,473 2003. Including the three million to its owner, the Swedish state. added in 2012, the number of ecoparks now totals 32. The forest debate was heated in 2012. DN published an acclaimed series of articles about forestry and Sveaskog debated In autumn 2012 an its approach to felling in several forums. advertising campaign was conducted to increase interest During the political week in Almedalen, Sveaskog attended as a in becoming forest owners. leading player in the forest industry. Round table discussions were The campaign theme was organised with various politicians and opinion makers. “Forest ownership in new ways” and the advertisements A new vision and strategy were adopted during the year and try to challenge the traditional started to be implemented in September. A more customer-oriented image of a forest owner. organisation was put in place in the spring. Financial development 2008–2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Net sales, SEKm Operating proﬁt from Net sales, SEKm 7,240 6,034 6,951 6,724 6,307 continuing operations, SEKm Operating proﬁt from continuing operations, SEKm 744 924 1,280 1,085 848 8,000 1,400 7,240 1,280 Operating proﬁt, SEKm 1,738 2,915 3,031 1,459 1,422 6,951 6,724 1,200 6,307 1,085 Proﬁt for the year, SEKm 1,370 1,924 2,055 899 2,155 6,034 6,000 Return on equity, % 8.7 11.3 11.0 4.7 12.3 1,000 924 848 Yield, excluding capital gains on 800 744 property sales, % 2.6 3.3 5.4 4.4 3.2 4,000 Return on operating capital (incl. 600 Change in value of forest assets) % 7.5 12.3 12.5 6.1 5.8 Equity ratio, % 48 52 55 54 47 400 2,000 Gross margin, % 27 52 44 23 25 200 Operating margin, % 24 48 44 22 22 Total dividend, SEKm* 89 487 1,739 4,473 435 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 * Dividend for 2012 is proposed dividend. –3– CEO’s comments Sveaskog stands strong in the storm Weak economy in 2012 as well 2012 was a tough year for the Swedish forest industry. The economic slowdown that started in 2011 continued in 2012 and prices of wood raw material fell. Cutbacks were implemented in the pulp and paper industry. The Swedish krona was strong which affected this exportdependent industry. One tangible consequence of this pressure was that a number of sawmills went bankrupt and demand for wood raw material fell. The storm Dagmar, which felled a large volume of forest in 2011, led to signiﬁcant additional costs for Sveaskog during the year when the storm-felled trees were processed. In 2012, we did not achieve our ﬁnancial target of a yield of at least 5% and the ﬁgure was 3.2%. On the other hand, we achieved a total return of 12.3% which is well above the target of at least 7%. Total return for the year was mainly affected by the changed corporate tax rate. Despite the macroeconomic development, difﬁculties in the industry and falling prices, Sveaskog managed the year relatively well. Volumes were on a par with the previous year and although both earnings and yield decreased, our operating proﬁt from continuing operations was SEK 848 million. This says something about the strength of the Group and conﬁrms that we are a leading player within the Swedish forest industry. When smaller forest owners stop Per-Olof Wedin, President and CEO. felling because prices are too low, we at Sveaskog carry on. We are the backbone of the Swedish forest industry and we had considerable felling in our own forests in 2012 in order to meet our customers’ needs for access to wood raw material. Market return Sveaskog to be the most A few years ago our owner, the Swedish state, signiﬁcantly tightened proﬁtable forest company its requirements on Sveaskog with the focus on a market return. We are adapting to these more stringent demands and are in the midst of efforts to reshape the organisation, make our own work more efﬁcient and sharpen our offering so that customers feel that necessary shift in approach and working methods. I can already see Sveaskog is their most competent partner. The greatest challenge is positive effects from these changes. We have both reduced our costs to increase our knowledge of customers’ business, their technical and come closer to the customer. There is a wonderful sense of reality and adapt to meet their needs, simply be more customercommitment among our employees who want to be involved in oriented. This is how we will develop our business and thereby developing Sveaskog and to take part in the journey of change that improve proﬁtability. we have started. I would also like to mention “continual improvements” to which every individual can contribute in their day-to-day Customer and market-oriented organisation work. Maybe by doing something differently or simply no longer doing When I took over as CEO of Sveaskog in autumn 2011, I spent my something that does not create added value for the customer. We ﬁrst few months acquiring a picture of how the Group needs to must simplify and not be slaves to bureaucracy. This is why we have change in order to meet the requirements of its owner. In January more than halved the number of instructions for how things should be 2012 we presented a more customer and market-oriented organdone. isation and by 1 April this had been launched. Today, our customers meet us in three geographical areas, North, Central and South. To be the most proﬁtable forest company Property transactions are in a separate business area and our Our vision is to be the leading forest company. This means being the subsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor is a market leader in forest most proﬁtable forest company in the short and long term, being the regeneration and seedlings. preferred choice of business partners and employees, leading We have also developed a new vision and strategy. During the year, development and innovation in our industry and being best at several activities were underway in the company to cope with the combining proﬁtable forestry with environmental responsibility. –4– Chairman’s statement These are major challenges but in some parts of Sveaskog we are already there. Today, we are Sweden’s biggest forest owner, we Five questions to are the largest timber partner in the market and we are good at combining proﬁtable forestry with environmental responsibility. But Göran Persson this does not mean that we stop trying to improve. Above all, we need to do more to increase cost efﬁciency and productivity in our industry. In 2012, the Board decided Sveaskog is therefore involved in investments in innovation and on a new vision, a new technological development to drive the industry forward. strategy and a new organThe main features of the strategy are to improve proﬁtability in the isation. How do you see value chain from forest to customer, to develop business around these changes? timber and biofuel, and increase revenue from forest land. At the “We have formulated a clear same time, we will develop our forest holdings proﬁtably and goal for Sveaskog and drawn sustainably. The way we work is based in a culture characterised by the road map for the way our values: customer focus, innovation, simplicity and transparency. forward. The strategy is being implemented and is very much about customer focus and Many stakeholders around thriving forestry continual improvements to Our business is based on thriving and growing forests. The fact that create value for the customer. we make the best ﬁnancial use of it beneﬁts all our stakeholders. I The changed organisation Göran Persson, Chairman. believe few companies in Sweden have such a broad network of allocates proﬁt responsibility contacts as Sveaskog. Everything from banks and investors involved to make it clear and close to both the individual and the in our ﬁnancing to the reindeer industry in the north, various forest customer, which is a strong driving force for achieving results. entrepreneurs, a wide range of interest groups, our state owner and We could already see the effects of this in 2012, even though it therefore the Swedish people. was a challenging year.” One of our owner’s ﬁnancial targets is a yield of 5%. In addition, we have targets for return on equity, equity ratio and dividend. In To what extent is Sveaskog responsible for maintaining a 2012, we paid a dividend to the state of almost SEK 4.5 billion, which viable timber market? was SEK 4 billion in excess of the target. The reason for this large “Sveaskog’s responsibility is to generate a market return to its extra dividend was to adjust the capital structure and reduce the owner even when the economy is weak. 2012 was a weak year equity ratio in the Group. with falling prices and naturally Sveaskog cannot reduce prices The proposal to the Annual General Meeting in April is a dividend to an unlimited extent. Then it is in Sveaskog’s interest that the of SEK 435 million, which corresponds to 70% of proﬁt after tax Swedish sawmill industry is viable and one thing that ensures excluding non-cash ﬂow changes in value. this is the availability of wood raw material. Without Sveaskog the wood products industry would be at a standstill.” Responsibility for sustainable development Being Sweden’s largest forest owner is a major responsibility and What is the most important issue for the forest and wood industry? sustainable thinking is naturally embedded in our business. There “Climate change, not just for the forest industry but for the are also requirements on us as a state-owned enterprise to lead by whole of society. The forest plays a decisive role here. It binds example in the Swedish business community. We apply the UN carbon dioxide and most of all when growth is greatest, when it Global Compact’s ten principles on human rights, labour law, is young and middle-aged. Sustainability issues have a natural environment and anti-corruption, and we report our work in accordand obvious place in Sveaskog’s strategy – the entire business ance with the Global Reporting Initiative, GRI. Our sustainability is based on developing the forest holdings proﬁtably and report is also reviewed by our auditors. sustainably.” We are reminded every day of the forest, the countryside and all the possibilities these offer people in the form of a rich life. Many What do you see as important issues in 2013? have opinions about how the forest should be managed and “I feel some concern about the issues in the forest policy harvested and in 2012 the debate was quite intense at times. But debate, where this is heading. Forest owners must be able to the fact remains – the Swedish forests are growing and the forest’s act based on their circumstances and not be hemmed in by ability to store carbon dioxide is positive for the climate. Extractions numerous regulations. It would be devastating to the forest are less than growth and we have rich and thriving forests in Sweden. industry if more red tape makes forestry difﬁcult.” And our mission is to conduct commercial forestry with a market return over time. The forest is part of the Swedish soul and the fact How do you see the market situation for the industry? that it involves and concerns people is a strength. This also means “We are in a recession which could be lengthy and the that Sveaskog involves and concerns. This bodes well for the future. challenge is to meet the changed market conditions, the reduced demand and the effects of the strong Swedish krona. This affects the proﬁtability of the entire industry. So far, Sveaskog has been successful in adapting to the difﬁcult times even though operating proﬁt was lower in 2012 than in the Stockholm, March 2013. previous year. There will be setbacks in 2013 although there Per-Olof Wedin, President and CEO. are some signs that the bottom has been reached.” –5– Assignment, strategy and objectives Business which generates a market return Sveaskog’s assignment These targets are long-term and relate to the average over a Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state and its assignment is to business cycle, which is normally six-seven years. operate on a commercial basis and generate a market return. The company should be an independent player with forestry as its core Overall strategy activity, without major interests of its own as an end-user of wood raw Sveaskog’s core is its forest holdings and the foundation of the material. Closely related activities may also be conducted provided business is proﬁtable and sustainable development of the forest. This they contribute to increasing the company’s returns. Sales of land on involves managing the forests in a way that provides the highest market terms will enable reallocation of land holdings and add-on long-term proﬁtability and ﬂexibility. When the forest is felled this is purchases for private forestry, particularly in rural areas. Sales of land based on long-term harvesting calculations that beneﬁt long-term will be carried out until 10% of the area owned by the company at its growth and maximise timber extraction. At the same time, Sveaskog formation in 2002 has been sold. has high ambitions to contribute to strengthening biodiversity by using 20% of its productive forest land for nature conservation in Group vision ecoparks, nature conservation forests and showing consideration for Sveaskog is to be the leading forest company, which means: nature when felling. • Being the most proﬁtable forest company in the short and long Sveaskog’s operations are commercial and must generate market term returns. One key strategic issue in efforts to achieve this is to • Being the preferred choice for business partners and employees increase proﬁtability in the value chain from forest to customer. • Leading development and innovation in the industry Production and efﬁciency will be increased through innovation, • Being best at combining proﬁtable forestry with environmental continual improvements and building on best practice in the business. responsibility The right quantity and quality will be delivered at the right time. Effective purchases and an improved supplier base are essential. Objectives To increase proﬁtability deals relating to timber and biofuel are • Increased proﬁtability developed. This is about focusing on proﬁtability over volume, • Satisﬁed customers matching supplies and services and increasing the value and • Most attractive employer and client consumption of wood. • Leader in innovation and efﬁciency Sveaskog’s large holdings of forest land are an asset with potential • Leader in sustainable development for increased revenues. Revenues from the forest land will be increased through land concessions and new business based on Financial targets: forest land, leasing out land for business activities and recreation. • Yield at least 5% Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner and works to be the • Return on equity at least 7% leading forest company. The corporate culture is characterised by • Equity ratio 35–40% customer focus, innovation, simplicity and transparency. Attractive• Dividend at least 60% of proﬁt after tax excluding non-cash ness will be strengthened and diversity increased in order to secure adjustments in accordance with IFRS. Sveaskog’s consolidation long-term resources. requirements and ﬁnancial position in general shall be taken into account. Increase proﬁtability in Develop business Increase revenues OBJECTIVES the value chain from around timber from forest land Increased forest to customer and biofuel proﬁtability Greater customer Proﬁtable and sustainable development of forest holdings satisfaction Innovation and efﬁciency Create a culture for the leading forest company Sustainable development Attractive Customer focus Innovation Simplicity Transparency employer –6– Sveaskog offers a broad range of wood raw material and develops deliveries based on customer requirements. The forest is the core business. Seen here Forest Field Assistant Göran Johansson. –7– Sveaskog’s business Forest business in new ways Decentralisation and customer orientation silviculture, felling and selling. Added to this are pure property As part of efforts to develop the business with a greater customer transactions. focus, a changed organisation was introduced on 1 April 2012. The organisation is characterised by decentralised proﬁt responsibility, a Sustainable management and responsible harvesting clearer decision-making structure, increased customer orientation, A good return on forest holdings requires sustainable management more effective collaboration and resource optimisation. Great as well as effective and responsible harvesting. Felling is improved by importance is attached to taking advantage of being one Sveaskog. using planning tools, better machines, new methods and innovations Business activities are organised in three market areas: North, in daily work. Central and South. The market areas have overall responsibility for The basis for sustainable forestry is that long-term growth is in line sales, production ,logistics and forestry within their geographical area. with or exceeds extraction. Sveaskog is today the leader in Sweden Concessions, property transactions and property management have in forest regeneration and seedlings through its wholly owned been placed in a single business area: Properties. Svenska Skogssubsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor AB. plantor AB and Sveaskog Baltfor SIA operate as subsidiaries. Sveaskog buys timber in the ﬁeld as well as importing wood raw material depending on customer demand. A large proportion of Increased revenues from forest land imports are made through its subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. Sveaskog owns 14% of productive forest land in Sweden which has a value of approximately SEK 30 billion. In addition to active forestry, Timber business adapted to customer needs Sveaskog also used the land for hunting, ﬁshing and other activities. Access to wood raw material is a competitive factor and the product Sveaskog works to strengthen its forest holdings in areas where it range is adapted to meet customer needs. Sveaskog is Sweden’s has customers, at the same time as part of the business is to develop leading seller of wood raw material and offers a broad range within revenue opportunities from land holdings. the segments sawlogs, pulpwood and biofuel. Sveaskog carries out felling in about 10,000 locations around Sweden which makes A natural cycle from forest to customer logistics and transports key areas where improved efﬁciency means Sveaskog’s business starts with an understanding of customer needs lower costs. Customers are primarily Swedish sawmills and pulp and – a demanding challenge in a business where the raw material takes paper mills. Biofuel is sold to thermal power stations, combined heat 60 years to become ready for harvesting. Sveaskog’s business can and power plants, forest industries and pellet manufacturers. be described as a natural cycle of planning, land usage, planning, Value chain from forest to customer Properties Wood raw material Timber Customers Market areas business Wood products Sawlogs industry such 43% as sawmills N C S Property transactions Own forest O E O R N U Pulpwood and chips Pulp and paper industry T T T 40% H R H Water and land Purchased A concessions timber Energy L producers such Biofuel as thermal 10% power stations, CHP stations and industry TRAN S PORT AN D LOG I STICS –8– A natural cycle with a customer focus A customer-oriented organisation Market area Final felling North Thinning Felling CFO residues Finance, Information Purchasing, IT, Market area C for biofuel Brand Ash Legal, Business Development Central U restoration Regeneration and Innovation S Old through growth Newly planted planting T forest Market area Middle-aged Young forest or sowing CEO South O forest M E Forest and HR Business area R environmentt Properties S Thinning Svenska Cleaning Skogsplantor AB Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner Sveaskog owns 14% of forest land in Sweden, Total delivery volume spread across the entire country. Most of the 000s m3sub forest land is in the northern part of the country. Land sales are conducted on 12.4 commercial terms and designed to enable 12 11.3 10.8 10.6 10.7 reallocations and add-on purchases for private forestry, particularly in rural areas. 9 Sveaskog is assigned by the state to sell 10% of the land owned by the company at its formation in 2002. 6 By year-end 2012, 7.2% had been sold. Swedish forest owner 3 structure, % Share of productive forest land 08 09 10 11 12 Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner. In 2012, timber delivery volumes solid under bark (sub) were on a par with the previous year and amounted to 10.7 thousand m3sub. Sveaskog’s land area Total 4.1 million hectares Private owners 50% Private forest companies 25% Sveaskog 14% Other private owners 6% State 3% Other public owners 2% Productive Source: Swedish Forest Agency and forest land Sveaskog. Sveaskog owns approximately 4.1 million hectares of land, of which about 3.1 million hectares is Production forests excluding nature productive forest land. conservation* 2.46 million hectares Nature protection and conservation including montane forest region 0.7 million hectares Other 1.0 million hectares * Consideration for nature at felling 0.22 million hectares. –9– Targets and performance Sveaskog’s assignment from its owner is to deliver a market return. integrated work with sustainable business and to present, report and Return is measured as yield and return on equity. There are also follow-up sustainability work according to the international standard targets for equity ratio and dividend. The targets are long-term and Global Reporting Initiatives, GRI. relate to an average over a business cycle. Sveaskog has adapted management by objectives within sustainIn addition to economic targets, Sveaskog is governed by its ability work to environmental targets for biodiversity, water and land, assignment from the state to set a good example within sustainable and climate impact and emissions. Within social responsibility targets development, which is deﬁned as “sustainable development is have been formulated for satisﬁed employees, good leadership, no development which satisﬁes the needs of today without jeopardising work-related injuries, a more even gender balance, and social the ability of future generations to satisfy their needs”. Requirements responsibility within good business relations and conﬁdence in include support for and compliance with international guidelines, Sveaskog. The sustainability targets will be reviewed in 2013. Economic targets and performance 2012 Yield, % Return on equity, % 12.3 6 12 11.3 5.4 11.0 5 Target at 10 4.4 least 5% 8.7 4 8 3.3 3.2 Target at least 7% 3 6 2.6 4.7 2 Yield for 2012 amounted to 3.2%, 4 which is below the target of at Return on equity was 12.3%, which 1 least 5%. The main reason is less 2 is well in excess of the target of at favourable earnings due to lower least 7%. The reason for the high prices and costs for storm-felled return is mainly the effects of a 08 09 10 11 12 forest. 08 09 10 11 12 changed corporate tax rate. Equity ratio, % Dividend, SEKm 60 5,000 * Incl. Consolidated value for 55 54 4,473** dividend of Ersättningsmark 52 Dividend in excess i Sverige AB. 50 48 of dividend target 47 4,000 ** Proposed dividend, to be Dividend according decided by the 2013 AGM. to dividend target 40 Target 35–40% 3,000 Dividend over time to correspond to at 30 least 60% of proﬁt after tax, excluding non-cash adjustments according to 2,000 1,739* IFRS. Sveaskog’s consolidation 20 The equity ratio amounted to 47% requirements and ﬁnancial position in at year-end, which is higher than general shall be taken into account. 1,000 10 the target of 35–40%. The equity For 2012 the Board proposes a 487 435 ratio decreased in 2012 due to an dividend of SEK 435 million, which extra dividend to the owner of SEK 89 corresponds to 70% of adjusted 08 09 10 11 12 4,000 million. 08 09 10 11 12 proﬁt after tax. – 10 – Environmental targets and performance 2012 Biodiversity Water and land Climate impact and emissions Target: 20% of productive forest land within each Target: Identify valuable aquatic ecosystems and Target: To reduce emissions from combustion of forest region to be used as nature conservation draw up action plans. fossil fuels by at least 30% by 2015, comparative land. year is 2008. Performance: Selection model for aquatic landPerformance: 20% has been set aside and tools scapes has been developed and one aquatic Performance: Fossil emissions of carbon dioxide in for selection, reappraisal and restoration are in landscape per market area has been inventoried. 2012 from Sveaskog’s entire operations totalled place. Management plans will be drawn up and proposed 134,000 tonnes, of which 78,000 tonnes came action carried out. 100 wetlands have been from timber transports and 41,000 tonnes from Target: Create ecoparks corresponding to restored. The target has thus been reached. silviculture and felling. In 2008, emissions from approximately 5% of forest land. timber transports amounted to 77,000 tonnes and Target: Reduce number of signiﬁcant incidences 38,000 tonnes from silviculture and felling. No Performance: 36 ecoparks totalling 175,000 marked reduction in emissions for the signiﬁcant of hauling damage. hectares (5%) decided on, 32 have been parts has thereby taken place. The assessment is, inaugurated. Performance: 92% (93) of felling operations at however, that a marked reduction may occur in the random assessments were approved with regard next two years due to increased use of renewable to signiﬁcant hauling damage. fuels in harvesting and road transports, increased use of rail transports and successive efﬁciency improvements. On the other hand, management’s assessment is that the target of a 30% reduction will probably not be fully achieved by 2015. Social targets and performance 2012 Employees Social responsibility Satisﬁed employees* No work-related injuries Good business relations Conﬁdence in Sveaskog Employee Satisfaction Index Work-related injuries per 1,000 FTEs Customer Satisfaction Index Conﬁdence Index* Target: 70 Target: 0 Target: 70 Target: 67 Performance: 69 (2011) Performance: 9.5 (6.0) Performance: 65 (64) Performance: 67 (2010) Completed performance reviews More even gender balance Supplier Satisfaction Index Stakeholder dialogues Target: 100% Target: 70 Target: 2,800 people/year Gender balance/unit* Performance: 96% (2011) Performance: 67 (70) Performance: 4,490 (4,188) Target: More even gender balance/unit Good leadership Performance: More even gender balance Contractor Satisfaction Index * Measurement planned for 2013. at one out of three units Target: 70 Leadership Index Performance: 70 (69) Target: 70 Proportion of women managers Performance: 72 (2011) Target: Higher percentage Performance: 27% (23) * Survey performed every two years. * The three units comprise permanent employees within the market areas including the Properties business area as well as Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s staffs, and Svenska Skogsplantor AB. – 11 – Sustainability Sustainable forestry a good business Sustainable business initiated in 2012 and Sveaskog will be characterised by customer Sustainable business is about economics as well as environmental focus, innovation, simplicity and transparency. and social responsibility. Sveaskog is Sweden’s largest forest owner Skills supply issues are in focus for Sveaskog. The average age and a leading forest company which means a major responsibility to of employees is relatively high and the challenge is to attract young combine proﬁtable forestry with environmental responsibility. people and new groups with different demands on development and Economy: By being a proﬁtable company Sveaskog can contribute leadership while competition for labour is intensifying. The objective to the positive development of society since its operations indirectly is to be the most attractive employer and client by 2016. generate employment in the entire country, often in rural areas. Part The forest, in addition to providing raw material for Swedish of Sveaskog’s assignment from its owner, the Swedish state, is to sell industry, is also a resource for people in the community and forest land in order to encourage private forestry which often Sveaskog has a variety of stakeholders affected by what happens to provides support in rural areas. Approximately 13,000 hectares of forest land. The Group strategy is based on the development of how land was sold in this way in 2012. the forest land is used, and this can beneﬁt hunting, ﬁshing and Environment: The climate issue is a threat but also an opportunity outdoor activities, but also other commercial activities such as for the forest and for Sveaskog. The forest is affected by changing tourism and wind energy. weather and temperature conditions such as increased precipitation and more storms. At the same time, the growing forest and applications for wood play a signiﬁcant role in mitigating climate change. The growing forest binds carbon dioxide, which can mean new business opportunities in a market for ecosystem services. Economy Environment Sveaskog measures its carbon footprint and the largest part comes from timber transports. Efﬁcient logistics and renewable fuels are key components of efforts to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels. Social responsibility: Sustainability initiatives are supported by the code of conduct. This is based on the UN Global Compact and Social includes open communication and dialogue. Key values are an responsibility important part of the dialogue with both internal and external stakeholders. An internal dialogue about the corporate culture was Direct economic values Sveaskog generates and distributes value to different stakeholders. Value per stakeholder is shown below SEKm Stakeholder 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Value generated Revenues From customers 8,328 7,044 7,773 7,257 6,619 Value distributed Cost of goods and services To suppliers and contractors –5,940 –4,505 –5,087 –5,048 –4,850 Employee wages and beneﬁts To employees and social security costs –500 –540 –523 –578 –535 Net interest expenses To loan institutions –481 –283 –234 –246 –317 Tax To the Swedish state –197 –385 –321 –220 –117 Dividend to shareholder * To the Swedish state through Ministry of Finance –810 –89 –487 –856 –4,473 Value retained 400 1,242 1,121 309 –3,673 * Previously the proposed dividend was reported, but since 2010 the dividend paid during the year has been reported. – 12 – Sustainability in Sveaskog Sveaskog’s sustainability initiatives are about balancing operations so that Governing documents economic, environmental and social objectives are met. Governance of these • Finance policy activities is described in the corporate governance report on pages 44–47. • Insurance policy Sustainability work is also governed by a framework of policies and guidelines. • Information policy • Climate strategy Economy • Environmental policy Economy Responsibility: To safeguard the long-term value of the forest, to • Personnel policy increase the return on forest capital by developing the use of both • Forest policy forest land and wood raw material. To pursue sustainable forestry, • Code of conduct to manage and develop the forest holdings, to provide returns to • Guidelines for habitat management the owner and to be a long-term and trustworthy supplier of wood raw material. • Guidelines for the purchase of timber To invest in new, environmentally sound and efﬁciency technologies and to sell from outside Sweden land at market prices. As a proﬁtable business to create job opportunities, • Guidelines for business travel especially in rural areas. • Guidelines for combating offensive discrimination Prioritised activities 2013: 2013: to work in line with the adopted strategy to • Guidelines for salary setting be the most proﬁtable forest company (see page 6). • Guidelines for purchasing • Guidelines for gifts, beneﬁts and representation Environment Environ• Guidelines for forestry contractors in Sveaskog ment Responsibility: To set a good example in the development of • Trade union co-operation agreement sustainable utilisation of the forest’s various natural resources, to • Plan for equality and diversity maintain the forest’s long-term production capacity, to limit • CSR requirements for contractors and suppliers negative impact on the aquatic environment and protect valuable • FSC forestry standard cultural environments. To preserve and strengthen biodiversity and to develop • FSC traceability standard opportunities for rewarding nature experiences with ecoparks, nature conservation forests and work with general consideration. • PEFC traceability standard Prioritised activities 2013: Measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions, • Global Compact measures for continued reductions in hauling damage and development of GRI indicators : ecosystem services. EC1-4 EN 28 PR3-6 EC6-9 EN30 LA1-2 Social responsibility EN3-4 SO2-3 LA4-7 Responsibility: Responsible business based on the code of Social EN11-14 SO5 LA10-14 responsconduct and targets for social responsibility, such as zero workibility EN16-18 HR1-7 related injuries and a more even gender balance. To offer EN20 HR9 employees inspiring and responsible work in a good working environment. To contribute to several businesses operating in the forest at the same time, such as hunting, ﬁshing and tourism. Prioritised activities 2013: Long-term skills supply active working environment efforts, a new leader programme, implement governing values, close and The “growth game” is an educational tool to encourage developed co-operation with entrepreneurs. discussions about values and corporate strategy. The Central Market Area is seen playing here. – 13 – Stakeholder dialogue and materiality assessment Ongoing dialogue with large sections of society Wide variety of stakeholders Customer and employee surveys Sveaskog’s operations, goals and strategies affect many different Customer, supplier, contractor and employee surveys which include stakeholders. The numerous applications for forest, land and water questions relating to sustainability are conducted every second year. lead to a considerable need for dialogue with many people and All surveys except the employee survey were carried out in 2012. organisations in order to understand the various stakeholders but Results show that customers, suppliers and contractors expect also to set priorities for the business. Stakeholder dialogues are Sveaskog to work with issues such as business ethics, optimised ongoing and provide valuable information and basis for decision. They transport and logistics, the role of forestry in Sweden as well as are also in line with Sveaskog’s value of transparency. The aim is to issues linked to skills supply and working environment. The employee maintain a close dialogue that leads to greater awareness and survey conducted in 2011 showed, among other things, that more participation. In this way, potential disputes can be more easily people than previously were proud to work at Sveaskog and would be identiﬁed. Consultation and dialogue meetings do not always result glad to recommend others to apply for jobs in the company. in consensus, but are characterised by respect for different and conﬂicting interests. Materiality assessment Dialogues and meetings with external stakeholders are reported in In accordance with GRI’s guidelines, Sveaskog has performed a the environment and quality management system. This reporting materiality assessment and identiﬁed the key issues for the company provides structure for the dialogues and facilitates systematic and its stakeholders from a sustainability perspective. Dialogues are follow-up of issues. Reported dialogues in 2012 include business an important source for the materiality assessment and contribute to development discussions with entrepreneurs, dialogue and cosetting priorities both in the operations and for determining the operation relating to forest and cloven-hoofed game as well as content of the sustainability report. dialogues with neighbours, road associations, etc. The target is to Areas assigned the highest priority are proﬁtability, skills supply, have a dialogue with 2,800 people/year and the result in 2012 was working environment and health, business ethics, brand, climate 4,490 (4,188). effects and biodiversity. Stakeholders Sveaskog has structured stakeholder dialogues which are documented. This overview shows the key issues for the ten principal stakeholders. Employees Owner Customers Contractors Timber suppliers Issues Skills development Market return, proﬁtProduct quality, effectiDeveloped coAbility to pay, market and supply, working ability, sustainable ve logistics, renewable operation, renewable prices, renewable environment and business vehicle fuels, technical energy, contract/ energy, quality of felling health, organisation development, FSC®, remuneration issues assignments, skills Sveaskog’s role in the and working environsupply, working environmarket, reliability, ment ment, information about long-term relationships services What is Internal training Proﬁtability targets, FSC® certiﬁcation, Long-term co-operaGood liquidity, market programmes, supports corporate governance measures delivery tion, gold suppliers, prices, FSC® planning Sveaskog internal mobility, active report, sustainability precision, develops co-operation projects, for felling assignments, doing? recruitment, working report new fuels, timber information and develops new fuels, environment initiatives traceability, market evaluations information activities and develops the prices, code of organisation. conduct Dialogue Performance reviews, AGM, board meetings, Customer Satisfaction Contractor Satisfaction Supplier Satisfaction employee survey, dialogue with ChairIndex, business Index, business Index, FSC® coopportunities manager days, trade man of the Board development development operation, forest days union co-operation, discussions discussions workplace meetings. – 14 – The materiality assessment is an aggregate of the issues that Sveaskog regards as strategically important and the issues that stakeholders regard as most important Local work and assignment providers Business ethics Hunting, fishing and outdoor activities Climate effects Co-existence Financial results High Skills supply Biodiversity Brand Significance Working environment and health of issues for Sveaskog’s stakeholders Research and development Use of land and water Equality and diversity Low Discrimination Low High Significance for Sveaskog and opportunities to influence The order of the aspects within each of the four ﬁelds has no signiﬁcance. Tourism companies, Nature conservation Lending institutions, Authorities hunters, anglers, etc. organisations lenders Reindeer herders Issues Swedish Forestry Act, Grants land for leases, Biodiversity, nature Financial targets, Considerate national environmental lease prices, forest and conservation stable ﬁnancial ﬂows, silvicultural measures objectives land for outdoor responsible business, and concessions that activities, SVP Forestry new business do not affect reindeers’ Herman Sundqvist’s opportunities winter grazing – coblog* existence What is Annual audits, Leases, investments in Environmental Reports ﬁnancial Formalised consultbusiness management recreation areas and objectives, FSC® targets, ﬁnance policy, ations, better maps, Sveaskog system, follow-up of ecoparks, roads and membership, nature prioritises long-term projects to develop doing? goals and key signs. SVP Forestry conservation strategy, business relationships land usage indicators, SVP Herman Sundqvist’s SVP Forestry Herman and customers with Forestry Herman blog. Sundqvist’s blog* proﬁtability potential Sundqvist’s blog* Dialogue Consultations regardEcopark inaugurations, Excursions, cooperCompany Consultations about ing ecoparks and hunt leader meetings, ation, SVP Forestry presentations, silvicultural measures, opportunities inaugurations, annual consultations, business Herman Sundqvist’s business discussions co-operation within general meetings, SVP discussions, SVP blog* Swedish FSC® Forestry Herman Forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog* Sundqvist’s blog* * Sveaskog’s head of Forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog started in 2012. It is a discussion forum and provides a natural contact between employees, industry professionals and the forest-interested public. – 15 – Debate and society Sveaskog a central player in the community Intensive debate on the forest as heritage The forest policy debate made a real impression in the media in 2012. Lack of environmental consideration and toothless forest legislation were some of the things stressed by the critics. During the year Sveaskog sought a dialogue with both critics and politicians in order to give the company’s views on these issues. Criticism of Swedish forestry has been rising in recent years. The forest industry has been accused, among other things, of failing to accept responsibility to balance environmental and production goals. Demands for a more strictly regulated forestry – where environmental consideration is given priority and consideration for how people experience the forest is given more space – are recurrent. Opinions about forestry from the environmental movement are not unusual, but the intensity and breadth in 2012 meant that a new situation arose. From generally being conﬁned to the trade press and local media, the debate suddenly appeared in the major daily newspapers and on national radio. A series of articles entitled “Skogen vi ärvde” (“The forest we inherited”) by Maciej Zaremba were published in Dagens Nyheter in the spring and gave extra resonance to these views which had been trotted out for many years. Zaremba’s articles were later published in Sveaskog’s Head of Forestry Herman Sundqvist debates book form which led to new publicity. In the autumn the Swedish frequently in his blog – there were some 50 different posts in 2012. The blog is a key dialogue tool. Radio’s P1 channel performed a critical review of forestry sustainability with a total of some 20 features. Sveaskog’s initial response to the series of articles was a Sveaskog is following the committee’s work closely. discussion paper where everyone was encouraged to react and take During the political week in Almedalen in summer 2012, into account the longer term perspective. Sveaskog’s view is that the Sveaskog organised round table discussions with researchers and forest has a bright future and that today’s forestry is conducted with representatives from the political parties with the theme “The great respect for sustainable development. In this debate Sveaskog sustainability of Swedish forestry”. These contacts were followed up was pleased to note the good reputation enjoyed by the company’s in the autumn with a handful of forest excursions with MPs from nature conservation work both in the environmental movement and Norrbotten and Västerbotten, individual party groups, as well the among politicians around the country. Ecoparks, set-aside land and Parliamentary Committee on Environment and Agriculture where active habitat management are investments that have given weight Sveaskog took note of the views and concerns about Swedish to Sveaskog’s message. forestry. This enabled identiﬁcation of the issues and forest development that worry politicians and how they would like forestry to be Review of forest policy improved. Discussions were held and an exchange of knowledge took In parallel with the media debate, a review of future forest policy was place. conducted in 2012 by the All Party Committee on Environmental In addition to forest excursions, Sveaskog also took part in debates Objectives set up by the Swedish government. During the autumn about Swedish forest policy during the autumn. One discussion forum Sveaskog therefore focused on meeting politicians in order to listen, which soon became a natural contact point among employees, argue and discuss. industry people and the forest-interested public is Sveaskog’s head The All Party Committee on Environmental Objectives is a of forestry Herman Sundqvist’s blog which he started in spring 2012. parliamentary group with a government mandate to produce a report There were some 50 posts during the year related to forest policy by June 2013 which will provide guidelines for future forest policy. and forestry. In 2013 a “debate guarantee” has been introduced where Sveaskog says that if anyone wishes to arrange a debate about forestry, forest policy or nature conservation, Sveaskog will take part. Five issues in focus for “We want to be the leading forest company and this is one way to future forest policy: live up that goal,” says Herman Sundqvist, SVP Forestry at Sveaskog. In spring 2013 the work of the All Party Committee on Environmental Objectives started an intensive phase and on several • Forestry must not lead to less biodiversity occasions Sveaskog has taken part in public hearings as well as • Forestry must be adapted to future climate change • Greater attention to people’s experience of the forest in more informal contexts discussed and given its views on how • Tougher sanctions against poor forestry – such as serious hauling damage production objectives and environmental objectives can continue to • The role of the forest and forestry in a bio-based economy guide sustainable forestry. – 16 – Collaboration with contractors and suppliers An active role in the debate Collaboration with local contractors and suppliers is important for the development of Sveaskog’s operations Forestry creates jobs for the • Arranged forest excursions with MPs company’s own work teams, and for contractors within felling, • Took part in debates on forest policy silviculture, transport and road maintenance. The indirect effect on • Arranged round table discussions on sustainable forestry in Almedalen employment is signiﬁcant. A study from 2008 shows that Sveaskog’s • Actively highlighted forest policy in external lectures and presentations operations in Norrbotten then generated 180 FTEs which in turn • Started a blog with a focus on forest policy • Lobbied politicians in parliament and conducted a dialogue with contributed to more than 2,600 job opportunities in the county representations in the All Party Committee on Environmental Objectives (source: Incedo Business Consulting 2008). In 2012, almost 900 • Introduced a debate guarantee to provide a counterpart to criticism of forestry (700) contractor companies were hired for planning, felling, roads, • Articles and PR work on Sveaskog’s nature conservation work. silviculture and planting. Sveaskog’s code of conduct guides relationships with contractors and suppliers and is based on high integrity, professionalism, respect 2012. It related to felling of a purchased stand. The case was and good ethics. In order to ensure that contractors meet the basic investigated and is now closed. requirements of being serious and competent, a check list is used in In 2012 Sveaskog took a step towards a deeper and proﬁtable the procurement process which requires the contractor to comply co-operation with contractors within felling and silviculture. The aim with laws and agreements, conduct working environment initiatives is to create a partnership that beneﬁts both Sveaskog and the and have the right machinery. Sveaskog also works with supplier contractor, as a more efﬁcient way of working, to realise potential assessments and has governing documents for compliance with savings, improve quality and have efﬁcient processes. The idea is to the Global Compact’s principles on human rights. The Contractor develop together with the contractor through a partnership agreeSatisfaction Index and business development reviews are key tools in ment based on deep trust, transparency, shared proﬁtability and co-operation with contractors. demanding challenges. The ﬁrst partnership agreements were One notiﬁcation of violation of the code of conduct was made in concluded in the autumn and they are called “Gold Contractors”. Sveaskog has an ongoing dialogue with different stakeholders. Seen here is Karin Fällman talking about Sveaskog’s forestry at an excursion for some 100 MEPs in the Stockholm area. – 17 – Compliance with the Global Compact principles for human rights and working conditions Global Compact Sveaskog has supported the UN Global Compact initiative since 2005 and thereby assumes a clear stance on issues related to human rights, social conditions, environmental responsibility, freedom of association and anticorruption. Global Compact is derived from the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work and the OECD’s principles and guidelines for how multinational enterprises should conduct responsible business. More information about Global Compact is available at www.globalcompact.org. Sveaskog works to substantiate how these principles are reﬂected in the business. Each year the “Communication on Progress” (CoP) report is submitted to Global Compact presenting the GRI indicators associated with the principles. Supplier respect for human rights Sveaskog strives to exert a positive inﬂuence on the industry by setting requirements for its supply chain. The code of conduct, general CSR requirements (which are linked to Global Compact) and detailed requirements for contractors and leaseholders govern assessments. Information about any deviations is reported in the environmental and quality management systems. (HR2). Corruption risks “In new ways” is a theme and approach discussed at the management Sveaskog works with internal control, the code of conduct, guidelines and meetings in 2012. Seen here is chief accountant Anders Jakobsson in requirements for business partners and the opportunity to report violations discussion with a colleague during a conference. anonymously. In response to changes in bribery legislation, the Board has discussed the company’s guidelines and control systems to ensure compliance with this legislation. The Latvian subsidiary, Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, has 33 Rights of indigenous peoples employees and sales are one per cent of the Group’s. The company was The Sami have interests in Sveaskog’s lands. Parts of the company’s lands are reviewed by auditors and no observations were made. The company purchases reindeer grazing lands. The lichen, which is important for winter grazing, can, timber in Russia and the Baltic countries. Training in the code of conduct is among other ﬂora, be affected by forestry. Sveaskog recognises the right of continuously provided to all employees. These operations may have a negative reindeer herders to graze their animals. impact since Russia is ranked as a country with high corruption. (HR1). Laws and regulations govern consultation with reindeer herders and are Random checks were performed at a supplier in 2012. (SO2) applied throughout the entire reindeer herding zone. Sveaskog follows the FSC®’s principles with speciﬁc commitments concerning relationships with local Discrimination communities and regularly consults with the Sami villages affected by forestry See page 28. (HR4) operations. As far as possible, Sveaskog tries to ﬁnd solutions that satisfy both Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining parties’ demands for land use and co-operates with the National Union of the Within Sveaskog there are no obstacles to joining a trade union or collective Swedish Sami People (SSR). Incidents are reported either in the environmental bargaining agreements. There is, however, no collective bargaining agreement and quality management system or as a violation of Sveaskog’s code of conduct. in Sveaskog Baltfor SIA. Through the CSR requirements, suppliers are also In 2012 one incident on application of FSC’s forestry standard was reported and covered on these issues. (HR5) processed. Child labour Number of consultations with reindeer industry representatives Sveaskog has employees aged 15–18 years for planting work in Sweden. The Time in Swedish Work Environment Authority’s statute on the work of minors regulates Year Number working days the work minors are allowed to perform. Managers responsible for the working 2012 65* 235 environment and trade union representatives responsible for occupational safety 2011 54* 220 monitor compliance with laws and statutes. Otherwise, there is no risk of child 2010 63* 210 labour in Sveaskog’s operations and in this matter the CSR requirements also 2009 35* 200 apply to suppliers. Sveaskog Baltfor SIA has no employees under 18 years of age. (HR6) 2008 35* 200 2007 100 400 Forced and compulsory labour 2006 100 380 The risk of forced and compulsory labour in Sveaskog’s operations is low because operations are mainly pursued in Sweden and fall under Swedish labour * Consultations with recorded minutes undertaken in the ﬁeld/ofﬁces. laws. With the CSR requirements, suppliers are also covered by this. (HR7) Previously meetings where no minutes were kept were also counted. Co-operation 2012 Co-operation with contractors* Number 2012 Forestry and planting 290 Felling and planning 317 Roadwork 270 Total 877 * Contractor teams with annual invoices of SEK >50,000. – 18 – About FSC® 100% and FSC® Mix Credit The raw material Sveaskog sells may not come from controversial sources. Breakdown of products sold by Sveaskog as certiﬁed 2012 Use of traceability certiﬁcates provides information about where the timber During the year Sveaskog has changed over from reporting in the Transfer comes from. Forest products are divided into two categories: FSC® 100% system to the Credit system (1 March 2012) also called Certikonto, for more which means that all wood raw material in the product comes from FSC®information see Certikonto se www.sdc.se certiﬁed forests and FSC® Mix Credit which means that most of the product’s wood raw material comes from FSC®-certiﬁed forests and the rest of the raw material comes from controlled sources, controlled wood. 2012 purchased from sources FSC® Controlled Wood is non-certiﬁed wood raw material that is mixed FSC® with FSC®-certiﬁed raw material in FSC® Mix Credit products. The FSC® FSC® Mix Controlled Controlled wood stamp provides assurance that the non-certiﬁed timber for Origin 100% Credit Wood example is not illegally felled and does not come from controversial sources. Imported timber 100% Own forests 14% 86% Field purchases Sweden 3% 15% 82% Sveaskog’s certiﬁcates Central purchases excl. PEFC 0% 17% 83% Timber from own certiﬁed terminals 57% 43% • ISO 14001 Share of total/Certikonto 9% 55% 36% • FSC® forestry certiﬁcate own forest • FSC® forestry certiﬁcate group Biofuel products are not included in this report. • FSC® traceability certiﬁcate • PEFC traceability certiﬁcate • PEFC forestry certiﬁcate group • AEOF customs simpliﬁcation/security and protection FSC® is an independent international organisation for certiﬁcation of responsible forestry. The aim is socially beneﬁcial, environmentally appropriate and economically viable responsible forest management. FSC®’s logotype on products represents independent certiﬁcation of forestry Martin Åkerlund is a forest ﬁeld assistant at Sveaskog based in and product manufacturing according to FSC®’s rules. Skellefteå. He spends most of his working hours in the forest where he measures, records and marks trees. – 19 – Environment and conservation Balance between production, environment and conservation Regard for biodiversity ﬁre, forest grazing, ﬂooding, dammed wetlands and storm felling. It is All forestry operations, transports and other activities related to not the disturbances themselves that are most important, but the forestry can affect biodiversity. Felling changes the landscape and habitats they create. Effective conservation must permit and emulate can harm biodiversity. Sveaskog’s nature conservation ambitions natural disturbances on a large scale within designated forests to include exemptions for sensitive biotopes and other forests with high preserve the diversity associated with these habitats. natural values. When felling, we exercise consideration for nature by For species that are dependent on spruce and beech, long leaving sensitive biotopes, edge zones, tree groups and individual undisturbed periods are the key to success. These species can trees untouched. Cleaning can change light conditions by streams, tolerate darkness and in the spruce and beech forests there is little for example, and therefore affect the micro climate. Soil scariﬁcation or no need for habitat management. Over time, light-demanding and planting change species composition, which also results from species such as willow, aspen, oak, birch and pine are clear losers in ditch maintenance. Planning of ditch maintenance includes a special pristine forests. When the spruce and beech grow the forests nature conservation assessment when we also review opportunities become dark and cold, the light-demanding tree species disappear to restore habitats by ﬁlling in some ditch sections. in the long term due to the lack of light. Forest roads can affect biodiversity by culverts which obstruct To conduct habitat management in forests with light-demanding migration of ﬁsh and disturb other aquatic species. Planning is based tree species is of great importance for preserving biodiversity. Habitat on natural conditions and takes such impact into account. management is used as a collective term for a variety of management practices designed to maintain or develop the biodiversity of the Habitat management forest. A large part of biodiversity is adapted to natural disturbances such as Sveaskog’s initiatives to protect and develop natural values 20% nature conservation land below the montane forest region Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2012 Size Third party measurement Co-operation 36 ecoparks 32 ecoparks have been inaugurated 80,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, 50-year agreement with the out of 36 planned. Silvicultural agreeof 145,000* County Administrative Swedish Forest Agency, ment with the Swedish Forest Agency Board WWF (Effect 20) in place for 28 of these ecoparks. Nature conservation Reported at www.sveaskog.se 300,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, WWF (Effect 20), Swedish forests County Administrative Forest Agency, County AdminBoard istrative Board and Swedish Society for Nature Conservation (deciduous forests) Nature consideration when Control self assessments 220,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency Method Development with felling follow-up, FSC® audit Swedish Forest Agency Nature conservation in montane forest region Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2012 Size Third party measurement Co-operation Sveaskog’s montane forest Nature reserves and ecoparks c 100,000 ha Swedish Forest Agency, Dialogue with Swedish Forest region boundary is based on formed and quality assurance of County Administrative Board, Agency the Swedish Forestry Act and nature conservation forest is FSC® audit FSC®. underway. Restoration Deﬁnition Status 31 Dec 2012 Size Third party measurement Co-operation Restoration of wetlands The objective of 100 restored – – Swedish Wetlands and aquatic landscapes wetlands has been achieved. Five Foundation, aquatic landscapes identiﬁed. Swedish Ornithological Work on action plans underway. Society * Additional 30,000 of ecopark located in montane forest region. – 20 – 20% nature conservation areas Nature protection in the form of formally protected areas, such as nature reserves and landowners’ own voluntary set-asides, are key parts of sustainable forestry. Sveaskog’s environmental targets include managing 20% of productive forest land below the montane forest region as nature conservation areas. This corresponds to 600,000 hectares of Sveaskog’s three million hectares of forest. Three conservation tools contribute in different ways to realising this goal: ecoparks, set-aside nature conservation forests and consideration for nature remaining in production forests. The ecoparks comprise approximately 145,000 hectares below the montane forest region and include both set-aside areas and forests with production targets. The ecoparks contribute to meeting the goals with some 80,000 hectares of conservation area. The nature conservation forests contribute a further 300,000 hectares. Most of the nature conservation forests in the northern part of the country are left to develop freely. Further south major habitat Pilgrim Falcon in Halle-Hunneberg Ecopark, management is conducted in order to restore or strengthen natural Västergötland. values. Consideration for nature in production forests contributes about 220,000 hectares of conservation area. It consists of those trees/ tree groups, edge zones and sensitive biotopes that remain in the compensated by a machine team, inadequate planning which was forest after forestry activities. Sveaskog’s forest holdings, including corrected before the measure was implemented, inadequate ecoparks and nature conservation forests, can be seen on the map management of sensitive biotopes, felled natural value trees, cultural on www.sveaskog.se. environments/ancient monuments, stump height, thinned areas and too few high stumps. International perspective The certiﬁcation company Bureau Veritas performed the annual Sveaskog’s total holdings of forest land according to the FAO external audits for FSC® and ISO 14001. deﬁnition (areas which have the potential to host trees with a The 2012 audit of the FSC® certiﬁcate generated two minor combined crown cover of more than 10% and a minimum height of non-conformances. These related to failures in information gathering ﬁve metres) is about 3.6 million hectares. Sveaskog conducts forestry from Sami villages when setting up a wind power facility and failures operations on about 2.5 million hectares, corresponding to 69%. in conjunction with felling of a couple of stands due to inadequate/ incorrect map data (relates to ISO non-conformance below). Water conservation projects The ISO 14001 audit generated seven non-conformances of which Sveaskog conducts several water conservation projects. In 2011 an one was serious relating to failures in map data and internal initiative was taken at the landscape level, where in a ﬁrst stage ﬁve communication in conjunction with the planning and execution of aquatic landscapes were identiﬁed. An inventory was made of 500 forestry activities. The minor non-conformances were mainly kilometres of watercourses in order to create vibrant and biologically concerned with the company’s guidelines not being followed or a lack rich wetlands. The work is part of an effort to realise the intentions of of description of how something should be done. The audits also the EU Water Framework Directive and national environmental generated a number of negative observations (situations where there objectives, including Flourishing Lakes and Streams and Thriving is a risk that non-conformance may occur). These will be rectiﬁed. Wetlands. An aquatic landscape is deﬁned as a catchment area The audit for the FSC® and PEFC traceability certiﬁcates (forest landscape) with high conservation ambitions for aquatic generated two non-conformances. Both concerned failures in the environments. In an aquatic landscape Sveaskog intends to be administration work for certiﬁed and uncertiﬁed timber. The 2012 responsible for water by preserving and enhancing the value of water audit of the FSC® and PEFC group certiﬁcate for Sveaskog’s timber and restoring damaged areas. In 2012, inventories continued and suppliers will be completed in spring 2013. work on action plans began. These plans contain descriptions of watercourses, blue target classiﬁcation and suggestions for meaHistorical ecological debts sures to improve the watercourses. Examples of measures are the There are contaminated areas after earlier forest industry operations, removal of obstacles to migration, replacing stones removed from the mining operations and various leases. Sveaskog has an environwatercourse to facilitate rafting, and the introduction of dead wood. mental responsibility for some of these areas. Svenska Skogsplantor has a number of nurseries with a serious Follow up of reported non-conformances contamination situation due to historical use of pesticides. Some of Guidelines and instructions are developed continuously in order to these are in need of environmental measures. ensure that Sveaskog meets undertakings and certiﬁcations. During 2012 a plant dump was decontaminated at Svartingstorps Conformance is checked by external and internal audits, external nursery in Hässleholm municipality. Work on prevention of the spread opinions and random samples of the self-assessments that are of pollutants to a water catchment in the municipality of Umeå is obligatory after each measure has been carried out. All reports of underway at Piparböle nursery. Svenska Skogsplantor’s work with deﬁciencies are registered in the environmental and quality managecontaminated areas is taking place in accordance with the company’s ment system and result in remedial and/or preventive measures. strategy which is that nurseries where there is a potential environmeDeﬁciencies reported relate for example to demarcation, the quality ntal risk and decommissioned nurseries that are of interest for other of thinning, hauling damage, inadequate planning which was applications are given priority for further examination. – 21 – Ecopark Naakajärvi Environmental data Largest fossil CO2 emissions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (thousand tonnes) Sveaskog Production All deliveries, 1,000 m3sub 12,451 10,834 11,268 10,605 10,721 100 Deliveries from own forests, 1,000 m3sub 5,496 5,629 5,694 5,704 5,962 77 82 78 80 Biofuel deliveries, 1,000 m3sub 946 1,339 1,461 1,498 1,479 71 72 Biofuel deliveries, TWh 1.9* 2.7* 2.9* 3.0* 3.0 60 Energy consumption 47 45 Non-renewable fuels, TJ 1,559** 1,602 1,895 1,750 1,781 41 41 Indirect energy consumption, MWh – 14,472 10,551 10,143 9,509 40 38 Emissions to air 20 Fossil CO2, ktonnes 115** 123 145 133 134 Of which direct emissions, ktonnes – 19 20 18,5 14 Of which indirect emissions, ktonnes – 104 125 114.5 120 08 09 10 11 12 NOX, tonnes 1,404** 1,339 1,677 1,541 1,516 SOX, tonnes – – 334 217 262 Forestry och Skogsvård Timber Virkesavverkning and felling transporter transports Land Total land area, million ha 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.1 4.1 Total emissions of carbon dioxide from Of which productive forest land, Sveaskog in 2012 amounted to 134,000 million ha 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.1 3.1 tonnes, on a par with 2011. Timber Proportion of unfelled transports accounted for most of total growth, % *** 45 41 44 44 39 emissions, 58%. Source: Analysis by Skogforsk and Sveaskog 2013. * 2.0 is used as the conversion factor between volume in m3sub and energy content in MWh. ** Relates solely to forestry, felling and timber transports. *** Includes uncultivated forests. – 22 – Environment and conservation Sveaskog’s 36 ecoparks Karhuvaara * Naakajärvi Ecological pearls in Leipipir Vuollerim Maunuvaara the forest landscape Luottåive Rautiorova Varjisån * Piteälven * Storklinten Tjadnes-nimtek Rosfors Dubblabergen Ledfat Ecoparks are ecological pearls in the Swedish countryside. They Skatan Jovan are vast forest landscapes where endangered species are given Käringberget conditions in which to ﬂourish. During 2012 Sveaskog inaugurated a further three ecoparks, Forsmark in northern Uppland, Tranuberg in Håckren Galhammar northwest Dalarna and Tjadnes-Nimtek in Norrbotten. Sveaskog sets aside 20% of its total forest lands for nature Tranuberg Fjätälven* Hornslandet conservation. Ecoparks are an important part of this and cover some Grytaberg 175,000 hectares. Sveaskog has decided on 36 ecoparks across the Ejheden Ovansjö country and 32 of these had been inaugurated by 2012. Malingsbo Forsmark For a long time Swedish nature protection meant only national Färna Ridö – Sundbyholmsarkipelagen parks and nature reserves. At the end of the 20th century biotope Kilsbergen protection and conservation agreements were added. Sveaskog Norra Vätterns skärgård introduced ecoparks in 2000. An ecopark is a tool for nature Halle-Hunneberg Omberg conservation work at landscape level and is characterised among other things by its size – a vast forest landscape of at least 1,000 Böda Hornsö hectares of forest. The average size is 5,000 hectares or 50 square Raslången kilometres. In an ecopark ecological values take priority over economic values. * Ecopark not yet inaugurated. At least 50% of the forest land in an ecopark is used for nature conservation. In the Forsmark ecopark, one of those inaugurated in 2012, a full 74% is set aside. Forsmark already has high natural values thanks to the diverse An ecopark often contains not just nature’s riches but also plenty deciduous forests and the chalky soil. Habitat management is of cultural landmarks. For example from the sixteenth to the end of practised so that even more species can ﬂourish – for example old the nineteenth centuries there was a successful iron industry in grazing lands are being exposed to create more meadows, ditches Forsmark. Among the remains are an old rafting channel, a wellare being ﬁlled to encourage alder and animal species that like preserved mill and evidence of crofts and farming. swampy conditions. Many birds are dependent on dead wood, so For Forsmark, as for the other ecoparks, Sveaskog has signed high stumps and dead trees are left in the forest. In some places the a contract with the Swedish Forest Agency where the company forest is burnt, called conservation burning. The aim is that over half commits to conserve, enhance and restore irreplaceable natural the forest will be deciduous in the future. assets. The agreement covers 50 years. Per-Olof Wedin, CEO of Sveaskog, and Sven Kihlström, Swedish Forest Agency in Uppsala, shake hands and are pleased with the agreement which will conserve, enhance and restore irreplaceable natural assets in the Forsmark ecopark. The agreement applies for 50 years from the inauguration on 14 June 2012 – 23 – Climate initiatives and carbon footprint A growing forest counteracts climate change The importance of the forest as a carbon sink 2015 compared with 2008. Activities to reduce own emissions are The growing forest and use of wood play a signiﬁcant role in primarily carried out within logistics and felling processes where the counteracting climate change. When renewable wood raw material is largest emissions are found. used it often replaces ﬁnite and fossil resources, for example in Sveaskog’s carbon footprint in 2012 was at the same level as the building materials, packaging and energy. Research and development previous year at 134,000 tonnes (133,000) of carbon dioxide. means that a growing number of products are based on wood raw Timber transports accounted for 58% of Sveaskog’s carbon dioxide material. This applies for example to car interiors, clothes, medicines emissions in 2012. More efﬁcient logistics to reduce the number and food. of transports and the use of renewable fuel are important areas to The growing forest binds carbon dioxide through photosynthesis. reduce emissions and also reduce costs. In this process carbohydrates are formed with the aid of carbon dioxide, water and sunlight. When the forest binds carbon dioxide it Investments and activities functions as a carbon sink. The forest can be a carbon sink to a Sveaskog assesses that emissions and therefore climate impact can varying extent during its life cycle, during different times of day and be reduced by 10% in a few years through improved transport depending on where in the country the forest is growing. But taken planning, more effective timber exchanges, developed rail transport overall, the forest’s ability to sequester carbon dioxide is positive for and timber vehicles and training in effective and fuel-efﬁcient driving the climate of lorries. One key for reduced emissions is increased use of renewable fuel. Increased growth in the forest provides greatest climate beneﬁt During the year the trial using 100% rape methyl ester (RME) as a Sveaskog’s climate strategy is based on the ability to do several fuel in a number of forest machines was increased from seven to 20 things simultaneously which help to counteract climate change. By units. This corresponds to about 300,000 litres of fuel in an annual managing the forest using the same sustainable methods as today, consumption of some 800,000 litres for these 20 machines. but doing more, the effects can be increased. As a result, the forest However, it is still difﬁcult to run on RME in freezing conditions. will bind more carbon dioxide and Sveaskog will produce more Some 400 people, both employees and contractors, have participated renewable wood raw material. Forestry is also adapted for unin RECO, a course on efﬁcient driving. desirable future climate effects such as storms and warmer weather. In Piteå, Sveaskog runs one truck to Smurﬁt Kappa’s paper mill Sveaskog contributes to society’s changeover to renewable energy on Bio-DME, a new generation of vehicle fuel made from biological systems, primarily by developing utilisation of forest-based biofuel residues from the paper mill. and by contributing to the development of forest-based fuel and wind Skellefteå Kraft is the group’s electricity supplier and supplies only power. eco-electricity from wind or hydro power. The Sveaskog Group’s total annual electricity consumption is in the order of 9.5 GWh. Climate impact and emissions Sveaskog is working to reduce internal travel by using video, data and Sveaskog’s target is to reduce own emissions by at least 30% by telephone conferences. The use of Lync as a meeting place is now The forest and its climate potential Swedish forests bind carbon Carbon uptake Kolupptag dioxide The forest binds most carbon dioxide when growth is greatest, i.e. when it is young and middle-aged. One cubic metre of forest binds on average just over one tonne of carbon dioxide per year. Since the Swedish forests grow by a total of 110 million cubic metres a Carbon release Kolavgång year, this means that they can bind up to 140 million tonnes of carbon dioxide. Kolavgång Carbon release On balance the Swedish forests, including products made from wood raw materials, help to reduce the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere by 60 million tonnes Year År 0 20 40 60 80 per year. This is equivalent to Sweden’s total carbon dioxide emissions from fossil sources. – 24 – När skogen binder koldioxid fungerar den som en kolsänka. When the forest binds carbon dioxide it acts as a carbon sink. established. Lync enables chat, audio and video conferences (using a Climate strategy in brief computer) as well as virtual meeting rooms where documents and programmes can be shared between users. • Increased forest growth within framework of sustainable forestry All Sveaskog’s ofﬁces took part in the World Wide Fund for • Increased carbon dioxide sequestration through increased forest growth Nature’s (WWF) Earth Hour climate manifestation which involves • Preparedness for climate change by making adjustments in forest management everyone turning out the lights for one speciﬁc hour on one day • Doubling of biofuel deliveries to 4 TWh • Expansion of wind power to 4–5 TWh on Sveaskog’s land within ten years. • Reduced own emissions of carbon dioxide from fossil fuels by at least 30% by 2015 compared with 2008. Sveaskog’s carbon footprint (all ﬁgures in tonnes of carbon dioxide/year) 78,000 tonnes Carbon footprint – a deﬁnition The carbon footprint is deﬁned as a measure of emissions of carbon dioxide that occur as a result of one or more activities 41,000 in operations. tonnes The carbon footprint includes emissions from both direct and indirect use. 8,000 5,000 tonnes 2,000 Direct* emissions come from machinery and vehicles owned tonnes Taken overall, tonnes Sveaskog’s or leased by Sveaskog and the heating of nurseries. Indirect operations emissions come from operations carried out by contractors Forestry Transports Road Electricity Travel have a positive and felling (timber building and heating climate effect. within transport, harvesting, silviculture and road building. This (soil scariﬁcation, transports also includes business travel by bus, plane, train, rental and planting, other fertilising, private cars, and emissions from energy production of the cleaning, logistics). electricity purchased. The indirect carbon dioxide emissions thinning, felling). accounted for most, 89%, of the total carbon emissions in 2012. * The breakdown of direct and indirect emissions is in accordance with GRI guidelines. –2 million tonnes** ** Calculated after the results of the study on the role of The estimated net ability of Sveaskog’s forests to take forests in climate work, 2008, by the Swedish University of up and sequester carbon. Agricultural Sciences SLU and GEOpartner AG. – 25 – Employees A customer-oriented organisation with delegated responsibility Management by objectives and values forestry duties and the number of female managers. There is In 2012 Sveaskog implemented a more customer-oriented organtherefore, among other things, a women’s network. During 2012 a isation based on the principles of decentralised proﬁt responsibility, meeting was arranged where the programme included negotiation clearer decision-making structures, increased customer orientation, techniques and a walk-through with exercises based on Sveaskog’s more efﬁcient collaboration and resource optimisation, as well as governing values. The proportion of women employees is increasing, taking advantage of the strength of being one company, one but slowly. Sveaskog. A new vision, common goals and strategies as well as new Sveaskog’s employees, together with their managers, have a governing values were developed and adopted. With this support, responsibility for their professional development. All employees Sveaskog will move from micro-management to management by should have the resources and opportunities for skills development objectives and values. In this way, the competence and commitment and inﬂuence on their own and the company’s development. of all employees can be utilised. As a foundation are the keywords Expertise is needed in strategic areas as well as a good balance in customer focus, innovation, simplicity and transparency, and the year the composition of the staff. Internal mobility is important for an began with work to establish the governing values. The code of increased exchange of skills. In 2012, 79% of vacancies were ﬁlled conduct stipulates how employees and the organisation shall behave by internal candidates. in relation to each other, to customers, suppliers, contractors and other stakeholders. The relationships should be characterised by high Skills development activities during the year integrity, professionalism, respect and good ethics. Employees attended courses in sustainable forestry, driver training RECO, procurement, IT training such as GISS (Geographic Challenges in skills supply information system in Sveaskog), machine instruction, CPR as well Sveaskog’s geographic spread places high demands on a clear, as training in Sveaskog’s code of conduct. motivating and communicative leadership. Employees have great Sveaskog uses interactive web-based training on the theme of personal responsibility and tasks requiring initiative, co-operation and silviculture and cloven-hoofed game for skills development of its own sense of responsibility. employees, contractors and hunting teams. Sveaskog’s competitiveness is determined by the skills of its The number of training hours per employee and year averaged 41 employees. The right person must be in the right place with the right hours for salaried employees and 37 hours for wage-earners, which tasks. Skills supply is crucial and affects both the skills development corresponds to roughly ﬁve days per employee of existing employees and new recruitments. With an upcoming generation shift, recruiting new employees is a top priority. In some Consequences related to the new organisation parts of the country, such as the interior of Norrland, there is ﬁerce In conjunction with the introduction of the new organisation, the competition for labour, mainly from the mining industry. Sveaskog is number of posts decreased. Five employees were dismissed and 14 therefore working to broaden the recruitment base both through accepted early retirement. Redundant employees have been offered industry collaborations and its own efforts. Examples of activities in career transition under collective agreements through Trygghetsrådet 2012 include the participation of more than 30 young people in a (salaried employees) and Trygghetsfonden TSL (wage-earners). focus on youth teams, half of whom were women. About 40 students worked at Sveaskog during the summer, which was slightly fewer Good leadership a social target than in previous years. More than 40 trainees from agricultural Sveaskog’s managers have a clear responsibility for the code of college did work experience at the company. For the most part, this conduct, target follow-up and development of subordinates. In order was special training forwarders. As in previous years, Sveaskog to clarify leadership and obtain better tools for management and participated in job fairs, in the programme board for agricultural follow-up “Good leadership” is a social target. This is measured every colleges and in joint industry projects to attract more young people other year in the employee survey and compiled in an index. The 2011 to choose machine operator as a career. index was 72 (70), which represents an improvement and is high compared with many other companies. During 2012 the focus has Diversity strengthens competitiveness been on various efforts to support new managers who started in Diversity strengthens Sveaskog’s competitiveness and makes the conjunction with the introduction of the new organisation. A new company more attractive as an employer. This applies as much to leadership development programme will start in 2013. The progender, age and education as to ethnicity and cultural background. gramme will provide support to equip and strengthen managers Traditionally the forest industry has had mainly male employees. do that each individual leader can successfully translate the new The ambition is an even gender distribution within all parts of the governing values into deeds and actions. company and to increase the proportion of women who work with – 26 – Hanna Aminder is a distributor at Sveaskog’s subsidiary Svenska Skogsplantor. The company produces and sells forest cultivation materials and carries out silvicultural work. The company operates eight nurseries in Sweden. Talent programme of an employee’s training requirements and ambitions for further Sveaskog operates an internal talent programme. The purpose is to development. All permanent employees should have at least one ensure a future supply of leaders in the company. The programme performance review with their manager every year. In the most recent stretches over one year and includes culture and leadership employee survey, conducted in 2011 (the surveys are conducted philosophy at Sveaskog, economic understanding, negotiating skills every other year) 96% said that they had had a performance review and communication. The target group is young employees who of whom 79% were very satisﬁed with the quality of the discussion. currently work as specialists or are relatively new managers. The ﬁrst In conjunction with the performance review, managers report wishes round with 14 employees ﬁnished in December and a new round is for further development outside their own position, skills development planned to start at the end of 2013. needs which they believe should be co-ordinated and whether there are any risks within skills supply, linked to key people or retirements, Performance reviews for example All managers are offered training in performance reviews Well-conducted performance reviews provide a good base for and guidelines and a checklist are available as support for such participation and are often essential for a manager to become aware reviews. – 27 – Co-operation with trade unions drafted a local working environment agreement. The agreement Sveaskog has cross-union information groups, known as reference clariﬁes the forms of co-operation used to promote a good working groups. The reference groups have consultations between employee environment. organisations and group management which include information All employees have access to the company health service and are about changes in operations. In the Group, 669 out of a total of 702 offered regular health check-ups. The company health service is an employees are covered by a collective agreement (95%). important partner for Sveaskog in its efforts to adjust working duties and provide rehabilitation. In order to promote employees’ health Employment and parenthood there is an exercise subsidy. Sveaskog tries to ensure that contacts between an employee on parental leave and the company are maintained as far as possible Work-related injuries and accidents during the leave period. Ahead of parental leave there is a dialogue The most common work-related injuries occur in conjunction when about each employee’s needs and wishes, among other things as moving on foot over terrain through slipping or sprains. Other regards performance reviews, training and meetings. In order to make common accidents take place in conjunction with work with forest things easier for the parents of small children the aim is to reduce machines during service and climbing on and off. Sveaskog reports the number of business trips and encourage telephone meetings. work-related injuries, i.e. the number of notiﬁed work-related injuries Technical facilities are in place for this. that on the reporting date are expected to result in sickness absence. In 2012 work-related injuries amounted to 9.5 (6.0) per 1,000 FTEs. Working environment and health In order to register work-related injuries the forest industry’s system, A good working environment is a key competitive tool for Sveaskog. SKIA, is used which allows comparison with others in the industry. The working environment must be safe and stimulating and Sveaskog has a relatively low level of sickness absence, 2.1% (2.0). characterised by respect for and conﬁdence in employees. Employees being put on the sick-list due to stress does occur. Every A formalised and active working environment organisation is in manager is therefore tasked with taking stress-preventing measures place which bases its activities on the Swedish Work Environment where this is required according to VIS results. Act as well as central and local collective agreements. The work is followed up in local safety committees within each proﬁt centre, Discrimination where all managers with personnel responsibility and safety According to the code of conduct, employees shall show each other representatives take part, and in a central safety committee where respect and there must be no discrimination. Employees or stakeSveaskog’s management and all senior safety representatives take holders who consider that Sveaskog has violated the code can report part. this through a form on the intranet or the website. No cases of As a complement to working environment legislation and central offensive discrimination were reported in 2012. working environment agreements, the parties within Sveaskog have Long-term, sustainable forestry with high and consistent returns requires careful planning. This also facilitates the business dialogue with the customer. Eva-Lisa Lindvall, VP Planning at Sveaskog (standing) seen here in dialogue with Göran Johansson, Forest Field Assistant and Anette Nordlund, Planning Manager. – 28 – Employees Continual improvements with intrapreneurship Mattias Torger is an intrapreneur Greater motivation and participation among employees. Increased at Sveaskog who is based in efﬁciency and productivity for the company. In Storuman Sveaskog’s Storuman. He has been working new way of operating, intrapreneurship, has produced good results. as a production manager for six Mattias Torger is one of Sveaskog’s intrapreneurs. He works as an machine teams with 26 employees employed contractor and is production manager for six machine since 2010. teams with a total of 26 employees. The role of intrapreneur is about clear work management with ingredients such as coaching, management by objectives and close follow-up with employees. resulting in a lower volume per hectare. The overall goal of the new working method is to increase Mattias Torger follows up the work at monthly meetings with the Sveaskog’s efﬁciency and productivity and in Storuman this work has machine operators. Here productivity is analysed given the speciﬁc shown results. Measurements show that the efﬁciency has increased conditions for each team. The most important question asked is how by seven to eight per cent and productivity by almost ten percent the work can be done better and more efﬁciently – continual since the start in 2010. improvements. The key tool of this work has been the instrument for operation “It’s the operators who have the skills and it is important that we monitoring installed in all forest machines. This records when the decide together how the work should be organised, what goals we machine is running and when it is stationary, i.e. it measures time will achieve and how. The involvement of the machine operators is and not volume. This is fairer to all the teams since conditions vary by far the most important thing. If they are not on my side, I have no in different places. In some places there is a lower stem volume chance in my role as supervisor,” says Mattias Torger. – 29 – Sveaskog’s employees Relates to the entire Sveaskog Group unless otherwise speciﬁed. All employees Number of employees by region (market area): included in the data have employment contracts with the Group. Since the Market area/ Market area/ number of contractors hired during the year varies, these are not included. /region 2012 region 2008 2009 2010 2011 Employees (number at year-end) North * 239 Norrbotten 142 140 136 141 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Västerbotten 104 98 98 98 Central * 233 Södra Norrland 71 74 80 79 Number of wage-earners 337 328 320 314 288 Bergslagen 162 161 183 184 Number of salaried employees 404 393 400 412 414 South * 139 Götaland 166 153 134 133 Number of part-time/ temporary employees 8/741 7/721 8/720 9/726 9/702 Stockholm ** 55 Stockholm 71 60 61 61 Number of full-time/ Latvia/Lithuania 33 Latvia/Lithuania 23 33 26 28 temporary employees 733/741 714/721 712/720 717/726 693/702 Finland 3 Finland 2 2 2 2 Number of HR managers 107 101 99 102 93 * Including employees in staffs stationed within the market area. Average age 47 47 48 48 48 ** Stationed at head ofﬁce in Stockholm. Employee turnover, % 6.8 6.6 6.9 6.6 5.9 Proportion recruited internally, % 51 63 72 50 79 Average number of employees* Employees within different age groups in forest operations 607 587 612 629 597** Based on average number of employees Average no. of employees* in staffs 114 118 104 107 118 471 449 Average number of employees* 415 403 in subsidiaries 297 253 248 272 234 2011 2012 * Total number of hours worked/1,650. ** Including Properties business area. Breakdown of employees in the group 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 122 97 Women, %* 19.1 19.4 19.4 20.2 19.9 Men, %* 80.9 80.6 80.6 79.8 80.1 –29 –29years år 30–49 30–49years år 50– 50–years Age span år Åldersintervall Women/men on the Board, %** 44/56 50/50 67/33 67/33 50/50 Women/men in group management, % 43/57 43/57 33/67 33/67 30/70 Women managers, % 19 21 25 23 27 * Relates to average number of employees. Sveaskog would like to have a more even gender distribution. Part ** Elected by annual general meeting. of this effort is the forest network for women in the company. Seen here a networking workshop in which Therese Knutsson took part. – 30 – Employee turnover 2012 The total number of employees who Employees who left Proportion Women/men By market area By age group left their employment during the year 61 (48) 42/714* (48/725) 13/48 (8/40) North 22 <30: 2 (6) was 61. Employee turnover was Central 19 30–50: 20 (19) 5.9% (6.6). Details of employee South 9 >50: 39 (23) turnover, the breakdown between * ”Personalekonomisk redovisning och kalkylering” by Stockholm 10 women and men, per market area Gröjer/Johanson. Lowest number who started or left Baltfor 1 and age group are provided on (42 started, 61 left) divided by average number of the right. employees during the year. Permanent employees only. Health and safety 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * Proportion of employees employed for at least three years with no Permanent employees (excl. consultants and self-employed) 741 721 720 726 702 sickness absence during the past Average no. of employees, incl. temporary employees 1,018 958 964 1,008 949 two years. Sickness absence, total, % 2.9 2.4 2.4 2.0 2.1 ** Work-related injuries: accidents, travel accidents, work-related Sickness absence women, % 3.1 3.1 2.5 2.4 3.4 illnesses which on reporting date Sickness absence men, % 2.9 2.2 2.3 1.9 1.8 are expected to lead to absence. Long-term sickness absence % of total sickness absence 57.1 60.7 51.2 41.4 36.1 Also includes minor injuries at a Long-term healthy, %* 44.4 33.3 40.7 42.9 43.3 ﬁrst-aid level. Contractor’s accidents are not included. Injuries are not Notiﬁed work-related injuries**/1,000 average employees 4.9 11.5 8.3 6.0 9.5 reported by region by region, but Notiﬁed work-related injuries, according to GRI 7.3 7.2 11.5 follow-up takes place in the local Total absentee days due to work-related injuries *** 166 256 66 52 261 safety committees within each market area. Sickness absence due to work-related injuries, % 0.07 0.10 0.03 0.02 0.13 *** All absentee days (of planned working days) started within two days after the work-related injury. Relation between men’s and women’s salaries Further training programmes 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Sveaskog offers various further training programmes in order to ensure that employees have the skills they require for the company to be able to meet Number of wage-earner its strategic targets. This also means that employees are offers personal women/men 12/317 11/298 13/292 17/283 16/252 development and opportunities for life-long learning. Women’s median salary in relation to men’s Yes No (wage-earners), % 94 92 92 95 91 Internal courses X Financial contribution for external study X Number of salaried employees Long leave of absence in accordance women/men 102/285 99/278 110/277 113/283 113/285 with current legislation X Women’s median salary in Pension planning for future retirees X (partly) relation to men’s (salaried employees), % 95 96 95 98 99 Further training for those who intend to continue working X Severance pay X The above comparison does not take into account that different requirements Severance pay which takes age and service period are made for different positions, but only provides an overall view of the pay into account X structure per agreement area. Salary information and the number of employees Assistance with ﬁnding new employment X relate to permanent employees in Sweden (excluding foreign subsidiaries). Assistance in adjustment to non-working life X – 31 – About the report About the sustainability report Scope of the report Sveaskog describes its sustainability initiatives and reports its Sveaskog’s ambition is to provide a comprehensive report of performance with regard to economic, environmental and social sustainability initiatives, where both negative and positive developtargets in a sustainability report which is published in March each ment is clearly stated. Sustainability work is based on the code of year and relates to the period 1 January – 31 December. The report conduct and the policies and guidelines which govern operations. The is prepared in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines undertakings resulting from certiﬁcation and various memberships, (GRI G3) and externally assured. The report thereby adheres to the including FSC® and Global Compact, are of major signiﬁcance for owner’s guidelines for external reporting. sustainability work. To support the issues that are most signiﬁcant for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organisation Sveaskog’s external and internal stakeholders to take into account working in co-operation with the UN Environment Programme. The and report on the work is based on a materiality assessment. All organisation has drawn up global guidelines for how companies GRI’s performance indicators are analysed on the basis of how report information related to sustainable development. Detailed important they are for the work with sustainable development and information about GRI and its regulatory framework is available at what control Sveaskog has over them. Analyses of indicators with www.globalreporting.org. comments are provided on pages 33–38. The report includes a total Sveaskog complies with GRI’s guidelines and reports the results of 33 of GRI’s core indicators and 13 additional indicators, which are achieved for the reporting period against the background of the listed with page references in the GRI index. All GRI’s proﬁle undertakings, strategies and sustainability governance. The intention disclosures are reported. is to present, measure and accept responsibility towards stakeholders, both within and outside the company, for what has been Boundaries achieved in the work towards sustainable development. Until the 2008 sustainability report, the report mainly contained Direct responsibility rests with managers in the line organisation. information about the forestry operations in Sveaskog Förvaltnings Co-ordination and follow-up of work with the sustainability objectives AB. Since then, unless otherwise indicated, the information applies and targets adopted by the Board and the CEO take place in a to the whole of Sveaskog, a group which in addition to forestry sustainability council chaired by the Deputy CEO. Sveaskog’s Board operations includes the wholly owned subsidiaries Sveaskog submits the sustainability report and the audit committee prepares Naturupplevelser AB, Svenska Skogsplantor AB and Sveaskog work with the report. Baltfor SIA. The sawmill group Setra Group AB, which is owned to The 2012 sustainability report meets GRI G3’s application level B+ 50% by Sveaskog AB, is not included in the sustainability report and is reviewed by the audit ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. GRI except for the part of the ﬁnancial result for Setra Group AB which guidelines are implemented in internal work on sustainability issues affects Sveaskog Förvaltnings AB’s earnings. Sveaskog has a and the information within most of the performance data meets GRI’s member on Setra Group AB’s board and is thus able to inﬂuence criteria in the so-called indicator protocols. Setra’s sustainability work. The Board’s signature of the 2012 Sustainability Report and the Auditors’ assurance report are provided on page 39. GRI’s application levels The guidelines contain three different application levels. They are titled C, B, and A. The reporting criteria found in each level reﬂects an increasing application or coverage of the GRI Reporting Framework. A “plus” (+) can be added at each level to show that the report is externally assured. Sveaskog applies level B and the report is reviewed by PwC, which meets application level B+ report. – 32 – GRI G3 index The below index provides an account of Sveaskog’s reporting The indicators reported are marked in bold in the matrices. according to Global Reporting Initiative’s guidelines (GRI G3) and where the information can be found. GRI’s reporting principles have P = page been used as a basis for the decision as to which areas and indicators * = See Sveaskog’s Annual Report 2012, in Swedish should be reported and in order to guarantee the quality of the inforW = www.sveaskog.se/About-Sveaskog mation. The sustainability report meets GRI G3’s application level B+. (C) = Core indicator Each category indicator is introduced with a commentary and analysis. (A) = Additional indicator Fully reported Partly reported Content index 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent 1.1 Statement from the CEO of the organisation about the relevance of sustainability to the organisation and its strategy P 4–5 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities P 10–11, 12, 58–60* 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organisation P1 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services P 8–9, 12–21* 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries and joint ventures P 9, 14*, 16*, 54–55*, 44 2.4 Location of the organisation’s headquarters back cover* 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations P 8, 20* 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form P 6, 44 2.7 Markets served P 8, 12–21* 2.8 Scale of the organisation P 55–56*, 61* 2.9 Signiﬁcant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership P 54–57*, 82–83* 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period none 3. REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period P 32 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report P 32 3.3 Reporting cycle P 32, S 54* 3.4 Contact person for questions regarding the report back cover* 3.5 Processes for deﬁning report content P 14–15 3.6 Boundary of the report P 14–15, 32 3.7 Speciﬁc limitations on the scope or boundary of the report P 14–15, 32–38 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can signiﬁcantly affect comparability P 32, respective indicator 3.9 Data measurement and calculation principles P 32, respective indicator 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports and the reasons for such re-statement P 32, respective indicator 3.11 Signiﬁcant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report P 32, respective indicator 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in this report P 33–38 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to external assurance for the report P 32 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND ENGAGEMENT 4.1 Governance structure for the organisation P 44–47 4.2 The Chairman of the Board’s role in the organisation P 44–47, 48 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members P 44–48 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest governance body P 14–15, 44–47 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers and executives (including departure arrangements) and the organisation’s performance (including social and environmental performance) P 44–47, 77–78* 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conﬂicts of interest are avoided ** ** There are no specific routines or processes to avoid conflicts of interest, but the Swedish Companies Act applies. – 33 – Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent 4.7 Processes for determining the qualiﬁcations and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for guiding the organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics P 44–47, W – Owner policy 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, environmental and social performance and the status of their implementation P 12–13, 17, 32 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organisation’s identiﬁcation and management of economic, environmental and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles P 5–6, 12–13, 18–32, 39 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental and social performance P 44–47 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organisation P 18, 20–21 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental, and social characters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organisation subscribes or endorses P 12–13, 18, 20–21 4.13 Memberships in associations and/or national/international advocacy organisation ** 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation P 14–15 4.15 Basis for identiﬁcation and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage P 14–15 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group P 14–17 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting P 14–17 ** Sveaskog is a member of several industry organisations. The Forestry Research Institute of Sweden, Forest Stewardship Council, FN Global Compact, Eustafor, AEIBOM, Svensk Vind, SLA, Forest Based Sector Technology Platform. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Economic impact HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE more, the roads provide us with revenues when other forest HIGH EC1 For Sveaskog it is of major importance that the company companies use them for their transports. In 2012 Sveaskog EC2 is profitable, is able to issue a dividend, to pay tax and to laid 270 km (280) of new roads and increased bearing EC8 be a good and secure employer (EC1). Climate change capacity on approximately 450 km (790) of roads. SEK 90 EC9 represents risks and opportunities. Over time, demand million (71) was invested in 2012. Most of these costs are I M PACT is expected to increase for renewable fuels from forest direct depreciation (EC8)*. Sveaskog’s operations are biomass, as well as biofuels. Wood as a building material is spread throughout Sweden and indirectly Sveaskog EC4 EC3 a good choice from a climate perspective since it continues contributes to job opportunities, often in rural areas (EC9). EC5 EC6–7 to store carbon dioxide. Increased growth in the forest provides more wood raw material, but also increases carbon * Swedish Road Administration’s guidelines for what is classiﬁed as investment. LOW dioxide sequestration. In a long-term perspective Sveaskog therefore sees major business opportunities for wood raw LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE LOW HIGH material where climate change is part of the equation. Sveaskog has extensive provisions for pensions as well INFLUENCE AND CONTROL Risks associated with changing weather and temperature as paying monthly premiums. Provisions are regulated by con ditions include more frequent storms and less Swedish law, collective agreements and special agreements. precipitation resulting in a shortage of water. If vegetation For a more detailed account of EC3 see Note 23 on page zones move, a review must be made of how natural values 85 of Sveaskog’s annual report (in Swedish). Sveaskog uses and habitat protection can be adapted. Risks for future contractors for forestry operations and transport and most of storms are managed through forest insurance. The Board the contractors are local. In total, local contractors were has adopted a balanced level of risk (EC2). procured for approximately SEK 2,004 million (EC6). Due Sveaskog’s investments are made on a commercial to the geographic spread of operations, people are basis in order to strengthen the business and the brand. employed who live locally. Senior executives also have local Investments in roads, ecoparks and information material also connections which strengthens contacts with the local have a value to the public since they provide opportunities community and increases the ability to understand local for outdoor pursuits. Investments in outdoor initiatives needs. Of group management in 2012, five executives were for the general public are mainly directed at public areas, stationed in Stockholm, two in northern Sweden, two in particularly the ecoparks. Information is produced, web Central Sweden and one in southern Sweden. Sveaskog services, information, trails and picnic areas are maintained. has almost 100% local employment and general practice Investments in open-air areas and ecoparks totalled SEK 2.5 governs these routines (EC7). million (4.3) in 2012. At Mörrums Kronolaxfiske fishing waters in Blekinge continual development of operations LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE takes place. Investments in Mörrums Kronolaxfiske Sveaskog is owned by the Swedish state, operated on a amounted to SEK 4.6 million (2.4). Sveaskog invests in commercial basis and governed by its articles of association. the development of its subsidiary Hjälmare Kanal AB. By Support comes from the public sector (EC4) in the form investing in the visitors’ centre, nature trails and cycle paths, of road subsidies which are reported in Note 1, Revenues Sveaskog preserves and develops the canal as a visitor – government grants page 70 and EU subsidies for nature attraction and part of Sweden’s cultural heritage. Total conservation activities, which for 2012 totalled approxinvestments in Hjälmare Kanal AB amounted to SEK 2.7 imately SEK 8.5 million. Transactions with the state are million (1.5). Sveaskog’s road maintenance activities are reported in Note 3 page 74–75. EC5 is not significant to important both for the company and for stakeholders. Good report since salaries in Sveaskog are governed by collective roads are essential for silvicultural work and felling. agreements in Sweden. In the Baltic countries, individual They also make it easier for tourism companies, outdoor salary agreements are applied, but all are far in excess of enthusiasts and hunters to get out into the forests. Furtherlevels for local minimum wage. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosures on sustainability governance Targets and performance P 10–11, 54* Policy P 13, note 28*, W Additional contextual information P 13, 54–60* – 34 – Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Economic performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (C) P 12 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change. (C) P 12, 34, 40–42 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s deﬁned beneﬁt plan obligations (C) P 46*, 85–86* EC4 Signiﬁcant ﬁnancial assistance received from government (C) P 46*, 70*, 74–75* Market presence EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at signiﬁcant locations of operations (C) P 12, 16–17, 46* EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local community at locations of signiﬁcant locations of operations (C) P 46* Indirect economic impact EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services (C) P 46* EC9 Understanding and describing signiﬁcant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts (A) P 12–17 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Environmental impact HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE HIGH IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE HIGH EN28 EN11–14 Protection of biodiversity is a key issue for Sveaskog Sveaskog received a forest fine of SEK 5,000 for a violation EN29 EN15 (EN11–14). A large number of species, including several of the Environmental Code for felling a key biotope, EN28. EN16–18 EN20 red-listed, have habitats on Sveaskog’s lands. Work on an Sveaskog has no follow-up of for example employee travel inventory of red-listed species has started but EN15 is not to and from work and aspects such as noise and does not I M PACT EN30 reported. Felling and transports lead to emissions of greenreport EN29. EN1–2 house gases and other pollutants, see pages 22, 24–25 EN6 EN3–4 EN5 (EN16–17, EN20). Work is underway to reduce emissions LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE EN8–10 from operations, see pages 24–25 (EN18). Sveaskog has no production, which means that use of EN19 EN7 EN26 Environmental protection measures and projects to materials and questions related to recycling, EN1 and EN2, LOW EN21–25 EN27 restore environmental and natural values involve major costs. are irrelevant and not reported. EN6 does not apply to Nature conservation work is regarded as an investment. Sveaskog’s products and is not reported. Since Sveaskog LOW HIGH A rough compilation which includes salaries, certification has no emissions of ozone-depleting compounds, EN19 INFLUENCE AND CONTROL costs, habitat, restoration of aquatic values, provides a is not significant to the report. The forest is important for cost of SEK 26.0 million (31.3) for 2012 (EN30). cleaning water, there is not extensive water consumption or emissions to water and the indicators EN8, EN9, EN10, LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE EN21, EN25 are not significant to this report. Water for Energy consumption (EN3–4) is reported on page 22. EN5 greenhouses is taken from nearby dams, where water (energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improveconsumption makes a positive contribution to regulating the ment) and EN7 (initiatives to reduce indirect energy water level. Waste and spills from forestry operations are consumption and reductions achieved) may be reported minor the indicators EN22, EN23 and EN24 are not later. Initiatives to mitigate environment impacts of products significant for reporting. Since waste and spills are not and services, EN26, is not reported since environmental derived from a specific product EN27 is assessed as not impact is not derived from a specific product. significant to this report. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 6, 10–11. 20–25 Policy P 13, W Organisational responsibility P 13, 32, 44–47 Training and awareness P 21, 26 Monitoring and follow-up P 12–15, 20–21 Additional contextual information P 40–42 Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source (C) P 22, 25 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source (K) P 22, 25 Biodiversity EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased and managed, in or adjacent to protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. (C) P 20–21*, 20–21, W EN12 Description of signiﬁcant impacts of activities, products and services on biodiversity in protected area and area of high biodiversity value outside protected areas (C) P 20–21 EN13 Habitats protected or restored (A) P 20–21, W EN14 Strategies, current actions and future plans for managing impact on biodiversity (A) P 20–21 – 35 – Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Emissions, efﬂuents and waste EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (C) P 22, 24–25 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight (C) P 22 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (A) P 22, 24–25 EN20 NO, SO and other signiﬁcant air emissions by type and weight (C) P 22 Compliance EN28 Monetary value of signiﬁcant ﬁnes and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (A) P 35 Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (A) P 35 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Labour practices and decent work HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE The proportion represented in safety committees is over HIGH LA1–2 Issues related to employees, labour law, working environ75% (LA6). LA4–7 ment, participation and skills development are important to Sveaskog works strategically with diversity and equality LA10–14 Sveaskog (LA1–2, LA4–7 and LA10–12). There is no routine issues (LA13–14), although due to current legislation is reporting of the number of hours that consultants and selfunable to follow up and quantify the results of all parts of I M PACT employed work for Sveaskog and these groups are not diversity work. LA3 included in reporting of LA indicators. As regards significant LA8–9 organisational changes in operations there is no specified LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE minimum notice period (LA5), by law or in collective Benefits cover all employees and LA3 is not reported. The agreements. Instead the principles in the Swedish risk of disease is limited for Sveaskog’s employees and the LOW Co-determination Act (MBL) are followed. indicator LA8 which takes up areas such as training, support In Sweden all employees are represented in safety and risk management for employees and their families in LOW HIGH committees. In the subsidiary Sveaskog Baltfor SIA, this the event of serious diseases, is not reported. Working INFLUENCE AND CONTROL work is conducted with the aid of a working environment environment topics are systematically regulated by law and consultant, although based on the same working environcollective agreements which means it is not relevant to ment targets as those applying in the rest of the Group. report LA9. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 10–11, 26–31 Policy P 13, W Organisational responsibility P 13, 32, 44–47 Training and awareness P 26–31 Monitoring and follow-up P 13–15 Additional contextual information P 39–42, 76–78* Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract and region (C) P 30, 76–78* LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region (C) P 31 Labour/management relations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements (C) P 28 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes included whether it is speciﬁed in collective agreements (C) above Occupational health and safety LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programmes (A) above, P 28 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism and work-related fatalities (C) P 31, 77* Training and education LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category (C) P 26, 30 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings (A) P 31 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (A) P 27 Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity (C) P 30, 76–77*, 48–50, above LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category (C) P 31 – 36 – SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Human rights HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE days. During the year 8% of employees participated in HIGH HR2 Production and silvicultural activities are conducted to a training related to human rights. An estimated 60 employee HR3 large extent by contractors. Sveaskog places extensive training hours were dedicated to these issues (HR3). The HR4 demands on environment and social issues and follows up number of incidents of discrimination is followed up annually HR9 these requirements. Sveaskog pursues the issue of how (HR4). Reindeer herding takes place on Sveaskog’s lands I M PACT information, interpretation and application of regulations and Sveaskog consults in accordance with the Swedish relating to insurance/employer issues are handled in small Forestry Act and FSC® undertakings with reindeer herders HR8 HR1 companies. One case during the years illustrates the regarding forestry activities (HR9). HR5 importance of this. In summer 2011, two Rumanian planters HR6 were killed in a traffic accident. They were working for a LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE LOW HR7 subcontractor to one of Sveaskog’s contractors. In 2012 it Investments outside Sweden are modest and the risk of emerged that the families had not received compensation negative impact is therefore low. Investments in Sweden LOW HIGH from insurance since no claim had been made. Framework include infrastructure and R&D projects. Demands are made INFLUENCE AND CONTROL agreement suppliers are subject to Sveaskog’s CSR in the supply chain based on the Code of Conduct and CSR requirements which are gone through when contracts are requirements (HR1). Sveaskog supports the Global signed. All new framework agreement suppliers signed the Compact and reports the company specifies and complies CSR requirements in 2012 which means that 52 of 60, i.e. with principles on human rights (HR5–7). 87% of framework agreement suppliers have signed the requirements. No follow-up examination with site visits were LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE made during the year (HR2). Training in policies and Sveaskog has no safety employees relevant for reporting guidelines is important and takes place at organised training under HR8. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 10–11, 17–18, above Policy P 13, 17, W Organisational responsibility P 13, 17, 32, 44 Training and awareness P 26, above Monitoring and follow-up P 14–15, 17–18 Additional contextual information P 40–42 Investment and procurement practices HR1 Percentage and total number of signiﬁcant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that have undergone human rights screening (C) P 18, above HR2 Percentage of signiﬁcant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken (C) P 17–18, above HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained (A) above Non-discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken (C) P 28 Freedom of association and collective bargaining HR5 Operations identiﬁed in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at signiﬁcant risk, and actions taken to support these rights (C) P 18 Child labour HR6 Operations where there is a risk of incidents of child labour and actions taken (C) P 18 Forced and compulsory labour HR7 Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for incidents of forced and compulsory labour and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of forced and compulsory labour (C) P 18 Indigenous rights HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken (A) P 18 – 37 – SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Society HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE HIGH SO1 Sveaskog’s operations affect both the local community Sveaskog did not have any incidents linked to corruption SO2 and other businesses. Most of operations are in rural areas during the year and does not report SO4. SO3 where the need of job opportunities is considerable and Sveaskog is a significant employer as well as a key part of LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE I M PACT local business. Studies show that operations have a signifiSveaskog participates in the Swedish political decision SO5 SO4 cant influence on indirect employment. There is no programprocess as a body to which proposed measures are referred SO6 me, however, for evaluating impact in the local community for consideration. In 2012 Sveaskog among other things SO7 apart from the study of indirect employment and SO1 is not responded to Proposed simplifications to the rules in reported. Corruption is a threat against free competition and silvicultural legislation and the final report of the Inquiry LOW SO8 Sveaskog dissociates itself from corruption and bribes in the on Predatory Animals (SO5). Sveaskog is a member of code of conduct and works with risk analysis of the business Eustafor, a Brussels-based interest group comprising LOW HIGH units (SO2). One tool for preventing corruption is to train European forest owners. No contributions or gifts are INFLUENCE AND CONTROL employees in the code of conduct. An estimate made after given to political parties or similar and Sveaskog does not a review of the list of participants at various training days is report SO6. Sponsorship work is governed by guidelines. that 8% of employees attended training in the organisation’s Sveaskog has not carried out any activities that can be policies and routines relating to anti-corruption during the regarded as restricting fair competition or illegal that results year (SO3). in fines and reports neither SO7 nor SO8. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 10–11, 17–18, W Policy P 13, W Organisational responsibility P 13, 17, 32, 44 Training and awareness P 17, above Monitoring and follow-up P 14–16, 17–18 Additional contextual information P 76–78* Society SO2 Business units analyses for risks related to corruption (C) P 18, above SO3 Employees trained in the organisation’s anti-corruption policies and procedures (C) above SO5 Participation in public policy development and lobbying (C) above, W SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS – Product responsibility HIGH IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE Compliance is checked in conjunction with brand audits, HIGH PR3 Sveaskog’s forests are certified according to the Swedish FSC® audits and review of sponsoring co-operation (PR6). PR4 FSC® standard. Raw material, for example imported wood PR5 raw material, may not come from controversial sources LOW IMPACT – LOW INFLUENCE according to the FSC®’s definitions and Sveaskog has two Indicators PR1 and PR2 are not significant to report, since I M PACT traceability certificates (PR3 and PR4). Sveaskog has Sveaskog’s products, wood raw material, do not have the routines for evaluating and maintaining customer satistype of impact to which the indicators refer. Sveaskog’s PR1–2 PR6 PR7–9 faction, including customer surveys and business developmarketing and market communication complies with current ment discussions (PR5). rules and PR7 is not reported. Sveaskog looks after the integrity of its customers and receives no complaints LOW LOW IMPACT – HIGH INFLUENCE regarding integrity issues or loss of data. PR8 is not Sveaskog’s information activities, market communication reported. Sveaskog has not received any fines for LOW HIGH and sponsoring are governed by the information policy, non-compliance with regulations concerning the use INFLUENCE AND CONTROL sponsoring guidelines and FSC®’s graphic manual. of products and services and does not report PR9. Where to ﬁnd information Reporting extent Disclosure on management approach Targets and performance P 6, 10–11, 19–21 Policy P 13, W Organisational responsibility P 13, 21, 64* Training and awareness P 16, 19–21 Monitoring and follow-up P 14–15, 19–21 Additional contextual information P 19–21 Product and service labelling PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures (C) P 19–21 PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary code concerning product and service information and labelling by type of outcomes (A) P 19–21 PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction (A) 10–11, 14–15 PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary codes for marketing communications (C) P 13, W, above – 38 – Signature by the Board of Directors The undersigned hereby submit Sveaskog AB’s (publ) sustainability report for 2012. The sustainability report describes Sveaskog’s sustainability initiatives and is prepared in accordance with Guidelines for sustainability reporting, issued by Global Reporting Initiative. Stockholm, 13 March 2013 Göran Persson Eva Färnstrand Thomas Hahn Johan Hallberg Chairman Board member Board member Board member Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Carina Håkansson Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Mats G Ringesten Board member Board member Board member Board member Sture Persson Eva-Lisa Lindvall Employee representative Employee representative Per-Olof Wedin President and CEO Auditors’ report on limited review of sustainability report To readers of Sveaskog’s annual and sustainability report 2012 We have been engaged by the management of Sveaskog AB (publ) Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and risk, to review the Sveaskog Sustainability Report for the year 2012. The included e.g. the following procedures: Board of Directors and Executive Management team are responsible a. update of our knowledge and understanding of Sveaskog’s for the company’s activities regarding environment, health & safety, organisation and activities, social responsibility, and sustainable development, and for the b. assessment of criteria suitability and application with regard to preparation and presentation of the sustainability report in accordstakeholders’ information needs, ance with applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a c. interviews with management at group level in order to assess if conclusion on the sustainability report based on our review. the qualitative and quantitative information stated in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and sufﬁcient, The scope of the review d. examination of internal and external documents in order to We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 Assurance assess if the information stated in the Sustainability Report is of Sustainability Reports issued by Far. A review consists of making complete, accurate and sufﬁcient, inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of the e. evaluation of the design of systems and processes used to Sustainability Report, and applying analytical and other review obtain, manage and validate sustainability information, procedures. A review is substantially less in scope than an audit f. analytical procedures of the information stated in the conducted in accordance with IASB’s Standards on Auditing and Sustainability Report, Quality Control and other generally accepted auditing standards in g. assessment of the company’s declared application level Sweden. The procedures performed consequently do not enable us according to the GRI guidelines, to obtain assurance that we would become aware of all signiﬁcant h. assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability Report matters that might be identiﬁed in an audit. Accordingly, we do not and its format, taking into consideration the consistency of the express an audit opinion. stated information with applicable criteria. The criteria on which our review is based are the parts of the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by the Global Conclusion Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Sustainability Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that causes Report, as well as the accounting and calculation principles that the us to believe that the information in the Sveaskog Sustainability company has developed and disclosed. We consider these criteria Report has not, in all material respects, been prepared in accordance suitable for the preparation of the Sustainability Report. with the above stated criteria. Stockholm, 13 March 2013 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Martin Johansson Fredrik Ljungdahl Authorised Public Accountant Expert member of FAR SRS – 39 – Risk and sensitivity analysis Biological growth of Sveaskog’s forest assets provides opportunities for stable cash ﬂows from felling, property sales and granting concessions. This limits Sveaskog’s economic risks. Other risks are systematically inventoried, and include legal, ﬁnancial and operational risks. Major spread of risks Sveaskog works to develop the different values of the forest among Sveaskog is exposed to ﬁnancial, legal, market-related, operational other ways by creating additional sources of income with the forest and social risks as well as risks to the forest capital in the form of as a base. The focus on granting leases for hunting, ﬁshing and biological, weather and climate risks. eco-tourism as well as eco-friendly protection against insects when The extensive storm fellings in 2005, 2007 and 2011 show the planting and processing seedlings are some examples. Sveaskog weather and climate risks and their consequences. At the same time, also invests in wind power in co-operation with energy companies, Sveaskog’s large and widespread holdings provide a spread of development of biofuel and examines other business opportunities weather and biological risks. Sveaskog’s forest holdings are insured such as ecosystem services. These activities provide a broader against extra costs via direct insurance and in the reinsurance income base, but can also represent risks. market. Risk management process at Sveaskog Identify, evaluate Evaluate control Identify remedial Implement, follow-up Prioritise action risks of risks action remedial action Since 2009, risk manageThe identiﬁed risks are Identify remedial action for Each remedial action is Remedial action is taken ment has been an integrated reviewed on the basis of assessed risks. evaluated on the basis of according to priority and part of the annual operational the controls in place. The its effect and how time and available resources. Once plan. All signiﬁcant risks are controls are evaluated on cost-demanding the action an action has been taken, identiﬁed, reported and the basis of quality and risk is. Remedial action is the result is measured in compiled in environmental coverage, level of formality, prioritised on the basis of order to assess whether and quality systems. and other features. what generates the greatest the action was sufﬁcient to Consequences are linked beneﬁt per action. manage the risk, and what to each risk and these are beneﬁts the remedial action described and evaluated. had. Responsibility for risks and governance Sveaskog’s Board is responsible for the company managing risks in the right way and ensuring compliance with adopted principles for ﬁnancial reporting and internal control. The CEO has overall responsibility. Risk assessments are made on the basis of process descriptions. The Accounts and Treasury staffs are assigned by the CEO to be responsible for an inventory of risks and for conducting the risk management processes. Operational responsibility rests with each market area, but is followed up at central level. – 40 – Sensitivity analysis: Sveaskog’s assessment of signiﬁcant risks and their impact Comments on assessment of probability and impact B IOLOG ICAL WEATH E R, CLI MATE H IG H PROBAB I LITY R I S KS AN D E NVI RONM E NTAL R I S KS Weather, climate and environmental risks outlets. Internationalisation requires income and MAR KET R I S KS Storm fellings are a risk and storm-felled and productivity development for the industry on a par thereby damaged timber comprises an average of with competitors in other countries. OPERATIONAL RISKS approximately 5% of annual felling. The forest is affected by climate change, including an increased Operational and legal risks storm frequency, changes in precipitation and Operational activities are exposed to risks. These can FI NANCIAL R I S KS vegetation boundaries. Soil contamination is a risk take the form of inadequate operational support or where the company can have a responsibility as routines. This can lead to the risk of economic loss or SOCIAL R I S KS LOW PROBAB I LITY property owner or former operator. Decontaminaloss of proﬁts and lead to reporting that contravenes tion can involve major costs. law or good practice, which in turn can reduce future market conﬁdence. Biological risks Damage to the standing forest caused by game, Financial risks insect damage, as well as Brunchorstia disease, Financial risks comprise ﬁnancing risk, interest rate root rot and other fungal diseases are the biggest risk, credit/counterparty risk and currency risk. Work biological risks for a forest owner. Preventive to reduce ﬁnancial risks is conducted in accordance LOW I M PACT H IG H I M PACT measures such as game management, mechanical with a ﬁnance policy adopted by the Board. Addiprotection against insects and other measures are tional information about Sveaskog’s ﬁnancial risk costly. situation is provided in the Annual Report in Note 28 (in Swedish). Market risks Development for the sawmill and pulp and paper Social risks Contractors who carry out assignments and do industries are important for forestry proﬁtability. Timber purchases involve risks linked to illegal felling, not meet their commitments, as well as other Customers with a weak ability to pay are a risk. The corruption and labour law. Negative opinions are a infringements of the company’s code of conducts growing market for biofuel leads to new sales risk for Sveaskog’s brand and business relationships. are also a risk. Management of signiﬁcant risks Weather, climate and environmental risks Governance and management Climate change Work with processed seed and seedling material. Insurance. Changed climate can lead to increased storm frequency, changes in precipitation and vegetation boundaries. Storm felling Silvicultural measures that reduce risks: thinning, planting, increased proportion of Direct economic loss through lower operating proﬁt, reduced value of deciduous trees, ﬁnal felling at economic maturity. Good crisis organisation and forest capital, cleaning up puts a strain on the organisation, damage logistics. Ability to move felling resources to storm-felled areas. Insurance against from bark beetle. damage. Contaminated soil within Sveaskog’s holdings Mapping, strategy for prioritising areas, liability investigations, working with surveys Responsibility for contaminated soil and need of decontamination with and decontamination. potentially major costs. Biological risks Governance and management Spruce bark beetle Fast processing of storm-felled timber and standing trees recently attacked. Population in the north has grown and the control area has been extended. In the south attacks have subsided, leading to a reduced control area. Game grazing damage Hunting, measures to increase access to feed, increased knowledge of Game which graze on trees and seedlings delay forest growth. game populations. Pine weevil Chemical protection and use of mechanical plant protection, Conniﬂex Gnaws the bark off conifer seedlings which leads to deteriorated and development of Multipro. regeneration. Root rot Preventing attacks by treating stumps during felling with spores. Value of standing forests decreases, trees die. Resin top disease Inventory of extent of disease. Felling damaged trees. Trees with resin top Fungus on young stands of pine trees which means trees die. disease not left as seed or care-demanding trees. – 41 – Market risks Governance and management Sawmill industry Active choice of customer and credit insurance. Priority given to co-operation At times poor proﬁtability leads to closure of sawmills and with customers with long-term survival and proﬁtability potential. loan losses for Sveaskog. Restructuring may lead to fewer customers in local areas for Sveaskog’s forest holdings. Pulp and paper industry Expand market and customer capital. More efﬁcient logistics and increased A few, dominant companies lead to a lack of competition exports. New product range such as biofuel increases market potential. and few alternative business opportunities. Energy sector To be an effective provider of advanced, customer-oriented business concepts Elimination of companies and customers in Sveaskog’s that provide added value and increased proﬁtability for all parties. traditional markets. Operational and legal risks Governance and management Legal risks Clear rules, controls, follow-up and audits. Activities that contravene the law and good practice. Inadequate routines and structure Documented routines and work processes in all parts of the business. Ensure Inadequate systems support, routines and organisation lead high quality of systems support since information systems comprise a key part to ﬁnancial loss, loss of proﬁt, loss of market conﬁdence and of operations. Training courses which increase knowledge of Sveaskog’s difﬁculties in skills supply. working methods. Loss of FSC® certiﬁcation Documented routines and work processes in all parts of the business. Lack of quality in silvicultural activities and consideration Internal and external audits as well as training for continual improvements. for nature as well as deﬁciencies in work and follow-up of social responsibility can result in Sveaskog losing its FSC® certiﬁcate, which would have a material impact on the timber operations. Financial risks Governance and management Financing risk A well-diversiﬁed loan portfolio of lenders and investors with good ﬂexibility Assets are partly ﬁnanced with external loans. This and competitive pricing. constitutes a risk if a large borrowing requirement arises in a tight credit market. Interest rate risk Sveaskog’s policy is an average ﬁxed interest term on the loan portfolio The risk that Sveaskog is exposed to a disadvantageous of 10–36 months. interest rate situation with a large loan portfolio. Credit risk The ﬁnance policy regulates maximum credit exposure in the investment The risk that a counterparty is unable to fulﬁl obligations. portfolio. For commercial credit exposure some major customers are exempted, otherwise other credit insurance is taken out. Social risks Governance and management Timber imports from undesirable origins Sveaskog’s code of conduct as well as certiﬁcation and clear guidelines for Purchase from, for example, Russia and the Baltic countries can tracing and documentation of purchased raw material, which govern the present risks linked to illegal felling, corruption and labour law. company’s actions and follow-up. Negative opinion Code of conduct, internal routines, active provision of information and The brand and conﬁdence in the company are affected ongoing dialogue with stakeholders. and thereby customer relationships and co-operation. Contractors Code of conduct, guidelines for procurement of contracts as well as follow-up Contractors which fail to meet commitments can constitute and control of compliance reduce risks. a risk linked to working environment, health, safety, labour law. Corruption Code of conduct, clear guidelines, internal control, possibility to report Unclear guidelines and routines lead to a risk of bribes, violations anonymously. bribery and corruption. – 42 – Proﬁtable forestry combined with environmental responsibility – 43 – Corporate governance report Sveaskog applies the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance, the preparation of decisions on nomination of board members and Code, but in accordance with the State’s ownership policy and auditors. guidelines for companies in state ownership has deviated from the Code as regards preparation of decisions on nominations to the Nomination of the Board board and auditors and with regard to reporting on Board members’ The nomination process is co-ordinated by the unit for state ownerindependence in relation to the state as major owner. The principles ship at the Ministry of Finance. Nominations for members are for the nomination process for board and auditors in wholly owned presented in accordance with the Code’s guidelines in the notice of state companies are described below. the annual general meeting and on the company’s website. The unit for state ownership also provides proposals for chairman of the board CLEAR ASSIGNMENT OF RESPONSIBILITIES and a person to chair the annual general meeting. Sveaskog is a limited company whose sole owner is the Swedish state. Governance of the company is based on the articles of Nomination of auditors association, the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Code of The owner is responsible for the appointment of auditors and a Corporate Governance and the State’s ownership policy and decision is made at the annual general meeting. The practical work of guidelines for state-owned companies. procurement is handled by the board’s audit committee together with the company. Auditors are appointed for a mandate period of one ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING year. Ahead of appointment of auditors information about the The Annual General Meeting of Sveaskog AB was held on 26 April proposal is provided in the notice of the annual general meeting and 2012 in Konserthuset, Grünewaldsalen, Stockholm. Members of on the company’s website. parliament are entitled, pursuant to the State ownership policy and guidelines for companies with state ownership and special BOARD OF DIRECTORS regulations in the articles of association, to attend Sveaskog’s annual In accordance with the articles of association, the board shall consist general meetings. The meeting was also open to the public. During of a minimum of ﬁve and a maximum of nine members. In addition, the annual general meeting there was an opportunity to ask there are two employee representatives with two deputies. The questions about the company’s operations. The 2013 Annual articles of association do not contain any regulations on the appointGeneral Meeting will be held on 22 April in Stockholm. ment or dismissal of board members. The company’s legal counsel is the secretary to the board. The CEO is not a member of the board NOMINATION PROCESS but makes presentations at board meetings. According to the State’s owner policy and guidelines for state-owned companies, the principles below apply to state-owned companies The work of the board which are unlisted. These principles replace the Code’s rules for According to the board’s formal work plan, in addition to its statutory Organisation and governance 2012 • Owner guidelines • Owner policy OWNER • General meetings • Articles of association BOARD OF DIRECTORS • Policies • Property committee • Remuneration • Group organisation committee • Audit committee • Governance of operations (Targets and governance CEO GROUP MANAGEMENT principles) • Risk management • Internal control INFORMATION BRAND FOREST AND ENVIRONMENT • Reporting External CFO, ACCOUNTING, PURCHASING, IT, HUMAN RESOURCES Audit LEGAL AFFAIRS, BUSINESS DEVELOPMENT AND INNOVATION • Roles, responsibilities and control systems MARKET AREA MARKET AREA MARKET AREA BUSINESS AREA SVENSKA NORTH CENTRAL SOUTH PROPERTIES SKOGSPLANTOR AB – 44 – meeting, the board shall normally hold eight meetings per year. The PROPERTY COMMITTEE formal work plan stipulates which matters should be examined at The task of the property committee is to examine issues relating, each meeting and which speciﬁc issues should be submitted to the among other things, to property acquisition, property management board. The formal work plan states that the chairman, on behalf of and property sales. The property committee held six meetings. The the board, shall consult with representatives of the owner on matters property committee comprises Göran Persson, Birgitta Johanssonof material signiﬁcance to the group. The formal work plan also Hedberg and Eva-Lisa Lindvall. contains details of the role of the chairman in the board and on assignment of responsibilities and tasks between the board and the Composition of the board CEO. The board has not been authorised by the general meeting to Sveaskog’s board has eight members elected at the annual general decide that the company shall issue new shares. During the 2012 meeting of whom four women and four men, as well as two employee ﬁnancial year the board had ten minuted meetings, including one representatives and two deputies for them. two-day strategy meeting. For information about each board member’s attendance at board and committee meetings, see pages The Board 46–47. During the year the board, in addition to processing standing The board comprises the chairman of the board Göran Persson, items on the agenda, made the following decisions: (i) to adopt a new board members Eva Färnstrand, Johan Hallberg, Thomas Hahn, organisation, (ii) to adopt a new development strategy, (iii) to adopt a Carina Håkansson, Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg, Anna-Stina strategy for the holding in Setra and (iv) to take in a new shareholder Nordmark Nilsson, Mats G Ringesten and employee representatives in SunPine to enable new investments. Eva-Lisa Lindvall, Sture Persson with Per Eriksson and Kurt Larsson The board’s strategy meeting included an in-depth discussion of as deputies. A detailed presentation of the board is provided on Sveaskog’s business plan and strategic map, which contains the pages 48–49. At the 2012 annual general meeting Göran Persson various sub-components which will lead to the company achieving the was re-elected chairman and all board members, apart from Marianne new ﬁnancial targets. The strategy meeting discussed economic and Förander who has terminated her employment at the Swedish structural changes in Sveaskog’s markets and measures to meet Government Ofﬁces and Elisabeth Nilsson who declined re-election. changes in demand. The impact of possible climate changes on the Johan Hallberg was elected as a new member of the board. industry and the market was also highlighted. In view of changes in bribery legislation, the board discussed the Remuneration to the board company’s guidelines and control systems to ensure compliance with Fees to the board are determined by the annual general meeting. the legislation. Fees to board members on board committees are also decided at the annual general meeting. During the year remuneration to the board Board committees comprised a total fee of SEK 1.5 million. Allocation of fees can be The board has three committees: remuneration, audit and property seen in Note 8, on page 77 of the Swedish annual report. The board committees. The committees prepare matters ahead of a decision in did not participate in any incentive programme. the board. Guidelines for the work of the committees are found in the board’s formal work plan. In addition, there are special instructions for SYSTEM FOR INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT the property committee and the audit committee. The chairman of the IN CONJUNCTION WITH FINANCIAL REPORTING FOR 2012 board takes part as chairman in both the remuneration and the The board’s responsibility for internal control is regulated in the property committee. The chairman of the audit committee is AnnaSwedish Companies Act and in the Swedish Code of Corporate Stina Nordmark Nilsson. Issues examined are minuted and a report Governance which also contains a requirement for annual external presented at the next board meeting. provision of information regarding how internal control, the part that relates to ﬁnancial reporting, is organised. REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Internal control relating to ﬁnancial reporting is intended to provide The remuneration committee deals with issues related to rereasonable assurance regarding the reliability of external ﬁnancial muneration and terms of employment for senior executives. The reporting in the form of year-end reports, interim reports and remuneration committee had two meeting in 2012. The remuneration annual reports and that external ﬁnancial reporting is prepared in committee comprises Göran Persson and Mats G Ringesten. accordance with legislation, applicable accounting standards and other requirements on a limited company. AUDIT COMMITTEE The following description has been prepared in accordance with The tasks of the audit committee include responsibility for preparing the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance and application the board of the board on quality assurance of the company’s instructions. ﬁnancial reporting, to regularly meet the company’s auditors in order to be informed about the focus, scope and results of audits, as well Framework for internal control as to discuss co-ordination between external auditors and internal Sveaskog applies COSO’s framework for documentation and analysis control activities and the approach to the company’s risks. of internal control. The following description of how internal control is The audit committee held eight minuted meetings, of which the organised in relation to ﬁnancial reporting, follows this structure: external auditors took part in ﬁve. The audit committee comprises Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson, Johan Hallberg and Sture Persson. • Control environment During the year the committee especially prepared the work of quality • Risk assessment assuring the valuation model for standing forest, the company’s • Control activities processes for property accounting and current corporate governance • Information and communication issues. The company’s efforts to ensure good IT security were also • Monitoring activities examined. – 45 – Control environment revenues and expenses or discrepancies in disclosure requirements. The board has overall responsibility for maintaining an effective These issues are prepared by the audit committee before considersystem for internal control and risk management. The board has ation by the board. A number of items in the income statement and appointed an audit committee which prepares matters related to risk balance sheet have been identiﬁed where the risk of material assessment, internal control, ﬁnancial reporting and audit for misstatement is signiﬁcant. These risks can mainly be attributed to examination by the board. measurement of standing forest, accruals and the IT systems which Responsibility for maintaining an effective control environment and support operations. day-to-day work with risk management and internal control relating to ﬁnancial reporting is delegated to the CEO. Managers at different Information and communication levels in the company have corresponding responsibility within their Sveaskog has information and communication channels designed to respective areas. promote the completeness and accuracy in ﬁnancial reporting. For The most signiﬁcant parts of the control environment relating to external communication there are guidelines designed to ensure that ﬁnancial reporting are handled in the governing documents relating the company meets high requirements for accurate information to the to accounting and ﬁnancial reporting and in the accounting handbook market. which is published on the intranet. During 2012 work started in view of changes in Swedish bribery Monitoring activities legislation. An in-depth examination has been performed which The board continuously evaluates the information provides by the CEO. showed good control. In 2013 guidelines for gifts and entertaining will be updated and a follow-up in the form of electronic tests will be Special review function launched. The board considers that Sveaskog’s signiﬁcant risks and risk areas are covered by the process of risk management applied by the Risk assessment and control activities company. The accounting and ﬁnance functions are assigned by the The board is responsible for ensuring that the company manages its CEO to be responsible for risk inventories and for conducting risk risks in the right way and that adopted principles for ﬁnancial management processes. The accounting and ﬁnance function is also reporting and internal control are complied with. Risks in connection responsible for a number of central controls combined with a with the ﬁnancial reporting are loss or misappropriation of assets, controller activity at local level. Operational responsibility rests, unlawful beneﬁt of another party at the company’s expense and other however, within the market areas, business areas and other operating risks relating to material misstatement in the ﬁnancial statements, for areas. The board believes there is no need for a special review example relating to recognition and measurement of assets, liabilities, function in the company. Board members’ attendance at board meetings 13 January 26 January 15 March 26 April 26 April • Calculation parameters • Reports from • Reports from • Reports from Statutory board for standing forest committees committees committees meeting • Dividend strategy • Financial report • Financial report • Financial report • Organisational structure • Special review • Proposed dividend • Interim report • Effects of storm function • Annual report • Financing issues Dagmar • Year-end report 2011 • Auditors’ information to • Deputy CEO function, • Auditors’ review board without presence Per Matses appointed • Group policies of group management • Ahead of the annual general meeting • Owner issues in associated companies • Focus of business plan work Göran Persson X X X X X Eva Färnstrand X X X X Marianne Förander X X X X Thomas Hahn X X X X X Carina Håkansson X X X X X Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg X X X X Elisabeth Nilsson X X X X Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson X X X X X Mats G Ringesten X X X X X Eva-Lisa Lindvall X X X X Sture Persson X X X X X Per Eriksson X X X X X Kurt Larsson X X X X X Johan Hallberg X – 46 – AUDIT cultivation materials and provides silvicultural services. The market The task of the auditors is on behalf of the shareholder to examine areas and the business units are supported by corporate staffs. the company’s annual accounts and bookkeeping as well as the Sveaskog also holds interests in companies where there is not a administration by the board and the CEO. The board communicates group relationship, where the holding in wood products company with the auditors through the audit committee, and by auditors being Setra Group AB is the largest. present at board meetings when issues ahead of year-end accounts and annual accounts are examined. The auditors meet the board at Management least once a year without the CEO or anyone else from group Sveaskog is led by the CEO in accordance with instructions decided management being present. by the board. The CEO is not a member of the board but gives At the 2012 annual general meeting PriceWaterhouseCoopers AB presentations and provides the board with information as a basis for was appointed as auditors until the 2013 annual general meeting has its work. The CEO’s responsibility includes ongoing business activities been held with authorised public accountant Martin Johansson, as and contacts with the chairman of the board and external stakeauditor in charge. The Swedish National Audit Ofﬁce has decided not holders. The CEO also leads the work of group management. In to appoint an auditor. Remuneration to auditors is speciﬁed in Note 6 addition to the CEO, group management consists of the heads of the on pages 75–76 of the Annual Report (in Swedish). market areas, the CEO of Svenska Skogsplantor AB, the head of Properties, the CFO (also deputy CEO), and the heads of the staffs Quality of ﬁnancial reporting Information, Human Resources and Forestry. The CEO’s assistant is In order to ensure the quality of ﬁnancial reporting, the board has co-opted. The gender distribution is four women and seven men. appointed an audit committee. The board also ensures the quality of Group management, see pages 50–51. ﬁnancial reporting by examining and deciding on interim reports, year-end reports and annual reports at board meeting. REMUNERATION TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES Sveaskog complies with state guidelines for remuneration to senior CORPORATE STRUCTURE executives. The board submits proposals to the annual general Sveaskog has 702 permanent employees. Since April 2012, the meeting on principles for remuneration to senior executives. The forest operations with forestry and sales of raw material as the main proposal is presented on the website in conjunction with the notice of assignment, have been conducted in three market areas: North, the annual general meeting. Senior executives in Sveaskog only Central and South. In addition, there are two business units: receive ﬁxed remuneration. No bonus or incentive programmes exist. Properties which is responsible for leasing transactions and land Remuneration to the CEO and senior executives is speciﬁed in Note sales, and Svenska Skogsplantor which produces and sells forest 8 of the annual report (in Swedish). 12 June 19 July 4–5 September 25 October 6 December • Report from committees • Financial report • Report from committees • Report from committees • Report from committees • Financial report • Interim report • Financial report • Financial report • Financial report • Review of group structure • Decisions on property • Risks and opportunities of • Audit plan • Business plan • Information policy sales and acquisitions climate change • Auditors’ review • Budget • Impact of climate in our • Interim report • Investment ceiling forests • Signiﬁcant accounting issues • Investment matters • Overall focus in business plan • Strategic personnel issues • Insurance policy • Development strategy • Action in view of changes in • Finance policy • Owner strategy SunPine AB bribery legislation • Additional consolidation of and Setra Group AB • Current issue linked to Setra corporate structure • Acquisition legislation • HR policy • The forest policy debate • Evaluation of the work of the board X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X X – 47 – Sveaskog’s Board of Directors Göran Persson Eva Färnstrand Thomas Hahn Johan Hallberg Carina Håkansson Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Mats G Ringesten Board members elected at Annual General Meeting Göran Persson Fabriker, Södra Cell, Handelsbanken’s regional bank in Stockholm Chairman of the Board City and Schibsted Trykk. Born 1949, elected 2008. Prime Minister 1996–2006, Leader of the Social Democratic Party 1996–2007, Minister of Finance 1994– Thomas Hahn 1996, Member of Parliament and Vice Chairman of the Standing Born 1964, elected 2007. PhD Agronomics from the Swedish Committee on Finance 1993–1994, Member of Parliament and University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU. Researcher at Stockholm Chairman of the Agricultural Committee 1991–1992 Minister for Resilience Centre. Attached to Adaptive Governance. In 2013 also Schools 1989–1991. Chairman of Remuneration Committee (RC) Secretary to the Committee of Inquiry on the Value of Ecosystem and Property Committee (PC). Services, M2013:01. Previously Chairman of Economists for the Environment and involved in The Millennium Ecosystem Assessment. Eva Färnstrand Born 1951, elected 2008. MSc Eng from the Royal Institute of Johan Hallberg Technology (KTH). Board member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Born 1974, elected 2012. MSc Econ from the Stockholm School of Engineering Sciences, IVA. Chairman of the Board of Proﬁlgruppen Economics. Employed at Government Ofﬁces of Sweden as InvestAB and Infranord AB, member of the Board of Indutrade. Previously ment Director/Under Secretary in the Unit for State Company Plant Manager of Södra Cell Mönsterås, CEO of Tidningstryckarna Administration. Chairman of the Board of Teracom Group AB, AB, Business Area Manager SCA. Previous directorships Domsjö Springwell AB and Oak Capital Group AB. Member of the Board of – 48 – Eva-Lisa Lindvall Sture Persson Per Eriksson Kurt Larsson Infranord AB. Previously investment baker within HSBC Investment Mats G Ringesten Bank in London, Stockholm Corporate Finance and Lenner & Born 1950, elected 2009. MSc Econ from the Stockholm School of Partners and Board member of Metria AB and Arbetslivsresurs AR Economics. Member of the Royal Swedish Academy of Engineering AB. Member of the Audit Committee. Sciences, IVA. Senior Partner Neuman & Nydahl 1996–2011. Previously director and head of Corporate Strategy & Business Carina Håkansson Development at AB Volvo, Senior Vice President with responsibility Born 1961, elected 2010. Master of Forestry degree from the for Group Strategy & Business Development at Procordia AB, various Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences, SLU. President & CEO leading positions within the Shell Group. Previous directorship include of Dala Kraft. Chairman of the Swedish Forestry Association and V&S Group, Pandox AB, Kongsberg Automotive A/S, VSM Group and member of the Board of Dala Vind AB. Previously CEO of Stora Enso Pharmacia Diagnostics. Member of the Remuneration Committee Forest, Assistant Forest Manager/Regional Manger and Head of (RC). Communications at Stora Enso Forest. Previously Chairman of Sydved, Chairman of SLA Forest Section, member of the Board of Employee representatives Stora Enso AB and the Forest Industries’ Forest Committee. Eva-Lisa Lindvall Born 1951, elected 2007. Board member, Association of Managerial Birgitta Johansson-Hedberg and Professional Staff. Planning Manager, Sveaskog. Member of the Born 1947, elected 2001. BA, Psychology Degree at Lund University. Property Committee (PC). Chairman of Umeå University and Almi Stockholm AB, Board member of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, Sveriges Radio AB, Sture Persson Pocketstället AB, Rieber & Son ASA, Vectura Consulting AB and Born 1957, elected 2003. Board member, Swedish Forest and Wood Vitec AB as well as Copenhagen Economics. Former President and Trade Union. Harvester operator, Sveaskog. Member of the Audit CEO of FöreningsSparbanken and Lantmännen. Member of the Committee (AC). Property Committee (PC). Per Eriksson Anna-Stina Nordmark Nilsson Born 1966, elected 2010. Deputy, Akademikerföreningen. Born 1956, elected 2006. BSc Economics. Former CEO of FöreBusiness Manager Property Development. tagarna, authorised public accountant and manager within PwC, Healthcare Director Stockholm County Council, County Council Kurt Larsson Director in Norrbotten, CEO of Piteå-Tidningen and Director of Born 1952, elected 2003. Deputy, Swedish Forest and Wood Trade Roads. Deputy Chairman of Svenska Kraftnät, Board member of Union. Harvester Operator, Sveaskog. Softronic AB (publ) and Dedicare AB (publ). Since the mid-1990s has had a number of directorships in both listed and unlisted Auditors companies, state-owned companies, hospitals, universities, foundations and organisations. Chairman of the Audit Committee Audit ﬁrm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB with Martin Johansson as (AC). Auditor in Charge. – 49 – Group Management Per-Olof Wedin Per Matses Nina Arkeberg Monica Berglund Karin Ericsson Fredrik Klang Tommy Nilsson Jens Otterstedt Per-Olof Wedin President and CEO. Born 1955. Employed since 2011. MSc in Nina Arkeberg Mechanical Engineering from the Royal Institute of Technology, KTH. PA to the CEO and co-opted member of Group Management. Born Previously CEO of Svevia, the former National Road Administration 1967. Employed since 2011. MSc in Business Administration and Production, Head of Stora Enso business area Uncoated Magazine Management. Previous positions include Assistant to CEO of Svevia, Paper and Pulp, head of Stora Enso Transport and Distribution Unit, the former National Road Administration Production and Assistant to CEO of Grycksbo Pappersbruk, management positions at SCA and CEO of Stora Enso Grycksbo Bruk. Modo. Member of the Board of Setra Group AB. Monica Berglund Per Matses Acting SVP Communications (while Linda Andersson is on parental Deputy CEO and CFO. Born 1958. Employed since 2010. MBA from leave). Born 1961. Employed since 2012. BA in Communications Örebro University. Previously CFO, Executive Vice President and Science from Jönköping University. Previous positions include CEO Administrative Director at Apoteket AB, Finance Director at Postgirot and Senior Consultant at strategic communications agency Nordisk Bank AB and Finance Director at Posten AB. Member of the Board Kommunikation, Head of Communications at Försäkringskassornas of Setra Group AB the Medical Products Agency. förbund, Posten Sverige AB and Alecta pensionsförsäkring. – 50 – Lena Sammeli-Johansson Herman Sundqvist Hans Welff Karin Ericsson Lena Sammeli-Johansson SVP Human Resources. Born 1956. Employed since 2001. BSc in CEO of Svenska Skogsplantor AB. Born 1959. Employed since 1985. Sociology from Umeå University. Previously Personnel Manager, Master of Forestry Science from the Swedish University of AgriAdministration Manager, Personnel Secretary and Welfare Ofﬁcer at cultural Sciences. Previous position at Svenska Skogsplantor Norrbotten County Council. Board member of the SLA Forest Section including Nursery Manager, Regional Manager of south Norrland and Chairman of SLA Norr. and Marketing Manager. Chairman of the Committee for Seedling Protection in Forestry and the Swedish Forest Nursery Association. Fredrik Klang SVP South Market Area. Born 1970. Employed since 2000. Master of Herman Sundqvist Forestry Science and PhD from the Swedish University of Agricultural SVP Forestry. Born 1963. Employed since 1994. Master of Forestry Sciences. Previous positions include Regional Manager Sveaskog Science and PhD from the Swedish University of Agricultural Götaland, District Manager Sveaskog Västra Götaland and Head of Sciences. Previous positions include Forest strategy manager for Silviculture Västra Götaland, AssiDomän Forestry. Sveaskog and Silviculture manager for AssiDomän Forestry. Chairman of Skogforsk and member of the Board of Setra Group AB and Tommy Nilsson KSLA. Member of the Forest Industry’s Forest Committee. SVP North Market Area. Born 1954. Employed since 1999. Master of Forestry Science from the Swedish University of Agricultural Hans Welff Sciences. Previous positions include Forest Manager at DomänSVP Central Market Area. Born 1958. Employed since 1990. Master verket (the Swedish Forestry Service), CEO of sawmills and Account of Forestry Science from the Swedish University of Agricultural Executive at AssiDomän in Northern Norrbotten, Market Area Sciences. Previous positions include Regional manager, Sveaskog Manager at Sveaskog in Norrbotten. Member of the Board of Norra Bergslagen and Silviculture manager for AssiDomän Forestry, Bottenvikens Stuveri AB and ESS. Bergslagen. Jens Otterstedt SVP Properties. Born 1967. Employed since 2008. Master of Forestry Science from the Swedish University of Agricultural Sciences Previous positions include consultant at McKinsey & Company and Pöyry Consulting. Member of the Board of SunPine AB. – 51 – Sveaskog AB, reg. no. 556558-0031 Stockholm Torsgatan 4 SE-105 22 Stockholm Tel +46 8 655 90 00 Kalix Torggatan 4 Box 315 SE-952 23 Kalix Tel +46 923 787 00 www.sveaskog.se Contact: Charlotte Jönsson charlotte.jonsson@sveaskog.se Tel: +46 8 655 92 74 This is FSC® FSC® is an independent international organisation for certiﬁcation of responsible forestry. The aim is socially beneﬁcial, environmentally appropriate and economically viable responsible forest management. FSC®’s logotype on products represents independent The mark of responsible forestry certiﬁcation of forestry and product manufacturing according to FSC®’s rules.
