CSR REPORT 2012 A question of balance www.nordea.com/csr CONTENTS 04 Introducing 10 CSR focus 14 Relationship Nordea and progress banking 05 Nordea facts & figures CSR work is always work in 14 Lifelong relationships 06 Welcome from our CEO progress, a journey that never 18 Responsible lending ends. The goal is to integrate CSR 08 Our impact on society with business. This section tells 22 Responsible value creation Nordea is one of twenty eight how the work is progressing and banks in the world considered what Nordea focuses on to reach Everything we do in Nordea has vital for the financial system, a its goal. The complexity of the task one purpose: to create great systemically important bank. This should not be underestimated customer experiences. Our entails a great responsibility. Read and is constantly scrutinised by customers’ goals are our goals. how Christian Clausen, Nordea’s responsible investors worldwide. The better we know them the President and Group CEO, views more likely it is that we can work responsibility and see how Nordea together with them to realise impacts society. their goals. www.nordea.com/csr 02 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 26 Growing 32 Governance 40 Reducing our together and compliance environmental footprint At Nordea we want our people to 32 Running a responsible grow. When they grow, Nordea business Minimising our environmental grows. Internally we say One 36 Corporate governance footprint is part of everyday Nordea Team. Read about working life. It is constantly Nordea’s people and how leaders Identifying risk and preventing financial crime are essential decreasing as a result of are coached to unfold the potential systematic work. Travel is reduced of others, live the values and help aspects of compliance. Nordea has comprehensive systems in and less paper is used as others reach out for the common information is conveyed via web. vision. place to ensure that the bank is compliant and works with integrity Suppliers are contractually obliged and responsibility. to follow the treaties to which Nordea is signatory. 43 About this report 44 Performance 51 Auditor's Review indicators Report 44 GRI Index 46 Social data 48 Environmental data NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 03 MEET NORDEA Nordea is the largest financial services group is right for him or her. Nordea offers a wide in the Nordic and Baltic Sea region with market range of products, services and solutions within capitalisation of approximately EUR 29,3bn, assets banking, asset management and insurance. under management of EUR 218bn and a core tier 1 capital ratio of 13.1%. In 2012 we received Nordea Bank AB (publ), the parent company of the no state subsidies. Nordea has leading positions Nordea Group, is legally registered in Sweden with within corporate merchant banking as well as retail head offices in Stockholm. Christian Clausen is the banking and private banking. It is also the largest Group President and CEO. At the end of 2012 Nordea asset manager in the Nordic region and the leading Group had 31,466 employees*. Nordea’s organisation Nordic life and pensions products provider. strengthens the value-chain-based concept. It consists of three main business areas geared towards increased Nordea has an ambitious vision of becoming flexibility and focus on capital and cost efficiency. a Great European bank, acknowledged for its A detailed organisational chart is available on people, creating superior value for customers and www.nordea.com. Nordea has no major joint ventures, shareholders. The vision is reflected in Nordea’s apart from the IT operations jointly run with IBM. financial targets and supported by Nordea’s values: The Nordea share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic ■■ Great customer experiences Exchange in Stockholm, Helsinki and Copenhagen. ■■ It’s all about people With high market capitalisation and high liquidity, ■■ One Nordea team the share is included in key indices. In the end of December 2012 the three largest shareholders To help us achieve that vision we also: were Sampo Group with 21.4 (20.3)% of the shares, the Swedish state with 13.5 (13.5)% and Nordea ■■ Pursue a strategy that ensures sufficient income Fonden with 3.9 (3.9)%. Nordea has approximately generation to create great customer experiences and 475,000 shareholders who hold 4,049,951,919 long term value. shares. Nordea can trace its roots as far back as to ■■ Aim to be the best relationship bank in the markets 1820. To date 250 banks have been incorporated. where we operate retaining existing customers and attracting new ones. Recognitions ■■ Operate according to one operating model in everything we do in order to free up resources to serve customers Nordea received several awards and recognitions during 2012. Some of the main awards were: We have had our position confirmed as the market leader in the Nordics by being among the ten largest ■■ Bank of the Year in Western Europe by the Banker, universal banks in Europe and defined as the only owned by the Financial Times global systemically important bank in our part of ■■ The best in Private Banking in the Nordic and Baltic Europe. To meet the regulatory challenges, we have Region by Euromoney initiated one of the most ambitious New Normal ■■ The best debt bank in Nordic region by the Global plans for any bank in the world. We have continued Finance Magazine to attract new customers and deepen our relations ■■ The safest bank in the Nordic region by Global Finance in all segments from households to the largest Magazine. companies in the region. We were appointed the Bank of the Year in Western Europe by the Banker. More information on received awards is available on www.nordea.com. Today Nordea has some 11 million personal customers, approximately 1,000 locations in total and Please see pages 4-8 and 211 of the Annual a leading net-banking position with approximately Report for more detailed information. 6.9 million Netbank customers. Building relationships with our customers is fundamental. That is how * FTE's, full-time equivalent we are able to provide each customer with what 04 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 FACTS & FIGURES NORWAY 971,000 FINLAND CUSTOMERS 2,630,000 SWEDEN CUSTOMERS 3,389,000 ESTONIA 140,000 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS RUSSIA DENMARK LATVIA 72,000 112,000 1,684,000 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMERS LITHUANIA CUSTOMERS 155,000 CUSTOMERS POLAND 668,000 CUSTOMERS International Markets Beijing, Frankfurt, London, Luxembourg, New York, Sao Paulo, Shanghai, Singapore ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Million euros Direct economic value generated: Introducing Nordea Net sales plus revenues from financial investments and sales of assets 9,303 Economic value distributed: Payments to suppliers, non-strategic investments, royalties and facilitation payments 1,860 Total monetary outflows for employees (current payments, not future commitments) 3,048 All financial payments made to the providers of the organisation's capital 1,048 Gross taxes 991 Donations, voluntary contributions 1 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 05 Welcome from our CEO Introducing Nordea “ Banks have an important role in the global economic recovery. We can only take on that responsibility by always putting customers first and helping finance their plans and ambitions. That is the engine of growth and the idea behind Nordea’s relationship strategy. The financial crisis shows that financial stability is a prerequisite for strong customer relations. Only if we can generate the capital needed to provide new loans and maintain capital buffers, can we serve customers and contribute to society. This is the core of our CSR thinking. Nordea's long term goal is to fully integrate CSR and business.” Christian Clausen, President and Group CEO Great customer experiences criticisms levelled against the financial sector are justifiable. There were banks that exhibited weak and financial stability and unclear values, banks that had buffers that were The global financial sector has been under strong too small or governance systems that were poor, pressure for five years. First, the financial crisis and there were banks that distanced themselves paralysed large parts of the industry as trust from the rest of the societies where they operate. between banks disappeared and liquidity became scarce. It became obvious that many banks had These various malpractices have led to far too small capital buffers to run sustainable criticism of the entire industry that affects all banking models. Today, many banks are struggling banks. Also Nordea has faced challenges. to adjust to new regulations aimed at preventing future financial crises. At the same time, the Customers first recession in Europe is causing economic activity and demand for banking services to slow. The conclusion from the past five years is that every bank has to put the customers first and ensure Through all these phases banks have lost the a business model that provides financial stability, public’s trust and appreciation. In many cases, the good funding access and healthy profitability. 06 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Without the trust of the customers, banks cannot from the present sovereign debt crisis – then it ensure the stability and development that 21st will mark a historic, collective accomplishment for century banking requires. For Nordea, this translates politicians, authorities and banks. Certain calibrations to our value: Great Customer Experiences. By still await and some complex regulatory work needs constantly maintaining strong relationships with to be finalised, but significant steps have been taken both corporate and household customers, doing to make the economy less volatile in the future. our utmost in each customer situation and striving to add value with every advice we give, we want to Other industry-wide initiatives are of equal help our customers shape their future. Thereby we importance. They establish clear norms by which also shape the future of our relationship bank. we can navigate the road ahead. One example is the United Nation’s Environmental Principles It is equally important to recognise that banks must for Financial Institutions, which Nordea signed in generate a profit above the cost of capital. Without 2001 and has served as a guiding star for us ever this, banks will not be able to provide long term stability since. The Equator Principles, the Global Compact or the ability to support growth and development and the United Nations Principles for Responsible in the societies where it is mostly needed. Investment provide a similar signposting role for us. Through the crisis, Nordea has delivered. Since 2007, However, signing documents is easy; translating we have welcomed 700,000 new household customers them into practice is what makes a change. It to a close relation with us. Today more than three is necessary to break them down into tangible million people do their daily banking business and get policies and practices. Nordea does this. We act financial advice from Nordea. Over this period, our on the principles in our day-to-day tasks. monthly performance figures have been consistently positive as well. In fact, we have managed to reach Moreover we aim at shaping Nordea’s future culture, a return on equity above 8 % in each single quarter where every employee lives out our values – Great since the crisis started. Nor has our return on equity Customer Experiences, It’s All About People and One ever dropped below 11% any year since. Instead Nordea Team – in everything we do. There is no more of reducing credits and lending, we are generating forceful way for us to take our responsibility than to additional business with our customers. Instead convert these values into action – for our customers, of leaving customers and markets behind, we are our employees and the societies where we operate. increasing the number of households and companies that we serve. Instead of scaling down on development, we are introducing new products and channels for our customers. Today, Nordea has close to one million frequent mobile bank users and almost all of our household customers access their services on-line. Christian Clausen President and Group CEO This is the core of our contribution to society. Instead of causing problems, we want to be part of the solution – by supporting growth, by helping find good regulatory structures for the future, and by taking difficult measures to adjust our bank to the emerging environment. Introducing Nordea Christian Clausen re-elected Keeping on course Chairman of European As chairman of the European Banking Federation, Banking Federation I have had the opportunity to participate in the work of reshaping the global financial regulation. In November 2012, Christian Clausen was The over-arching aim of the regulation is to ensure re-elected to a second term as Chairman that banks have the profitability and financial of the European Banking Federation. stability to avoid new financial crises and instead become buffers that protect society from the The European Banking Federation is based economic effects of asset price bubbles. in Brussels and has 4,500 members from 31 countries. Christian Clausen is also Chairman If this objective can be achieved – at a level and pace of the Swedish Bankers' Association. that does not hurt the ability for Europe to recover NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 07 07 Our impact on society For a bank, a year’s performance is often described in terms of Deposits â net interest income, return on equity and operating profit. But as 124 bn€ of deposits* important is the impact we have on society in our home markets. OUR IMPACT STARTS Shareholders â WITH CUSTOMERS We have an impact on society when we meet our 447,000 customers. We need to stand by our customers and shareholders* help them in realising their plans. This requires that we know them thoroughly. In 2012 we conducted almost 2 million advisory sessions with household and corporate 29 bn€ market cap* customers. Each working day, more than 5,000 people visited a Nordea branch and received a comprehensive overview of their personal finances and a clear view on how 1 bn€ to make their ambitions possible. We met with more than dividends 300,000 small and medium-sized corporate customers and were able to help many entrepreneurs adjust to both sluggish demand and the effects of new banking regulations. We supported over 270 large and multinational companies in finding financing on the bond market through bond issues in the amount of almost EUR 50bn. In addition, we enabled over EUR 70bn syndicated loans to be issued. Debt securities in issue â In order to provide long-term stability and to support growth and development wherever we operate we must be financially stable, have good funding access and healthy 184 bn€* profitability. Financial strength is a prerequisite for funding, in the eyes of both equity and fixed income investors. We must also be perceived as a safe bank for customers’ deposits. In return we pay interest on deposits and fixed income investments, and dividends to our shareholders. In our role as a corporate citizen we also keep the wheels of society rolling through tax payments, buying services and goods as well as employing 31,466 people.* ■ * Based on 31 Dec 2012 * FTE, full-time equivalent Other figures are based on full year 2012 08 08 â Household lending 305,000 Purchases Mortgages issued in 2012 2 bn€ 130 bn€ 1,000 contractors* Mortgages ã 29 bn€ Consumer lending Gross Taxes â Corporate lending 991 m€ 183 bn€ corporate lending ã 120 bn€ bondS and SYNDICATED LOANS issued in 2012 â Wealth management 218 bn€ assets under mANAGEMENT* 2,567,051 Number of fund unit holders* â Advisory 750,000 ”360 degree” meetings 312,000 meetings with small & medium corporates 770,000 FINANCIAL PLANS ã Introducing Nordea â Transactions Employees 248,000,000 netbank transactions 31,466 24,000,000 employees* branch office transactions 1,300,000,000 3 bn€ card transactions salaries AND OTHER CONTRIBUTIONS 883,000 RELATED TO EMPLOYEES new cards 123,000,000 MOBILE log-ins 09 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 09 CSR focus and ProgreSS The banking industry is changing fast. Customers are making new demands and lawmakers are setting new rules. In 2012, our focus was on further embedding CSR with our core businesses. We strengthened our compliance, developed our lending practices, introduced a new Sustainability Policy and continued to reduce our ecological footprint. All with one goal: to continue carrying out responsible relationships with our customers and other stakeholders and to contribute to the societies in which we work. 10 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Highlights in 2012 Moving forward in a downturn Financially healthy societies need financially healthy banks. Economic stability is Nordea’s fundamental. Our customers as well as all our shareholders need to know that we are there in the long-term. This is our primary social responsibility. To fulfil that vision, we need to go about our business in a responsible way. ESG assessment in lending Keeping ahead also means having to adapt. Nordea monitors our changing economic environment very Going forward we will focus on closely, as well as listening to the emerging concerns of identifying potential risk cases our stakeholders. We respond to these variables both and concentrating our efforts on quickly and effectively. This ensures that our economic them. The work to develop our performance remains strong despite challenging times. credit assessment processes, tools and guidelines continues. New sustainability policy In 2012, Nordea’s Board of Directors established a new Sustainability Policy. Before, we had two parallel policies: our Environmental Policy and our Corporate Citizenship Principles. The purpose is to clarify what we mean with sustainability. In the year ahead, we intend to launch a mandatory e-learning module for all Nordea employees including new recruits so as to familiarise them with the new policy. Changing by engaging The Group Executive Management approves the CSR strategy and goals each year. In addition to that, the Head We actively engage with the of CSR participates in Group Executive Management companies in which we invest. meetings regularly during the year. Strategic oversight Emerging Stars and Swedish and direction sits with our CSR Stakeholder Board Stars funds' performance has (see list below). The Board met three times in 2012. proven that we can combine sound financial rationality with ESG. Our CSR Stakeholder Board CSR focus and progress ■■ Chairman: Ari Kaperi, Chief Risk Officer and member of Group Executive Management ■■ Henrik Priergaard, Head of HR and CEO Office ■■ Jorma Timonen, Chief Credit Officer, Head of Group Credit ■■ Olli-Petteri Lehtinen, Head of Corporate Merchant Banking, Finland ■■ Topi Manner, Head of Retail Banking, Finland ■■ Tapio Saarelainen, Head of Group Services ■■ Rune Kibsgaard Sjøhelle, Head of Brand Management Standards for suppliers ■■ Hans Christian Riise, Union representative We work with our suppliers to ■■ Rodney Alfvén, Head of Investor Relations identify and plan actions to improve ■■ Sasja Beslik, Head of Responsible Investment their sustainability performance. Our supplier management ■■ Liisa Jauri, Head of CSR system guides us in this work. ■■ Lena Höglund Rosén, CSR Manager NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 11 Investing through Improving ESG in lending positive screening During 2012 we have continued to develop the Emerging Stars, the funds with positive screening assessment of environmental, social and governance launched by Nordea’s Responsible Investment (ESG) risks in our credit process. The main change team in 2011, continued in a positive direction is that we will focus on identifying potential higher in 2012 outperforming their benchmark indexes. risk cases and focus our efforts and analyses on Traditionally, responsible investment has meant these. For example, certain industries and countries excluding companies, so called negative are more prone to ESG risks than others. On these screening. It is a shift in mind set we believe in. higher risk cases we will use enhanced tools, both internal and external databases as well as ESG As the largest asset manager in the Nordics, with analyses. In 2012 we have developed an enhanced over 200 bn EUR assets under management during internal prototype tool that combines current 2012, we want to promote responsible investment. internal ESG tools. The new tool will be piloted That is why Nordea was the first Nordic bank to going forward. This development does not preclude sign the Principles for Responsible Investment in lower-risk areas, which remain within the scope. 2007. Five years on, we now have a wide range of socially responsible products and solutions. Working with suppliers Illegal and nuclear Nordea’s concern about ESG issues goes beyond weapons divestment our immediate operations and extends to our supply chain. As a signatory to the Global Compact, we In 2012, we took the decision to sell all commit to engage with our suppliers on their ESG our holdings in companies that produce or performance. Nordea recently introduced a supplier develop illegal and nuclear weapon systems management system to promote supplier compliance or technologies. Following our decision to with our values. This includes a call for ad-hoc divest our holdings our position in terms of CSR reviews. Our initial efforts focus on our forty lending to or offering credit to these companies largest suppliers. These account for over half our came under scrutiny from some quarters. procurement spend of EUR 1,9bn per year. Nordea’s BEST NORDIC BANK IN CDP for the 2nd year For the second consecutive year, Nordea topped the Nordic banking sector in the Carbon Disclosure Project’s annual survey. In fact, our score puts us among the best performing companies for the whole Nordic region. CDP is an industry-led initiative that registers the direct and indirect carbon emissions of leading companies. For Nordea, this includes the carbon impacts of our investments and lending in addition to those from our own operations. CDP serves as a leading benchmark for analysts interested in identifying environmentally responsible companies. Currently, 655 investors with 78 trillion USD in assets under management use the CDP database. 12 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 “ The fact that 31% of Nordea’s shares are owned approach is one of ‘carrots’ rather than ‘sticks’. We work alongside suppliers to identify where their by responsible investors provides weaknesses lie and to agree joint action plans. We impetus to our CSR ambitions, but believe this is a more effective way of bringing about it is also a huge responsibility.” continuous improvement than imposing sanctions. Liisa Jauri, Head of CSR Stakeholder dialogue Consulting our stakeholders and acting on their Listening to recommendations is a cornerstone of Nordea’s responsible investors responsibility strategy. We believe this practice makes us a more trusted and more sustainable bank. In 2012 Nordea’s CSR Secretariat conducted its second survey to gage how many of Nordea’s Nordea conducts an annual survey of our shareholders are responsible investors. The criteria customers and employees. The results of these used was whether the investors had signed the surveys form our Customer Satisfaction Index Principle for Responsible Investment. At year’s end 31 (CSI) and the Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI). per cent of Nordea’s shares were owned by responsible In addition, we created an online forum to allow investors. The average in European and North employees space for dialogue and discussion. American companies is between 10 and 15 per cent. As part of our responsible banking strategy, Nordea From the CSR Secretariat’s point of view this entails a undertakes regular stakeholder consultations to great responsibility that we convey to our colleagues ensure that we are addressing the most material throughout Nordea. It gives impetus to our CSR efforts issues for our business. In the third quarter of and proves that it is essential also to our share price. 2012, we carried out two such consultations. Besides these specific surveys, we communicate with These comprised an online discussion board and shareholders, analysts, employees, customers and a stakeholder survey. As well as providing us with civil society organisations through a range of formal many vital insights, the outcomes of this consultation and informal channels such as Investor Relations process influenced the framing of this report. road shows and responses to csr@nordea.com. ■ CSR focus and progress NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 13 Lifelong Relationships Nordea’s core business concept revolves around relationships. All our customers are unique. They have unique business needs, unique life situations, and unique aspirations for the present and for the future. Through good relationships, we can understand these factors better – and offer better advice and support as a result. RELATIONSHIP BANKING that we have with customers, whether it is through automated transactions or personal contact. Every working day, approximately 5,000 private and 1,000 business customers meet with Nordea people for financial Following Nordea’s recent introduction of 24/7 advice. Engaging with our customers on a face-to-face customer services in Finland, customers in all basis is an essential part of our relationship banking our Nordic countries can now get help and approach. This is a key pillar on which our bank is built. advice whenever they like – day or night. Every individual requires individual advice. It’s essential RESPONSIBLE AND CLEAR ADVICE for us to understand the individual customers’ needs to add value and give the right advice. There is no We aim for clarity and simplicity in all our communi­ better way to secure this by really getting to know cations with customers. Our goal is to communicate our customers. At Nordea, customers participating in our products and services as clearly as possible. our relationship banking program have an appointed This is not always easy in the finance industry and relationship contact whose job it is to acquire a requires a balance between clarity and regulatory holistic view on the customer's financial affairs. We requirements. We apply the same principles with our wish to be our customers’ lifetime financial partner. own employees. The objectives and incentives we set with our employees are always simple and clear. At Nordea, we have a core value that guides everything we do. We call it “Great Customer We extend the principles of clarity and simplicity Experiences”. This principle governs every interaction to our product development process as well. By 14 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 doing so, we are able to create transparent and noAN OPEN EAR TO IMPROVEMENT nonsense products and services. This enables us in turn to advise our customers clearly and in a way Customer feedback is essential to help us understand that is most relevant to their financial situation. our customers’ expectations and improve our services. Nordea Sweden was the first bank to Ensuring that our customers can manage their appoint a customer ombudsman in 2003. The other personal finances is an important part of being a Nordic countries followed and in 2012 Estonia socially responsible bank. By the same token, it is did as well. In all home market countries we have important for Nordea to keep a watchful eye over our designated people to handle customer feedback. risks as a lender. This involves striking a balance. On the one hand, we naturally wish to fulfil our customers’ It is not only the ombudsmen who gather aspirations. On the other hand, we wish to do this in customers’ opinions. In Nordea it is mandatory a way that is responsible and in line with our values. for all our employees who work in our branches Relationship banking NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 15 and contact centres to register complaints services. Responding and reacting to customers' In our customer management system. feedback is handled with highest priority. Nordea’s system for gathering, reporting and In 2012 we had one substantiated complaint regarding monitoring customers’ comments is in place in all of breaches of customer privacy or losses of customer the Nordic and Baltic countries. These comments data. We did not receive any significant fines for emerge in many different settings, from meetings non-compliance with laws or regulations relating to and telephone calls to e-mails and letters. Some the provision or use of our products and services. may be positive, others negative. All count and all are registered in our customer management SHARING OUR KNOWLEDGE system. We ran a communications campaign among our employees in 2012 to emphasise Nordea’s financial expertise is fundamental to the the importance of this registration process. advisory services that we offer our customers. We are mindful that this knowledge could serve Our local Ombudsmen gather all the feedback registered the public good as well. Nordea is keen to share. in our system. They forward this to the relevant business The main way we do this is though our Private units on a monthly basis, together with suggestions for Economists who provide information on relevant improvements. The Ombudsmen’s role also includes topics via the media and through our website. Among talking to customers and coaching employees on the topics they addressed during 2012 were: how to handle feedback. The Ombudsmen in the four Nordic countries present a quarterly report to senior ■■ Financial concerns, such as unexpected expenses, tax management in each of these markets. The reports declarations and thefts focus especially on what Nordea can do to practically ■■ Specific issues for certain groups, such as students, address the issues raised by our customers. teenagers and retirees. ■■ Financial considerations for those in relationships, such In 2012, Poland, Estonia and Latvia, had designated as “who pays what” and consumption loans. individuals in charge of handling customer complaints. In Lithuania, a Customer Complaints Committee Nordea has a particular commitment to young people fulfilled this same function. In Russia, this role and their education. Financial literacy represents a falls to the Customer Compliance department. key life skill, yet it is a topic that is often overlooked or not adequately taught in schools. Our employees are In 2012 the amount of feedback received increased well placed to help correct this. For this reason, many with 28% on year-on-year basis. A likely cause is share their knowledge on a voluntary basis as Financial the many changes that occurred during the year: Education Ambassadors in schools. This is all about fewer branches, less branches offering manual equipping today’s youth for tomorrow. It is in no way cashhandling and a substantial increase in the use about marketing. In their role as Ambassadors, our of digital solutions that lead to instability of these employees make no reference to the Nordea brand or Challenging discussions give me energy “ Financial Educanext generation expects from sity students, subjects range tion Ambassadors banking services.” from investments to employwork with students We visit with all levels of ment opportunities. on a voluntary basis, but I students, from the primary “I greatly appreciate the see it as part of my job. It is grades to university stuchallenging discussions we taking responsibility for othdents. At the younger levels have with students, they ers in society by sharing my we discuss practical matters give me a huge amount of knowledge. Young people such as cards, accounts, fienergy. are open-minded and give nancial difficulties and loans. Heli, Keränen, us a glimpse of what the With vocational and univerSales Manager, Oulu 16 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 to our products. To emphasise this point, all of our tutoring materials are white-labelled and free of any bank logos. In 2012, the volunteers visited a total of 515 lessons and spent 1,037 hours with young people across the Nordic countries discussing financial matters in life. 100,000 FACEBOOK LIKES In 2012 communication with customers via social media increased sharply. Nordea is active on Facebook, Linked-in and Twitter. More than 50% of the adult population in the Nordics now use Facebook. Our intention is to be present with an open mind, answering questions whenever the customers have them and providing interesting content. In November 2012, Nordea's Facebook pages in Norway, Denmark, Sweden and Finland passed the 100,000 'likes' mark. The questions that come in through Facebook Customer largely resemble those that are received by the Contact Centre by phone or e-mail. CARDS or CASH? The vast majority of our customers Satisfaction Survey visit a branch when they need advice. Otherwise, they prefer managing their Our annual Customer strong interest in the survey day-to-day banking with their cards Satisfaction survey since customer satisfacor through electronic payments. This measures our ability to tion is a relevant part of is safer than using cash because: deliver great customer the strategic steering of experiences. It also measthe group. Both “Customer ■■ it reduces the risk of individual thefts or branch ures our performance Satisfaction” and Delivrobberies compared to our peers. ery Satisfaction Index” are ■■ bank cards will be replaed by Nordea if lost or Some 95,000 customers Nordea’s key performance stolen voiced their opinion on indicators. GEM decides ■■ customers will not be held responsible for Nordea and gave valuable actions on Group level. The transactions made with a stolen or lost card, input for improvements. A results are analysed in detail other than in very rare exceptions. sample of customers of per customer segment and other banks were asked the finally also on branch region On the other hand, we recognise that cash is same questions. All cuslevel. The survey is conRelationship banking still the preferred option for many of our older tomer segments, Corporate, ducted in such a way that customers. Over half of our branches still offer Household and Private each region can see where cash withdrawal service over the counter. Banking, were included. they stand. Follow-ups and The main focus area in the action plans are mandatory. Cash is also available from our widespread 2012 survey was cusnetwork of ATMs. We are also increasing tomer loyalty and drivers for In 2012 there was a the possibilities to withdraw foreign loyalty, evaluation of main negative trend in customer currencies in ATMs as well as increasing product areas as well as satisfaction and loyalty for the functionalities to deposit money in activeness and customer most banks across markets the ATMs in many of the countries. service in various channels. and segments with very few exceptions. Our results In addition, customers can now withdraw The main results of the were from stable to slightly cash from supermarkets with which survey are first discussed in negative but we maintained Nordea has special agreements in Group Executive Manageour scores above the averall of the Nordic countries. ■ ment (GEM). GEM has a age scores of peers. ■ NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 17 Responsible lending Being the largest financial institution in the Nordic region with a systemic importance for the global financial system our responsibility towards the society goes beyond strict commercial objectives. To safeguard that we take our social responsibility as a major lender requires that environmental, social, political, labour and other related issues are properly taken into account when granting loans to our customers in our daily work. 18 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 “ Integration of environmental, social and governance issues into the business and credit processes is an essential part of the risk assessment of corporate customers.” Jorma Timonen, Head of Group Credit Sustainability at the core least two of the following criteria are fulfilled: Nordea´s commitment to sustainability is evidenced by ■■ Significant weight in the Nordea loan portfolio being a signatory to several international agreements ■■ High cyclicality and/or volatility of the industry related to CSR and we are continuously working ■■ Special skills and knowledge required to incorporate these treaties and integrate them in our business and credit processes when deciding Nordea currently has Industry Credit Policies about to whom and which projects to finance. in place for the following industries: Nordea’s long-term strategic CSR goal is to integrate responsible lending with business, in core strategies, ■■ Shipping, Oil and Offshore policies, procedures, products and services. ■■ Energy ■■ Leveraged buy-out (LBO) As the largest bank in the Nordic countries, ■■ Hedge Fund many of the leading Nordic companies are our ■■ Commercial Real Estate customers. They have many large projects both within their home region as well as on a global Industry Credit Principles apply to: scale. It is clear to us that an environmental, social or political risk may also entail a credit risk. ■■ Forestry ■■ Telecoms Framework for ■■ Aircraft credit decisions The industry policies include instructions We have a framework including instructions for of specific issues e.g. how to manage environmental, social and political risks. There are two CSR risk assessment within lending. high level Group directives adopted by the Board of Directors: Credit Policy and Strategy for the Nordea All industry credit policies are approved by the Group and Credit Instructions for the Nordea Group. Executive Credit Committee and confirmed annually by the Board Risk Committee. The The first directive establishes the overall principles Industry Credit Principles are approved by Group such as that the granting of credit within the Credit Committee of Wholesale Banking and Group is based on sound banking practice confirmed by the Executive Credit Committee. and high ethical standards. It also establishes that the Group should in no way compromise Development of Relationship banking generally accepted ethical and legal principles, risk assessment nor should it have dealings with counterparts that we suspect to be of questionable morality. At present we are using two tools to analyse environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks in The Credit Instructions define practical guidelines lending; ERAT, Environmental Risk Assessment Tool and processes for evaluating and granting and SPRAT, Social and Political Risk Assessment Tool. credits in general. The directive includes detailed instructions for business units on how to define, During 2012 we have continued the work to integrate measure, execute and report on specific issues. CSR into business and credit processes. It has been decided to develop our credit risk assessment For monitoring the distribution of a portfolio, improving regarding the analyses of ESG risks. The main risk management and defining a common strategy, change is that we use a risk based approach to there are specific industry credit policies and principles identify potential risk cases and focus our efforts in place that establish requirements. Industry credit and analyses on these. The main criteria when policies are established for industries where at evaluating the potential risk will be the geographical NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 19 location of the business activities as well as the field of business of the companies in question. For identified risk cases we will use enhanced tools i.e. internal and external databases as well as ESG analyses. In 2012 we have continued the development work that started 2011 and have introduced a Group Risk Management level strategic initiative “Responsible lending”. The target is to renew the tool and the process how to use the tool. In 2012 we have developed a tool that combines ERAT and SPRAT. This new enhanced test tool will be piloted going forward. The aim is to start the implementation of the new way of working by the end of 2013. Project finance requires special guidelines and tools Societies need infrastructure. Constructing motorways, ports, bridges and damns are large and long-term projects. In the Nordic area the majority of large investments are financed with general corporate or municipality borrowing. Project finance is a specific form of financing single, often large projects such as power plants, pulp and paper plants, ports, mines or transportation infrastructure. Usually there are several parties involved in the financing and project development. When project finance is used the focus is in identifying and mitigating all project related risks. If the risks materialise, they can impose significant practical, financial as well as reputational consequences. It is essential to have a holistic view of the project risks. The Export and Project Finance (EPF) unit is responsible for project finance in Nordea. In 2007 Nordea adopted The Equator Principles (EP), a global, voluntary standard for commercial lenders to identify and address social and environmental risks in project financing based on the International Finance Corporation’s (IFC) guidelines for environmentally and socially responsible financing. Analysts and other relevant personnel have been trained in using the routines and tools. Internal seminars are held annually to provide staff with updates and the opportunity to knowledge share. The EP is currently being reviewed. Nordea has participated in this review of the scope of application of EP. We have supported that EP should be applied to projects/corporate lending cases over 50M USD (this threshold indicates a bank’s individual initial commitment). We also support that the wording and the principles should be as clear as possible in order for homogenous implementation. We have also voiced that common documentation libraries would be beneficial. 20 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Applying The ten 1. Initial project review the Equator Principles principles contained in 2. Project appraisal As a signatory Nordea will only provide loans the EP are to projects that confirm to the EP. Nordea has produced its own EP Manual (toolkit) for use organised into four workflow 3. Project negotiation, commitment and monitoring in training and in the decision making process. The toolkit is updated as the EP develops. steps: 4. External reporting. Nordea evaluates the borrower’s capacity to adequately identify, mitigate and manage key social and environmental risks and impacts of The steps match the Nordea project finance cycle and the project based on documentation provided are integrated with the general credit evaluation and by the borrower, independent environmental decision workflow. Each project finance case is presented and social consultants and possibly site visits. to Nordea’s EP Advisory Group for recommendation and Nordea uses independent experts in category classification. If the recommendation is positive, the terms A projects. Due to our relationship strategy and conditions to participate in the project are established, and Nordic focus the number of projects including environmental and social representations and subject to the EP tends to be small. The toolkit covenants. The borrower will provide annual social and provides guidance on how to apply the EP in environmental monitoring reports usually verified by the day-to-day business of Nordea's project an independent expert. In case of any non-compliance, finance deal managers (DM). In practice the Nordea will determine an appropriate course of action internal environmental specialist carries out together with the other lenders. Increasingly, corporate EP reviews of projects including review of loans involving projects are reviewed according to the EP reports by independent environmental and methodology due to their environmental and/or social social advisers and helps the DMs in issues impact. There is more flexibility in the process. The reviews related to covenants and monitoring of projects. are seen as risk management tool in these transactions.. ■ Nordea workflow for the Equator Principles The steps match the Nordea project finance cycle and are integrated 12 34 with the general credit evaluation and decision workflow Relationship banking Initial project Project Project negotiaExternal review appraisal tion, commitment reporting and monitoring Nordea reviews Nordea evaluates the Nordea reports and categorises the borrower’s capacity Nordea negotiates publicly on the level project with regard to adequately identify, with the borrower and of application of to its location and mitigate and manage selects appropriate the EP during the magnitude of the the key social and covenants concerning past year, and the expected social and environmental risks and EP compliance. performance of EP environmental impacts. impacts of the project. projects financed. NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 21 Responsible value creation Today, Nordea is the biggest asset manager in the Nordics. With more than 200 bn euros under management and with a client base of more than 10 million people from all layers of society, Nordea has a duty to support international norms and to be responsible investors on behalf of the clients. As the first bank in the Nordic region, Nordea signed the UN Principles for Responsible Investment in 2007 and since then has developed its policies, procedures and investment products, not only to meet the growing demand of global shareholder activism but also to strive to set a new set of positive standards in the financial sector. 22 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 “ To reduce environmental impact, provide good working conditions and adhere to ethical standards should not be seen as a cost but as a necessity for future revenues.” Sasja Beslik, Head of Investments & Governance Sound business strategy to suggest that it is in their interest to invest in and encourage a company to destroy the environment and ownership approach and mistreat people working for these companies. The past couple of years have been shaped by financial crisis as well as growing macro changes Identifying companies all over the world. Imbalances disclosed have performing well in many ways demonstrated crisis of active ownership as such in the financial sector. The core of our Responsible Investment (RI-) strategy is in-depth environmental, social and governance (ESG) The market economies dominating world markets are analysis and engagement activities. Throughout our today facing significant pressure from civil societies, ESG analysis companies’ overall management practices clients and interest groups. Questions are being raised regarding key ESG issues are assessed together with as to how shareholders could and will continue to their governance structure for these issues. Based Relationship banking enjoy right of ownership without taking responsibility on the analysis, companies are selected for proactive that comes with that ownership. As investors we engagements dialogues. The focus is on transferring are continuously striving for higher standards knowledge and active participation in the development of transparency, disclosure and accountability process. In 2010, we initiated our in-house environmental, from the companies we invest in. We believe that social and governance (ESG) analysis and developed industries we operate in as well as our actions need our own criteria and methodology. Our analysis is based to move from a culture of formalistic ownership on a positive approach with the aim to identify best entitlement to a culture of responsible ownership. practices and those companies that manage their risks, opportunities and/or develop sustainable products. Our Our activities in realm of responsible ownership in-house analysis focuses mainly on Nordic companies have increased over the last couple of years and and on analysing companies for our enhanced RI funds results achieved have improved our ability to provide Swedish and Emerging Stars. We have thus analysed clients with long-term responsible investment a wide range of companies on the Swedish market solutions. Most investment managers have millions of and emerging markets to find companies performing beneficiaries, mainly ordinary people, so it is unwise well environmentally, socially as well as financially. NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 23 Our Process Identifying new stars The first and one of the most important parts of the A reassessment of Swedish companies was conducted ESG-analysis process is to identify key issues for during the beginning of 2012. Swedish companies each sector and for the company we are assessing. are often described as mature companies that are Our aim is to identify key issues that are of material well aware of their environmental and social risks and relevance for the company to address, today but also in companies who are in the forefront of developing the future. NGO’s, external research providers, unions new sustainable technologies. Results from our and media are important sources for information. assessment show that this is true for some of the The assessment is then based on the key issues companies but not for all. In our ESG analysis both where we search public information and meet the leaders and laggards have been identified. Leaders company to identify if and how the company is have a good structure to manage environmental managing identified issues. We search for concrete and social risks but are increasingly integrating their actions and results that indicate that the company commitment to sustainable business development has established policies and practices to manage with group visions, mission statements and strategies. identified key issues. The company is informed about Our analysis has also identified companies that our rating but also about what improvements we are not top performers in this area today but that need to see in order to rate the company differently. demonstrate a positive momentum and that have a strategy on how to further improve, our future stars. Emerging Stars The policy framework described is based on international norms and conventions such as: The first investment product based on positive screening was introduced in the spring of 2011. The Emerging ■■ United Nations Global Compact Stars Fund makes us constantly look for the actual ■■ OECDs guidelines for multinational companies Emerging Stars, companies from the global emerging ■■ International Labour Organization’s Declaration markets that have the star potential to be a global on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work leader in their industry both in traditional industry and ■■ Universal Declaration of Human Rights financial terms as well as from ESG point of view. The ■■ Rio Declaration on Environment and fund invests solely in Emerging Markets countries such Development as Brazil, India and China. Its portfolio is considerably ■■ United Nations Convention against Corruption smaller than those of other Emerging Markets funds. ■■ Convention on Cluster Munitions The portfolio of the Emerging Stars fund typically comprises 40-60 companies, while a more traditional Emerging Markets fund typically invests in about 250 24 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 companies selected on the basis of various indices. As of end December 2012, Nordea has active With the relatively low number of companies in the dialogues with 14 companies with the purpose of portfolio Nordea is able to constantly monitor and changing the companies’ norm breaching behavior assess the performance of the individual companies. – and thereby enabling Nordea to create long-term The fund picks the companies to invest in on the value by steering clear of an often risky and shortbasis of Nordea’s own ESG analysis, which scores term behavior in the companies we invest in. potential investment candidates based on an evaluation of how they handle ESG risks and opportunities. Nordea also exercises active ownership Only the companies that demonstrate an ability to through participating in general meetings. handle both risks and opportunities and that have a positive approach to ESG issues will be selected. Excluded companies If a company is not showing true will to change Company engagements its norm breaching behavior, Nordea’s committee – a cornerstone in for Responsible Investments can decide to divest shareholder activism these investments from all fund portfolios. In 2012 Nordea excluded companies which contribute to Nordea acts as active owner on behalf of its clients the production or development of nuclear programs. in companies and sectors across the globe. All funds Nordea sees nuclear weapons and their potential managed by Nordea are screened for companies use as controversial, given their indiscriminate verified for violation of international norms regarding effect on human populations. This decision was in environmental protection, human rights, labour line with Nordea policy of illegal weapons (cluster standards and business ethics. The results of the munitions etc.) which was implemented in 2010. screening, conducted twice a year, are reviewed and assessed by Nordea’s Responsible Investment Nordea does not offer household customers Committee. The committee decides on the level of financial products where basic food commodities engagement with companies verified for violations. are used as underlying asset. ■ nordea’s way toward responsible investments 2007 2008 2009 2011 2012 Relationship banking UNPRI (Principles Agreement Exclusion of The first ESG Companies for Responsible with Hermes illegal weapons enhanced funds involved in Investment) regarding from Nordea’s were launched nuclear weapons was signed company portofolios were excluded dialogues Nordea decided from Nordea’s Agreement with not to offer holdings the service provider investment Ethix to monitor products our portfolios based on soft commodities NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 25 growIng together Relationships count. That is why Nordea believes in putting people first, especially our employees. When they grow, we grow. It is their skill and dedication that keep us ahead and make Nordea great. Investing in their success makes perfect sense. We look for leaders that can unfold potential. 26 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 “ Nordea’s leaders engage and motivate people to reach out for our vision and have the ability to create the right team to make it happen.” Henrik Priergaard, Head of Group HR Leadership builds culture and drives performance We believe that by living our values and working together as One Nordea Team our employees and our business can best grow together. To achieve this, we need to treat each other with respect and support one another’s development. Values and leadership give direction and impetus to Nordea’s growth and performance. Great leaders look to build those around them, not just themselves. This is the standard Nordea sets for our leaders. Developing the capacities of others, unfolding their potential and providing constructive feedback are true leadership qualities. Our latest ESI gives our managers a 79 approval rating, showing that Nordea has above industry average managers. Ensuring our people are well-informed and welltrained is vital if they are to feel confident and good about their work. This is an important first step. Being a great employer requires more besides. All our employees receive personal development, competitive compensation as well as a positive working environment (physical and psychological). Unfolding potential Nordea adopts a ‘blended’ approach to learning. Growing Together Much of our training occurs on the ‘shop floor’. Onthe-job learning is shown to be a highly effective way to keeping training relevant to our employees. We supplement this with classroom teaching, as well as new techniques such as e-learning and virtual workshops. Helping our employees achieve their full potential is critical. That is why we go for stretched targets. In 2012, Nordea employees received on average 1.9 days of training, including e-learning and classroom training.We are careful not to neglect our leaders’ own personal development needs. In that respect, Nordea leaders underwent an average of 1.5 days classroom training in 2012. NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 27 The Nordea leadership pipeline Individual development Next level training Strateg ic lead er Next level training g le aders Leadin Next level training Leadin g othe rs Next level training ial l eader Potent On Boarding Taking leadership responsiveness through our Employee Satisfaction Index to the next level (ESI) and our Performance & Development Dialogue (PDD) process. The one on one PDD-talk between In 2012, Nordea introduced a Leadership Pipeline employee and manager is fundamental accelerating Framework to take our leaders to the next level. growth and ratifying the performance culture. We assess The programme seeks to educate our managers performance, plan short and long term career and decide in the skills and perspectives required at different on development initiatives/activities. In 2012, 97% stages as they progress through the bank. reported to have participated in this review process. The programme targets all our managers and comprises classroom and work-based learning. The ESI survey is a check point for Nordea as an employer. It shows us what our employees think Feedback culture about our employment practices, our governance standards and our values. In 2012, 94% responded Nordea prioritises open dialogue in our relationship with to the ESI. This exceptionally high response rate our employees. We know that people feel valued when indicates a commitment to improve operations they feel heard. Regular feedback is also essential to together. We follow up on the feedback from their on-going development. We create this culture of the ESI both at local and on group level. esi results 2012 2011 2010 Satifaction and motivation 71 72 73 Development 73 71 73 Considered a good workplace 74 74 79 Proud to tell others where I work 76 76 82 Recommend others to start working at Nordea 72 72 78 Living the values 79 78 79 Great Customer Experiences 81 80 81 It's all about People 75 75 75 One Nordea team 79 79 78 28 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Internal mobility Starting in 2013, we will offer defined contribution pension schemes for all employees, where Mobility is key for competence development. We applicable. We see this as a sound and responsible advertise our vacancies internally and strive to find way of supporting modern work life balance. candidates among our colleagues. Our Human Resources team also organises career days to Well-being at work encourage job enlargement or rotation across business areas. Over 2.000 people have attended As a responsible employer, Nordea seeks to such events since they started in 2009. As a result of provide a healthy working environment. Health these initiatives, more than 3,000 Nordea employees and safety legislation in the Nordic countries is took up new positions internally last year. While our comprehensive but varies*. In some cases the international assignments are popular, most career collective bargaining agreements stipulate the mobility takes place within the same country or content of Nordea’s health and safety services. between the Nordic countries. Nordea’s Graduate The ambition is to support well-being by preventive Programme plays an important role in bringing new measures promoting health and supporting active talents into the bank. In 2012, 62 young people ageing. Activities can include e.g. non-smoking joined Nordea, predominantly directly from university. or nutrition classes, access to on-site or external Retention among these graduate recruits is very health clubs. We provide health screening, medical high. Of the 700 new Graduate entrants since 2000, examinations and/or health insurances additional to well over four-fifths still remain with Nordea today. government provision and depending on location. Competitive remuneration Working in banking can be high pace and high pressure. That is the nature of our in-dustry. It makes Nordea aims to be competitive with our market the job exciting. However, it may also cause occasional peers in terms of remuneration. We acknowledge the undue stress if not managed appropriately. Nordea importance of being well-balanced in our approach has a Work Related Stress policy. We believe that to remuneration. At the same time, we need to be providing open channels for dialogue and feedback flexible. As an international bank, we operate in is particularly important in this regard. We track multiple markets. As local business and market needs the wellbeing and satisfaction of our employees differ, so too must our remuneration packages. That through formal questionnaires, such as our annual said, we insist on absolute consistency in the area of employee survey, where “Talking about stress and risk management. We place an absolute priority on welfare is natural”, a score that increased to 73 in Nordea's long term interests. As a consequence, we 2012. We also employ more informal tools, such ensure that our remuneration policy promotes sound as coaching sessions and development talks. risk management and in no way encourages excessive risk taking. Nordea’s criteria for sharing profits among * In Denmark, we provide our employees with health insurance. In Finland, Norway and Sweden occupational health care employees are twofold: Return On Equity (ROE) and is closely regulated. In Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, relative customer satisfaction supporting our one and Russia, the scope of Occupational Health Care true mission; creating Great Customer Experiences. services provided vary depending on local legislation. Growing Together NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 29 30 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Equality Unionisation is low in the Baltic countries and Russia hence we don’t have a party to negotiate/ co-operate Diversity is the cornerstone of an inclusive and creative with. Being domiciled in Sweden, the group is subject high performing workplace. Women currently make to Swedish corporate governance standards and up 58% of our workforce and 46% of our managers. we share common values, policies and processes. Nordea is continually looking for ways to safeguard equality and the annual employee survey score 81 In 2012 we initiated training for all employees in for Nordea being an Equal opportunity employer. For the Baltics and Russia to refresh awareness and example, we seek to have at least one woman among confirm our commitment to the ILO standards on final three candidates for any management position. We Labour and Human Rights. We also included the achieved this in 84% of cases until end Q3 2012. Of information in the introduction programmes for new these female candidates, 57% went on to fill the post. recruits. Our employment policy reflects differences in collective agreements and national legislation. Nordea adopts a zero-tolerance stance against Terms of notice vary from 1-6 months, also in discrimination of all kinds. We encourage employees cases of operational changes, subsequent to set to report any incidences that they come across. Should collaboration procedures and local legal requirements. regular line manager contacts be found insufficient we have the Whistleblowing procedure. The Group RESPONSIBLE RESTRUCTURING Policy confirms our commitment to prudent banking and safeguards against retaliation. Nordea did not The financial turbulence and new global requirements register any alleged discrimination cases in 2012. regarding capital, liquidity and cost have resulted in a need to continue on-going cost and capital efficiency AGREEMENTS & COLLABORATION measures in the whole financial industry. In 2011, Nordea announced a restructuring programme Nordea respects the right of freedom of association. in the Nordic countries. It was not a step we took Over 80% of our employees around the world lightly, but it was critical for the bank’s future. This have contracts based on collective agreements. has led to approximately 2.700 people on group We follow collective agreements in all our level being reduced since the second quarter in financial markets where it is standard practice. 2011. Reductions made so far have come about mainly from natural turnover and internal mobility, Nordea seeks good and constructive collaboration combined with very careful external recruitment and enhancing influence and comprehension on all levels. not extending temporary employment contracts. In Representatives are elected among employees for local the Nordics more than 300 people made career levels and for Business Area Consultative Committees moves within the bank due to our internal People that deal with change initiatives. The Group Council is a Matching Process. Equally, people chose to leave high level collaborative body that raises strategic issues Nordea with mutually agreed redundancy packages to collect feedback from employee representatives. with possibilities for outplacement support. ■ Growing in Nordea – My journey Growing Together Tanja Bache works in bined with moving towards and international Diploma Copenhagen in Group new opportunities. Looking in Compliance. My motto is Compliance. She is Russian, back I have never taken a to be open and honest with born and raised in Estonia. safe path but always new managers – this is valid for Her working languages are challenges and chances. all situations regardless of Russian, English, Finnish Through my entire career in whether you are happy or or Danish depending on Nordea I have worked and sad, motivated or would the situation. “My career is studied. Supported by the like to experience new formed by hard work combank I earned a MBA, CIA challenges.” NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 31 Running a responsible business Financial institutions today face a complex regulatory environment. Banks also play an important role in combatting international criminal activities such as terrorism. New laws and norms are appearing all the time. Nordea’s comprehensive governance and management systems aim to ensure that we remain compliant with all these requirements. Legal compliance is just the minimum. We aspire to build a compliance culture in which every employee lives out our values of integrity and responsibility in all our operations. This approach is especially evident in our corporate governance and risk management approach. 32 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 “ Compliance is a key priority as one of the main guardians of the regulatory risks and the conscience and ethics of the bank. Sonja Lohse, Head of Group Compliance IDENTIFYING RISK Regulators, authorities and various organisations are globally investing considerable energy and Nordea puts the highest priority on ensuring that resources in combatting money laundering and our business activities meet the rules that govern money transfers to terrorist organisations. Many of our industry. This is critical to us maintaining the the new regulations in our sector relate to these trust of our customers and the wider public. It endeavours. Nordea welcomes this. As a responsible also protects our shareholders against fines and international bank, we are committed to supporting other financial costs related to non-compliance. all efforts to combat organised crime and terrorism. The Board of Directors of Nordea Bank AB bears In 2012, Nordea set up dedicated Anti-Money ultimate responsibility for the Group’s compliance with Laundering (AML) teams in markets where we laws and regulations and the Board Risk Committee operate. An appointed country AML Executive oversees the management and control of these risks. Manager has the overall responsibility for the AntiThe Committee regularly reviews the bank’s overall risk Money Laundering and Counter Terrorist Financing management approach including risk profiles, control risk management i.e. for the internal control routines, framework and assessment of material risk issues. instructions, training and the compliance with requirements in respective country and represents Managers in Nordea are responsible for day-to-day Nordea in these issues towards the local FSAs. This Governance and compliance management of compliance risks. Supported by the year our Board of Directors agreed a company-wide Group’s Operational Risk and Compliance function standard for our internal compliance processes they identify, assess and mitigate compliance risks. in these two areas. Nordea’s Group Compliance The most significant risks reported from all parts of function coordinates and monitors the work of our the Group are consolidated into a Group Risk Map country-based Anti-Money Laundering teams. represented to Group Executive Management, the Board Risk Committee and the Board of Directors. Compliance systems are vital, but it is Nordea’s Nordea recently initiated a scenario-based approach to employees who are ultimately the eyes and ears of our compliance risk assessment process. This provides the bank. We therefore place great emphasis on a valuable analytical tool to help anticipate future compliance training. In 2012 we introduced mandatory risks that could threaten the bank or its customers. e-learning in modules. The first was Information Security which 30,904 employees completed. The PREVENTING FINANCIAL CRIME second was Preventing Bribery and Corruption which will be completed end of February 2013. As of 2012 Financial services represent one of the key pillars it is also mandatory for all new employees to complete of a well-functioning, stable society. Banks facilitate e-learning on different risk topics. Nordea’s Risk and trade, saving and investment – the basic engines of a Compliance Officers supplement this overall awareness modern economy. The vast majority of bank customers training with business-specific training. All employees are lawabiding citizens and businesses. Yet banks can and managers receive training through these two be the target of criminal individuals and networks. awareness programmes. In 2012 we continued the NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 33 Compliance Awareness Training which was introduced with, but independent from, the bank’s business in 2011 for Senior Management. It included external units. Their main task is to help our employees board members, Group Executive Management better understand, manage and mitigate members and their own management groups. compliance risks. They also independently report on progress and make recommendations International crime is a global phenomenon for improvement where appropriate. and it demands a global response. International frameworks are set up and led by both global and The remit of our Risk and Compliance Officers European regulators to stop enabling laundering of encompasses the full spectrum of relevant laws money made by criminal activities or the financing and regulations. They pay particular attention to of terrorism. Aside from all our internal measures, rules concerning the relationship between us Nordea cooperates with other banks and authorities and our customers and other stakeholders. In a around the world to crack down on the use of sense, they act as Nordea’s public custodians. the banking system for criminal purposes. The main tasks of Risk and Compliance Officers THE COMPLIANCE OFFICERS include: identifying and managing compliance risks, establishing necessary controls, such as employee Nordea operates a decentralised network of awareness, training and instructions, ensuring that Risk and Compliance Officers ensuring better information about products and services is correct understanding and follow up on compliance and comprehensible, conducting quality and risk risks. These specialists operate in conjunction assessments for new products and services Compliance risks Three lines of defence Shareholders Board Risk and Audit Committees, Board of Directors Chief Executive Officer Reporting Senior Management Business activities Group Group Internal Identifying Operational Compliance Audit External Audit Managing Risk and Officer Compliance Monitoring of risks Mitigating Framework for risk Reporting management 3rd line of 1st line of defence 2nd line of defence defence Risks related to operations, products, services, customers, markets etc. 34 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 “ Whistleblowing The possibility to raise one’s concern is a vital As a Nordic company, Nordea’s culture is marked by a tradition of openness and trust. While this is an part of our risk culture.” essential foundation for any compliance system, we Anders Meinert Jørgensen, need standardised processes too. For this reason, Head of Group Operational Risk and Compliance we introduced a formal whistle blowing system in 2012. The decision reflects our status as a Global Systemically Important Bank. It also ensures our compliance with the standards set out in the UK Bribery Act and European Banking Authority Guidelines. Nordea’s whistle blowing system offers employees a range of different avenues for reporting their ethical concerns. The first port of call is generally their manager or, if they prefer, another manager. If this is not appropriate, they can voice their concerns directly to a Risk and Compliance Officer. It may be that an employee would rather keep his or her identity private. In this case, they can print off a form from the bank’s intranet and send it anonymously to Group Security. Employees have the facility to submit their concerns in their local language. Where relevant, the instructions accompanying the whistle blowing service reflect country-specific legal requirements and restrictions. Employees need to know that we take each and every report very seriously. Group Security will investigate all cases and Group Compliance will monitor the process. Furthermore, those using the whistle blowing service must be confident in the knowledge that no personal repercussions will follow. In all our instructions to employees, Nordea stresses our commitment to confidentiality and points out our safeguards against retaliation. By the same token, we emphasise that whistle blowing should never be misused for personal gain or to make false accusations. Governance and compliance ENSURING QUALITY Every manufacturer checks and double checks its new products before they leave the factory gates. A bank is no different. All new or changed products go through an extensive Quality and Risk Analysis process. This covers the product’s marketing materials as well as the product itself. Nordea’s Risk and Compliance Officers have a key role in risk assessment and product approval processes. WORKING WITH OTHER ORGANISATIONS To achieve our CSR ambitions Nordea has established formal and informal relationships with a wide range of government and non-governmental organisations. Many of these, such as PRI (pages 12, 13, 22-25, 37) and the Equator Principles (pages 20, 21, 37) are discussed in other sections of this report. ■ NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 35 Corporate governance Nordea’s governance is strict with a clear framework. Although strict it provides means by which stakeholders can voice their opinions and influence. Whether you are a shareholder, an employee or a customer, there are ways to share your opinions in a formalised way. Avoiding conflict of interest Board and the Chairman, the number of meetings, documentation of meetings and rules regarding The Board of Directors conflicts of interest. For further details please see Nordea complies with applicable rules regarding the Annual Report pages 69-75 and 208-209. the independence of the Board. The Nomination Committee considers all members elected by the All employees shareholders to be independent of the Company The Board adopts directives for the operations of the and its executive management. All Board members Group such as the Code of Conduct and the Nordea elected by the shareholders, apart from Björn Sustainability Policy. All employees and business Wahlroos and Kari Stadigh, are independent in activities need to comply with the standards of integrity relation to the Company’s major shareholders. Björn and fair business ethics as stated in the Code of Wahlroos is board chairman of Sampo plc and Kari Conduct including those regarding conflicts of interest: Stadigh is managing director and CEO of Sampo plc, which owns more than 10%* of all shares and Conflicts of interest between Nordea and its votes in Nordea Bank AB (publ). Thus, the number of customers are identified and prevented or Board members who are independent in relation to managed so that customers are justly treated. the Company and its executive management as well as independent in relation to the Company’s major Employees do not participate in business shareholders well exceeds the minimum requirement. transactions where a conflict of interest could No Board member elected by the General Meeting is arise with their own economic standing or with a employed by or works in an operative capacity in the third party where a close relationship exists. Company. All Board members and the deputy Board members appointed by the employees are employed * According to the Swedish Corporate Governance Code a member of the board, who is employed by or a board member by the Group and therefore not independent of the of a company which is a major shareholder, is not to be Company. The Board adopts rules and procedures regarded as independent. In this context, a major shareholder for its work (the Charter) annually. The Charter is an is defined as controlling at least 10% of the shares or votes internal document which among other things contains in the company. As of end 2012,Sampo Plc. represented rules pertaining to the areas of responsibilities of the 21.4% of the shares and voting rights in Nordea. 36 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 CSR framework – and international commitments are supported by Policies & Commitments specific and concrete policies to ensure compliance in everyday business. Examples are the human International commitments and internal policies resources policies, the anti-corruption policies, govern our Corporate Social Responsibility and several investment and credit policies. The Code of Conduct and the Nordea Sustainability Please see www.nordea.com/csr for further details. Policy are the core CSR policies. The Code of Conduct is based on the ten principles of the United Nation’s In addition to the conventions in the table below, Global Compact. The Nordea Sustainability Policy Nordea follows the United Nations’ Universal spells out the Group’s values and commitments to Declaration of Human Rights, ILO-conventions ethical business. Both apply to all personnel and all and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational who work on behalf of Nordea. The main policies Enterprises in our operations and business. ■ International Commitments Objectives Implementation in Nordea United Nations The UNEP FI is a global partnership Nordea signed the UNEP FI in 2001 Environment Programme between UNEP and the financial sector. UNEP FI: Finance Initiative Institutions, including banks, insurers and fund • guides us in how to take environmental managers, work with UNEP to understand and social considerations into account UNEP FI the impacts of environmental and social in our own operations and business considerations on financial performance. decisions, especially in lending • is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy Nordea signed the UNGC in 2002 initiative for businesses that are committed UNGC: UNGC to aligning their operations and strategies • guides us in how to take environmental, with ten universally accepted principles in the social and governance considerations areas of human rights, labour, environment into account in our own operations and and anti-corruption. By doing so, businesses business decisions, especially in lending can help ensure that markets, commerce, • forms the basis of Nordea’s technology and finance advance in ways that Code of Conduct benefit economies and societies everywhere. • is one of the commitments forming the Governance and compliance basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy • forms the basis for our requirements towards suppliers expressed in Nordea’s Supplier Guidelines. Equator Principles The Equator Principles is a credit risk Nordea signed the EP in 2007 management framework for determining, EP: EP assessing and managing environmental and • is used in project financing and have been social risk in project finance transactions. incorporated into Nordea EP Manual Project finance is often used to fund the that is utilized in preparing the cases, the development and construction of major decision-making process and training infrastructure and industrial projects. • is one of the commitments forming the basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. United Nations Principles The UN-backed Principles for Responsible Nordea signed the UNPRI in 2007 for Responsible Investment Investment is an initiative in partnership UNPRI: with UNEP FI and UNGC. UNPRI consist • is the basis for Nordea’s responsible UNPRI of six principles and reflects the view that investment strategy environmental, social and corporate governance • is one of the commitments forming the (ESG) issues can affect the performance of basis for the Nordea Sustainability Policy. investment portfolios and therefore must be given appropriate consideration by investors. NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 37 Overview of corporate governance structure Auditors Shareholders in General Meetings The auditors are elected by the General Meeting The General Meeting is the Company’s highest decision-making body, where the for examination of the company’s annual report shareholders exercise their voting rights. They are held in Sweden where Nordea is and accounts and the administration of the legally registered. At General Meetings, each shareholder is entitled to vote for the Board and the managing director. The auditor’s full number of shares that he or she owns or represents. Nordea is not entitled to work follows an annual audit plan based on vote for its own shares at General Meetings. Each shareholder also has the right to a comprehensive risk assessment. Auditors have items included in the agenda providing a request has been submitted to the present the reports to the shareholders at the Board in due time for the item to be included in the notice of meeting. The General AGM in their audit report. They also provide Meeting also provides all shareholders with an opportunity to express their opinions assurance on the CSR Report. in regards to our CSR work. shareholders in Auditors nomination Committee general meeting board of directors audit risk remuneration committee committee committee group internal group audit compliance President and Group CEO group risk Elected/appointed by management (csr) Reporting to/informing external framework internal framework Legalisation, regulation, the Swedish Corp. Articles of Association, the Charter, instructions for the CEO, policies, Governance Code, stock exchange rules instructions, guidelines and Nordea’s values External CSR Framework Group Internal Audit (GIA) Group Compliance international commitments GIA is an independent function Continuously reviews The international treaties we have signed guide commissioned by the Board. The and monitors the Group’s us and help us live up to Nordea’s over-riding purpose of GIA ’s assurance activity adherence to laws and commitments. Nordea is committed to the: is to add value to the organisation by regulations. Group • UN Global Compact assuring the quality of the governance, Compliance is a part of the • UN Principles for Responsible Investments risk management and control Group Risk Management • UN Environmental Programme Finance Initiative processes as well as promoting organisation. • Equator Principles. continuous improvement. Group Risk Management Exposure to risk is inherent in providing Nordea has clearly defined risk, liquidity and CSR Secretariat The CSR Secretariat is financial services, and Nordea assumes capital management frameworks, including responsible for coordinating the CSR work a variety of risks in its ordinary business policies and instructions for different risk types within the Group, proposing overall policies, activities, the most significant being credit and for the capital structure. strategies, and goals, as well as presenting the risk related to lending. The maintaining of risk results to GEM. awareness in the organisation is incorporated Group Risk Management is a Group Function in Nordea’s business strategies. headed by the Chief Risk Officer (CRO) of the Group. The CRO has CSR as his area of responsibility. 38 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Nomination Committee In accordance with the Code, Nordea has in Nordea at a set date shall be entitled to giving the background and the considerations a nomination committee representing the appoint one member each. The committee of its proposals. The Statement is published on shareholders, which is established by the prepares the decisions on appointments, and Nordea’s homepage. In the process of drawing AGM. The committee shall consist of the remunerations to be taken by the shareholders up propositions of Board members, knowledge chairman of the Board and four other members. at the AGM. The committee issues a Statement of CSR issues is one of the parameters to be Shareholders with the four largest shareholdings on the proposal regarding the board of directors taken into considerations by the committee. Board of Directors Composition of the Board. The Board the Nomination Committee is informed of the The Board Remuneration Committee currently consists of nine members elected result of the evaluation. (BRC). Prepares and presents proposals by the General Meeting. In addition three to the Board on remuneration issues. When members and one deputy member are Board Committees. In accordance with the preparing such proposals, BRC shall take appointed by the employees. Employees external framework and in order to increase into account the long term interests of are entitled under Swedish legislation to the effectiveness of the board work, the Board shareholders, investors and other stakeholders be represented in the Board. The CEO of has established separate working committees. in Nordea. Nordea is not a member of the Board. The The duties of the Board Committees, as well appointment of the employee representatives as working procedures, are defined in specific The CSR work of the Board. Nordea is to ensure a full process of informing instructions adopted by the Board annually. does not have a specific CSR committee. The and consulting employees about working Each Committee regularly reports on its work governance and of the CSR work is performed relationships. Further, according to the Articles to the Board. The minutes are communicated by the Board as a whole. The Board is the of Association the aim shall be that the Board, to the Board. highest governing body responsible for the as a whole, for its operations possesses Group’s CSR performance. The Board assesses The Board Audit Committee (BAC). our sustainability performance whenever the requisite knowledge and experience of Assists the Board in fulfilling its supervisory the social, business and cultural conditions needed, however at a minimum once a year. responsibilities by, among other things, Part of this evaluation is to ensure sufficient prevailing in the regions and market areas in monitoring the Nordea Group’s financial which the Group’s principal operations are knowledge of CSR issues of the Board as a reporting process, and in relation to this the whole as well as for individual Board members. conducted. effectiveness of the internal control and risk The Chairman. The Chairman of the Board management systems, established by the Evaluation of the Board. The Board of is elected by the shareholders at the General Board, the CEO and GE M, as well as the Directors annually carries out a self-evaluation Meeting. According to the Charter, the effectiveness of GIA. process, through which the performance and Chairman shall ensure that the Board work is the work of the Board is thoroughly evaluated The Board Risk Committee (BRIC). and discussed by the Board. The evaluation conducted efficiently and that the Board fulfils Assists the Board in fulfilling its oversight its duties. The Chairman shall among other is based on a methodology which includes responsibilities concerning management and questionnaires evaluating the Board as a things organise and lead the Board’s work, control of risks, risk frameworks, controls maintain regular contact with the CEO, ensure whole and individual Board members. and processes associated with the Group’s that the Board receives sufficient information operations, including credit, market, liquidity, and documentation and ensure that the work business, life and operational risk. of the Board is evaluated annually and that Governance and compliance President and Group CEO Nordea’s President and CEO is charged with The CEO is accountable to the Board for the reaches decisions after consulting with the the day-to-day management of Nordea Bank management of the Nordea Group’s operations other members of GEM. and the Nordea Group’s affairs in accordance and is also responsible for developing and with laws and regulations, the Code, as well maintaining effective systems for internal GEM is the highest operational body as instructions provided by the Board of control within the Group. The CEO works responsible for the Group’s CSR work. The Directors. The instructions regulate the division together with senior officers within the Group CRO is a member of GEM, hence ensuring of responsibilities and the interaction between in Group Executive Management (GEM). continuous communication between GE M and the CEO and the Board. The CEO works Presently GEM consists of six members and the CSR Secretariat. closely with the Chairman of the Board, for the CEO. GEM has recorded weekly meetings. instance with planning of Board meetings. These meetings are chaired by the CEO , who Internal CSR framework Internal policies We have committed ourselves to good The Nordea Sustainability Policy serves as the Policies we have developed are e.g.: citizenship in Nordea, which means that we are main standard of our role in society. • Nordea Sustainability Policy a responsible and active member of society. • Code of Conduct • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 39 Reducing our eco Footprint We approach our environmental responsibilities as an integral aspect of our day-to-day operations across all our business units. Nordea’s Ecological Footprint programme gives direction and stimulus to our environment activities. It is the basis for our environmental management process which was formalised in 2009. This process includes the use of key indicators to measure, analyse and report on our environmental impacts. 40 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 “ Progress and activities Our work covers all of our nine home markets; Denmark, Our ecological footprint is decreasing year-on-year as a result of our environmental programme. Over Finland, Norway, Sweden, Estonia, the last 12 months, we continued to make good Latvia, Lithuania, Poland and Russia, progress in managing our impacts effectively. Our which represent 98% of our employees. total greenhouse gas emissions in 2012 amounted to In order to succeed we have set up 51,297 tonnes, down 5.8% from the previous year. dedicated teams to manage the core Targets and status environmental areas and actions where our impact is highest and Measuring our environmental performance is important most material to our business.” as this pushes us to continuously improve. We now have monitoring processes in all our nine home Tone Lauritzen, markets. Nordea has specific targets to reduce the Ecological Footprint Programme Manager environmental impacts that we generate in our Nordic operations. These targets cover four separate areas: consumption of energy, air travel, the use of paper by our employees and paper sent to our customers. The first three targets are expressed as consumption per full-time equivalent (FTE). Since 2008 the number of FTEs has decreased by over 2000 which means our targets are now harder to achieve. INDICATOR TARGET STATUS 31.12.2012 2008-2016 Reducing our environmental footprint Energy The energy consumed in Nordea’s offices and retail branches are Behind schedule: kWh/FTE responsible for 61.5% of our CO2 emissions. As a result of our reduced by 0.5% from 2008. 2.6% Reduce efficiency measures, fourteen of our principal office buildings in increse in 2012 compared to consumption by the Nordic region are now LEED certified. Nordea’s head office 2011. Total energy consumption 15% (kWh/fullin Latvia was recently rated the country’s most energy-efficient (MWh) down 9.1% from 2008, time equivalent) and sustainable building. Our new head offices in Stockholm and but falling FTE numbers Copenhagen, which will be ready in 2015 and 2016 respectively, negatively impact kWh/FTE. will meet the highest possible LEED standards too. Air travel Reduce air Behind schedule: Trips/ Air travel represents our second most significant impact area. We recently travel for internal FTE 11.4% above 2008 level. introduced the Lync audio conference call system. This is resulting purposes by 30% Positive progress in 2012, in a gradual change in employee behaviour with respect to travel. (#trips/full-time with 24,562 fewer flights equivalent) (16.7%) compared to 2011. Internal paper Behind schedule: Total paper In late 2012, Nordea installed new printers in several head offices consumption has decreased by Reduce and branches in the Nordic countries. This will continue in 2013 only 6.3% since 2008 and due consumption and will include all Nordic locations. This has started to provide to fewer FTEs, consumption per by 50% (kg/fullbetter insights into printing behaviour and will enable us to increase FTE has increased by 2.6% in that time equivalent) the use of duplex and follow-me printing. As a result, we expect period. There is a 10.2% increase to see our paper consumption fall significantly in 2013. in kg/FTE in 2012 from 2011. Customer paper Reduce Ahead of schedule: 1,367 Nordea tries to communicate with customers electronically tonnes of paper (42%) less than in consumption rather than by letter. Numerous projects to communicate 2008 and a 45.8% decrease in by 50% via e-mail and Netbank are showing good results. g/customer. 14.9% reduction in (g/customer) g/customer from 2011 to 2012. NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 41 Monitoring & reporting that the entire supply chain conforms to the ten principles contained in the UN Global Compact. We believe that real progress is only possible when data-driven management targets and regular In 2012 we introduced a new CSR Supplier monitoring is in place. Nordea regularly reports against Management approach including Nordea Supplier our key environmental performance indicators in our Guidelines that describe our requirements. We nine home markets. In our Nordic operations, we successfully piloted this approach with three issue performance updates on a quarterly basis. At current suppliers in the first half of 2012. While the present, we do not report on our international offices pilots did not reveal non-compliance with Nordea's because they constitute such a small part of operations Supplier Guidelines, they did identify a number of (less than 3% of our FTEs). Nordea’s environmental improvement areas both for the three suppliers disclosure is in accordance with the Global Reporting and also within our own sourcing process. Initiative, the benchmark standard for non-financial reporting. This means that the data is consistent, The new approach includes a policy of annual reliable and comparable with that of other companies. CSR reviews. We intend to undertake 6-10 Our participation in the Carbon Disclosure Project separate checks per year. We will select vendors provides further evidence of Nordea’s commitment for CSR reviews based on their risk profile, but to transparency. CDP provides a database of carbon will initially concentrate on our largest suppliers, emissions from a range of leading businesses. of which we have around 50. These collectively comprise over half our procurement spend. Nordea takes responsibility for supply chain Nordea's Ecological Footprint programme includes a set of policies and metrics related to the responsible Nordea expects suppliers to meet the same standards procurement of products and services. Through our that we set for ourselves. The end goal is that our supplier relationships, we look to encourage better suppliers are contractually obliged to act in accordance environmental performance through our supply chain. with the treaties to which Nordea is a signatory and Our approach will be more carrot than stick. ■ More virtual meetings Nordea sees new technologiployees increased drastically. cal advances as an ideal opEvery one of these meetings portunity to reduce the carbon leads to fewer travel-related footprint caused by air travel. carbon emissions. Less travel As an international bank, we time also saves costs and imconduct business across proves our employees’ work-life national borders all the time. In balance. So teleconferencing is 2010, this required our employgood for our shareholders and ees to take 150 000 one-way employees as well as for the flights. With the introduction of environment. conference call technology, this We send a regular report figure has since dropped by summarising Nordea’s travel 18.5%. footprint to the bank’s top The Lync system is chang300 managers. This facilitates ing attitudes as well. Opting for ongoing target setting and a conference call is becoming monitoring. It also reinforces the ‘new normal’ and during the message internally that 2012, the number of virtual teleconferencing is not just acmeetings held by Nordea emceptable, but expected. 42 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 About this Report ■ Nordea based the materiality of authorities. This report covers CSR Nordea’s annual Communication this report on the dialogues held initiatives and activities in 2012 on Progress (COP) report to the with stakeholders as well as on our concerning the Nordea Group UNGC for the operating year own knowledge of the areas where in the Nordic region (Denmark, 2012. Nordea has adopted the Nordea can make a difference Finland, Norway, Sweden), Estonia, Equator Principles (EP). This report within CSR. Our strategy to embed Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Russia fulfills partly the annual reporting CSR into business is based on the and in our international locations. requirements of the EP and serves views of stakeholders. The business Nordea’s CSR reporting cycle as Nordea’s EP status report for sections therefore have top priority. is annual. Some positions and the operating year 2012. Detailed initiatives described in the report EP statistical information is We start by giving an overview of may only apply to selected units available on www.nordea.com/csr. Nordea, how we work with CSR and or parts of the organisation, and how we impact the society. Next we where relevant, the units concerned present all business areas deemed are identified. Our employmentimportant by our stakeholders, related indicators cover Denmark, Abbreviations: by the CSR community based Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, on practice and by our own Norway, Poland, Russia and AGM Annual General Meeting AML Anti-Moneyden Laudering organisation. More in-depth Sweden, unless otherwise stated. B, P&R Baltics (Estonia, Latvia and information is available on the web. Lithuania), Poland and Russia Our environmental indicators CEO Chief Executive Officer This is the fifth edition of the cover operations in Denmark, CDP Carbon Disclosure Project Nordea CSR Report and covers Estonia, Finland, Latvia, Lithuania, CO2 Carbon Dioxide the calendar year of 2012. Our Norway, Poland, Russia and CRO Chief Risk Officer latest CSR Report was published in Sweden, unless otherwise stated. CSI Customer Satisfaction Index CSR Corporate Social Responsibility February, 2012. During the period Our international network is DM Deal Manager 2002-2007 Nordea produced an excluded from the environmental EP Equator Principles annual environmental report, the indicators as it is not material in EPF Export and Project Finance Nordea Environmental Footprint. this respect. When indicators are ERAT Environmental Risk Assessment Tool This report is produced according related to our premises we cover ESG Environmental. Social and Governance to the Global Reporting Initiative only the ones that are occupied ESI Employee Satisfaction Index (GRI) G3 Sustainability Reporting by Nordea. In some cases EUR Euro FTE Full Time Equivalent Employee Guidelines and the Financial environmental data also includes GIA Group Internal Audit Services Sector Supplement consultants working for Nordea. GRI Global Reporting Initiative (FSSS) Final Version (2008). GEM Group Executive Management Information is gathered from The environmental data is GHG Greenhouse Gases our reporting systems as well calculated in accordance with the HR Human Resources as manually. In accordance with GHG Protocol’s guidelines for IFC The World Bank Group’s Nordea’s CSR strategy, business emissions calculation, a corporate International Finance Corporation ILO International Labour Organisation areas and group functions accounting and reporting standard LEED Leadership in Energy and provide the content related to by the World Resources Institute Environmental Design their areas. We are reporting on and the World Business Council NGO Non Governmental Organization a B+ level. The GRI indicator for Sustainable Development. OECD Organisation for Economic index is shown on pages 44-45. Do-operation and Development This CSR report has been reviewed PDD Personal Development Discussion ROE Return on Equity The content of the report is by external auditors, and the RI Responsible Investment guided by our materiality analysis review report performed by Nordea UNEP FI The United Nation’s Enviromental and the dialogues that we have auditors, KPMG, is shown on Programme Finance Initiative conducted with customers, page 51. Nordea is a signatory UNGC The United Nation’s Global Compact employees, shareholders, analysts, to the UN Global Compact UNPRI The United Nation’s Process for Responsible Investment suppliers, NGOs and governmental (UNGC), and this report serves as NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 43 gri index GRI content index Pages 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS & ENGAGEMENT ■ We have self-declared our reporting to be GOVERNANCE Application Level B+ (Self-declared). Our auditors 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation 36-39 ■ have checked our reporting and have confirmed it to 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Board 36 ■ be Application Level B+ (Third-party-checked). 4.3 Independent and/or non-executive board members 36 ■ The index below includes degree of reporting and page 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations to the board 36-39 ■ reference to the relevant indicators in this report. In 4.5 Principles for compensation to senior executives AR 76-79 ■ some instances reference is made to the Nordea Annual 4.6 Processes for avoiding conflicts of interests in the board 36, AR 70 ■ Report 2012 (AR). All core indicators are included 4.7 Processes for determining the qualifications 39, AR 70 in the table, together with the additional indicators of board members ■ Nordea has found relevant, and a selected number of 4.8 Mission, values, Code of Conduct, etc. 4, 18-20, 22-25, ■ 33 indicators from the GRI Financial Services Sector. 4.9 The board’s monitoring of the sustainability work 11, 38-39 ■ 4.10 Processes for evaluating the board’s own performance 39, AR 71 ■ ■ Fully reported ■ Partly reported commitments to external initiatives 4.11 Explanation of how the precautionary principle is applied 32-35 ■ 4.12 Endorsement of external voluntary codes, principles, etc 18-25 ■ 4.13 Memberships in associations 37 ■ GRI content index Pages STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 1. STRATEGY & ANALYSIS 4.14 List of stakeholder groups 13, 43 ■ 1.1 CEO statement 6-7, AR 2-3 ■ 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with 10-13, 43 ■ whom to engage 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 6-7, 10-13, AR ■ 55-67 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement 10-13, 42 ■ 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 10-13 ■ stakeholder engagement 2. Organisational profile 2.1 Name of the organisation 4 ■ 5. economic indicators 2.2 Primary brands, products and services 4-5, AR 9-12 ■ Disclosure on management approach 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation 4, AR 11 ■ 4-7, 10-13, AR 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters 4 ■ Economic performance ■ 6-7, 13, 21, 29 2.5 Countries where the organisation operates 5 ■ Market presence 5, AR 35 ■ 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 4-5 ■ Indirect economic impacts 8-9, 18-25 ■ 2.7 Markets 5 ■ The economic performance of Nordea is managed by the CEO and the CFO and their 2.8 Scale of the organisation 4-5, AR 7 ■ related organisations and due care is taken to secure that sustainability aspects are integrated where necessary. This is for example governed in the Nordea Sustainability Policy 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period 4 ■ and the Nordea CoC and followed up as part of our risk management processes. 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 4, AR 8 ■ ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 5, 8-9 ■ 3. REPORT PARAMETERS EC2 Risks and opportunities due to climate change 10-13, 18-21 ■ REPORT PROFILE EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined AR 109-110 3.1 Reporting period 43 ■ ■ benefit plan obligations (Note 22) 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 43 ■ EC4 Financial assistance received from government 4 ■ 3.3 Reporting cycle 43 ■ 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 ■ 6. Environmental performance indicators REPORT SCOPE AND BOUNDARY Disclosure on management approach 3.5 Process for defining report content 13, 43 ■ Goals and performance 38, 40-42, 48-50 ■ 3.6 Boundary of the report 5, 43 ■ Organisational responsibility 38-39 ■ 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 43 ■ Training and awareness 11, 18-20, 22-25 ■ 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, etc 43 ■ Monitoring and follow-up 40-42, 43, 48-50 ■ 3.9 Data measurement techniques and calculation principles 43 ■ MATERIALS 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of 43 EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 50 ■ ■ information provided in earlier reports EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials 50 ■ 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods 43 ■ ENERGY 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures 44-45 ■ in the report EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 50 ■ 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external 43, 51 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy 41 ■ ■ assurance for the report based products/services 44 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 GRI content index Pages GRI content index Pages WATER SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 33-34 ■ EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 49 ■ SO5 Public policy development and lobbying 7 ■ EMISSIONS, EFFLUENTS & WASTE Product responsibility EN16 Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions 48 ■ discLOsure on management approach EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions 49 ■ Goals and performance 14-17 ■ EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and 41 Policy 10-13, 36-37 ■ ■ reductions achieved Organisational responsibility 14-17 ■ EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 49 ■ Training and awareness 11, 27 ■ PRODUCTS & SERVICES PR3 Type of products and service information required by 22-25 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products 18-25, 33 procedures, and percentage of products subject to ■ ■ and services such information requirements TRANSPORT PR5 Results related to customer satisfaction, including results 17 ■ of surveys EN29 Environmental impact of transports 49 ■ PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards and voluntary 14-15 ■ codes for marketing communications 7. SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding 16 ■ breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Disclosure on management approach Financial services sector supplement indicators 26-31, 36-37, Goals, performance and policy ■ 46-47 FS1 Policies with specific environmental and social 14-25 ■ components applied to business lines Organisational responsibility AR 211 ■ FS2 Procedures for assessing and screening environmental 14-25 Training and awareness 11, 26-31 ■ ■ and social risks in business lines Monitoring and follow-up 26-31, AR 38-39 ■ FS3 Processes for monitoring clients’ implementation of and 14-25 A group level HR unit is responsible for Nordea’s HR policies and processes. These compliance with environmental and social requirements ■ are implemented by (and when necessary adapted to the local regulatory framework) included in agreements or transactions and followed up by local HR units in all countries where Nordea is operating. FS4 Process(es) for improving staff competency to implement 18-25 the environmental and social policies and procedures as ■ EMPLOYMENT applied to the business lines LA1 Total workforce by employment type, contract and region 46-47 ■ FS5 Interactions with clients/investees/business partners 18-25 ■ LA2 Rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and 46-47 regarding environmental and social risks and opportunities ■ region FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by 4-5, AR 52-54 ■ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective 46-47 specific region, size and by sector ■ bargaining agreements FS10 Percentage and number of companies held in the 25 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes 31 ■ institution’s portfolio with which the reporting organisation ■ has interacted on environmental or social issues LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 46-47 ■ FS11 Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative 22-25 work related fatalities ■ environmental or social screening LA8 Education, training, prevention and risk-control programs 26-31 ■ FS15 Policies for the fair design and sale of financial products 35 in place ■ and service LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal 29 ■ FS16 Initiative to enhance financial literacy by type of beneficiary 16-17 agreements with trade unions ■ LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee 27 ■ LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career 28 ■ development reviews LA13 Composition of governance bodies and employees AR 38, 208-211 according to diversity indicatores ■ Report Application Levels HUMAN RIGHTS Mandatory Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Disclosure on management approach Self declared Human Right issues can be direct and indirect for Nordea. In the direct case these issues are governed by the UN Global Compact, the Nordea Sustainability Policy and the Nordea CoC, and are the responsibility of the Human Resource organisation. The compliance function Third party Optional (second line of defence) and IA functions (third line of defence) are also available to secure checked compliance but the overarching principle is a decentralised responsibility for the operating organisation, see 11, 36. In the indirect case this is mainly a responsibility for the credit GRI organisation and the investment organisation, see 18-25. checked 2011 C C+ B B+ A A+ HR1 Investment agreements that include human 18-25 ■ rights clauses SOCIETY discLOsure on management approach Goals and performance 32-35 ■ Policy 32-35, 36 ■ Organisational responsibility 32-35 ■ Training and awareness 11, 32-35 ■ SO3 Employees trained in the organisation's 33-34 ■ anticorruption policies and procedures NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 45 SOCIAL DATA Data including excel tables also on www.nordea.com/csr Total workforce in Nordea Group by region & gender LA 1 Nordea Group’s workforce consists of 58 per cent women and 42 per cent men, a decrease of 2 per cent women compared to 2011. The data is based on average FTE for 2012. Denmark 51% 49% 8 545 Finland 26% 74% 7 295 Sweden 56% 44% 7 102 Norway 47% 53% 3 343 Poland 38% 62% 2 416 Russia 35% 65% 1 520 Estonia 475 21% 79% Latvia 462 29% 71% Luxemburg 422 62% 38% Lithuania 365 30% 70% United States 101 49% 51% Great Britain 69 58% 42% Singapore 64 35% 65% Germany 49 49% 51% China 24 32% 68% Brazil 3 67% 33% 0 1 000 2 000 3 000 4 000 5 000 6 000 7 000 8 000 9 000 Total workforce by employment type: Total workforce by employment type: Permanent/temporary employees LA 1 Full-time/part-time employees LA 1 Figures based on FTE numbers in a Nordic countries. Figures based on FTE numbers in a Nordic countries. 2% 7% 2012 Permanent 2012 Full-time Temporary Part-time 98% 93% Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements LA 4 Managers and specialist having individual contracts in Denmark (11%), Finland (15%) and Norway (28%) are always, at a minimum, covered by terms in the local collective agreements and additionally holding, to various extent, more favourable terms. 100% 100% 89% 85% 72% 38% 0% Sweden Poland Denmark Finland Norway Luxemburg Other countries 46 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Rate of employee turnover  LA 2 Employee turnover by age in Nordic countries Employee turnover as a percentage of total number of employees was 6.4%. In 2011 this figure was 5.8%. 100% 4 Over 50 24 31 34 years of age 80% 30-50 90 years of age 60% 100 85 213 Under 30 40% years of age Employee turnover by region in Nordea Group 20% 78 66 23 63 0% Denmark Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Finland Employee turnover by gender in Nordic countries Norway Sweden 100% Female Estonia Male 80% 41 93 158 Russia 133 60% Latvia 40% Lithuania 71 99 152 20% Poland 64 0% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30% Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Work related injuries and illnesses, robberies, fatalities and accidents while commuting to Absenteeism because of sick work in Nordea Group by region LA 7 leave in Nordea Group by region LA 7 Information in this table refer to the number of employees affected. In Finland and Sweden also injuries that The average sick leave per employee in 2012 was 8 days, occur when commuting to/from work are seen as work related injuries. Work related illness is not registered in compared to 9 days in 2011 and 2010. Denmark. Work Accidents Work Robbery Country related while Fatalities related Sickdays per employee cases Injuries commuting illnesses Denmark 38 100 0 Denmark 7 Finland 63 3 94 0 1 Finland 11 Norway 4 0 0 0 Norway 13 Sweden 11 3 18 0 2 Sweden 9 Estonia 0 1 0 0 Estonia 4 Latvia 0 0 0 0 Latvia 5 Lithuania 0 0 1 0 0 Lithuania 2 Poland 7 0 8 0 0 Poland 10 Russia 0 0 0 0 Russia 9 TOTAL 123 107 121 0 3 Average 8 Educational background of employees in Nordea Group Age structure in Nordic countries and B, P&R 6% 6% Attended primary school Graduated from secondary school 15% 5% 4% 26% 0-24 25-34 44.3 Average age YeaRS Year 31% Year 35-44 15.6 37% Lower university degree 2012 2012 45-54 Higher university degree 27% 55-60 Other 23% 20% 61Average lenght of service YeaRS NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 47 ENVIRONMENTAL data ■ The full-time equivalent (FTE) employee figures used in the environmental data refer to full-time equivalents at year end including temporary staff and external consultants working in Nordea’s premises. The reporting for the Baltics, Poland and Russia (B, P&R) include the Nordea Operations Centre in Lodz, Poland, for the first time. All trendlines include total consumption, both Nordic and B, P&R. In previous reports the trendlines have only included Nordic data, as data for B, P&R has been unavailable for the 3 previous years. During 2012, we have conducted a thorough review of the space data used for the Nordic energy and water reporting and found that a small amount of square meters that should have been included in the reporting starting in 2008 was not included. We have therefore restated the consumption figures for Nordic energy and water for previous years in this report, however, the effect is insignificant. Data including excel tables also on www.nordea.com/csr Data covering the Nordic countries and B, P&R Data covering the Nordic countries Total CO2 emissions  EN16 70 4 Total CO2 emissions is the sum of our energy and travel emissions. 61.5% of 60 our total emissions in 2012 derived from 50 3 energy consumption. Total emissions decreased by 5.8% from 2011. 40 1 000 kg / employee 2 30 1 000 tonnes 20 1 B, P&R 10 2010 2011 2012 Nordic 0 0 1 000 kg / FTE CO2 emissions from energy consumption EN04 60 1 250 Nordea has purchased renewable energy certificates to offset the electricity consumption 50 1 000 in the Nordic premises since 1.7.2009. Total CO2 emissions from energy include emissions 40 from estimated energy consumption for 750 premises where actual data is unavailable. 30 Estimates are based on average consumption 500 in that country or region or on energy cost B, P&R CO2 energy 20 information. Nordea is restating the Nordic 1 000 tonnes 1 000 000 MJ emissions energy consumption for previous years in this 2010 2011 2012 250 Nordic heating and year's reporting due to more accurate space 10 cooling information (m2) being available. This has no 0 0 Total consumption MJ significant impact on the consumption reported. 48 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 CO2 emissions from travel EN17 EN29 30 Short-haul flights are within Europe. Long-haul are inter-continental flights. 25 Nordic train travel only includes data from Sweden. Train travel in other Nordic 20 countries is insignificant. The factor used for car travel has been updated for 2012. B, P&R 15 Some extrapolations have been made Rail travel * for Estonia to adjust figures to actual 10 Car travel * number of staff. 1 000 tonnes Long-haul air travel * 2010 2011 2012 5 Short-haul air travel * 0 * Nordic countries Water consumption EN8 500 15 Nordea is restating the Nordic water 450 consumption for previous years in this 400 year's reporting due to more accurate space information (m2) being available. 350 14 This has no significant impact on the 300 consumption reported. Consumption has 1 000 litres / employee 250 been estimated for offices where actual 2010 2011 2012 200 water consumption is unavailable. 13 150 All water is withdrawn from municipal B, P&R water supplies. 1 000 m3 100 50 Nordic 0 12 1 000 litres / FTE Waste management EN02 EN22 5,0 250 Fewer rebuilding projects and 4,5 internal moves are contributing factors 4,0 200 to the drop in Nordic waste. Some B, P&R extrapolations have been made to the 3,5 Landfills * B, P&R data to adjust figures to actual 3,0 150 number of staff. Special treatment * 2,5 Incinerated * Waste disposal contractors are used 2,0 100 for waste disposal. Composted * 1 000 tonnes 1,5 Recycled * 2010 2011 2012 kg / FTE 1,0 50 0,5 kg / FTE 0 0 * Nordic countries Flight travel EN29 7 Strong focus and numerous initiatives to reduce air travel has resulted in a 6 significant drop in Nordic travel activity in 2012. 5 4 2 Flights / FTE 2010 2011 2012 1 0 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 49 Internal paper consumption EN01 40 Internal printing covers printing in Nordea's 35 Nordic head-offices and branches. 30 Copy paper used in the Nordic region is 100% virgin fibre and FSC certified. 25 20 15 10 5 Kg / FTE 2010 2011 2012 0 External paper consumption EN01 300 External paper is print produced by industrial priting partners and sent to our customers. The 250 customer number used for this indicator includes inactive retail customers as these also receive mail. 200 150 100 g / customer 2010 2011 2012 50 0 Energy consumption EN04 10 000 Total Nordic energy consumption is down. 9 000 However, due to fewer FTEs, the kWh/FTE has 8 000 increased in 2012. Energy consumption has 7 000 been estimated for premises where actual data is unavailable, primarily branch offices. Estimates are 6 000 made based on actual kwh/m2 data in that country. 5 000 Nordea is restating the Nordic energy consumption 4 000 for previous years in this year's reporting due 3 000 to more accurate space information (m2) being kWh / FTE available. This has no significant impact on the 2010 2011 2012 2 000 consumption reported. 1 000 0 Weather corrected energy consumption 10 000 The weather corrected energy consumption is 9 000 meant to show the effect of our efforts to reduce 8 000 consumption by taking away the weather as a variable. It is the Nordic heating consumption which 7 000 is weather corrected. The weather corrected total 6 000 energy consumption has decreased sligthly in 2012. 5 000 However, due to falling FTE numbers, kwh/FTE is up. 4 000 Nordea is restating the Nordic energy consumption 3 000 for previous years in this year's reporting due kWh / FTE to more accurate space information (m2) being 2010 2011 2012 2 000 available. This has no significant impact on the 1 000 consumption reported. 0 50 NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 Auditor's Review Report on Nordea CSR Report 2012 To the readers of Nordea CSR Report 2012: criteria suitable for the preparation of the CSR Report. Introduction Our review has, based on an assessment We have been engaged by Nordea’s Group Executive of materiality and risk, among other things Management to review the Nordea CSR Report included the following main procedures: 2012. The Board of Directors and Group Executive Management are responsible for ongoing CSR • Assessment of suitability and application of criteria activities, and for the preparation and presentation in respect to stakeholders’ need of information. of the CSR Report in accordance with the applicable • An update of our knowledge and understanding criteria. Our responsibility is to express a conclusion of Nordea’s organisation and activities. on the CSR Report based on our review. • Interviews with responsible management and reading of internal documents, on a test basis, Scope of review with the aim to assess if the qualitative and We have performed our review in accordance with quantitative information stated in the CSR RevR 6 Assurance of sustainability reports issued Report is complete, correct and sufficient. by FAR (the institute for the accountancy profession • Review of qualitative information and in Sweden). A review consists of making inquiries, statements in the CSR Report. primarily of persons responsible for CSR matters • An update of our knowledge of routines used for the and for preparing the CSR Report, and applying collection and reporting of CSR information and data. analytical and other review procedures. A review is • Analytical review of reported information. substantially less in scope than an audit conducted • Review of the calculation of CO2-emissions. in accordance with International Standards on • Review of underlying documentation, on a test Auditing and other generally accepted auditing basis, to assess whether the information and data practices and consequently does not enable us to in the CSR Report is based on that documentation. obtain assurance that we would become aware of all • Assessment of Nordea’s self-declared application significant matters that might be identified in an audit. level according to GRI’s guidelines. Accordingly, we do not express an audit opinion. • Reconciliation of the reviewed information with the CSR information in the Nordea Annual Report 2012. Our assurance does not comprise the assumptions • Overall impression of the CSR Report, and its used by Nordea or whether or not it is possible for format, considering the information’s mutual Nordea to reach certain future targets described in conformity with the applicable criteria. the report (e.g. goals, expectations and ambitions). Conclusion The criteria on which our review are based are the Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention parts of the “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, G3” that causes us to believe that Nordea CSR Report published by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which 2012 has not, in all material aspects, been prepared are applicable to the CSR Report. We consider these in accordance with the above stated criteria. Stockholm, February 7, 2013 KPMG AB Carl Lindgren Åse Bäckström Authorized Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR NORDEA CSR REPORT 2012 51
