2012 Corporate responsibility report Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 2 Contents 3 About Aker Solutions 26 Our environmental impact 27 Consumption, recycling and waste 28 Environmentally safe products and services 4 Introduction 28 Environmental Task Force 4 Our commitment to corporate responsibility remains 30 Community impact and human rights 5 This report 30 Contributing to societies where we are present 30 Protecting human rights 6 About Aker Solutions 6 Our portfolio and experience 32 Integrity and business ethics 7 Governance 8 Our vision and values 32 Fighting corruption 9 Our approach to CR 32 Anti-corruption compliance 11 Our market 32 Achievements in 2012 13 Commitments and membership 34 Goals for 2013 14 Our people 36 G3 Content Index 16 Diversity and equal opportunities 16 Recruitment and retention 19 Learning and development 19 Performance culture 20 Employee representation 22 Health and safety 22 Goal is zero accidents 23 Sick leave 24 Just CareTM awards 25 Initiatives in 2012 Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 3 About Aker Solutions Aker Solutions provides oilfield products, systems and services for customers in the oil and gas industry world-wide. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 4 Introduction Our commitment to corporate responsibility Closer to markets personal injuries in 2012, compared with ten in 2011. remains Customer relationship management was a key focus at Thankfully, no lives were lost in 2012. All serious incidents Aker Solutions in 2012, and several improvements were and near misses are investigated and the lessons learned These are exciting times for Aker Solutions. We implemented, such as in internal coordination and key are implemented with the aim of preventing similar are operating in a strong market with a favourable account management. Since 2011, our new regional model incidents in the future. Several incidents involved people outlook that offers many interesting opportunities, has been developed and a regional matrix organization working for sub-contractor companies. This fact has strengthening our global presence. It is a given that model is underway. 2012 has seen the development and resulted in renewed actions to ensure that sub-contractors our commitment to corporate responsibility remains. completion of the regional structure in North America are made aware of the safety procedures in force at Aker and Brazil. The regional structure is a key growth driver at Solutions and that they receive appropriate training. 2012 generated strong results and we are growing in Aker Solutions, with the objective of improving knowledge line with our five-year strategic plan. We now see the about our markets and establishing closer proximity to This report presents our efforts in integrating our potential to double in size between 2012 and 2017. In our customers. The regional structure will also facilitate commitment to corporate responsibility into our everyday 2012 we welcomed 3 300 new employees, established interaction with communities and other local stakeholders. operations during 2012. It also describes our new new locations in six countries and incorporated new Corporate Responsibility Strategy 2013-2017 which will companies. Our commitment to corporate responsibility Increased awareness of business ethics guide our ongoing work to improve our performance and remains fundamental. In 2011, we set an ambitious goal of training 12 000 strengthen our management of corporate responsibility office-based employees in business ethics in 2012. I risks across our operations. Stronger direction for corporate responsibility am proud that we have achieved what we set out to Corporate responsibility at Aker Solutions is a matter of do. By the end of 2012, 12 400 office-based employees making good and sustainable business decisions. Since had participated in 2.5 hours of class-based training to 2008, we have been members of the UN Global Compact discuss human rights, conflicts of interest and corruption and have demonstrated our commitment to human rights risks. In addition to sharing information about procedures and labour rights, environmental responsibility and to and regulations for preventing unethical conduct, the Best regards, combatting corruption. We remain committed to the UN class-based setting also offers an opportunity to discuss Øyvind Eriksen Global Compact and aim to continue improving in line with challenges and dilemmas. Along with the training, we Executive chairman its ten principles. have also run awareness campaigns to spread information about our whistleblowing channel, and have revised our In 2012 we developed Aker Solutions’ Corporate code of conduct to provide more detailed guidance. I Responsibility Strategy for 2013-2017, which was approved feel confident that these initiatives have had a positive by the Board of Directors in January 2013. This strategy impact on corporate culture. We are already seeing more provides a stronger direction for corporate responsibility, questions and dilemmas being raised. which will make it easier for the organisation to set business-relevant goals and prioritise its efforts. Continued focus on HSE Despite continuous efforts to prevent serious incidents, Aker Solutions regrettably suffered thirteen serious Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 5 This report This report has been prepared for the year 2012, and is a continuation of Aker Solutions’ Corporate Responsibility (CR) report, communication on progress 2011, published on 1 September 2012. Aker Solutions has published CR reports since 2006, and since 2010, the reports have been published on an annual basis. Last year, we set a goal to align our reporting with the publication of the annual report, so that this report is published only eight months after the previous one. The plan is to continue annual reporting to be aligned with the reporting schedule of the annual report. The report is prepared for the group Aker Solutions ASA, and the boundary of the report follows the same as the annual report, described in the annual report, page 23 (note 3). Companies acquired in 2012, are only accounted for from the time of integration. This report works as our Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact for 2012. The report has been developed based on the analysis of our material impacts, and stakeholders’ expectations and information needs. The GRI reporting framework (version GRI 3.0) has been used to prepare the data provided in this report, unless otherwise specified. The report aims to achieve GRI Application Level B. Any questions to this report or its contents can be directed to Mari Engh Brekke, Manager Business Integrity and Compliance, or Meylin S. Loo, Senior Communications Adviser. mari.engh.brekke@akersolutions.com meylin.sanci.loo@akersolutions.com Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 6 About Aker Solutions Aker Solutions provides oilfield products, systems Our portfolio and experience and services for customers in the oil and gas industry world-wide. Our knowledge and technologies span Aker Solutions bring together engineering, technologies processing systems that generate marketable and from reservoir to production and through the life of a and services for oil and gas drilling, field development and valuable hydrocarbon products. Our goal is to deliver the field. production. We apply the knowledge and create and use best. Each product, system and service competes in the technologies that deliver our customers’ solutions. market on a standalone basis. However, with our broad portfolio and experience, we understand the potential Our portfolio of oilfield products, systems and services challenges and apply our knowledge to creating optimal stretches all the way from the reservoir to the wellstream solutions. Geological interpretation Concept, FEEDs Process optimisation Tie-ins Drilling upgrades Safe decommand Exploration drilling Detail design, project Secondary recovery, (IOR) Water, gas injection Platform upgrades removal Production testing mgmt De-bottle-necking Tertiary recovery (EOR) Lowpressure production Hook-up, completion and Well intervention services commissioning Exploration Development Production Decomm Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 7 Governance Aker Solutions is listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange. Shares in the company are owned by a variety of Board of industrial, institutional and private investors. Aker ASA, Directors the industrial investment company, controls 40.27 percent of the shares in Aker Solutions through Aker Kværner Board Risk Audit Holding AS, and takes an active role in the development of Committee Committee Aker Solutions. Executive chairman Aker Solutions ASA is the parent company in the group, which consists of a number of separate legal entities. Aker Corporate functions Solutions is used as the common brand and trademark for most of these entities. COO CFO CTO Our corporate governance principles are based on the CRC CIC Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate Governance as Regions amended on 23 October 2012. The governance structure and governance procedures including risk management, internal controls and performance evaluation is described North in more detail in our Annual Report and on our website, CSM COS HR Brazil Norway America at www.akersolutions.com/en/Global-menu/Investors/ Corporate-governance In 2012, many initiatives have been started in order to further improve the internal control in the group. One of the Business areas priorities going forward is to further develop and formalise policies, procedures, risk management and internal controls in line with the COSO framework. UMB DRT SUB MLS MMO PRS WIS ENG OMA The corporate function Business Integrity and Compliance (BIC), which is held by the COS, is responsible for CR. CRC: Corporate Risk Committee UMB: Umbilicals PRS: Process Systems CIC: Corporate Investment Committee DRT: Drilling Technologies WIS: Well Intervention Services CTO: Chief Technology Officer SUB: Subsea ENG: Engineering Solutions CSM: Chief Strategic Marketing MLS: Mooring and Loading Systems OMA: Oilfield Services & Marine Assets COS: Chief of Staff MMO: Maintenance, Modifications and Operations Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 8 Our vision and values Our vision determines the overall goal for our business: To be the preferred partner for solutions in the oil and gas industry through living our values. Being a responsible societal actor is of key importance towards this vision. Vision Our vision is to be the preferred partner for solutions in the oil and gas industry through living our values. Values All Aker Solutions employees share a common set of values – the compass that guides our policies, our operations and ultimately, our behaviour. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 9 Our approach to CR environment were recorded in 2012. However, Aker expectations. For example, we communicate on CR Solutions believes that we have an important role to play through articles and interactive blogs on our intranet, CR at Aker Solutions is a matter of making good and in delivering environmentally safe and environmentally and we get feedback from our workforce via the intranet, sustainable business decisions. friendly solutions to our customers. The risks of corruption separate meetings, direct contacts and training in ethics. and human rights abuses in many of the countries Our customers provide valuable information about their Aker Solutions’ goal is for its growth to be mutually where we are present are also key drivers for our CR. priorities and expectations in the prequalification and beneficial for the company and the society where we Such ethical risks are managed through regular country tender processes, as well as in stakeholder meetings are present. In our Corporate Responsibility Strategy for analysis, mandatory awareness training, compliance and joint involvement in working groups and seminars. 2013-2017, we have established set goals to strengthen reviews and regular Integrity Due Diligence. Requests from investors and bondholders for information this. For example, we believe that we can have an on CR have also been analysed and taken into account impact by developing competence and skills in our Engagement with stakeholders in preparing this report. Networks such as the UN Global staff, subcontractors and suppliers, including promoting Aker Solutions maintains dialogue with employees, Compact (Nordic Network), peer-company networks and HSE and CR in our supply chain. Acknowledging our managers and external stakeholders regarding business anti-corruption initiatives provide valuable support to responsibility under international human rights law, it ethics and CR, along with a range of other topics. In discuss benchmarks and align our CR work. is also important for Aker Solutions to apply particular defining important focus areas for our CR, listening to the caution with respect to human rights in developing concerns and expectations of our stakeholders has been Aker Solutions has frequent contact with customers economies, by for example assessing new projects important. Key stakeholders for our CR include customers, through project delivery, such as in health, safety and operations carefully. We also believe that our investors, employees and other staff and subcontractors, and environment (HSE) meetings, project meetings, zero-tolerance approach to corruption is important trade unions and suppliers. Through dialogue with these evaluation meetings and new project negotiations. We to supporting sustainable and transparent growth in stakeholder groups, the company works to ensure that also implement regular feedback systems in the projects. countries with low economic development. on-going CR work is relevant to our operating context, These ensure for example, structured feedback is received including the markets and our strategy, and stakeholders’ after project completion. In order to fully benefit from In Aker Solutions, we recognise our responsibility and potential impact as a major societal stakeholder when it comes to our employees and subcontractors, our People Survey 2012 suppliers, as well as our own environmental footprint. The People Survey is Aker Solutions’ bi-annual employee survey globally. It focuses on Our people are a key focus for us, and we emphasise Aker Solutions’ values, and relevant topics such as strategy, CR, job satisfaction and providing a healthy and safe working environment for our knowledge sharing. The questions are formulated by corporate affairs together with the employees, contract staff and subcontractors. We aim to business area HR managers. reduce accident levels to zero, and we believe that this is possible. In 2012 we had a strong response rate of 84 per cent, out of approximately 20 000 employees. We saw an improvement in nearly all areas, and most of all in job satisfaction, customer knowledge and focus on delivery according to set objectives As a supplier to the oil and gas industry, we have a and goals. The People Survey also showed a need to improve knowledge sharing and limited direct impact on the environment. No significant, awareness of whistleblowing. These topics will be addressed in 2013. unintentional discharges or emissions to the surrounding Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 10 the feedback provided, an internal process is in place to Focus areas for CR systematise and analyse the comments received from We define our CR priorities based on what impact the customers in different projects. company has or may have on our external environment, and based on expectations and feedback from our The CR focus areas also reflect the conclusions of the stakeholders. The following focus areas have been extensive stakeholder engagement undertaken in 2011, identified as particularly relevant to Aker Solutions’ where representatives from key stakeholder groups such CR: supporting local growth and competence creation; as suppliers, customers, trade unions and investors from protecting human rights; implementing responsible supply different geographical locations and market segments chain management; combating corruption; reducing were invited to participate in interviews and dialogue environmental risks; further improving our health and meetings. The dialogue followed the guidance of the safety work, and promoting employee relations. Global Reporting Initiative. Our goal is to organise a These overall goals have been set out in the Aker structured stakeholder engagement process to validate Solutions Corporate Responsibility Strategy for 2013-2017. our materiality mapping with our stakeholders every three In 2013, we will see further definitions of these goals in years, in addition to ongoing engagement on individual the business areas and regions, and an increased focus issues. on CR through the establishment of an internal global CR network. Caring about people Caring about environment Caring about integrity Caring about the community Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 11 Our market Aware of the importance of being close to the markets in the oil and gas industry Aker Solutions strives to be available to our customers in the regions. We meet our customers where they want us to be, offering products, services and technologies based on their needs. Aker Solutions has an ambition to grow revenue between 9 and 15 per cent per year in the period from 2010 to 2015. Based on the current portfolio of businesses, the company has the potential to double in size from 2012 to 2017, and the EBITDA margin can increase to 15 per cent in the same period, from the current level in 2012 of 10.5 per cent. Customer approach Aker Solutions’ success depends on its reputation among its customers. In order to develop market positioning and customer relations, the rollout a regional management structure in target areas, which began in 2011, continues. Specific strategies are developed for key customers. A North America Arctic Norway Asia Pacific Gas demand drive sponsor from the executive management team has been Deep-water picking up The next natural gas region World’s largest offshore market our markets assigned to follow up selected customers on a quarterly 5% 5% 1% 3% 56% 43% 17% 23% basis with regards to customer relationship involving all Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of business areas. Corporate Strategic Marketing leads the employees revenues employees revenues employees revenues employees revenues proactive customer engagement process and coordinates customer accounts at Aker Solutions. Improving customer Brazil United Kingdom West Africa MENA relationship management was a key focus at Aker Booming market, Mature region Subsea markets in Holds 60% of Solutions in 2012, including internal coordination and key local content req. being revitalised Angola, Nigeria proven reserves account management. 5% 7% 12% 14% 1% 3% <1% 2% Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of Share of employees revenues employees revenues employees revenues employees revenues Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 12 Focus on regional presence Customer relations Performance quality Aker Solutions’ regional matrix organisation has been ■■ Regional approach and HSE under development since 2011. In 2012 the regional to business ■■ Quality and HSE model in North America and Brazil was completed. The development culture in people and regional structure is a key growth driver at Aker Solutions, ■■ Strengthened teams and aims to improve knowledge about our markets and co-ordination of customer relations Just Care™ ■■ Closer monitoring establish closer proximity to our customers. Improved of processes and coordination between business areas and strengthening procedures our common positioning and influence has been a priority. Extensions of corporate functions into the regions are expected to increase effectiveness and efficiency in the organization. In 2012, the most important message from our customers was positive feedback regarding the establishment of the first regional structures. Technology People and teams ■■ Portfolio ■■ Recruitment, retention In order to achieve the long-term strategy, Aker Solutions management of and development of has identified four key focus areas in the coming years. technology resources talent is key ■■ Improved knowledge ■■ Leadership with sharing across the focus on company performance culture Front End Spectrum A major strategic decision in 2012 was to launch Front End Spectrum. The company’s strength in the traditional front-end market, combined with its in-depth know-how from its wide range of product lines, make Aker Solutions uniquely positioned to take advantage of increasing market demand for frontend services. The Front End Spectrum is expected to create valuable offerings for customers by combining products and capabilities across multiple business areas. New offshore discoveries, many of which are situated in challenging conditions, have increased demand for high quality front-end engineering design studies. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 13 Commitments and membership Key figures In order to establish a globally recognised framework for the development and implementation of CR in our Amounts in NOK Million 2012 2011 business, Aker Solutions has entered two binding with external parties. Firstly, the company has been a member Revenue 44 922 36 474 of the UN Global Compact since 2008 and is committed Total operating expenses 40 183 33 029 to ensure progress in line with its Ten Principles, with Materials, goods and services 19 010 16 233 continuous improvements in the areas of human rights, Salary, wages and social security 13 348 11 353 labour rights, environmental responsibility and antiOther 6 925 5 443 corruption. An annual “Communication on Progress” Dividends to non-controlling interests 6 6 is part of this commitment. Aker Solutions is also Dividends to shareholders in Aker Solutions 1053 741 participating in the UN Global Compact Nordic Network. Paid dividend pr share (NOK) 3.86 2.75 Aker Solutions is also committed to compliance with Assets 40 215 34 010 the Global Framework Agreement (GFA) signed by Aker Equity 11 980 10 966 and the trade unions Fellesforbundet, IndustriALL Global Employees 27 554 23 497 Union, NITO and Tekna trade unions on 17 December (Regular and full time-equivalents) 20 861 18 397 2012. The GFA builds on and continues the commitment from the previous framework agreements signed in 2008 For more information regarding key numbers for Aker Solutions, please see Aker Solutions’ annual report for 2012. and 2010. Aker Solutions is a member of Næringslivets Hovedorganisasjon (Confederation of Norwegian Enterprises – (NHO) and Norwegian Oil and Gas Partners (Intsok). We participate in oil and gas conferences and roundtables, and we are members of the Chambers of Commerce and Norwegian Business Forums in some of the locations where we are present. Furthermore, we we have a clear policy of not providing sponsorship or contributions to political parties. This is stated in our Code of Conduct. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Ingenuity delivered globally Page 14 Our people With almost 28 000 people in locations all over the world, in over 30 countries, the Aker Solutions’ workforce is substantial and diverse. Together we apply our knowledge, and we create and use technologies to deliver our customer’s solutions. Having highly skilled and motivated employees and leaders is a key success factor for a technology-driven company like Aker Solutions. The company therefore continuously strives to enhance its attractiveness by offering new and existing employees opportunities to develop and expand their skills and careers at Aker Solutions. Aker Solutions is investing substantial resources in developing people and teams, together with other initiatives to maintain its position as a favoured employer. The company offers a competitive pay and compensation package that is adjusted to local requirements and customs. Extensive employee benefits schemes are Angola Denmark India Norway Oman UAE common throughout the group. Luanda Copenhagen Kakinada Arendal Muscat Abu Dhabi Esbjerg Mumbai Asker Dubai Australia Pune Bergen Russia As at 31 December 2012, Aker Solutions’ total workforce Perth Egypt Egersund Moscow UK consisted of 27 554 people, including 20 861 direct Cairo Indonesia Fornebu St. Petersburg Aberdeen Angola Azerbaijan Equi.Denmark Guinea India Batam Norway Hammerfest Oman Sattahip Great Yarmouth employees and 6 694 contract staff. During the year the Baku Luanda Copenhagen Malabo Kakinada Jakarta Arendal Horten Muscat Saudi Arabia Songkhla Hastings total workforce grew by 4 009, reflecting increased activity Esbjerg Ivory Coast Mumbai Kristiansand Asker S Al-Khobar London Brazil Australia Finland Abidjan Pune Kristiansund Bergen N Russia UAE Maidenhead in the businesses. Curitiba Perth Helsinki Egypt Lyngdal Singapore Stockton-on-Tees Abu Dhabi Egersund Moscow Rio das Ostras Ulvila Japan Midsund Singapore Whitstable Cairo Indonesia Fornebu St. Petersburg Dubai Rio de Azerbaijan Janeiro Tokyo Moss Aker Solutions has two main categories of employee: France Batam Hammerfest Narvik South Africa Ukraine Baku Equi. Guinea Jakarta Saudi Arabia UK skilled workers and operators represent 28 per cent, while Canada ParisMalabo Malaysia Horten Oslo Germiston Kharkov Calgary Kuala Lumpur Kristiansand S Porsgrunn Al-Khobar Aberdeen office employees represent 72 per cent. Brazil St Johns Germany Ivory Coast Labuan Sandnessjøen Kristiansund N South Korea Great Yarmouth USA Curitiba Finland Bad Fallingbostel Abidjan Pekan Stavanger Singapore Gyungnam Hastings Lyngdal Houston China Rio das Ostras Helsinki Erkelenz Port Klang Stokke Singapore Pusan London Mobile 52 per cent of own employees worked in Norway, 12 per Ulvila Midsund BeijingRio de Janeiro Japan Stord Maidenhead Ghana Nigeria Moss Tranby South Africa Sweden Vietnam cent in the Americas, 19 per cent in the Asia Pacific region, Tokyo Narvik Stockton-on-Tees CyprusCanada France Takoradi Lagos Tromsø Gothenburg Germiston Vung Tau Whitstable 16 per cent in Europe (excluding Norway), and 1 per cent Limassol Paris Harcourt PortMalaysia Oslo Trondheim Calgary in Africa and the Middle East. Of the 3 300 own employees Czech Republic St Johns Kuala Lumpur Porsgrunn Ågotnes Thailand South Korea Prague Ålesund Bangkok Ukraine Germany Sandnessjøen Gyungnam that were recruited in 2012, 58 per cent of those joining Labuan Sattahip Kharkov China Bad Fallingbostel Pekan Stavanger Pusan the company were outside Norway. Songkhla Beijing Erkelenz Port Klang Stokke USA Stord Sweden Houston Cyprus Ghana Nigeria Tranby Gothenburg Mobile Limassol Takoradi Tromsø Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 15 Key staff figures 2012 2011 Total staff 27 554 23 497 Own employees 20 861 18 365 Contract staff 6 694 5 132 Full time/part time 97.6% / 2.4% 97.3% / 2.7% New employees (both permanent and contract/hired ins) 4 009 2 648 Age groups own regular employees recruited < 30 35.7 % 37.5 % 30-50 55.5 % 54.7 % >50 8.8 % 7.8 % Gender distribution own regular emp. recruited m/f 75.3% / 24.7% 76.8% / 23.2% Skilled workers/operations 28 % 29 % Office workers 72 % 71 % Turn over 6.9 % 7.4 % Staff per region (own employees and contracts) North America 1 320 2 503 1) Brazil 1 403 Africa & Middle East 319 245 Asia Pacific 5 244 4 588 Europe ex Norway 4 232 3 617 Norway 15 036 12 494 Male/female 78.9% / 21.1% 78.2 / 21.8% 1) This number counts for employees both in Brazil and America. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 16 Diversity and equal opportunities executive management team had three female members initiatives were conducted in Norway, Malaysia, Brazil, the as of 31 December 2012 out of a total of 17 members. UK and the US. In Norway, the company is recognised Aker Solutions recognise the value that diversity in as one of the top preferred employers within engineering: the workplace brings to our company and clearly In 2012, almost 100 leaders from different locations, In 2012 we scored high on the Universum survey among states its commitment to equal opportunity and nonbusiness segments and across all functions participated professionals on Norway’s Top 100 Ideal employers (see discrimination. Our policy is to ensure that equal in an internal Female Leadership Network. 10 per cent separate article). opportunities are provided to all prospective employees of the participants were men who demonstrate an active regardless of race, colour, religion, gender, age, national interest in driving leadership diversity at Aker Solutions. More than 127 000 applicants from 148 countries were origin or disability. Aker Solutions is also a partner of the organisations registered on the group’s recruitment system during the Global Future and Alarga, which focus on increasing cross year. A total of 3 300 new employees were recruited. Our People Policy states that all employees can expect a cultural competency in companies and supporting highlyWorkforce turnover in 2012 averaged 6.9 per cent, which is workplace free from harassment and discrimination. Aker skilled staff with multi-cultural backgrounds. a slightly improvement from 7.3 per cent in 2011. Solutions will respect its employees, apply a fair rewards approach, and provide suitable training and development Recruitment and retention Focusing on employee retention is key to strengthening opportunities for all. The company promotes equal employees’ motivation and skills. At Aker Solutions, oppor­­tunities by setting specific requirements for diversity Aker Solutions aims to be well regarded as a potential several employee benefits are offered to employees across in recruitment and people development, and by support­ employer in its key markets and regions, and the company the company. Some examples are given below: ing programmes dedicated to equal opportunities. Each continues to invest in local and regional schemes that The benefit practice is, with a few exceptions, more or business area is responsible for developing appropriate support the employer brand. In 2012 special recruitment less the same for Aker Solutions companies located in procedures for their environment that seek to promote equal opportunities and diversity, ensuring compliance with local legislation as a minimum. As of 2012, Aker Solutions has defined a HR KPI that will measure the Overview of benefits for permanent employees in major countries of percentage of locals in local management teams. Some of operation with an established benefit practice the reasons are the need to have and develop our local competence and drive diversity. Aus Bra Can China Ger India Indo Mal Nor UK USA Equal gender opportunity is a fundamental principle Life insurance x x x x x x at Aker Solutions. For primarily historical reasons, and Health Care x x x x x x x due to industry traditions, male employees continue Disability/ incapacity to be in the majority within the company. Of the total coverage x x x x x x x x employees, 21 per cent were women. Aker Solutions Retirement provision x x x x x x x x x fulfils the requirements of the Norwegian Companies Share ownership 1) x x x x x x x x Act with regard to gender representation on the Board of Directors. Five of twelve Directors are women. The 1) Singapore is also included in the Employee share purchase programme Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 17 the same country, particularly for benefits like pension Differences in benefits provided in the different countries and personnel insurance. The results from the survey are primarily due to: are therefore presented as benefit practice by country. The benefit practice across countries is more equal for ■■ Varying legislation in the different countries. countries in the same continent than the benefit practice ■■ Varying social security arrangements in the different in countries from different continents (Americas, Asia and countries. Europe). Aker Solutions does not differentiate between ■■ Different established practices and norms in the local part time and full-time employees when it comes to labour markets. benefits offered. The table below present the number of employees who took parental leave in 2012. As legislation regarding parental leave for each country varies, the numbers below are only for Norway. Parental leave Female Male Total Total employees in Norway 2 734 10 508 13 242 Employees who took parental leave: 478 1 830 2 308 Per cent employees returning to work after parental leave 86.0% 99.3% 96.5% Of emp. returned to work: per cent still in Aker Solutions after 12 months after end of parental leave: 92.2% 96.6% 95.8% Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 18 Aker Solutions among Norway’s preferred employers Aker Solutions scores high on the Universum survey among professionals on Norway’s Top 100 Ideal employers. In 2012 we also experience an improvement amongst ITand business professionals. 2 ￼ Aker Solutions has always received a relatively high score from the relevant groups – engineering, business and IT professionals. This year we are pleased to see an improvement among IT and business professionals. Compared to last year’s survey business professionals puts Aker Solutions one step up on the podium from 3rd to 2nd place in 2012. By this we are considered to be a more attractive employer to this group than the largest banks and financial institutions in Norway. IT professionals rank Aker Solutions to be the 6th most ideal employer for their profession in Norway. This is also one step up, from last year’s 7th place in this category. In the survey among engineers, Aker Solutions is voted the second most attractive employer in Norway. This maintains our position from 2011 among this segment. “The extremely good results of this survey show Aker Solutions to be a company in good shape. I really hope we can utilize the momentum we see from the rank improvement to maintain and further improve our position. Let’s all remember that being second best in two categories is an excellent basis for aiming for first place”, says Sissel Lindland, Chief HR Officer in Aker Solutions. About Universum professional survey 2012: ■ Number of respondents: 6 694 ■ Respondents interviewed between June and October ■ 44 per cent females, 56 per cent male respondents ■ Average age: 35.9 years ■ Average work experience: 9.3 years Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 19 Learning and development Performance culture Aker Solutions’ deliveries depend on the skills, efforts and In order to enhance performance, objectives are set and we are investigating the reasons why the rate is not higher. performance of our people. We actively strive to attract performance is measured at team and individual levels, We see no difference in gender distribution when it comes and develop talented individuals who understand our regarding behaviour and commercial aspects. At least to performance dialogue completion. customers’ needs and requirements and who can produce once a year, managers and employees evaluate the results and deliver the best solutions. achieved. This performance dialogue provides the basis Our aim is to increase the use of performance reviews at for recognition, rewards and career opportunities, and the company. In 2011 it was decided that performance Competence development opportunities are offered provides guidance for potential individual performance management dialogues should become mandatory globally, regionally and locally at Aker Solutions. These improvements. for all office-based employees. From 2014, all office activities aim to create value for the company and workers at Aker Solutions will use the same performance form a basis for personal development and new career According to the bi-annual employee survey, the People management system, which will standardise the perform­ opportunities for the individual employee or manager. In Survey, 68.4 per cent of Aker Solutions employees ance dialogue processes and improve reporting and 2012 we launched a new programme within the area of reported in 2012 that they had a performance dialogue transparency. project leadership, which complements our established with their manager within the last 18 months. Compared programmes on business management and leadership. to the number from the People Survey 2010 (64 per cent), For more information about the salaries, wages and this rate has slightly improved by 4.4 per cent. Still, we remuneration of senior executives, please see Note 11 in Aker Solutions has a global internal forum for skills consider this percentage to be higher in reality, as the the Annual Report 2012. development and employee training, which is a definition of “performance dialogue” may vary among the competitive advantage for Aker Solutions. Programmes are respondents. As performance dialogues are mandatory, offered in professional subject areas such as leadership (at various levels), project execution, commercial manage­ ment and HSE. The company offers more than 30 tailored online learning programmes. Programme areas covered include project execution, HSE, CR, cultural awareness Employee share purchase programme and more company-specific, operational topics. A new share purchase programme was rolled out in 2012, under which employees are entitled to buy shares of up to NOK 60 000 per year (approximately US 10 000) with 25 per cent discount in addition to the standard NOK 1 500 discount. To encourage a long-term commitment to the company, a three-year lock-up period is part of this arrangement. 3 129 employees from nine countries participated in the share purchase programme that was launched in 2012. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 20 Employee representation As part of our commitment to human rights and on 17 December 2012. This agreement builds on and labour rights, Aker Solutions encourages employee continues the commitment under the previous framework representation in our business units in all locations. agreements signed in 2008 and 2010, and outlines key Through participation in working committees, and on our responsibilities concerning to human and trade union Board of Directors, trade union representatives provide rights. The parties to the agreements commit themselves employees with valuable influence, and an important line to achieving continuous improvements within the areas of communication between employees and management. of working conditions, industrial relations with Aker employees, health and safety standards in the workplace Aker Solutions’ employees have the right to be heard, and environmental performance. represented and to form and join trade unions of their own choice. These unions have the right to be recognized for As an example, in Norway, 54.4 per cent of all employees collective bargaining purposes. are covered by national or local binding collective agreements, while 85 per cent in Brazil are covered by Aker Solutions maintains a global framework agreement national binding collective agreements. applicable for all employees in the company ensuring freedom of association, collective bargaining and other core labour rights. The Global Framework Agreement (GFA) was signed by Aker and the Fellesforbundet, IndustriALL Global Union, NITO and Tekna trade unions Agreements 2012 Global 20 861 (100%) National/local – Brazil 1 160 (85%) National/local – Norway 5 944 (54.4%) National/local – Germany 1) 585 (90%) 1) Germany: 647 permanent employees per 31.12.2012 – ca. 90 per cent (585) are covered by national binding tariff agreement of the Metalland Elektroindustrie North Rhine-Westphalia. The other 10 per cent (62) are non-tariff employees (management level). Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 21 Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 22 Health and safety All Aker Solutions employees and subcontractors, at Goal is zero accidents all of our plants and locations, are entitled to work in a safe and healthy environment. We have a zero incident Aker Solutions’ goal of zero accidents has been achieved Engineering business area. This work continues in 2013, mind-set. We believe that it is possible to achieve our and is sustainable in some of our business areas; typically and other business areas are following this track. goal of zero accidents, and we consistently strive to those sites that only perform office environment tasks. At meet this target. other locations, the Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) Aker Solutions’ main goal for 2013 is to achieve our and Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) are quite best year yet, which means no fatalities, a LTIF of <0.6 Our HSE management system is based on the HSE higher than the company’s overall result. All units therefore and a TRIF of <1.8. As regards sick leave, the goals are Operative System. Based on this operative system, we have unit-specific secondary targets as milestones on defined locally for business areas and regions, rather than draw up a new HSE plan in Q3 each year. This plan shows their way to the primary target: zero incidents. company-wide. the management-level directives, as well as planned initiatives and HSE goals for the coming year. During Q4 We are continually working on actions and initiatives to The incident statistics for 2012 show an improvement on the following year, goal achievements are evaluated and lower incident rates, as well as focusing on maintaining previous years, particularly the zero fatalities in 2012. No measured through our HSE Operating system reviews. zero incident levels, where this has been achieved. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes related In 2012, we had an increased focus on office HSE, to the health and safety impacts of our products was In 2005, the Just CareTM HSE scheme was introduced, and bearing in mind that serious accidents can happen in recorded in 2012. in 2008 we implemented Just Rules. These HSE tools are office environments as well. For instance, in relation to well implemented in the existing organisation, but need maintenance work, travel and traffic-related situations 1. As of today, LTIFs and TRIFs are not logged per region, constant renewal and adjustment to fit the ever-changing or merely due to a distraction when walking down the but per business unit and business area. As our new organisation. stairs. This has been especially visible through the HSE regional model is being incorporated on a global level, Revitalisation Plan, which was executed within the this may change in the coming years. 2. As of today, logging of gender is not mandatory when submitting a case involving personal injuries. As most Health and safety injuries happen in the workshops – where the majority of staff is male – it is probable that most injuries involve 2012 2011 male employees. Lost Time Incident Frequency (LTIF) including sub-contractors 0.59 0.66 Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) including subcontractors 1.78 2.29 Fatalities, including subcontractors 0 3 Sick leave rate (%) 2.63 2.17 1) Lost Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) rate – (No. of lost time incidents) per 1 million worked hours. 2) Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) rate – Total No. of recordable incidents (Fatalities, lost time incidents, restricted work cases and medical treatment not including first aid) per 1 million worked hours. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 23 Sick leave Aker Active – Inspiring employees to a As seen from table above, the sick leave rate has healthy lifestyle increased over the last two years. Even though we are Aker Active is an initiative which focuses on not absolutely sure why, the change in company structure lifestyle, social networks and personal performance may hold one of the answers. In the last few years Aker development for all Aker Solutions’ employees. Solutions has moved from being a construction-based On 25 October 2012, a global portal was launched company to incorporating more office workers and more making this lifestyle and performance initiative servicing. In addition, we have moved out of some regions available to all Aker employees worldwide. and countries and into others, and sick leave logging On the Aker Active portal you can learn and share practices differ from country to country, as regards both about exercise, lifestyle, nutrition and performance. the social system and also the country’s employee culture. The portal encourages you to log your activity in to a training diary and share your own tips, pictures Aker Solutions wants to focus on preventive actions and and videos with other colleagues. turn the focus towards “healthy work-life balance”, rather than focusing on sick leave percentages. The initiative has been designed to increase employees’ wellbeing, motivation and satisfaction, and is an important initiative for retention, One of the preventive initiatives focusing on active and recruitment and employer branding at Aker healthy lifestyles implemented in 2012 was Aker Active. Solutions. Most of Aker Solutions employees have signed up and created a profile on the portal. Almost 300 training groups across the world have been created, and many sports events are being held at the various locations. Over 117 200 active visits to the site have been made, and blogs and news articles are regularly updated and published on the portal, enabling all staff to get updates of what is going on within and outside their own region and location. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 24 Just CareTM awards In addition to corporate initiatives, several local projects Awards 2012 were launched and maintained. At Aker Solutions we have chosen to focus on these initiatives through the Health Environment Just CareTM awards. This annual award is divided into Maintenance, Modifications and Subsea Malaysia’s initiative is to four categories: Health, Safety, Environment and the Operations (MOM) in Bergen and go green for our current and future President’s award, with the latter as an award for overall Stavanger won an award for their way of life. The aim is to operate the initiative to promote an active facility with minimum impact towards outstanding HSE performance. In this award process, lifestyle for everybody. ACTIVE and the environment. By doing so, the nominees are presented at several levels of the Akrobaten are two voluntary groups they hope to raise HSE awareness organisation, and the corporate management group that organise social activities for amongst both employees and chooses the category winners every spring. The winners employees. contractors. for 2012 will be announced in May 2013. Safety President’s award Subsea Ågotnes won the safety Aker oilfield services and marine award for their hands-free lifting assets has delivered a step change initiative. This reduces and prevents in offshore services through injuries to people in connection with their HSE performance. Skandi lifting operations. There have been no Santos has delivered safe and We take personal injuries in connection with lifting at efficient subsea installation and responsibility for Ågotnes since this was implemented. support services with a dedicated commitment from all team members. HSE because we They have had excellent uptime, with care about people, zero injuries and excellent client HSE performance ratings. the environment and our company Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 25 Initiatives in 2012 In 2012, Aker Solutions recruited a corporate resource ■■ Strategic and operational security actions launched with responsibility for security and emergency preparation by the Corporate Security function: Co-ordination and Committed to Care globally. In 2013, we will continue to optimise emergency alignment of BAs, exploring regional opportunities, The Committed to Care movie: A film documentary preparation – and also aim for one Aker Solutions in forecasting and monitoring summarises the Strategic about how Aker Solutions employees take personal Emergency Response, to further ensure the alignment, initiatives. Operational execution, direction and support responsibility for Just CareTM and continuously coordination and execution of Corporate Security on security issues, Security Risk Assessment, Travel improve our HSE mind-set across the world. By initiatives from a global perspective. Security and audits of security management have been the end of 2012, 40 per cent of all Aker Solutions the main focus areas in operational security employees had seen the movie. In 2013 we will One of the main challenges in 2012 and the years to come ■■ Focusing on health continue to show the film, and work towards our is accommodating the planned growth at Aker Solutions, ■■ Aker Active – launched as a global initiative in autumn corporate target of 100 per cent viewer rate. as well as maintaining the Just CareTM HSE mind-set 2012. Read more in the separate text box among operating units and employees at all levels. ■■ Aker Xtra – employee-driven clubs at Fornebu that include physical activities such as football, skiing In 2012 several corporate initiatives were launched: and hiking, as well as social clubs such photography groups, art clubs, wine tasting etc. ■■ The HSE Leadership Programme: For all top managers ■■ A global HSE mind-set as a 24/7 activity, focus on at Aker Solutions, rolled out in full scale in Q2. preventative actions Managers come together and discuss HSE from a business perspective; how business results and HSE performance influence each other. As of 1 January 2013, 270 managers have participated. Our target was 200 participants for 2012, and in 2013 our aim is for 1 000 additional managers to undertake this mind-set training ■■ Increased focus on emergency preparedness and response in order to increase robustness concerning crises and incidents. Shaping the Emergency Response organisation, upgrading and optimising the existing framework and plans, training sessions and the delivery of exercises were conducted throughout 2012 by Corporate HSE and our business areas Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 26 Our environmental impact The environment depends on companies like ours to help preserve and protect it. We work to minimise negative Environment impact on the environment by continuously developing 2012 2011 technology, practices and business opportunities that focus on sustainable development. Energy consumption (MWH) 284 024 304 181 At Aker Solutions, protecting the environment is part of Energy Intensity (MWH per million worked hours) 5 760 5 490 our HSE Policy: Energy Intensity (GJ) 1 022 490 1 095 052 Energy intensity (GJ per million worked hours) 20 738 19 763 ■■ We conduct our operations with efficient use of CO2 Emissions (Tonnes) 67 062 77 592 materials and energy, with minimum waste and damage CO2 Emissions (Tonnes per million worked hours) 1 360 1 402 to the environment Recycles waste (Tonnes) 16 232 26 091 ■■ We design products and services to have no undue Total waste (Tonnes) 19 061 30 331 environmental impact, to be safe and efficient in Recycling factor (%) 85.2 86.0 consuming energy and natural resources. We seek to Hazardous waste (Tonnes) 1 085 1 386 ensure that our products can be recycled or disposed Accidental oil spills (number) 0 0 of safely Our HSE leadership development initiatives, eLearnings, and management system incorporate clear components that focus attention on the environment. Collectively, these contribute to continuous improvements in environmental awareness and attitudes among managers and other employees. This inspires the organisation to achieve further gains in environmental performance in Aker Solutions’ own activities, and to assist customers in making environmental improvements through the products developed by the group. In 2012, we were not subject to any significant fines or sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 27 Consumption, recycling and waste In 2012 Aker Solutions had a company goal of >80 per Total energy consumption by the business in 2012 (figures cent recycling of our total waste. This target has been for 2011 in brackets), based on recorded use of oil, gas and met at company level, however the results vary among electricity, amounted to 284 024 (304 181) megawatt-hours. business units and areas. Additionally, total waste will Carbon emissions related to this usage are estimated at vary from year to year, depending on our project portfolio. 67 061 (77 591) tonnes. The methodology used derives However, we aim to increase the local recycling rates, and from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol (GHG) and the Global our overall company target is 85 per cent. This is notably Reporting Initiative (GRI). The reduction is partly a result higher than our target of >80 per cent in 2012, but our of our restructuring processes, which have reduced our statistics shows that this is an attainable goal. Waste construction energy dependency. Some reductions have recorded in connection with the business totalled 19 061 also been made in our energy use in buildings due to our (30 331) tonnes, of which 85 per cent was recycled. Aker initiatives to better manage electricity use. Solutions has an on-going focus on waste reduction that might have contributed to this, but the main explanation Other environmental indicators such as energy probably lies in the project portfolio: In years with e.g. consumption and CO2 emissions (and intensity) are also decommissioning project, the amount of total waste will measured, but setting a company goal is difficult as our be naturally larger than years where no such activity has activity level varies over time, and can change rapidly been conducted. during a measuring period. In addition, there are great variations in source of energy, geography and climate, type of production, and in water availability between our sites. Our goal for 2013 is therefore to map the energy Aker Solutions Environmental Team (ASET) consumption of each of our sites and units to identify Green ASET (Aker Solutions Environment Team) in where we leave our most pronounced environmental Aberdeen, UK, was set up in early 2012 as a small footprint. group of like-minded people to focus on environmental issues within the business. The group has put We continuously measure our environmental performance together an action plan for 2012 and 2013 and will through our corporate KPIs. Our energy intensity has risen be challenging employees to participate in various over the last two years. We are investigating the causes, environmental campaigns. First up in 2013 is the and we need to see this over some years to establish “Improve Your Wasteline” campaign, aiming at improve our recycling rates by 20 per cent by the end of 2013. whether this is due to the structural changes in the company, if it is project portfolio dependent, and if there are other important factors. However, we are constantly measuring our energy consumption and CO2 emissions, and have an overall goal to map our environmental footprint more closely in the coming years. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 28 Environmentally safe products and services Environmental Task Force Recent examples of environmentally-friendly products In 2012 an Environmental Task Force with members 95 per cent. Hence a quantum leap in the improvement include products and systems with zero discharge to sea, from corporate and the five largest business areas was of environmental and health protection was achieved arctic bow loading with extra stringent environmental launched. This group will look into their business and by implementing this new approach for heat treatment safety design and subsea systems with electronic promote good environmental initiatives that can inspire workshops. operations rather than hydraulic oil. In 2012, the company others to make the same changes. They will continue the took full ownership of Aker Clean Carbon AS, which has work and cooperate through an established community. Aker Solutions’ manufacturing centre for Surface a leading technology position within carbon capture and Our aim is to expand our environmental focus, and also Products, Batam, Indonesia sequestration. After the takeover, the organisation was include especially designed phase solutions that can Our environmental performance is also scrutinised by merged with the Engineering business area at Fornebu in have a future environmental impact; either for better or for external parties. In 2012, Aker Solutions’ manufacturing Norway. worse, depending on the concepts chosen. centre for Surface Products in Batam, Indonesia received the Indonesia Environmental Award 2012 from PROPER In addition to corporate initiatives, we have many local (Programme for Pollution Control, Evaluation and Rating). initiatives. These are important as they can focus on PROPER is a voluntary programme, much like ISO site-specific challenges as well as our global ones. Some certification. The local authority in Batam nominated Aker examples from 2012 are listed below. Solutions to take part in this national programme in 2011, after having won Batam’s Best Environmental Award for Aker Solutions in Erkelenz, Germany three consecutive years in 2008, 2009 and 2010. Due to quenching hot steel work pieces into the big oil bath, there were large emissions of oil vapours and Award nominees are evaluated based on four main oil smoke in the heat treatment workshop. These were criteria, namely environmental monitoring, transparency directly vented into the working environment and the in environmental management, public participation in atmosphere. environmental management and environmental reporting. They decided to do something about this problem, and “Winning the Batam environmental award three times in a chose to install a suction hood over the oil bath. A suction row was good. But this is a national award, which means pipe was also installed to transport oil vapour and smoke higher recognition. I am glad we won this. Congratulations to a new wet scrubber, and the system was built so that to the team for making this possible.” Mike Lussier, Aker with additional piping all other sources of oil vapours and Solutions’ General Manager at Batam manufacturing smoke (ovens and small oil baths) were also connected to centre. the scrubber. By installing the new flue gas purification equipment, oil vapour and smoke emission was reduced by more than Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 29 Aker Solutions and Statoil awarded ONS Innovation Award On 29 August 2012, Aker Solutions and Statoil were awarded the ONS Innovation Award for the Åsgard subsea gas compression system. “This technology has the potential to change offshore gas field developments worldwide. With the forecast growth of subsea developments, subsea compression will become widespread, having even more impact as projects move into deeper waters further from shore. We are very pleased to be awarded this prestigious award,” says Åsmund Bøe, Chief Technology Officer at Aker Solutions. The ONS Innovation Award, which was first presented in 1982, recognises the crucial importance of cuttingedge products and solutions. Today, the 2012 award was given to Aker Solutions and Statoil acknowledging subsea compression technology. In 2015 the world’s first subsea gas compression station will go on stream in the Åsgard field offshore Norway. This will boost falling gas pressures from the Midgard and Mikkel satellite reservoirs, allowing stable production to continue and enabling an additional 280 million barrels of oil equivalent to be recovered. The project is operated by Statoil and delivered by Aker Solutions. Subsea compression improves gas recovery and provides many benefits compared to the alternative of installing a new platform. Further benefits include reduced investments and operating costs, a smaller environmental footprint and safer operations. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 30 Community impact and human rights Contributing to societies where we are Protecting human rights present Aker Solutions acknowledge our responsibility to respect The oil and gas industry has the potential to create wealth Brazil, Malaysia and Indonesia, have local content international Human Rights as expressed in the UN and reduce poverty in the countries that have these requirements in order to promote local growth from oil Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and resources. Attracting foreign companies and investors to and gas resources. At Aker Solutions, we believe that we undertake particular caution with respect to human a country can lead to increased investment, increased if we optimise our operations’ positive effect on local rights in developing economies with a poor human rights employment, local skills development, technology transfer communities, we can build a long-term presence that is record. We will ensure that our business in developing and increased public revenue. less volatile to political and economic fluctuations. This countries respects the rights of local communities, ethnic can be achieved by preparing sustainable local content groups and individuals, and that we always do our utmost As a minimum requirement, Aker Solutions is adamant strategies, working with responsible and competent local to avoid being complicit in human rights abuses. that our operations should not contribute negatively to suppliers and by hiring and training local employees and a country’s development. This is the philosophy behind managers. Our commitment to avoid complicity in human rights our ambitious anti-corruption programme, but is also the abuses forms part of our obligations as a member of the basis for our efforts to ensure we do not contribute to UN Global Compact, and is also specified in company breaches of human rights. policies and the Code of Conduct. Key focus areas for Aker Solutions is a mainstay industry in many communities, and it is important for us to be a responsible employer, creating employment and skills development opportunities. Good communication with trade unions, Responsible supply chain management government stakeholders and other representatives in Aker Solutions’ use of subcontractors often constitutes a large proportion of the contract value, and as a major buyer the local community is important to us. Our People Policy we have both responsibility and the opportunity to influence. We expect responsible behaviour from our suppliers and sets out that the company should provide support to the subcontractors, and will work with them to ensure that they have awareness and take appropriate responsibility for Health, Safety and Environment (HSE), anti-corruption, human rights, labour rights and environmental and social impact. We relevant employees where any restructuring affects them acknowledge that our responsibility is greater where we have the possibility to influence in the supply chain. directly. We also believe that working with our suppliers to promote sustainable development and responsible Aker Solutions is committed to encouraging sustainability, integrity and respect for human rights and workers’ rights in the business strategies is one way we can contribute to supply chain. In 2012, the Supplier Qualification and Information System (SQiS), was launched, which provides a good tool society and the workforce employed at our supplier base. for monitoring the suppliers in a system that integrates information on risk, quality, HSE and CR. A supplier that does not meet Aker Solutions’ requirements will not win any contracts until the necessary mitigation actions have been made. Supporting local development is also about finding Suppliers to Aker Solutions must sign a form that outlines their responsibility for human rights, the environment and sustainable and long-term solutions to our presence following laws. In 2012, this supplier declaration was adjusted to clarify suppliers’ responsibilities for guaranteeing in economies that lack the economic mechanisms children’s rights and integrity in the buying process. and infrastructure of Western economies. Several of Aker Solutions’ key markets, such as West Africa, Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 31 us are protecting human rights in our workforce and among subcontractors and suppliers, and ensuring that the company does not contribute to oil and gas activities where the risk of complicity in human rights violations is unacceptable. Identifying human rights risks can be a challenge. Therefore, in addition to the work done in our supply chain and our workforce, Aker Solutions has implemented systems in our investment and project bidding processes to ensure that human rights are taken into account. The Aker Solutions country risk standard classifies relevant markets according to their non-financial risks. Assignments in and deliveries to countries that are classified as high risk (“notification countries”), require specific assessment and approval in the bid/no bid phase. The assessment considers risks of human rights complicity, corruption, environmental impact and the regulatory framework, political risks, security risks, ethical dilemmas and the risk of supporting violence or aiding and abetting conflict, and may result in specific guidelines on how to manage the relevant risks in the projects. The review procedures also help coordinate corporate strategies in specific countries or regions. Aker Solutions reserves the right to refuse to participate in projects where there are unacceptable risks of complicity in human rights abuses. In 2012, three bids were rejected or partly rejected on such grounds. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 32 Integrity and business ethics Fighting corruption Achievements in 2012 Corruption has been identified as a key obstacle to the addition, the business ethics training sessions provide The Aker Solutions compliance programme has been trickle-down effect of wealth creation. Corruption reduces feedback to Business Integrity and Compliance at strengthened further in 2012, with improvements in control governments’ capacity for public spending and transfers corporate headquarters on what they assess to be key procedures, an increased focus on the supervision of wealth from the public to individuals. It also causes public corruption risks in their business unit. With the strong agents and business partners, and with a strong focus on discontent and political and security risks. Corruption is focus on business ethics training in 2012, such feedback training and awareness raising. We have also increased highly illegal in almost all countries, as well as under the was received from all business areas and locations. capacity in our Business Integrity and Compliance international anti-corruption legislation. division and regional and BA-specific resources. The Aker Anti-corruption compliance Solutions Code of Conduct was revised this year, in order At Aker Solutions, we are committed to combating to provide more specific advice on integrity risks, and corruption, and to promoting our zero tolerance approach Over the past few years Aker Solutions has worked hard there has been a focus on increasing awareness of both to bribery and facilitation payments. Our zero tolerance to develop a robust defence system against corruption, the Code of Conduct and the whistleblowing channel. approach will be shared with all of our customers, our starting where the risk has been highest. A key focus for employees, and with governments and public officials us has been to ensure that we work with agents and sales We also placed a strong focus on training and compliance where we operate. Our employees will receive integrity intermediaries who we are confident are doing business culture in 2012. The Aker Solutions business ethics and ethics training suitable to their needs. according to the guidelines set out in the Aker Solutions’ class-based training was developed in September 2011, Code of Conduct. We spend considerable resources and the executive management team set as a goal that The oil and gas industry has been identified by the ensuring proper due diligence is applied, and that high 12 000 office-based employees, managers and other Transparency International Bribe Payers index 2011 as risk intermediaries are carefully assessed, approved and representatives of Aker Solutions should participate in the an industry where the risk of corruption is high. There trained in our anti-corruption policies. Corruption and course in 2012. In addition to sharing information about are also large reputational and financial risks involved in fraud risks for Aker Solutions also exist where people procedures and regulations to prevent corruption and engaging in corrupt activities, either directly or indirectly travel, where contracts are signed, and in the supply unethical conduct, the class-based setting also offers an through agents. It is therefore a key priority for Aker chain. Because of this risk picture, in 2012 Aker Solutions opportunity to discuss challenges and dilemmas that have Solutions to ensure sufficient controls in our business, focused on training a large number of our employees, been seen to have a positive impact on corporate culture. while establishing the right attitudes via awareness raising 12 000 office-based employees, in corruption risks and By December 2012, the target set by the management and training. internal conduct procedures. team had been met, with over 12 000 office-based colleagues trained, and another 400 who are not office Corruption risk assessment at Aker Solutions takes place based. There is already a notably increased focus on within the overall corporate risk assessment, and as a business ethics in the organisation, with more questions specific assessment taking into account the different being brought up for discussion, and increased openness markets and types of operations. Deliveries to and and alertness. activities in high-risk countries are screened for corruption risks in the project bid-no bid phase, in order to enable Following up on reports to the whistleblowing channel early adjustments in the project design if necessary. In has also been an important task in 2012. With increased Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 33 Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 34 awareness, we have also seen an increase in the number of notifications. Since 2011, this number was more than doubled. This is considered to be a positive sign of increased awareness in the organisation. Reports from diligent whistle-blowers have also helped identify some You think you see instances of unwanted behaviour. For example, several something that breaches staff have been dismissed from the company as a result the Code of Conduct. of whistleblowing-related investigations and the findings resulting from them. Procedures are being improved to prevent similar situations in the future. What do you do? Goals for 2013 With an increased work force, the class-based business Whistleblowing ethics training will continue in 2013, and will become If you observe or personally be subject to unprofessional conduct, there will be no retaliation against you, nor any impact on your professional a mandatory part of the induction programme for new said conduct shall immediately career, for reporting possible violations be reported to your manager, in good faith. HR department or another Aker You can send an email to: employees. The Code of Conduct, together with CR, will Solutions manager you trust. Aker Solutions will ensure that whistleblowing@akersolutions.com also become part of the new onboarding programme for all employees. Our training programme will be developed Preferred partner with specialised sessions for high-risk employees, and One of our initiatives in 2012 was to raise we will carry out audits and reviews to ensure that our awareness about our Whistleblowing compliance programme is followed. channel internally. Participation in business ethics and corporate responsibility training Percentage of total workforce Number of employees/ (including hired-ins) managers Per cent of managers 1) 72% 1 574 Per cent of office-workers, incl. hired-ins 76% 11 425 1) Number is based on a 95 per cent of Aker Solutions – but considered as representative for the entire company. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 35 Aker Solutions Code of Conduct The Aker Solutions Code of Conduct was revised in 2012, to provide more specific guidance on ethical behaviour from our employees, directors, subsidiaries and suppliers. The status of the code of conduct was simultaneously elevated to be Aker Solutions’ key guiding document placing it above other company policies and guidelines. The Code of Conduct includes chapters on bribery and facilitation payments, conflicts of interest, gifts and hospitality, export controls, human rights, fair competition, insider information, money laundering and sponsorships. Routines for distribution of the code of conduct were also reinforced in 2012. Preferred partner Code of Conduct Whistleblowing@akersolutions.com Our whistleblowing channel, available on our web pages and as an email hotline whistleblowing@ akersolutions.com, is an important part of our compliance system, and a channel where people both within and outside our organisation can report breaches of our Code of Conduct or other policies or laws. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 36 G3 Content Index G3 Content Index GRI Application Level B STANDARD DISCLOSURES: Part I Profile Disclosures 1. Strategy and Analysis 3. Report Parameters Level of Profile Level of Disclosure reporting Section in Report Disclosure Disclosure reporting Section in Report 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Fully Introduction 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information Fully This report organization. provided. 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Fully Introduction. See also throughout the 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any). Fully This report report. 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) Fully This report 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report Fully This report 2. Organizational Profile 3.5 Process for defining report content. Fully This report Level of 3.6 Boundary of the report Fully This report. See also Annual Report Disclosure reporting Section in Report 2012 Note 3 Accounting Principles 2.1 Name of the organization. Fully About Aker Solutions 3.7 Limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully This report. See also Annual Report 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services. Fully About Aker Solutions 2012 Note 3 Accounting Principles 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main Fully About Aker Solutions 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures and other entities. Fully Annual Report 2012 Note 3 divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint Accounting Principles ventures. 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of Fully This report, Health and safety, Our 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters. Fully About Aker Solutions calculations environmental impact 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates, and Fully About Aker Solutions 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements Fully No restatements names of countries with either major operations or that are 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods Fully This report specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures Fully This table in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. Fully About Aker Solutions. See also Annual Report 2012 Notes 34-35 and 3.13 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external Fully This report has no external Notes to the financial statements assurance for the report. assurance. We are considering Notes 1 and 13 external assurance of future reporting. 2.7 Markets served Fully About Aker Solutions 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. Fully About Aker Solutions. See also Annual Report 2012 Notes 34-35 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding Fully About Aker Solutions. See also size, structure, or ownership. Annual Report 2012 Notes 6-7 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period. Fully Our environmental impact Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 37 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART II: Disclosures on Management Approach (DMAs) Profile Level of Level of Disclosure Disclosure reporting Section in Report Disclosure reporting Section in Report 4.1 Governance structure of the organization Fully About Aker Solutions. See also www. Disclosure on Management Approach: Economic Fully About Aker Solutions, Community akersolutions.com/en/Global-menu/ impacts and human rights. See also Investors/Corporate-governance/ Annual Report 2012 Board of About-corporate-governance and Directors Report www.akersolutions.com/en/Globalmenu/Investors/CorporateDisclosure on Management Approach: Environment Partially Our environmental impact governance/Risk-management-andDisclosure on Management Approach: Labour Fully Our people, Health and safety internal-control/ Disclosure on Management Approach: Human Rights Fully Our people, Health and safety, 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body Fully See www.akersolutions.com/en/ Community impacts and human is also an executive officer. Global-menu/Investors/Corporaterights. See also Annual Report 2012 governance/About-corporateBoard of Directors Report, www. governance/ akersolutions.com/en/Global-menu/ 4.3 Number of members of the highest governance body that Fully See www.akersolutions.com/en/ CR/Code-of-conduct/ are independent and/or non-executive members. Global-menu/Investors/CorporateDisclosure on Management Approach: Society Fully About Aker Solutions, Community governance/About-corporateimpacts and human rights, Integrity governance/ and business ethics. See www. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide Fully See www.akersolutions.com/en/ akersolutions.com/en/Global-menu/ recommendations or direction to the highest governance Global-menu/Investors/CorporateCR/Code-of-conduct and www. body. governance/About-corporateakersolutions.com/en/Global-menu/ governance/ CR/Caring-about-integrity 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the Fully See Annual Report 2012 Note 11 Disclosure on Management Approach: Product Partially About Aker Solutions highest governance body, senior managers, and Responsibility executives and the organization’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to Fully See www.akersolutions.com/en/ ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Global-menu/Investors/Corporategovernance/About-corporategovernance/ 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of Fully See www.akersolutions.com/en/ the members of the highest governance body. Global-menu/Investors/Corporategovernance/Risk-management-andinternal-control. See also Annual Report 2012, section on Corporate Governance 4.8 Internally developed values statement, codes of conduct, Fully About Aker Solutions. See also www. and principles. akersolutions.com/en/Global-menu/ CR/ 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing Fully See Annual Report 2012 Board of the organization’s identification and management of Directors Report economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s Fully See Annual Report 2012 Board of own performance Directors Report 4.11 Application of precautionary approach Fully Our environmental impact 4.12 External initiatives to which the organization subscribes Fully About Aker Solutions 4.13 Memberships in associations Fully About Aker Solutions 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Fully About Aker Solutions 4.15 Basis for selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Fully About Aker Solutions 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement Fully About Aker Solutions 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder Fully About Aker Solutions engagement and the organizations response. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 38 STANDARD DISCLOSURES PART III: Performance Indicators Economic Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure reporting Location of Disclosure Indicator Disclosure reporting Section in Report Economic performance Biodiversity EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Fully About Aker Solutions EN11 Location in areas of high biodiversity value outside Not protected areas. EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities Not due to climate change. EN12 Impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Not in protected or high biodiversity value areas EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan Fully Our people obligations. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Not EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. Not EN14 Strategies, actions and future plans for managing impacts Not on biodiversity. Market presence EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national Not EC5 Wage ratios Not conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by EC6 Spending on locally-based suppliers Partially Community impacts and human operations, by level of extinction risk. rights Emissions, effluents and waste EC7 Procedures for local hiring of senior management Fully Community impacts and human EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Fully Our environmental impact rights weight. Indirect economic impacts EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by Not EC8 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit Not weight. EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts Not EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Partially Our environmental impact. See also reductions achieved. www.akersolutions.com/en/Globalmenu/CR/Caring-about-environment/ Environmental EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. Not Level of EN20 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and Not Indicator Disclosure reporting Section in Report weight. Materials EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. Not EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. Not EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Not EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input Fully Our environmental impact EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. Fully Our environmental impact materials. EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated Partially Our environmental impact Energy waste deemed hazardous EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. Fully Our environmental impact EN25 Water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by Not discharges of water and runoff. EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. Partially Our environmental impact Products and services EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Not improvements. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products Partially Our environmental impact. See also and services, and extent of impact mitigation. www.akersolutions.com/en/GlobalEN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy Partially Our environmental impact. See also menu/CR/Caring-about-environment/ based products and services, and energy reductions www.akersolutions.com/en/Globalachieved. menu/CR/Caring-about-environment/ EN27 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials Not that are reclaimed by category. EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and Partially Our environmental impact. See also reductions achieved. www.akersolutions.com/en/GlobalCompliance menu/CR/Caring-about-environment/ EN28 Significant fines and sanctions for non-compliance with Fully Our environmental impact Water environmental laws and regulations. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Not Transport EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Not EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting Not products, goods, materials and labour. EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Not Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and Not investments by type. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 39 Social: Labor Practices and Decent Work Social: Human Rights Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure reporting Section in Report Indicator Disclosure reporting Section in Report Employment Investment and procurement practices LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment Fully Our people HR1 Significant investment agreements that include human Partially Community impacts and human contract, and region. rights clauses or that have undergone human rights rights screening. LA2 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, Fully Our people gender, and region. HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that Partially Community impacts and human have undergone screening on human rights and actions rights LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not Fully Our people taken. provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and Fully Integrity and business ethics procedures concerning aspects of human rights, including Labor/management relations percentage of employees trained. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining Fully Our people Non-discrimination agreements. HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions Not LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational Partially Community impacts and human taken. changes rights Freedom of association and collective bargaining Occupational health and safety HR5 Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom Fully Community impacts and human LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Not of association and collective bargaining may be at rights management-worker health and safety committees significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Fully Our people Child labor absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region. HR6 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Fully Community impacts and human of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the rights LA8 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and riskFully Health and safety elimination of child labor. control programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious Forced and compulsory labor diseases. HR7 Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents Fully Community impacts and human LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements Not of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute rights with trade unions. to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Training and education Security practices LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by Partially Health and safety, Integrity and HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in the Not employee category. business ethics organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that Not support the continued employability of employees and Indigenous rights assist them in managing career endings. HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of Not LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance Fully Our people indigenous people and actions taken. and career development reviews. Diversity and equal opportunity LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Fully Our people. See also Annual Report employees per category according to gender, age group, 2012 Section on Corporate minority group membership, and other indicators of Governance diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee Not category. Corporate responsibility report 2012 Page 40 Social: Society Social: Product Responsibility Level of Level of Indicator Disclosure reporting Section in Report Indicator Disclosure reporting Section in Report Community Customer health and safety SO1 Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and Partially Community impacts and human PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Not practices that assess and manage the impacts of rights products and services are assessed for improvement operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and Corruption safety impacts of products and services SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed Partially Integrity and business ethics Product and service labelling for risks related to corruption. PR3 Product and service information required Not SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiFully Integrity and business ethics corruption policies and procedures. PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not regulations and voluntary codes concerning labeling SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. Not PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results Fully About Aker Solutions Public policy of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy Not Marketing communications development and lobbying. PR6 Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary Not SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political Fully About Aker Solutions codes related to marketing communications parties, politicians, and related institutions PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with Not Anti-competitive behavior regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, Not anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Customer privacy Compliance PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding Not breaches of customer privacy SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of Not non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and Compliance regulations. PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Not laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. Photos and illustrations: Aker Solutions Design: Bolt Communication Print: RK Grafisk © 2013 Aker Solutions All rights reserved www.akersolutions.com
