General Communication on Progress (COP) Submission Company The GPT Group Date Level 51, MLC Centre, Membership date 07/02/2012 Address 19 Martin Place, Sydney, NSW, 2000 Number of Country Australia employees Real Estate Contact name Michael Cameron Sector Investment & Services CEO and Managing Contact position Director Contact 02 8239 3565 telephone number Statement of Continued Support I am pleased to reconfirm The GPT Group‟s support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. In this our first annual Communication on Progress report, we describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles as part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company, and we continue our commitment to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals. Yours sincerely Michael Cameron CEO and Managing Director UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Assessment, policy and goals GPT are proud of their long-standing reputation for applying the highest ethical and moral standards in all its dealings. GPT abides by the respective Australian legislation in each state and territory jurisdictions. Additionally, GPT has a Code of Conduct and an Equal Employment Opportunity policy that supports and underpins our commitment to human rights. Implementation GPT has a Code of Conduct which states that in order to maintain and safeguard the trust and confidence of Security holders, regulators, clients, partners, fellow employees and the public, it is essential that GPT and its employees not be involved in any form of illegal or unethical conduct, or any other situation or activity which might be perceived by others to constitute illegal or inappropriate conduct. Employees must always avoid circumstances which may render them susceptible to allegations of illegal, unethical or inappropriate conduct. Please find GPT‟s Code of Conduct Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/8dc254cc-03c9-4904-b37776b79b818bab/Code-of-Conduct-Policy.aspx GPT has an Equal Employment Opportunity policy which promotes zero-tolerance towards all forms of discrimination, harassment and bullying. Discrimination, in all its forms, is contrary to our values and culture, and we aim to have a work environment that is free of discrimination and harassment. Sexual harassment of employees either by their co-workers or by their superiors/ supervisors at work is unlawful under the Commonwealth Sex Discrimination Act 1984 as well as by equal opportunity legislation in every State and Territory. Page 2 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT There is separate Federal, State and Territory legislation which outlaws incitement to racial hatred and violence, or vilification, as well as racial harassment. The legislation makes it unlawful for a person, by a public act, to incite hatred, serious contempt or severe ridicule of a person or group of persons on the ground of their race. An act'' may include forms of written and spoken communication with the public, actions and gestures observable by the public, distribution of vilificatory material to the public, the wearing or display of material in public, threatening physical harm towards people or their property or inciting other people to threaten physical harm towards people or property. The federal Disability Discrimination Act 1995 specifically prohibits harassment against a person with a disability and/or his associate. GPT Group employees are advised to carefully consider their actions and ensure that they are not behaving in ways that may be considered as harassment by disabled colleagues. Anti-discrimination legislation at both the Federal and State levels prohibits victimisation of a person who makes a complaint, or intends to make a complaint, of either discrimination or harassment. Victimisation occurs when a person subjects, or threatens to subject another person to detriment as a result of these actions or intentions. GPT Group employees are advised to carefully consider their actions and ensure that they are not behaving in ways that may be considered as victimisation by their colleagues. GPT Group employees are advised to carefully consider their actions and ensure that they are not behaving in ways that may constitute bullying. Please find GPT‟s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/8562dd19-b709-4e91-a68abdc7dd7a2996/EEO-Policy.aspx Measurable results and outcomes Compliance checks that all staff have received and signed the GPT Code of Conduct are in place and, any breach of this code or failure to act within the spirit of the GPT Code of Conduct is viewed seriously and subject to disciplinary action which may include termination of the employee‟s employment with GPT. GPT have grievance mechanisms in place to quickly, confidentially, impartially and effectively address any reported breach of the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. Our process for handling allegations about discrimination and harassment covers all employees and contractors working for GPT. GPT had no incidents of discrimination registered or identified throughout GPT in 2011 or 2012. GPT had no current or any historical incidents of Human Rights violations. Page 3 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessments, policies and goals The GPT Group is committed to creation and supporting a culture and work environment in which people have opportunities to do their best work. GPT has a Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) which outlines fundamental expectation of its suppliers regarding their activities in the production and delivery of good and services supplied directly to GPT. Suppliers must  Comply with all relevant local and national laws and regulations with regard to employment practices, benefits, health and safety and anti-discrimination  Commit to provide a workplace free of any form of harassment  Commit to not use any form of forced, bonded, indentured or prison labour  All work must be voluntary and workers shall be free to leave work or terminate their employment with reasonable notice Suppliers must strive to support the principles in the UN Global Compact. Implementation The Supplier Code of Conduct supports GPT‟s values, purpose and strategy, as well as internationally recognised standards and appropriate codes of practice. By accepting and abiding by this SCOC, suppliers affirm that they are committed to working with GPT and are aligned to its values, purpose and strategy. It is the supplier‟s responsibility to achieve and maintain the minimum standards outlined in this SCOC, and train employees and contracted parties on their consequential rights and responsibilities. The SCOC covers People, Environment, Community, Corporate Governance and Supply Chain. Please find GPT‟s Supplier Code of Conduct Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/ca22e2cc-f07e-474f-968f91b3e73ae04b/Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.aspx Page 4 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Measurable results and outcomes GPT will continue to evaluate suppliers on capability and commercial acumen, while taking into consideration compliance to the Supplier Code of Conduct where relevant. Employees are encouraged to talk to managers about observed behaviours that they believe may be illegal or a breach of the Code of Conduct or GPT Group policies. It is the policy of the company not to allow retaliation for reports made in good faith by employees of misconduct by others. Employees are expected to cooperate in internal investigations of misconduct. Any breach of this code or failure to act within the spirit of this code will be viewed seriously and will be subject to disciplinary action which may include termination of your employment with GPT. Discrimination, Harassment in all its forms, and Bullying are all behaviours that are contrary to the GPT Group‟s values and culture. Employees who feel they have been, or are being, subject to these kinds of behaviours are advised to advise their manager in the first instance and/or the Head of HR as soon as possible (see also the Grievance Resolution Policy). Proven examples of these behaviours may be subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination of employment. GPT Employees are responsible for understanding the legislative requirements that apply to their roles and reporting any suspected breach of law, code of conduct or company policy. Breach of the code of conduct may also be a breach of the law and may result in civil or criminal penalties for employees, their manager, directors and/or the company. GPT had no incidents of discrimination registered or identified throughout GPT in 2011 or 2012. GPT had no current or any historical incidents of Human Rights violations. GPT has not had to cancel any contractors or agreements on the basis of human rights abuses in 2011 or 2012. Page 5 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Assessment, policies and goals In all aspects of our business operations The GPT Group encourages and supports Freedom of Association. The GPT Group abides by the respective Australian legislation in each state and territory jurisdictions. And has a formal Freedom of Association Policy. Implementation GPT employees have individual contracts; hence there are no collective bargaining agreements. Despite this, our employees are able to join and be represented by a union without suffering any form of discrimination or prejudice. We comply with all relevant freedom of association legislation and regulatory requirements. Please find GPT‟s Freedom of Association Policy within the following link: http://staging.gpt.com.au/content.aspx?urlkey=Diversity Measurable results and outcomes GPT had no current or any historical incidents of Freedom of Association violations. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Assessment, policy and goals The GPT Group is committed to the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Contained with our Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) are our fundamental expectations regarding the activities of suppliers in the production and delivery of goods and services supplied directly to GPT. GPT abides by the respective Australian legislation in each state and territory jurisdictions. Additionally, GPT has a Code of Conduct and an Equal Employment Opportunity policy that supports and underpins our employment policies Please find GPT‟s Supplier Code of Conduct Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/ca22e2cc-f07e-474f-968f91b3e73ae04b/Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.aspx Page 6 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Measurable results and outcomes GPT employees may voluntarily terminate their employment at any stage. GPT does not compel the provision of any labour or the performance of any service under threat of a penalty, including during a state of emergency. GPT has not had to cancel any contractors or agreements on the basis of fair labour violations in 2011 or 2012. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Assessment, policy and goals GPT is committed to the effective abolition of child labour. GPT abides by the respective Australian legislation in each state and territory jurisdictions. Additionally, GPT has a Supplier Code of Conduct (SCOC) that unpins this principle that defines our expectations regarding the activities of suppliers in the production and delivery of goods and services supplied directly to GPT. Please find GPT‟s Supplier Code of Conduct Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/ca22e2cc-f07e-474f-968f91b3e73ae04b/Supplier-Code-of-Conduct.aspx Implementation GPT abides by the respective legislation in each state and territory jurisdictions which have introduced child labour laws in recent years. Such legislation currently exists in New South Wales, Victoria, Queensland, Western Australia, and the Australian Capital Territory, with the South Australian government still considering the introduction of similar legislation. Further to this, The Supplier Code of Conduct supports the principles in the UN Global Compact. By accepting and abiding by this SCOC, suppliers affirm that they are committed to working with GPT and are aligned to its values, purpose and strategy. Measurable results and outcomes GPT had no incidents or registered violations of child labour laws in 2011 or 2012 GPT has not had to cancel any contractors or agreements on the basis of child labour violations in 2011 or 2012. Page 7 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policies and goals GPT is an equal opportunity employer, and is compliant with the Workplace Gender Equality Act 2012. Further to this, GPT abides by the respective Australian legislation in each state and territory jurisdictions and has an Equal Employment Opportunity policy which promotes zero-tolerance towards all forms of discrimination, harassment and bullying. Please find GPT‟s Equal Employment Opportunity Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/8562dd19-b709-4e91-a68abdc7dd7a2996/EEO-Policy.aspx GPT has a Workplace Health and Safety policy which identifies that the workplace health and safety of all persons employed within GPT and those visiting GPT owned and managed sites and/or facilities including retail customers and tenants is considered to be of the utmost importance. GPT‟s corporate vision is to create and sustain environments that enrich people‟s lives. Aligned with this is GPT‟s safety vision which is dedicated achieving the following:  Zero harm and zero incidents  Meeting or exceeding WH&S legal requirements  Providing robust WH&S Management Systems  Actively promoting a culture of individual ownership and accountability  Proactively engaging the support and participation from GPT‟s Leadership Team, Business Unit representatives, Service Partners, Contractors and Tenants  Continuously driving improvement in WH&S performance Please find GPT‟s Workplace Health and Safety Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/1dc856bd-9264-4f5d-923e85a19ec38ebe/OHS-Policy.aspx GPT has a Grievance Resolution Policy which sets out GPT‟s commitment to providing a safe, harmonious and productive work environment where grievances are dealt with sensitively and promptly.. Page 8 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Please find GPT‟s Grievance Resolution Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/1dc856bd-9264-4f5d-923e85a19ec38ebe/OHS-Policy.aspx Implementation GPT takes reasonable steps to prevent discrimination from occurring in our workplace starting with every new employee having read, understood and signed this policy prior to commencement. The policy continues to be communicated throughout the employment process, being outlined and made easily accessible on the intranet and clearly articulated during the induction period. GPT employees have individual contracts; hence there are no collective bargaining agreements. Despite this, our employees are able to join and be represented by a union without suffering any form of discrimination or prejudice. We comply with all relevant freedom of association legislation and regulatory requirements. Beyond our employees, GPT aims to support gender equality through building longterm, collaborative partnerships with organisations that share our values and that are willing and capable of helping us achieve our aspirations. We expect our suppliers to share our commitment to diversity and to be able to demonstrate how they fulfill this commitment, consistent with our policies. In order to implement the general provisions of this WH&S Policy, a program of activities and procedures has been set up and will be continually updated (“WH&S Program”). The WH&S Program will relate to all aspects of workplace health and safety including:  WH&S training and education  Work design, workplace design and standard work methods  Changes to work methods and practice, including those associated with technological change  Emergency procedures and drills  Provision of WH&S equipment, services and facilities  Workplace inspections and evaluations  Reporting and recording of incidents, accidents, injuries and illnesses  Provision of information to employees, contractors and subcontractors. Measurable Outcomes As an equal opportunity employer, GPT is proud to have an employee population which is 55% female. GPT's objective is to increase female representation in senior leadership roles to 40% by 2015. As at 31 December 2011 representation stands at 32.7% and GPT is pleased to report that this level is a slight increase from 31.3% at the end of 2010. Page 9 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Discrimination, Harassment in all its forms, and Bullying are all behaviours that are contrary to the GPT Group‟s values and culture. Employees who feel they have been, or are being, subject to these kinds of behaviours should advise their manager in the first instance and/or the Head of HR as soon as possible (see also the Grievance Resolution Policy). Proven examples of these behaviours may be subject to disciplinary action, which may include termination of employment. There were no reported incidents of discrimination registered or identified throughout The GPT Group in 2012. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) have been identified and targets set to monitor and improve overall WH&S performance. KPIs reporting are reviewed at regular routine intervals to evaluate WH&S performance and the effectiveness of the overall Safety Management System. This WH&S Policy will be regularly reviewed in light of legislation and organisational changes, or as a minimum, every two years. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Assessment, policies and goal GPT integrates environmental sustainability into the management of our portfolio operations and development projects. Working with site teams and other key stakeholders, performance is reviewed and targets set to improve GPT‟s environmental sustainability performance. GPT has adopted a comprehensive framework to address environmental challenges and supports a precautionary approach through the adoption of appropriate environmental risk assessment, management and reporting policies and systems as referred to in GPT‟s Sustainability Policy: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/e89fb1c5-bc16-4fff-8bd06965ae370027/Sustainability-Charter.aspx Implementation GPT‟s Sustainability Policy is enacted through the Sustainability Management System, which aims to prevent and/or minimise negative environmental impacts by ensuring that:  The Sustainability Policy and its implications shall be factored into GPT‟s risk and opportunity assessments processes;  An endorsed policy statement shall exist for each aspect of GPT‟s sustainability performance identified as a priority through the risk and opportunity assessment process. Page 10 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT The GPT Group is committed to carbon neutrality in areas within our control, with use of offsets as the method of last resort. This includes aiming to:  Have all employees perform their roles carbon neutrally;  Have all GPT-managed base buildings operating carbon neutrally;  Have the total embodied carbon of new GPT developments at leading practice levels; and,  Identify and respond to climate change-related risks and opportunities in managing our asset portfolio on an ongoing basis. The GPT Group is committed to supporting and encouraging our stakeholders to reduce GHG emissions and energy use in areas within our influence. This includes aiming to:  Work with tenants of GPT-owned and managed buildings to encourage and support whole-of-site carbon neutrality for building-related services, that is onsite activities that GPT is able to influence, such as onsite electricity consumption;  Work with tenants to encourage and support adoption of Australian leading practice environmental management standards for tenancy fit-outs;  Quantify the carbon from travel undertaken by occupants and visitors to and from GPT assets to determine the level of impact; and,  Support and encourage low-carbon travel to and from GPT assets through the provision of appropriate facilities and services. Please find GPT‟s Climate Change and Energy Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/a90ce7a8-e8bb-4658-acf39b4b0c148f0a/Climate-Change-Energy-Policy.aspx Measurable results and outcomes Biodiversity A number of initiatives are underway to help make a positive contribution to biodiversity at GPT‟s sites. These include: 1. Development of a biodiversity measurement tool 2. Supplier requirements addressing biodiversity 3. Enhancing biodiversity awareness amongst GPT employees Page 11 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Biodiversity Measurement Tool Unlike carbon and water, there is no globally accepted standard for measuring the value of biodiversity. To overcome this challenge, we are developing a practical biodiversity measure that will enable us to establish a baseline of biodiversity and track the performance of our sites. A draft biodiversity performance measurement tool was developed in 2012. Pilot testing has been conducted with site teams and contractors to refine the tool for implementation. This testing was to ensure that relevant information can be collected easily, with minimal training and with repeatable results. Testing will also prove if the tool provides appropriate guidance for improvement in biodiversity value. The draft tool includes the following elements: ELEMENT COVERAGE Management:  Landscaping/Vegetation Plan  Chemical use  Pest management  Water run off Connectivity:  Recognise greater value in connected spaces Invasive  Eliminate sources of invasive weeds Weeds: Habitat:  Encourage habitat suited to local fauna Stormwater:  Identify systems in place to protect downstream environments Protection:  Sensitive areas of flora/fauna diversity are protected Influence:  Information about site biodiversity and impacts is communicated with; tenants, visitors, suppliers and employees Page 12 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT We believe this tool may be of value to other organisations in improving biodiversity and hence we will make the tool publicly available after it has been refined and tested it at GPT‟s sites. Our process has been shared with the Green Building Council of Australia and it is expected that it will form a basis for the biodiversity component of the Green Star Performance Tool. In 2013 GPT will continue to test and refine the tool, developing benchmark measurements for GPT properties. Please find further information relating to GPT‟s Biodiversity program within this link: http://www.gpt.com.au/Sustainability/Our-Environment/Biodiversity Climate Change and Energy GPT is committed to carbon neutrality in areas within our control. We are also committed to supporting and encouraging our stakeholders to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and energy use in areas within our influence.  31% reduction in energy intensity since 2005  40% reduction in emissions intensity since 2005  $15.8 million of electricity and $275,943 of gas related avoided costs* in 2012  108,348 tCO2e greenhouse gas emissions avoided in 2012* *compared to 2005 baseline In 2012, GPT recorded 163,252 tonnes of CO2e emissions, which is 32% lower than 2005 levels despite 14% growth in the size of our portfolio. We recognise greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions globally are at unsustainable levels and as a society we need to respond urgently to the issue of climate change. The response will require both mitigation efforts to minimise the direct and indirect consequences of climate change, and adaptation to address climate change impacts that cannot be avoided. Please find further information relating to GPT‟s Climate and Energy Change program within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/Sustainability/Our-Environment/Climate-Change-Energy Page 13 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT NABERS Rating GPT exceeded the NABERS Energy Rating of 4.5 stars across the Office portfolio in 2011. NABERS is a performance-based rating system for existing buildings, rating buildings on the basis of the measured operational impacts on the environment. GPT uses the NABERS rating tool across its office and industrial/business park assets for energy/greenhouse and water. GPT is a member of the technical working group working with the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage to improve the NABERS Retail Tool. Waste and resource management GPT is committed to a 'closed loop' approach to resource use and minimising waste to landfill in all areas within the control of our Group, and to supporting and encouraging improvements in areas within our influence.  Recycling rates improved from 29% to 44% since 2005  $1.6 million of avoided landfill costs* in 2012  6,933 tonnes of waste to landfill avoided* in 2012 *compared to 2005 baseline We recognise that globally resources are being consumed and waste is being generated at unsustainable rates, and we understand that businesses face growing pressure to accept the responsibility and bear the costs of their contribution to these impacts. As a property manager, our largest impacts relate to the way we manage and dispose of the waste generated by the occupants and users of our assets. Developing our assets is also resource intensive by nature and has the potential to generate significant waste. We believe that managing waste and resources responsibly will enable us to:  minimise the impacts of rising costs on our tenants and investors;  anticipate and prepare for emerging regulations and increasing community expectations; and  play our part in working towards a world that uses resources at rates that can be replenished and disposes of waste at rates that can be re-absorbed without harm. Page 14 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Please find further information relating to GPT‟s Waste and Resource Management program within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/Sustainability/Our-Environment/Waste-ResourceManagement Water GPT is committed to employing leading practice approaches to the sustainable use and management of water resources.  42% reduction in water intensity since 2005  $4.4 million of avoided costs* in 2012  1.3 million kilolitres of water saved* in 2012 *compared to 2005 baseline At GPT, we aim to use, source, re-use and discharge water efficiently. We recognise water is a constrained but essential resource to the sustainability of our business and more broadly to our society and the environment, especially within Australia. GPT‟s commitments and intended approach to managing water are guided by the Integrated Water Cycle Management (IWCM) framework An IWCM framework is an approach to water management that acknowledges the interdependencies between potable water, waste water and stormwater. The IWCM framework seeks to optimise water use on each site, whilst being mindful of the site specific constraints and opportunities and the needs of the local environment Please find further information relating to GPT‟s Water program within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/Sustainability/Our-Environment/Water Please find GPT‟s Environmental Policies within the following link: Biodiversity Policy Climate Change and Energy Policy Water and Resource Management Policy Water Management Policy http://www.gpt.com.au/Investor-Relations/Corporate-Governance/GPT-Policies Page 15 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Please find GPT‟s compliance documents relating to the Energy Efficiency Opportunities Act within this link: http://www.gpt.com.au/Sustainability/Our-Environment/EEO-Reporting Please find GPT‟s Nabers ratings within this link: http://www.gpt.com.au/Sustainability/Our-Environment/NABERS-Ratings Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policies and goals The GPT Group supports the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies where appropriate through our sustainability policies and actions in the following areas: resource use and waste minimisation; water management; climate change and energy; and community engagement and development. Implementation GPT will enact its Climate Change and Energy and Community Engagement and Development Policies through implementing respective procedures consistent with GPT‟s Sustainability Management Standard. Ultimate responsibility for implementation and review sits with the GPT Group‟s Leadership Team. This role is primarily performed through delegation to the Sustainability Project Control Group, with oversight from the GPT Board Sustainability Committee. Key Performance Indicators (KPI‟s) relating to each commitment identified in this policy will be reported to meetings of the GPT Group Board Sustainability Committee and Sustainability Project Control Group. These KPI‟s will be reviewed periodically to ensure their continued relevance as measures of carbon performance mature and evolve. The Policy will be regularly reviewed in light of legislation and organisational changes and developments in sustainability best practice, or at a minimum, every two years. GPT will enact its Sustainability Policy through the Sustainability Management System. The System ensures that:  The Sustainability Policy and its implications shall be factored into GPT‟s risk and opportunity assessments processes;  An endorsed policy statement shall exist for each aspect of GPT‟s sustainability performance identified as a priority through the risk and opportunity assessment process.  The policy statement for each aspect shall define the aspect, the operations included in GPT‟s scope of control, GPT‟s objectives, performance measures and other commitments to managing it effectively and in line with this Sustainability Policy; Page 16 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT  A Sustainability Management Standard guided by relevant international standards shall exist to ensure sustainability is managed systematically and consistently across the business;  Key roles and responsibilities relating to sustainability management shall be explicit in annual performance agreements of relevant GPT personnel. The management of sustainability performance by relevant GPT personnel should be linked to annual remuneration and bonus systems;  Key roles and responsibilities relating to sustainability management shall be explicit in contractual agreements with relevant business partners, including suppliers; and  Clearly documented, locally developed, standard operating procedures shall exist for all activities identified as high risk/material. Please refer to the following policies:  GPT‟s Sustainability Policy: Please find GPT‟s Sustainability Policy: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/e89fb1c5-bc16-4fff-8bd06965ae370027/Sustainability-Charter.aspx  GPT‟s Waste and Resources Management Policy: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/f411d3aa-12e4-4789-9cfc013193cb7542/Waste-Resources-Management-Policy.aspx  GPT‟s Water Policy: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/4fab5d55-3cab4ffc-b253-53bc9378c5d1/Water.aspx  GPT‟s Climate Change and Energy Policy: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/a90ce7a8-e8bb-4658-acf39b4b0c148f0a/Climate-Change-Energy-Policy.aspx  GPT‟s Community Engagement & Development Policy: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/9cd90ff6-4638-4a4a-b3ef76d5284299af/Community-Engagement-Development-Policy.aspx Measurable outcomes Key Performance Indicators (KPI‟s) for all of the above policies shall be identified and targets set to monitor and improve GPT‟s sustainability performance. Progress against KPI‟s will be reported to meetings of the Board Sustainability Committee and will be reviewed periodically to ensure their continued relevance as measures of the extent to which GPT‟s sustainability policy is being implemented. The Sustainability, Climate Change and Energy and Community Engagement and Development Policies will be reviewed in light of legislation, organisational changes and developments in sustainability best practice, or at a minimum, every two years. Page 17 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals GPT are proud of their long-standing reputation for applying the highest ethical and moral standards in all its dealings. GPT has a Code of Conduct which states that in order to maintain and safeguard the trust and confidence of Security holders, regulators, clients, partners, fellow employees and the public, it is essential that GPT and its employees not be involved in any form of illegal or unethical conduct, or any other situation or activity which might be perceived by others to constitute illegal or inappropriate conduct. Employees must always avoid circumstances which may render them susceptible to allegations of illegal, unethical or inappropriate conduct. Any breach of this code or failure to act within the spirit of this code will be viewed seriously and will be subject to disciplinary action which may include termination of the employee‟s employment with GPT. The Code of Conduct identifies that:  Employees must not encourage service providers to offer personal benefits of any kind, including every type of gift, favour, service or anything of monetary value.  Employees or their Immediate Family must not solicit, accept or retain personal benefits from any service provider or any individual or organisation doing or seeking to do business with GPT. Please find GPT‟s Code of Conduct within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/GPTCorp/contentimages/pdf/cg_principles/Code-of-ConductPolicy.pdf Page 18 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT GPT also has a Supplier Policy which states that GPT is committed to working in partnership with their suppliers to realise the full value of their relationships and to positively contribute to their communities, people and the environment. This includes aiming to:  Proactively engage with our suppliers with a focus on building trusting, cooperative and long-term relationships;  Apply good governance to provide oversight and means through which the objectives of the process are monitored, audited and integrity is maintained;  Define and apply appropriate sourcing methods in our procurement of goods and services, ensuring all capable suppliers have an equal access to opportunities to work with us;  Deal with suppliers in good faith, ethically and responsibly, and make payments in accordance with agreed terms;  When all other vetting requirements remain equal, give preference to suppliers that demonstrate a commitment to sustainably manage their business performance, with values complementary to our own;  Set clear expectations for our suppliers regarding their sustainability performance and embed its minimum requirements within supplier contracts;  Employ appropriate methods for assessing the performance of our key strategic suppliers and those engaged in higher risk activities and monitoring their progress over time;  Encourage our key suppliers to make available high value, environmentally and socially responsible products and services as well as to improve the sustainability performance of their businesses; and  Actively engage with key suppliers and provide data and other relevant information to enable innovation and the development of products that meet our aspirations. Please find GPT‟s Supplier Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/GPTCorp/contentimages/pdf/cg_principles/Supplier-Policy.pdf GPT‟s Whistle-blower policy‟s objective is to encourage the reporting of:  matters that may cause financial or non-financial loss to GPT or damage GPT‟s reputation;  dishonest or unethical conduct; or  any other conduct that is contrary to GPT‟s Code of Conduct  enable management to effectively deal with reports from whistle-blowers in a way that will protect the identity of the whistle-blower and provide for the secure storage of provided information;  establish policies for the protection of whistle-blowers against reprisal by any person, either internal or external to GPT; and,  provide for an appropriate infrastructure which includes the appointment of dedicated „Whistle-blower Officer/s‟ as an alternative means of reporting. Page 19 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT Please find GPT‟s Whistle-blower Policy within the following link: http://www.gpt.com.au/getattachment/c35382c4-59cb-4f71-aab8e2820288bf78/Whistleblower-Policy.aspx Implementation Employees are encouraged to talk to managers about observed behaviours that they believe may be illegal or a breach of the Code of Conduct or GPT Group policies. It is the policy of the company not to allow retaliation for reports made in good faith by employees of misconduct by others. Employees are expected to cooperate in internal investigations of misconduct. Any breach of this code or failure to act within the spirit of this code will be viewed seriously and will be subject to disciplinary action which may include termination of your employment with GPT. GPT enacts its Supplier Policy through implementing a Supplier Management Framework consistent with GPT‟s Sustainability Management Standard. Ultimate responsibility for implementation and review sits with the GPT Group‟s Leadership Team. This role is primarily performed through delegation to the Sustainability Project Control Group, with oversight from GPT Board‟s Sustainability Committee. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) relating to each commitment within this Policy will be developed and reported to meetings of the GPT Group Board‟s Sustainability Committee and Sustainability Project Control Group. These KPIs will be reviewed periodically to ensure their continued relevance, as measures of suppliers‟ sustainability performance mature and evolve. The Policy will be regularly reviewed in light of legislation and organisational changes and developments in sustainability best practice, or at a minimum, every two years. GPT‟s Whistleblower policy sets out GPT‟s commitment to a culture of corporate compliance and ethical behaviour by the reporting of wrongdoing through the appropriate channels. GPT appoints Whistleblower Officers. The role of the Whistleblower Officer is to safeguard the interests of the whistleblower in terms of this Policy, other GPT policies (e.g. Code of Conduct) and other applicable legislation. Page 20 of 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION OF PROGRESS REPORT GPT promotes a culture that encourages the reporting of improper conduct, granting administrative immunity for whistle-blowers. This provides that a whistle-blower who has acted in good faith and who has not themselves engaged in serious misconduct or illegal conduct, will not be personally disadvantaged by having made the report either by: (a) dismissal; (b) demotion; (c) any form of harassment; (d) discrimination; or (e) current or future bias. All reports of Improper Conduct are subject of a thorough investigation with the objective of locating evidence that either substantiates or refutes the claims made by the whistle-blower. Such investigations are conducted by the Whistle-blower Officer and are required to follow best practice investigation and to be fair and independent of the business unit concerned, the whistle-blower or any other person being the subject of the report. In the interest of both the perception and reality of objectivity, consideration is given to employing outside investigators at arm‟s length from GPT, particularly where the allegation is serious. The GPT Whistle-blower Policy will be reviewed on an annual basis to ensure that it remains current and effective. Measurement of outcomes Any breach of GPT‟s code of conduct, or failure to act within the spirit of this code, will be viewed seriously and will be subject to disciplinary action which may include GPT employee termination. There were no known incidents of corruption or bribery registered or identified throughout GPT in 2011 or 2012. Page 21 of 21
