Scope and boundary This summary report focuses on our strategic priorities, and should be read in conjunction with our 2013 Annual Report and Accounts, and our comprehensive Online Sustainable Development Report. Our reports have been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G3.1 guidelines and GRI’s Mining and Metals Sector Supplement. Our online report has been assessed against GRI 3.1’s requirements for an A+ level of reporting – see http://sd-report.lonmin.com/2013/gri for our GRI content index. It is our intention to make a transition to GRI’s G4 guidelines by 2015, in line with ICMM guidance, and consideration has already been given to these revised guidelines in this report. Our reports have also taken into consideration the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles and reporting requirements. We seek to present a comprehensive and balanced view of our issues, approach and actions. Assurance and review KPMG has provided assurance on selected sustainability information in the online report and this report, in line with the ICMM sustainable development framework: Assurance procedure. KPMG has provided assurance for the online report on the ICMM Subject Matters 1 – 5, including our declaration of an A+ level of reporting in accordance with GRI 3.1. The assured data and KPMG assurance opinion is available at http://sd-report.lonmin.com/2013/assurance. We have again asked a number of independent reviewers for their guidance prior to the finalisation and publication of these reports. Their comments and our response to their recommendation may be found on page 46 of this report. We are grateful for their input and guidance. This report covers our 2013 reporting period from 1 October 2012 to 30 September 2013. All monetary amounts reflected in the report are expressed in South African Rands (R) and US Dollars (US$), with a conversion rate calculated at R9.24/US$. A total production of 1,336,109 platinum group metal (PGMs) ounces (oz) is used to calculate intensity or efficiency in the report. Cover photo To commemorate the first anniversary of the Marikana tragedy, a On a path of service was held on 16 August 2013. A group of representatives from Lonmin, together with community leaders and other fundamental change stakeholders, released doves as a symbol of our commitment to peace and stability. For more information on sustainable development at Lonmin, Sustainable Development Summary Report please contact: For the year ending 30 September 2013 Dr Mel Mentz Executive Manager Sustainability +27 (0)14 571 4561 +27 (0)83 653 1080 mel.mentz@lonmin.com This report should be read in conjunction with our full online Lonmin Charter In memory of Madiba: It is with great sadness that our Former President, the Father of Sustainable Development Report and our Annual Report We are Lonmin, a primary producer of Platinum Group Metals. the Nation, Nelson Mandela, has passed away. and Accounts. We create value by the discovery, acquisition, development and marketing of minerals and metals. Madiba was our leader, our light in a time of darkness, the father of our nation and gave us hope. Hamba Kahle Tata. We respect the communities and nations that host our operations and conduct business in a sustainable, socially and environmentally responsible way. Our Mission To grow and build our portfolio of high quality assets. To deliver the requirements of the South African broad-based socio-economic Mining Charter and we welcome the opportunity to transform our business. To build a value-based culture, which is founded on safe work, continuous improvement, common standards and procedures, Annual Report and Accounts 2013 community involvement and one that rewards employees for high performance. We are successful when Our employees live and work safely and experience the personal satisfaction that comes with high performance and recognition. Our shareholders are realising a superior total return on their investment and support our corporate sustainability values. The communities in which we operate value our relationships. We are meeting our commitments to all business partners and our suppliers, contractors, partners and customers support our Charter. Online Sustainable Development Report 2013 See: http://sd-report.lonmin.com Our Values Zero Harm We are committed to zero harm to people and the environment. We have also developed a report on our activities for Integrity, Honesty & Trust members of local communities. We are committed ethical people who do what we say we will do. Transparency Open, honest communication and free sharing of information. Respect For Each Other Embracing our diversity enriched by openness, sharing, trust, teamwork and involvement. High Performance Stretching our individual and team capabilities to achieve innovative and superior outcomes. Employee Self-Worth To enhance the quality of life for our employees and their families and promote self esteem. Contents 02-05 Our year at a glance: performance against targets 06-07 08-09 About Lonmin 04 Letter from our CEO: building a path of fundamental change 10-14 15 Stakeholder Driving change: our engagement: finding objectives, the Lonmin common ground Renewal Plan and the 2013 Board Initiatives Board Initiative 1: focus on employee relations to achieve peace and stability 16-17 Board Initiative 2: empowering our employees and communities 18-19 Board Initiative 3: migrant and local labour 20-21 Board Initiative 4: use of invested capital and infrastructure 22-23 Board Initiative 5: housing and accommodation 24-25 Ensuring safety and security at work 26-27 Health and wellbeing 28-29 Employee development and talent management 30-31 Working with communities 32-35 Creating and distributing value 36-39 Respect for our environment 40-45 Feedback from panel review 46-47 Key performance statistics 48 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 01 Our year at a glance: performance against targets context While many of our departments set their own internal performance targets to monitor their progress and drive improvements, certain key performance indicators are identified as Company targets, on either a short-, mediumor long-term (five-year) basis. Our performance against these targets in 2013 is presented here. Not all of our five-year targets are set from the same baseline year. Some of these matured in 2012 and have been reset for 2017. The housing, transformation and procurement targets we include here are informed by our commitments in terms of the South African Mining Charter. Short-term targets: 2012 to 2013 Safety Performance Target 3 fatalities Despite the comprehensive measures we have in place, we were unable to achieve zero fatalities. Safe production remains our Zero fatalities at our operations. highest operational priority and, as our risk management and safety measures continue to improve, we believe we can achieve zero harm. 2014 target Zero fatalities. Target Performance LTIFR to improve at least by 5% by 30 September 2013 from a 2012 16% improvement 2014 target baseline year. LTIFR to improve by at least 5% from a 2013 baseline year. Health and wellbeing Target Increase our peer educator to Performance employee ratio to one active 1:70 workplace peer educator for 2014 target every 75 employees through to Maintain our employee to peer educator ratio at one active 30 September 2013. workplace peer educator for every 75 employees, through to 30 September 2014. Key Met this year Not met this year Still in progress 02 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Health and wellbeing continued Performance Target 5% increase 407 patients in the wellness programme transferred into the ART Increase participation of patients in programme during the year. Altogether ART increased by 768 patients, which reduced the total number of patients in the our wellness programme by 10% wellness programme. In total, 496 employees were enrolled in the by 30 September 2013 from a 2012 wellness programme. baseline year. 2014 target Increase participation of patients in our wellness programme by 10%, to 760 people, by 30 September 2014 from a 2013 baseline year. Performance Target 14% increase Reduce number of new NIHL cases Reasons for this increase included the identification of several new cases of older employees who had experienced prolonged by 10% by 30 September 2013 from exposure to noise, as well as cases where hearing loss had possibly a 2012 baseline year. occurred as a side effect of HIV and TB infection and treatment. 2014 target Reduce number of new NIHL cases by a further 10% from a 2012 baseline year. Target Performance Reduce rate of ART defaulters to below 5% by 2% 30 September 2013 from a 2012 2014 target baseline year. Maintain the rate of ART defaulters at below 5% through to 30 September 2014 from a 2013 baseline year. Target1 Performance Achieve TB cure and treatment 82% An increased incidence of multi-drug resistant TB had a negative completion rates of 85% by impact on TB cure rates. 30 September 2013. 2014 target Achieve TB cure and treatment completion rates of 85% by 30 September 2014. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 03 Our year at a glance: performance against targets continued Medium-term targets: 2014 Housing Procurement Target Target Convert all hostels into single or Increase percentage of discretionary family units by the end of 2014. procurement spend with Black Economic Empowerment (BEE) entities to Mining Charter targets of 40% of capital goods, 70% of Progress to date services and 50% of consumable goods by 30 September 2014. 23 hostel blocks converted in 2013 21 conversions remaining. Progress to date Transformation 64% BEE expenditure – capital goods Target 55% BEE expenditure – services 58% BEE expenditure – consumable goods Increase percentage of women at the mine to 10% by 30 September 2014. Sulphur dioxide (SO2) emissions Progress to date Target 8.0% women at the mine Target Reduce ground-level fugitive SO2 concentrations by 40% by Increase participation of 30 September 2014 from a 2010 Historically Disadvantaged South baseline year. Africans (HDSAs), including white women, within each level of management to 40% by Progress to date 30 September 2014. 40% reduction in average ground level SO2 concentrations for performance indicator monitoring sites since 2010. Progress to date 47.2% averaged across all management levels 04 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Long-term targets: 2017 Energy efficiency and greenhouse Fresh water intake efficiency gas (GHG)2 emissions Target Target Reduce our aggregate energy Reduce our aggregate fresh water consumption per unit of production intake per unit of production by by 8% by 30 September 2017, and 15%3 by 30 September 2017 from reduce our GHG emissions by 4% a 2012 baseline year. from a 2012 baseline year. Progress to date Progress to date 3.4% improvement 5.7% decrease in energy efficiency 4.7% increase in GHG emissions } Waste disposal Target Reduce general waste to landfill Progress to date by 5%4 by 30 September 2017 from a 2012 baseline year. 6.8% reduction } Target Reduce hazardous waste to landfill Progress to date by 5%5 30 September 2017 from a 2012 baseline year. 8.3% reduction 1 In our 2012 Sustainable Development Report, this target was incorrectly Waste to landfill is waste generated that cannot be recycled. This target is reported as 25%, which was our achievement against the 2012 target. now in line with previous waste targets we set for 2008 – 2012. 2 Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions. 5 Like general waste, we stated two targets for hazardous waste in 2012: 3 The baseline year for this target was incorrectly reported as 2010 in the one for reducing waste generated and one for increasing waste recycled, 2012 Sustainable Development Report. re-used, recovered and treated. During the course of 2013, we re-evaluat4  We stated two targets for general waste in 2012: one for reducing waste ed these targets and have now combined them, creating a single target of generated and one for increasing waste recycled, re-used, recovered and reducing waste to landfill. Waste to landfill is waste generated that cannot treated. During the course of 2013, we re-evaluated these targets and be recycled. This target is now in line with previous waste targets we set for have now combined them, creating a single target of reducing waste 2008 – 2012. to landfill. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 05 About Lonmin  are the world’s third largest primary platinum producer, sustaining, directly and indirectly, the We livelihoods of over 150,000 people through the employment of 38,421 people. We are a fully integrated mine-to-market producer with the resources of 175.2 million troy ounces (Moz) of PGMs and capacity to mine, concentrate, smelt and refine platinum 41.3 Moz of reserves. Our mining licence for core operations is group metals (PGMs). valid to 2037 and is renewable to 2067. Our mining operations comprise 11 shafts and are located We have a primary listing on the London Stock Exchange and at Marikana on the Western Limb of South Africa’s Bushveld a secondary listing on the Johannesburg Stock Exchange. Complex. The K4 shaft was placed on care-and-maintenance Our largest shareholders are Glencore Xstrata Plc (24.50%), in September 2012. We own an additional PGMs mine in Investec Asset Management Pty Limited (6.06%), Prudential Limpopo Province. plc Group Company (7.55%) and Old Mutual Investment Group (South Africa) (8.34%). At the end of the financial year, Our Process Division comprises eight concentrators, a Smelter our total market capitalisation was GBP 1,818 million. and a Base Metals Refinery (BMR) situated in Marikana and a Precious Metals Refinery (PMR) situated in Brakpan, Gauteng. At year-end we employed 28,379 full-time employees and Our operational head office is located in Johannesburg, South 10,042 full-time contractors. Africa and we also have an office in London, United Kingdom. The communities that fall within a 15km radius of our We have a joint venture over an adjoining property known as operations make up a region we refer to as the Greater Lonmin Pandora, where we manage mining and processing activities. Community (GLC), with an estimated resident population of We are also exploring for PGM deposits around the Sudbury approximately 85,000 people. Basin in Canada in joint ventures (JVs) with Wallbridge Mining In the North West Province, where our major mining operations Company Limited and Vale S.A., and in two areas in South Africa, are situated, mining accounts for an estimated 33.6% of Vlakfontein and Loskop, on the Eastern Limb, the latter in a JV provincial gross domestic product. with Boynton Platinum. We have a relatively shallow ore body, which gives us a distinct cost advantage, and a well-developed ore reserve position, with PGMs sales by product PGMs market by geographic Platinum demand in 2013 (%)* in 2013 (%) destination in 2013 (%) 13 35 4 2 1 23 3 40 54 30 2 6 6 1 3 24 1 37 13 20 Platinum Germany Automotive Palladium sponge Japan Petroleum Gold South Africa Electrical Rhodium sponge United Kingdom Medical and biomedical Rothenium sponge Switzerland Off-road engines Iridium sponge USA Jewellery Chemical Glass Other * Source: SFA (Oxford) 2013, estimated 06 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Lonmin’s South African operations Akanani Baobab Marikana PMR Northern Cape Lonmin and BEE ownership The Mining Charter requires that we increase the level of HDSA ownership in our prospecting and mining ventures by 31 December 2014 to at least 26%. By 30 September 2013, HDSA investors directly and indirectly owned 18% of the share capital of our subsidiaries that own and operate Marikana and Limpopo and that participate in the Pandora joint venture, as well as 26% of the share capital of our subsidiary that owns Akanani. O  ur primary BEE partner is Incwala Resources (Proprietary) Limited (Incwala). Incwala was incorporated in 2003 specifically to meet the requirements of the Mining Charter. Lonmin Plc and the Industrial Development Corporation each own 23.56% of Incwala, with 50.03% being held by Shanduka Resources (Proprietary) Limited (Shanduka) and 2.85% by a trust whose sole beneficiary is the Bapo ba Mogale Community. We are examining ways in which the remaining 8% we need to achieve might be apportioned. There is clearly a balance to be struck between delivering equity for our employees and communities and doing so in a way which is sustainable, fair and equitable to our present shareholders. Share ownership schemes are under consideration and this has been facilitated by the signing of our recent union recognition agreement. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 07 Letter from our CEO: building a path of fundamental change Ben Magara CEO Dear stakeholder, trust and respect between people slowly to accumulate into trust When I took up my position at Lonmin in July, many of the challenges and respect between groups. Through many hours of discussion facing our Company and our industry had been spoken about widely. with as many individuals and representatives as possible, I I would like to refer our stakeholders to our ‘Marikana’ information believe we have started to make progress in this regard. Slowly portal on our website which provides more detail on the events of but surely, it will be possible to build sound bridges between our 2012, as well as our deliberations on, and planning of a way forward. organisation and all of our stakeholders again, creating a strong In particular, I encourage reading our pledge, made by former acting network of communication lines and support through which we CEO Simon Scott, which remains valid, and describes our 2013 will be able to grow. The programme we have put in place to change initiatives (see www.lonminmarikanainfo.com). ensure a good education for the children of our employees who When Lonmin sat down after the events of Marikana to plot died during the Marikana tragedy has been a helpful start, and I the way forward, the enormity of the challenge that lay before believe the compassion and sincerity of our participation in the the Company in terms of rebuilding relationships with our commemoration ceremony also restored some faith in our integrity, stakeholders could not be underestimated. In that context, the but we know we must do more. success of the start-up phase of the Lonmin Renewal Plan is a Reclaiming our relationship with employees welcome and valuable achievement. Following the implementation During the last few years, mining companies in South Africa have of the start-up phase and the Renewal Plan our focus shifted steadily delegated more and more employee communication towards long-term and this reflection gave rise to the five Board responsibilities to human resources practitioners and union Initiatives, which mark the path that our journey to sustainability will leaders. The result, in the eyes of employees, has been an effective take over the next few years. These are discussed in greater detail abdication of our role as managers. We need to reclaim that role. on pages 15 to 25. Regardless of which union our employees choose to join, they are Our primary purpose may be the production of PGMs, but our first and foremost Lonmin employees. We want our employees to ultimate purpose is to create and sustain stakeholder value. Finding identify with the Company. We therefore have a duty to reach out to solutions that benefit and satisfy all of our stakeholders depends them directly, to act as a reliable source of the information that they on determining fair value for all, and then working together in need, to listen to them and to inform them adequately and accurately partnership to achieve it. To achieve this, we need to engage with of our progress in terms of the challenges we face and how they our stakeholders. are likely to be affected and how they can assist in improving our performance. This is one of the most important priorities that we Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder engagement cannot be done without openness, trust have endeavoured to focus on this year. and mutual respect. When we started this year, our relationships Another critical aspect to regaining trust is actually delivering with our employees, our unions and our communities had all the change that we promise. A key feature of the Employee suffered major setbacks. The way we have started to restore fruitful Value Proposition that came out of the Lonmin Renewal Plan engagement has been through individual relationships, allowing the is the proposed introduction of an employee share ownership 08 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 plan (ESOP). Not only will this be pivotal from the point of view economic conditions in Europe and the rise in recycled platinum of increasing our BEE ownership, in line with Mining Charter make for a challenging environment into which primary producers requirements, and retaining our social licence to operate, but it need to sell PGMs. The rising costs of labour, electricity, utilities and also provides us with a new vehicle to deliver real value that will materials does not make this any easier, especially as our mines get be tangible to our employees. deeper and the geology, more complex. The new recognition agreement was also an important step forward I am encouraged by our collaboration efforts with like-minded in terms of stabilising the labour environment. The agreement organisations through our participation in the International Council followed extremely complex negotiations. The signing of the for Mining and Minerals (ICMM). recognition agreement with our majority union, the Association of Mineworkers and Construction Union (AMCU) paved the way for The future of platinum the ongoing constructive engagements with all unions to find a winSo does this mean that the future of a market for PGMs is at risk? win solution for our business to thrive and all voices to be heard. No, it does not. One need only compare the pollution levels in cities that have higher EURO legislation versus ones without, to see the Successes difference that PGMs can make. There can be no doubt of their It is important not to lose sight of the fact that there are several value as catalysts, in vehicles, and for a cleaner future in general. areas of our sustainability performance where we have much to be proud of, and our improvement in our lost time injury frequency I would like to see Lonmin as a catalyst in a similar way. rate (LTIFR) is an area where Lonmin has consistently performed Acknowledging the consequences of the events at Marikana, well. The biggest driver of this performance is a belief that is evident acknowledging our challenges, we need to find a way to become across the organisation that zero harm is achievable. I am very that catalyst for change. By building bridges with our stakeholders, proud to be associated with this, and commend the achievements and growing our people to be their best, I believe we can fill that role. of all our employees and contractors. The future of Lonmin These efforts are still met with the ever present threat of falls of Our current estimation is that Lonmin’s life of mine will extend at least ground, which account for most serious accidents in underground for the next 50 years. The work we are doing in respect of safety and mines. We were deeply saddened to record three fatalities health at work and in our communities, will have an impact on the during the year, all as a result of falls of ground. We extend our communities of the future; the rehabilitation and closure planning, condolences to the families of those who died at work, their and responsible use of resources will create the environment in which friends and their colleagues. We have a comprehensive strategy our children and their children will live; the infrastructure we develop for minimising these incidents, which we re-examine for possible today – roads, water projects, housing – must be able to endure and improvement after every accident. establish and sustain the communities of the future. The work that we are doing around community education is also But, while our aim is to leave a positive legacy after the closure of our an area to which I would like to draw attention. A high percentage operations, this does not negate our responsibility to ‘be the change of our bursaries are now going to recipients from local communities we want to see, today’. which, in my opinion, makes a noticeable impact. Our peer Ours is an industry and business and community in flux. It is educators and HIV/Aids awareness programmes have also become incumbent on us – as a board, as management, as union leaders recognisable parts of the fabric of the Greater Lonmin Community – to review, revise and adapt our plans going forward. So, those (GLC), and are aligned with our aim of zero harm. seeking for us to report a static strategy in the year ahead will be Risks and opportunities disappointed. Our strategy will be shaped to meet the needs of our The greatest risks to sustainability are the challenges that are the stakeholders, and this is already happening. most complex to deal with and that face the industry as a whole. The renewal plan board initiatives that were embarked on in 2013, The living conditions of employees and the challenge of providing and which are reported on were designed to guide Lonmin in a adequate housing and accommodation will receive more attention as we move forward. We have acknowledged this as a priority challenging and changing environment. In the past months, I have through our Board Initiatives and we are committed to finding a spent much time engaging with stakeholders to understand their sustainable solution, in collaboration with our industry peers and understanding, and to re-build bridges of trust. We have spoken with local, regional and national government. to stakeholders but, more importantly we have heard them. In later 2013, we announced four focus areas for the coming year based on A stable, peaceful and predictable environment is critical not only our feedback from stakeholders. These are: people and relationships; for social development but also for business to thrive. Profitable operational excellence; value optimisation management; and businesses make it possible to alleviate our social challenges. sustainability and social agenda. We will continue to develop plans The scarcity of water amid rising demand is another concern to for these during the coming year and will no doubt report against both the sustainability of our operations and for the living standards these in a year’s time. of our communities. Investing in the reticulation infrastructure and bulk services to ensure that water is accessible to communities will mean little if the country does not have the water to deliver to them. Finally we need to acknowledge the challenges of the platinum Ben Magara market as a whole, which has undergone structural changes in a CEO way that the markets of other commodities have not. The tough 16 December 2013 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 09  Lonmin employees rose to the challenge and dedicated their time to helping surrounding communities in honour of Nelson Mandela Day. 10 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Stakeholder engagement: finding common ground IN FOCUS: During the past year we set about rebuilding trust. The events at Marikana in August 2012 were unprecedented and made us rethink how we engage with our stakeholders. It is a process we are set to develop further in coming years, but as a starting point we aim for honest, open conversations. Updating our stakeholder engagement Identifying the issues After the events of 2012 it became clear that we needed a new way The issues identified were grouped into the following five to engage with stakeholders that took into consideration the nature categories: of relationships and the complexities being faced. • s ocial responsibility, including living conditions, local The purpose of engaging with stakeholders was this: to achieve communities, sustainable development, education, environment, growth and shared value for stakeholders and the company, we need to secure win-win relationships. health and wages; • industry/sector-related matters, including collective bargaining, We spent time in 2013 working towards updating our stakeholder role of unions and impact of the unprotected strikes on the sector; engagement model, in line with the Lonmin Renewal Plan’s • e conomic matters, including impact on the South African; reputational rebuild. economy of the Marikana tragedy, wages and income inequality; Through a five-step plan, we: • p olitical matters, including government responsibility, legal and • identified all potential stakeholders; regulatory framework, impact on South Africa, violence, migration • u ndertook background research on stakeholders to uncover and unions; and key issues; • regulatory framework, including compliance with national • p rioritised issues so as to identify the issues most relevant and international regulation, labour laws, unions and migrant to Lonmin; labour force. • identified critical stakeholders in each issue group; and • u ndertook analysis of all the information on hand to draft the Seeking a collaborative vision first version of our new stakeholder engagement programme. A key outcome of our engagement was our recognition that Identifying critical stakeholders stakeholders were frustrated with our telling them what we think We categorised the critical stakeholder groups, as seen in the they want. We needed to listen and hear in order to develop a diagram below: collaborative vision. Social parties, including civil society, non-governmental organisations Employees and unions Communities (NGOs), academics, churches, world bodies and social commentators Customers and suppliers Lonmin Media Government Investors The private sector Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 11 Stakeholder engagement: finding common ground continued Material issues From these groups of issues, the following five issues were identified as the issues stakeholders believed were most material, and these became the basis for our Board Initiatives (page 15) around which this report is based: Material stakeholder Primary stakeholders Related to Board Initiative issue Living conditions Employees • Understanding needs of local communities. BI 3 Migrant and local labour Communities NGOs • Living conditions, including Media housing, water and sanitation. BI 5 Housing and accommodation • Responsibility of companies and/ or government. • Living-out allowances. • The migrant labour system Wages Employees • Determining a fair minimum BI 1 Employee relations Unions wage. • Wages in mining versus other sectors. • Role of unions. • Collective bargaining processes. • Potential job losses • Wage gap. Meeting socioCommunities • Role of private companies Empowering employees and BI 2 economic needs of Employees versus state. communities local communities Government • Community investment by the company. BI 3 Migrant and local labour • Community access to education, water and Use of invested capital and BI 4 sanitation; healthcare. infrastructure • Community environmental conditions. Wage recognition Employees • Collective bargaining frameworks, BI 1 Employee relations agreements at Lonmin, Unions including centralised collective and within sector Media bargaining. Private sector • Role of the unions. • Union legitimacy. • Potential job losses. Impact on economy Employees • Greater impact of strikes on South Use of invested capital and BI 4 Communities African mining industry. infrastructure Government • Potential job losses across sectors. Shareholders • Downgrading of country and sector Media by rating agencies. Accountability In September 2013, after an extensive search, an Executive Vice President: Communications and Public Affairs, who reports directly to the CEO, was appointed. The next steps Our revised stakeholder engagement model has been developed and is being implemented. It considers our approach to each issue, each stakeholder, and appropriate methods of engagement. Critical action points during 2013 have been: • T  he introduction of an internal Stakeholder Engagement Forum that meets quarterly to address stakeholder issues and to be aware of new stakeholder requests/concerns. This forum has been met three times this year. • S  tarting projects like the Employee Value Proposition (EVP) and the Community Value Proposition (CVP) which are driven by effective stakeholder engagement. 12 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Once the initial steps of our renewal plan and the board initiatives had been embedded in the business, we continued to place a great deal of emphasis on stakeholder engagement. It has become very clear during this process that Lonmin stakeholders have a shared desire for the company to succeed. By way of example, the diagram below illustrates the primary messages we have received from some stakeholders during the course of the year, and these have shaped our engagement model and will continue to do so in the year ahead. • We want you to engage, listen and act. Employees • Improve our living conditions. Communities • We want greater economic participation in the business, through equity, local jobs and procurement. • We want the company to engage and demonstrate action. Government • Lonmin needs to be attuned to South Africa’s realities. • Commit to and deliver zero harm. Customers/Suppliers • We need a long-term, sustainable partner. • We want improved profitability and operational credibility. Investors • We would like to see a more predictable business climate. • We seek more disclosure. Engaging with employees We want to restore relationships with our employees and have re-established formal and informal feedback channels within our divisions. Daily and weekly team meetings, that take place in both the Mining and Process Division, provide employees with opportunities to provide feedback to team leaders. Shaft lekgotlas (mass meetings between senior managers and employees) have been particularly effective. We have identified support staff as communications champions across the business who help identify and monitor stakeholder issues, and support the central communications function. In addition to regular communication via email, briefs and formal meetings we have embarked on various initiatives to involve all employees in company-wide events. We believe that face-to-face communication is the most beneficial as employees can raise concerns immediately, and allows for direct interaction between various levels of management and employees. Mechanisms for continuous feedback to the CEO are under development. An independent tip-off hotline and formal grievance procedures are in place for those During a visit from Ben Magara our employees at the shafts and plants shared their wishes for Lonmin employees who want to provide feedback or raise concerns with the Company’s leadership. with him. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 13 Engaging with communities Community meetings with ward councillors, church leaders and traditional authorities continued, and through the CVP inputs have been received to identify a common vision for the surrounding communities. Our financial literacy training in progress. Objectives for 2014 Our objectives for 2014 in respect of stakeholder engagement:  ontinued implementation of our stakeholder engagement model, with active engagement with each group of stakeholders. • C • Continued implementation of our EVP and CVP programmes. A work team discusses their tasks for the day. 14 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Driving change: our objectives,the Lonmin Renewal Plan and the 2013 Board Initiatives Forging our path of fundamental change The seven pillars of the Lonmin Renewal Plan were announced as Our recovery after the tragic events that unfolded during the week follows: of the 10th to the 16th of August 2012 depended on committing the business to a path of fundamental change, in order to rebuild THE LONMIN RENEWAL PLAN trust with all of our stakeholders. The seven pillars for operational excellence Entrenching this change has been the over-arching drive of our year at Lonmin, and has become vital to our future sustainability. Pillar 6: Sustainable human settlement It is for this reason that “A path of fundamental change” has been Pillar 7: Employee value proposition chosen as the theme for this report. We also acknowledge that this Pillar 2: Total cost of ownership Pillar 3: Theory of constraints change is not possible unless it is achieved in collaboration with Pillar 4: Employee relations Pillar 5: Reputational rebuild key stakeholders, which is one of the reasons why stakeholder engagement has been, and continues to be, a focus area for us Pillar 1: Restructuring (see page 11). Government Investors The immediate implementation of the Lonmin Renewal Plan COLLABORATIVE was dependent on the safe re-start and ramp-up of our mining APPROACH operations, which we are extremely proud to have achieved. Following the implementation of the start-up phase of the Plan, our Employees/ focus shifted to the longer-term and more fundamental concerns Lonmin communities that were exposed during the strikes and the violence, including our organisational structure, employee and community relations and productivity. The major stakeholders whose collaboration is vital for fundamental change. Targeting our material priorities This reflection gave rise to the announcement in January 2013 of Our primary strategic objectives for 2013 were to: our five Board Initiatives – the five most material priorities that could • rebuild and sustain our operations; and guide real change. These are: • re-establish trust. Much of the work that has been done during the year towards Housing and accommodation achieving these objectives has been underpinned by two intercontinue conversion of hostels and identify ways to related strategic initiatives, namely the Lonmin Renewal Plan and improve living conditions our five Board Initiatives, both discussed below. Roadmap to recovery Migrant and local Empowerment labour supply address needs and The Lonmin Renewal Plan, which was announced at the end of 2012, review the current challenges of our constituted a road map for Lonmin’s recovery as a business and shift system and communities and social entity, following the Marikana tragedy and the six-week long leave cycles employees strike during which the outbreaks of violence occurred. The plan PROJECT focused on the most obvious areas of the business that needed TEAM Use of invested immediate attention to put Lonmin back onto a solid footing to capital + infrastructure Employee work with labour drive along a path of fundamental change. relations and industry to renegotiate The focus areas, or pillars of the Lonmin Renewal Plan, needed make better use of recognition agreement invested capital and to take into account not only the hostilities that existed between infrastructure rival unions, and the breakdown in our own relationship with our employees, but also the challenging economic circumstances that had continued to prevail in our markets and other pervasive Details on the specific context and challenges of each initiative, challenges such as rising costs. as well as the progress we achieved in advancing them during the year, are addressed in the pages that follow. While the subject of these five initiatives have been our material priorities for the year, that does not negate the priorities which are For more information on the Lonmin Renewal Plan, go to a constant part of our operating landscape. These include safe http://sd-report.lonmin.com production, training and development, responsible environmental management, as well as employee and contractor health. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 15 Board Initiative 1: focus on employee relations to achieve peace and stability Key statistics: • 87.7% of employees are unionised. • Recognition agreement signed with AMCU in August 2013. • 66.1% of employees represented by majority union, AMCU, at 30 September 2013. Accountability Within Lonmin the senior responsibility for union negotiations resides with the Executive Vice President: Human Capital who is a member of the Executive Committee. A new agreement Following a rapid shift in union membership, a new recognition agreement needed to be agreed. The road to negotiation and settlement of a recognition agreement in many ways represented union rivalry and positioning in the sector rather than just at Lonmin. The root causes behind the Marikana tragedy, of which the latest Amos Tselane, a general worker, explaining the care principles to Janet Mosito. updates can be found at www.lonminmarikanainfo.com, are still being investigated through the Farlam Judicial Commission of Inquiry. It is widely recognised that union rivalry had an impact in the escalating levels of unprotected work stoppages and violence IN FOCUS: on and off mine property. The past two years have brought into sharp focus the complexity of the relationships in the mining industry between AMCU was officially acknowledged as the majority union with employees, their unions and management, and the scale a new recognition agreement signed on 14 August 2013. At and long-range consequences and ramifications when these 30 September 2013, AMCU’s membership amounted to 66.1% of all of our employees. 87.7% of employees were members of relationships break down. recognised trade unions (2012:81%). The events have led to a significant change in, and continue The process to achieve a new recognition agreement was not to have an impact on, the industrial relations environment only complex and protracted, but it was also marred by protest in South Africa, and have demonstrated that the prevailing and violence. recognition structures in individual companies in the platinum sector are no longer adequate. Lonmin experienced four incidents of unprotected strike action during the year and one protected strike. In total, six days This was particularly apparent at our own operations where of production were lost as a result of these strikes, with a changes in union representation happened rapidly, resulting in consequent impact on production and profitability. Regrettably, damaging periods of instability. isolated incidents of violence continued. Lonmin publicly condemned violence in our communities; and urged employees and communities to re-commit to peace so that we could secure Recognition structures the future of all Lonmin employees, community members and their Freedom of association and the right to bargain collectively is families. Lonmin continues to work closely with the authorities in entrenched in South Africa’s Constitution and labour legislation, investigations into these deaths. and is a fundamental right that we uphold at Lonmin. The way forward The terms of the new recognition agreement are compliant with The South African mining industry has a long and established the Labour Relations Act, are in line with past practice, and are the history of labour relations and collective bargaining, with mining outcome of complex and sensitive negotiations. They represent the unions playing a significant role in the workplace, the economy, best possible achievable outcome. and in society as a whole. Trade unions negotiate terms and conditions of employment on behalf of their members with Lonmin will continue to engage with all representative unions, particular focus on wage increases. including minority unions, within the confines of our recognition agreement with AMCU and within the letter and spirit of the Labour Recognition agreements are binding contracts confirming Relations Act. Our recognition agreement with AMCU recognises the terms of an employer’s acceptance of a trade union as a the need for the co-existence of all unions and it is Lonmin’s legitimate bargaining agent of employees, and granting certain intention to ensure that our industrial relations climate is inclusive rights of access, organisation and representation. and constructive. 16 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Nonetheless , in light of the new recognition agreement, the Union representation as at recognition of NUM, UASA and Solidarity has been terminated. 30 September 2013 (%) 12.3 Objectives 3.5 Given the tense and destabilising nature of industrial relations in the 66.1 past year, among the objectives of this board initiative are to: 0.6 • U phold and respect employees’ freedom of choice, and to 3.7 contribute to improved employee-management relations. 13.8 • C reate the framework for a stable working environment with less potential for volatility, and without unprotected strike action. • G ive unions and, in particular, AMCU, the means and support AMCU to adequately fulfill their responsibilities to employees. This is in NUM light of AMCU’s relative early stage of development and given Solidarity its majority status. UASA • E nsure that our agreements and practice are aligned with industry-wide norms and developments, particularly in respect CEPPWAWU of bargaining structures. No trade union New recognition agreement Key aspects of the recognition agreement concluded with AMCU in 2013 were: • Introduction of a three-tier recognition system • 30%: basic organisational rights (access and deductions). • 40%: basic organisational rights, collective bargaining, entitlement to full time shop stewards and entitlement to office facilities.  • 50%+1: majority union status which enables a union to negotiate other agreements such as threshold agreement. • Implementation of a single bargaining structure for all employees in Patterson grades A to C4 (includes Category 4 – 9, artisans, officials). • S ecured involvement of all the minority unions in the 2013 wage negotiations. Our approach to Human Rights Avoiding human rights infringements and addressing any adverse impacts in which we are involved are cornerstones of how we do business. Lonmin has been an active member of the UN Global Compact since 2008. We welcome the adoption by the United Nations Human Rights Commission of the United Nations Guiding Principles (UNGPs) on Business and Human Rights, as well as developments in the countries we operate in that support these Principles. The UNGPs require companies to respect human rights, which means that they “should act with due diligence to avoid infringing on the rights of others and to address adverse impacts with which they are involved”. We do not currently have a formalised response to the UNGPs but intend to make an appropriate policy commitment, undertake due diligence to assess actual and potential human rights impacts (both direct and indirect) and act upon the findings of that review, track the effectiveness of our responses and communicate this in future years’ reporting. The tragic events at Marikana took place in 2012, and we began to address them in last year’s report (http://sd-report.lonmin.com/2012). This year our focus has been on recovering from these events, specifically rebuilding trust with employees and communities. Due to the ongoing Farlam Commission we are reluctant to provide any further narrative on the events of that period until we have given evidence, hopefully in early 2014. This report, however, does examine efforts made by us in the wake of the Marikana tragedy, to repair relationships and restore stability. Human rights and security Lonmin drafted a security policy, with a supporting code of conduct, which includes commitments to human rights. We are committed to acting in a manner consistent with the law of South Africa. The purpose of these documents are to set forth a commonly-agreed set of principles for Lonmin security personnel to respect the human rights of, and fulfill humanitarian responsibilities to, all affected by their business activities around our operations. Within the code of conduct for security personnel we have set out the requirements and rules for the use of force that are consistent with applicable law and the minimum requirements. Our aim is to finalise these documents within the next calendar year. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 17 Board Initiative 2: empowering our employees and communities Creating and sustaining value propositions IN FOCUS: This initiative also involves the development of an Employee Value The real value in mining lies not only in the metals we produce, Proposition (EVP) and a Community Value Proposition (CVP). and their immediate economic benefits, but even more so in the contribution of mining companies to the communities in The EVP process aims to create value within our Company which we operate. for employees, and includes initiatives such as housing and accommodation and share schemes. Other EVP projects are: For Lonmin, these communities are first and foremost the GLC and then South Africa as a whole. By addressing the needs • F inancial literacy training and aligned programmes, to relieve the burden of indebtedness. and challenges of our communities we can couple company • Encouraging and sponsoring sport and recreation to support success with socio-economic progress and well-being, well-being. which is the only way to achieve long-term sustainable value • Improve nutrition. creation. Determining what would add value to the lives of • Developing a customer service orientation within our own services our communities and, among them, our employees involves departments, such as medical services, recruitment and the intensive engagement. contractor hub, to adequately meet the needs of our employees. We need to ensure that our projects and interventions are sustainable and, eventually, self-sufficient. At the same time, Targeting financial health we need to collaborate with others – mining companies, Employee indebtedness has been a critical factor in industrial government regulatory authorities, NGOs – to help meet the relations and other strife in mining communities along the infrastructure and development needs that are currently not platinum belt. reaching our local communities. As part of the EVP, we embarked on a financial literacy training programme this year and provided free of charge on-site The heart of empowerment consultants for those employees who require financial advice. The training includes modules on proper budgeting, saving and If we can get to the heart of what communities and employees how to manage debt. On-site consultants have been allocated need, this initiative has the potential to transform the lives of around the operations to provide advice on financial matters. employees and those within local communities. The ripple effect During the year under review 11,362 employees in the mining of socio-economic transformation would enrich and empower division and 625 in process division used this service. communities for generations to come. Further to this training, we have scrutinised financial lenders We are currently reviewing and revising the components of our around our operations to determine if they comply with the current empowerment arrangements, namely: National Credit Act and/or are registered credit providers. This • broad-based ownership scheme; is to ensure that those lending to our employees are following • profit sharing system; the necessary regulatory requirements. • performance rewards system; We spent time increasing the skills of our on-site payroll • preferential procurement system; personnel to address payslip queries. In addition to this we • enterprise development strategy; and have used poster campaigns to promote understanding of • community social development plan. deductions, incomes and employee contributions. We are considering the implementation of an employee share ownership plan (ESOP), a community share ownership trust and closer co-operation on procurement and small-, mediumand The CVP process aims to fill in gaps that may have been missed in prior engagement. We have realised that often the real issues do micro-enterprise development for the GLC. Through this we will not arise in community meetings and that sometimes the scale of give our employees and communities a meaningful stake in our projects envisaged do not match municipal capacity. Through the business, and as a result the benefits of a stable, sustainable CVP we had a number of engagement sessions with community company that can be shared by all, now and in the future. members to identify and prioritise community needs. Through the CVP process, we want to ensure that we are working on the right projects, at the right time and in the right place. Key statistics • R6.2 billion distributed to employees in salaries and benefits. The CVP process comprised three phases: • 47.2% of management are HDSAs (including white women). • P hase one an extensive research project that was contextualised • R4 billion spent with BEE suppliers. by the National Development Plan, Integrated Development • R73.7 million spent on social capital, which is made up of Plans (IDPs) from municipalities, the Bapo Ba Mogale 10-year donations and community projects. development plan, some of the documents produced by Statistics • R3 million of employees funds saved or refunded through South Africa and our Company’s economic footprint. reversal of garnishee orders and write-offs of loans and • In Phase two, the task teams engaged with various stakeholders interest. to discuss the outcomes of the research. Stakeholders in this case included internal stakeholders, provincial government departments, local municipalities, regional departments of health 18 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 and education and various community members. As a result we Objectives: now have a much better idea of what to prioritise. • R  eview and implementation of an ESOP or community share • In Phase three, feedback will be provided to communities ownership scheme. on selected projects. This is pending discussions with the • C  ompleting study on Lonmin’s economic footprint, and Department of Mineral Resources (DMR). considering recommendations. Accountability • D  elivering greater understanding of EVP and CVP, with The Executive Vice President: Communications and Public Affairs the identification of clear deliverables and the beginning of has accountability for the CVP. Most of the EVP projects fall under implementation. the Executive Vice President: Human Capital. Both individuals are members of our Executive Committee. Greater Lonmin Community (GLC) – refers to the communities within a 15km radius around our operations. We also have communities around our Limpopo and PMR operations. Contractor hub – a facility dedicated to contractor training and medical assessments. Bapo Ba Mogale – the traditional authority on the eastern side of our Marikana operation. Social and labour plan – regulatory document that lays out community and employee development plans for five consecutive years. Measuring the true extent of Lonmin’s economic footprint labourers working in the North West’s platinum belt. “Worryingly The reliance on a single employer (the mine) and social grants high numbers” of people in the GLC who are not economically in both the local mine informal settlements and the primary active and the high proportion of people who earn less than rural labour-sending areas of our country place ever increasing R4,800 per month suggest that many households rely on other pressure on miners. sources of income, such as remittances or social grants. As part of this board initiative, we wanted to better Most residents of the GLC live either in houses or informal understand the full economic footprint of our activities of our dwellings. This is often contrasted with employees’ living company and its employees. We undertook a comprehensive study in 2013 to map the demographic and geographic situations at home, in labour-sending areas like the Eastern impacts of the economic impacts arising from our mining Cape, where many employees live in traditional dwellings. operations in the North West province. Remittances by miners to the Eastern Cape average between R500 and R1,000 per month. This contrast is corroborated by Using empirical demographic analysis, the study analysed the data published by Statistics South Africa, and explains to some benefit flows arising from Lonmin’s operations and identified extent the low levels of willingness on the part of our employees the prominent economic linkages between employees and the local economy, as well as the social profile of Lonmin’s to invest in permanent homes in the GLC, particularly when they local communities and workforce. We commissioned an have two families to support. independent third party to conduct the research, in order to The rise in personal indebtedness was also evident from the ensure impartiality and objectivity, and as such, protect the study findings: among Category 4 – 9 employees at Lonmin legitimacy of the findings in the eyes of external stakeholders. Emolument attachment orders have grown over the past five The findings of the study confirmed the critical role that years from 12.6% in 2008 to 16.3% in March 2013. PGMs mining plays in the North West and South Africa as a whole and drew fresh attention to systemic socio-economic The outcomes of the study are still being finalised. challenges such as financial literacy and personal debt, and Recommendations and implementation plans will be the consequences of the significant populations of migrant addressed in 2014. Communities surrounding our Marikana operations* RUSTENBURG LOCAL LOCAL MUNICIPALITY MUNICIPALITY OF MADIBENG Makolokwe Greater Sonop Brits Nkaneng informal settlement Sonop Greater Bapong Wonderkop Segwaelane PANDORA PLATINUM MINE Greater Mooinooi Khalamtwana informal settlement Greater Marikana WESTERN PLATINUM LIMITED Oustad Marikana EASTERN PLATINUM LIMITED Villages/towns Bapong Modderspruit GREATER MOOINOOI Tornado Nommer 1 Municipal bounderies Mooinooi Majakaneng Main roads * We also have communities around our Limpopo and PMR operations. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 19 Board Initiative 3: migrant and local labour Zandile Ngqinjana works at our Wonderkop Waste Water treatment plant, where we also have a composting area. IN FOCUS: A legacy of South Africa’s migrant labour system has led to many socio-economic consequences, including a rise in second families at employees’ place of work, economically dependent labour-sending areas, the consequent financial stress on employees and other undesirable consequences of single-sex living conditions. Historical recruitment practices in the industry and current shift systems further entrench migrant labour. This system is complex and not easy to unravel without further negative social and economic consequences. In response to this critical challenge, we are reviewing our work practices to find a viable alternative shift and leave pattern that will allow employees to return to their families more regularly, which will potentially benefit the employer, the employees and shareholders. This is in addition to continued recruitment and employment of locals. 20 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Break down of employees by geographic origin Key statistics as at 30 September 2013 • 28% of our employees come from and live within North West Province Count % Province; 56% come from other provinces in South Africa, and 16% come from outside the borders of South Africa. Eastern Cape 10,202 36 North West 7,935 28 Limpopo 1,416 5 Historically, single-sex hostels accommodated the majority of Free State 1,138 4 employees, who were drawn from traditional labour-sending areas Gauteng 1,128 4 within South Africa and neighbouring countries. Remittances from Kwazulu Natal 849 3 these employees, facilitated by national compacts, supported Mpumalanga 566 2 many regions and communities around southern Africa. Northern Cape 288 1 Western Cape 279 1 But, single-sex hostels are not appropriate and a transition to Total RSA 23,801 84 other forms of accommodation has been underway for many Total foreign 4,578 16 years. See page 24 for a discussion on housing and living Grand total 28,379 100 conditions, a separate board initiative. Improving the shift system Bearing in mind that it would not be in the interests of individual employees, labour-sending communities or the company (who would need to replace loyal, skilled and experienced employees) for an immediate transition to localised employment, Lonmin is approaching this particular challenge in the short term by reviewing our shift system with a view to improving it. This would allow employees to return home more frequently, which will in turn support the integrity of the nuclear family at the place of home, improve family values and improve employees’ standards of living. The board recognises that this is a long-term initiative and will require collaboration within the industry, and with government. We are currently undertaking research into how we can adapt the shift cycle and are engaging with key stakeholders, including unions, management, safety specialists, external consultants, employees and government. The process of change will need to be gradual change so we can fully understand the impact of our choices, ensure that there are no adverse unintended consequences, and can work with employees and service providers to find an optimal solution. Far-reaching benefits The potential benefits could extend well beyond shift arrangements. Not only could we improve employees’ lives but we also have the ability to change the way we mine. A changed shift system could lead to the creation of more jobs and more mining shifts during the year, and in turn lead to improved production and improved cost management. If we can become more effective then we will be in a better position to be able to share the benefits of the process with our employees and communities. Accountability The Executive Vice President: Mining, holds accountability for improving the shift system. Objectives • T  o complete the research phase of this project and to develop recommendations for board review. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 21 Board Initiative 4: use of invested capital and infrastructure Our shareholders recapitalised the business and this, together with renegotiation of our debt facilities, de-risked our balance sheet. IN FOCUS: Key statistics In redefining the way in which we do business, we need to use • Capital expenditure of R1.5 billion in 2013. our infrastructure and invested capital – manufactured, intellectual • Theory of constraints project piloted at Rowland Shaft. and human – optimally. A successful renovation of the current system of work would Maximising our resources provide Lonmin with opportunities to create a more effective, Established shift systems and work practices across the industry efficient company that is able to create value for a broad spectrum do not best utilise the significant mining infrastructure in which of stakeholders, including employees, communities, government we have invested. Neither does the industry fully maximise and shareholders. the application of our people and their human and intellectual A fundamental change to our shift and leave system (as discussed resources. The proposed changes to the shift system on pages 20-21) would form an integral part of this initiative. – see page 20 will change the way we work, by leveraging our current infrastructure to stabilise or increase production and use 22 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 invested capital to improve the lives of all those invested in our Applying the theory of constraints company. Through this we can increase productivity, improve During 2013, we began work on what we call the Theory of employee morale and give Lonmin a competitive advantage. Constraints (TOC) project. TOC identifies obstacles to efficient production and aims to rectify them, and represents a shift in At the end of 2012 we announced initiatives aimed at cutting costs focus from traditional thinking that suggests more machinery or and increasing efficiencies. We have made significant progress in shifts will increase production. TOC looks at how we can use what our review of the operational management structure. In doing so, we have been working closely with affected employees and their we have efficiently. We have started a pilot project at Rowland respective trade unions, where applicable, as required by South shaft which, if successful, could have far-reaching consequences, African labour legislation, to consult on ways to minimise the impact and could then be implemented at other operations. of the restructuring. In total 183 positions were made redundant, Rights Issue making for a more streamlined and efficient structure. Of those The Rights Issue of December 2012, raised net proceeds of redundancies, 30% were among members of management. $767 million. Almost 97% of shareholders took up their rights and The review and restructuring has been designed in such a way as this, combined with the support of our banks in agreeing new loan to minimise risk whilst positioning us to respond promptly to more facilities, placed Lonmin on a solid and disciplined financial footing favourable market conditions as they arise. for the future. Accountability Objectives A Renewal Team that consisted of various management was created • Outcomes and impact of TOC pilot to be assessed. to specifically look at the restructuring process. • TOC process to be extended to other shafts. Improving productivity at Rowland Shaft – • T  he Line of Sight operating model highlighted that logistical applying TOC arrangements were not conducive to the timeous delivery Maintaining consistency in the flow of production is one of the of material, which in turn contributed to production most crucial aspects of meeting production targets, optimising losses. In response, underground stores have now been use of infrastructure and controlling unit costs. established to ensure the availability of critical items. Other upgrades in mining systems and processes have been TOC is a well-established management philosophy that aims put in place to provide additional production buffers. to achieve optimum efficiency by identifying the most critical • Another challenge is high levels of employee absenteeism, bottlenecks (or constraints) in a production line and addressing which means that inevitably work teams at the rock face them through the strategic implementation of upand are frequently without some of their team members, downstream buffers. creating another constraint affecting productivity and safety. We undertook a series of workshops with our production • One of the most common reasons for absenteeism personnel at Rowland Shaft to see how TOC could be cited by employees was lack of direct access to banking applied to our business. This was one of several interventions facilities. Employees need to visit a bank in order to review implemented during the year to raise productivity and get more their income or send money home. As normal banking out of our infrastructure. hours are not aligned to working hours, employees take time off work to conduct personal financial transactions. Several bottlenecks were identified. Most notable were To relieve this constraint, we have installed a cash facility related to employees’ increased travelling time, and logistical at the shaft, which is easily and immediately accessible to challenges of delivering materials and spare equipment down all employees. This has been coupled with financial literacy the shaft and decline. Excessive employee absenteeism has training, with several financial consultants available on site been cited as a constraint, as well as poor communication. to advise employees on their personal financial situations. • At the upper levels of Rowland Shaft, mining has We have also employed additional crews who substitute progressed towards the shaft boundaries, resulting in for absent team members, as another buffer to relieve the increased travelling times to and from the workplace, which immediate impact of absenteeism. in effect reduces time at the face. Rowland shaft’s sub• Finally, emphasis has been placed on direct decline is accessed via a chairlift, which creates additional communication by management and supervisors constraints in the movement of men and material. While we to employees, and the receipt of feedback from the cannot reduce the physical distances that employees are employees at shaft bottom. A Lonmin Lekgotla, where required to travel, we are pursuing various technological employees are updated on companyand shaft-specific advances as buffers for these bottlenecks. Planning work to performance, and individuals’ and teams’ are recognised upgrade both the shaft conveyance and the chairlift down for their production and safety efforts, has been the sub-decline is underway. introduced and has been well-received. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 23 Board Initiative 5: housing and accommodation IN FOCUS: South Africa’s historically entrenched system of migrant labour in the mining industry has meant that – for many decades – unskilled and semi-skilled employees were recruited largely from rural areas across southern Africa. This migrant labour system lies at the root of one of the more complex social problems facing the southern African mining industry today. Historically, mineworkers were accommodated in highdensity single-sex hostels. Until the 1980s, many worked only occasional 12-month contracts, with income used to supplement subsistence farming. A portion of their salaries was repatriated to their families. Since then workforce has become more stable, with mine workers returning year after year. Over the past decade and more, there has been a substantial move by Lonmin to accommodate employees in modern, lower density single and family accommodation that employees can rent at an affordable rate. This transition has been supported and, latterly driven, by the requirements of the Mining Charter. This conversion of existing structures has meant that fewer people can be accommodated in these facilities. Further, in response to union requests to offer employees accommodation choices, and to encourage employees to seek their own accommodation, the industry introduced living-out allowances a monthly subsidy that can be used to pay rent or buy housing of choice. While this has proved a popular choice We have rolled out solar panels at the Marikana houses to reduce the electricity costs. for employees, the unintended consequence has been that many employees have chosen sub-standard accommodation Challenges and food/nutrition in informal settlements owing to expedience, At Lonmin we are aware of the challenges associated with a lack of choice or as a result of affordability. addressing housing and accommodation. Among them are: • little or no interest in relocating, or home ownership by particularly migrant employees and, indeed, the continued Key statistics intention of migrant employees to settle in the areas of their • 23 hostel blocks converted in 2013. traditional homes when they retire; • 107 hostel blocks have been converted between 2008 and • the proliferation of informal settlements; 2013 which provide accommodation to 2,439 employees. • the increasing incidence of second families near the place • A total of 1,171 employees are accommodated in Lonmin of work; homes. In total, 297 have been sold. • high levels of employee indebtedness, combined with reckless lending, which also limits employees’ creditworthiness and their Housing and accommodation for all access to home finance, now and in the future; The challenge of providing decent housing and accommodation to • rising costs of building new houses, and rising costs of employees, their families and our surrounding communities is one renovating and maintaining existing accommodation; of immense proportion, and mirrors the housing shortages evident • lack of land and infrastructure in which to develop new housing at national and regional levels, particularly in government-identified projects, combined with a severe municipal service delivery priority areas. Addressing this issue must involve collaboration constraints; between the mining industry as a whole, government and other role • continued migration of people to mining areas, seeking direct or players, with employees also taking and making appropriate choices. indirect employment; Our housing strategy is based on the following pillars: • a lack of infrastructure in and around local communities; • few or no community facilities for local communities, which diminishes employees’ interest in settling in these areas; Integrated Human Settlement Strategy • lack of capacity in the local municipalities; and • unaffordability of housing, both to own and rent. Planning for Transforming Affordable There are 1501 hostel blocks on Lonmin’s property. Of these, future housing existing structures housing 22 hostel blocks were converted between 2003 and 2008, and 107 2 requirements were converted thereafter. A further five hostel blocks were converted see: see: see: to accommodate employees during training sessions at the Vulindlela Hostel conversions Home ownership The way forward centre in Middlekraal. 24 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Hostel conversions Human Settlements and other government task teams. Through this partnership we have the opportunity to leave a positive legacy No of blocks in the communities around our operations. Blocks converted prior to 2008 22 To improve living conditions in Marikana, we donated 50ha of Conversions in 2008 29 serviced land to the Department of Human Settlements. These Conversions in 2009 0 can be used to build rental units for employees currently renting in Conversions in 2010 5 the community. We will continue to seek partners to address this Conversions in 2011 26 complex issue. Conversion to accommodate trainees attending the Vulindlela training centre 5 Objectives Conversions in 2012 193 We will complete the remaining 21 hostel conversions by the end of 2014, having invested a total of R81 million in 2013 and Conversions in 2013 233 committing to R93 million for 2014. Our aim remains to convert all Total blocks not converted that will be hostel blocks by 2014. converted in 2014 21 1 We reported 146 blocks in previous reports. However this figure did not Hostel blocks are deemed to be converted when completion take into account four hostel blocks which were converted prior to 2008 at certificates have been issued. Two of the blocks included in the our EPL operations. 2013 figure were issued with certificates at the beginning of 2W  e reported four hostel block conversions at our EPL operations in October 2013, which is slightly beyond our reporting period. 2004. However, a further 18 blocks at Wonderkop were converted Hostel conversions between 2003 and 2008. Between 2008 and 2013, we have converted 107 hostel blocks into 3 Our Sustainable Development Reports reporting period reflects financial both single and family units. Of these, 234 were converted during the year; however when we report to the regulator we report against the course of 2013, at a cost of R81 million (2012: R89 million). calendar year. In the Sustainable Development Report 2012 we report 19 blocks, but at the end of the 2012 calendar year we have converted 24 Units in the converted hostels are let for an average of R350 blocks as the five blocks were converted in our first quarter of financial year a month (including utilities), and, of the available units, all are 2013. These five blocks have been taken into account in the financial year currently let. The current living-out allowance paid to employees reported of 2013. amounts to R1,950 per month. Currently, 2,439 employees live 4T  wo hostel blocks were completed in early October, which is outside the in our converted hostels. The conversions in 2014 will provide reporting scope. housing to an additional 508 employees. Home ownership Of the 1,149 houses constructed under the Marikana Housing Development Company for sale to employees since 1999, 297 (or 25%) have been sold. In addition we have 369 houses next to Karee mine and 280 houses in Wonderkop that we let out to our employees. The purchase price of a house is R62,500. Lonmin provides assistance to employees to finance home ownership. Our houses currently accommodate 1,171 employees. Living-out allowance Around 92% of employees receive either a housing allowance or living-out allowance. We have undertaken our extensive financial literacy training, emphasising the importance of using this allowance correctly, and fully utilising the housing and accommodation options available to employees. We acknowledge the myriad of factors that affect this, including the that impact of rising food costs, transport and energy, combined with high level of indebtedness have on employees’ disposable income, and understand that the living-out allowance, like the greater issue of housing and accommodation, must be dealt with in the long-term. Transport All employees living within the GLC have access to safe, reliable and free transport to and from work, provided by Lonmin’s transport service. The way forward The board initiative stresses the importance of partnering with all levels of the government to achieve our goal of sustainable communities, including local government, the Department of Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 25 Ensuring safety and security at work Lost Time Injuries and Lost Time IN FOCUS: Injury Frequency Rate Employee safety is a fundamental part of Lonmin’s values and 8.0 800 a priority within our Company. Our target is Zero Harm, the ability to operate without injury every day. 6.0 461 600 Our safety strategy rests on three pillars: fatality prevention; 473 injury prevention; and safe production. Within each of these 419 5,04 6.21 372 LTIFR 5.87 pillars the strategy focuses on leadership, simplifying systems, 4.0 400 LTI 4.71 317 creating an enabling environment and creating a safety4.16 3.50 conscious culture. 2.0 200 0.0 0 09 10 11 12 13 In memoriam Financial year It is with great regret that we report that there were three fatal accidents in financial year 2013. These accidents resulted from Lost Time Injuries falls of ground, which remain one of our most significant safetyLost Time Injury Frequency Rate related risks. The board and management of Lonmin join our colleagues in Fatalities and Fatal Injury remembering: Frequency Rate • Mr Elson Ngomane, a Team Leader at Rowland Shaft who 7 0.07 0.07 started his career with Lonmin in 1983. On 15 April 2013 he 6 0.06 sustained multiple injuries following a fall of ground accident 6 Fatal injury frequency rate and was airlifted to Milpark Hospital in Johannesburg. 5 0.05 Following a few weeks in hospital on life support, Mr Ngomane 0.04 0.04 5,04 4 0.04 Fatalities passed away on 5 May 2013. He is survived by his wife and six children. 3 0.03 0.03 3 3 • Mr Gil Macamo, a grout operator at K3 Shaft, had worked 0.02 3 with Murray and Roberts for three years. On 26 April 2013 2 0.02 2 he was fatally injured in a fall of ground incident while 1 0.01 installing cement packs. He is survived by his wife and three children. 0 0.00 • Mr Ayanda Dziliyana, a rock drill operator at Saffy Shaft, 09 10 11 12 13 Financial year had worked at Lonmin since 2011. On 14 August 2013 he was trapped after a fall of ground at the end of a shift. He is Fatalities survived by his wife and three children. Fatal Injury Frequency Rate Despite the challenges of the past year, Lonmin set a new standard work to each team’s needs. Employees were encouraged to look at in safety performance during the first half of 2013, achieving where they work and make it safe, with supervision at all times. Any six million fatality-free shifts and 16 million fall-of-ground-free teams that were not able to cope received further training as we did shifts. This was not just a record for Lonmin but for the South not want the imperatives of production and safety to compete but, African industry as a whole, and we commend our teams for their rather, to co-exist. Our focus has been on re-establishing a safetyachievement. Our process division also had a record year for safety, conscious culture. achieving 2,709 days injury-free at the Assay Laboratory, and 1,638 injury-free days at the BMR. The primary causes of lost time injuries (LTIs) were material handling (21%) and falls of ground (17%). Most of the materials handling injuries relate to hands, and are believed to be behavioural-based accidents. We recorded 19,056 of days lost due to LTIs. The severity rate was 210.32, a pleasing year-on-year decrease of 8.6%. Key statistics • Regrettably, three fatal accidents during the year. Focus on relationships A significant feature of our improved performance was our focus on • 17 million fatality free shifts achieved in April 2013 at our relationships. Ensuring safety and security relies on a collaborative Marikana mining operation. effort. Our managers invested much time after the strike to ensure • LTIFR of 3.50 per million hours worked. that everyone felt safe underground. The main focus was on people • JD Ryan award at MineSafe for the safest mine in South Africa. rather than production, so we could adapt the transition back into 26 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Right to withdraw by imposing a section 54 stoppages if they deem conditions to Another feature of our safety initiative post start-up was the be unsafe. The number of section 54 stoppages imposed at our education and empowering of employees of their right to withdraw operations declined, from 37 stoppages in 2012 to 18 in 2013. from an unsafe working area. This right is embedded within South These safety stoppages resulted on around 74.5* shifts lost. African mining legislation and in our on-mine agreements. Given our focus on safety and optimising our operations, this is Internal stoppages are initiated by employees and by supervisors a pleasing outcome as a result of a combination of our start-up during inspection, and these stoppages are reported on a safety initiatives and conscious efforts to build relationships with weekly basis. Stoppages result from our Life Rules: early entry representatives of the DMR to better understand what is expected examinations; support installation and geological features; of our Company, and to proactively remedy potentially unsafe explosives control; winches and rigging; and trucks and tramming. mining conditions. Accountability Contractor and supply chain safety In terms of the South African Mines Health and Safety Act, the CEO Contractors’ safety is an integral part of our business. To improve is ultimately accountable for safety in our Company, while each line the efficiency and consistency of contractor safety management, manager is responsible for safety in the workplace. Lonmin, in partnership with Anglo American Platinum and Murray & Roberts, are to establish a contractor-manager association. It will The involvement of unions, employees, regulators and contractors be a non-profit organisation that creates a platform for the industry from the rock face to the level of the Mine Health and Safety to share best practice and promote an environment for learning and Committees are equally important. These committees meet on a effective contractor management. quarterly basis. Safety at home and work In 2013 there were 12 full-time safety and health stewards and Employees’ home environments can have a marked impact on 1,365 safety representatives in the workplace. safety, as a result of stress, substance abuse and fatigue. In 2013 Our approach to safety we looked specifically at fatigue management programmes, and are Our safety initiatives are guided by our Sustainable Development increasing awareness of injuries happening at home. Standards, and supported by Fatal Risk Control Protocols and the As a signatory of the UN Business for Peace initiative, Lonmin Safety and Sustainable Development Policy. is proud of our diverse workforce and, specifically, our female These standards provide a risk-based management framework employees. WIM structures are being implemented at various mines for company-wide safety management, in line with our strategy of that will go a long way to address, amongst others, safety and working towards improving safety and striving for best practice. security challenges being experienced by our female colleagues while underground. The standards align with the requirements of OHSAS 18001. Objectives The Du Pont principles remain an important part of our fatality In 2014, we aim to: prevention strategy. This is augmented by our safety leadership staircase, which makes safety everyone’s priority and creates a • Continue on our journey towards zero harm. careful chain of command for safety issues. • Improve our LTIFR by 5% (from a 2012 baseline). We have identified all the critical behaviours through the * Figure excludes stoppage at Karee clinic as it has no direct impact on participation of our employees. Behaviour cards that visually PGM production. demonstrate safety precautions have been distributed to all employees and these behaviours are monitored during Visible Felt Leadership visits and during supervisors’ inspections. Fatal Risk Control Protocols: Minimum performance expectations to manage the risk of fatalities at leading practice New initiatives levels. Fall of ground incidents remain a major contributor to our serious accidents. The roll-out of the Apply Lonmin Life Rules Response Visible Felt Leadership: The role of management as a Triggers (Allert) programme should help to prevent and/or reduce change agent and to facilitate a required safety culture. fall of ground accidents, with the focus being on safely identifying and treating potentially unsafe/unstable rock fall conditions Proximity detection system: A system used on large identified at the rock face. A system has also been put in place to machines to detect workers in low visibility and obscured escalate the potential hazard to a higher skills level should a team operator line-of-sight locations. not know how to deal with it. Allert: A tool that gives guidance on how to manage a fall of We have adopted the Mine Industry Occupational Safety and ground risk, provides training and empowers employees to Health (MOSH) leading practices and are in the process of rolling withdraw from unsafe conditions. out initiatives relating to Proximity Detection System, the Allert programme, Noise-Induced Hearing Loss programmes and initiatives related to bolts and netting. Section 54 stoppages Section 54 stoppages are work stoppages imposed by the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR), in terms of Section 54 of the Mine Health and Safety Act. Safety inspectors may halt the operations of an entire mine or parts of a mine or certain operations Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 27 Health and wellbeing IN FOCUS: We recognise the interdependence between health and safety. Effective health-management systems can reduce illnesses, injuries and medical expenses and significantly improve the quality of life and productivity of employees. Our healthcare initiatives are a strategic priority and focus on: employee health, including education initiatives to educate individuals and to encourage them to take responsibility for their health; occupational health, HIV/Aids, and tuberculosis (TB). We recognise that employees are part of their broader community and so community healthcare projects are also important. Hwelereng clinic in Limpopo. Healthcare strategy Clinics across the company provide primary and occupational Health forms part of our EVP and CVP programmes, aligning it with healthcare services. our Board Initiatives. It is a condition of service for Lonmin employees to have medical Our healthcare strategy was reviewed this year to meet employee insurance, ensuring access to medical care. Medical insurance expectations. We adopted the slogan “Your Health, Our Priority” is either paid for in full or subsidised by the Company. All Lonmin with the involvement of our employees. Our strategy is built on the employees are able to join a medical scheme, which fully covers the following five pillars: cost of their medical treatment and subsidises the cost of treatment for dependants. If employees choose their own medical aid scheme the • P  rovide preventative health programmes that promote healthy monthly payments towards this are subsidised by their medical benefit. choices, including managing occupational exposure risk profiles and occupational diseases. Our employee healthcare programme focuses on HIV/Aids and • E  nsure legal compliance in terms of risk-based medical and ART management, tuberculosis (TB), chronic disease, trauma and emergency care, everyday illness, and women’s health. On biological surveillance and fit-for-purpose business practices. average 18,000 consultations take place each month, and of the • P  roviding comprehensive principal healthcare and health 3,552 patients registered for chronic illness, 90% are controlled promotion to improve health outcomes in respect of TB, on treatment. HIV/Aids and other chronic diseases. • Provide customer-centred services. HIV/Aids • P  rovide sustainable interventions to enhance quality of life HIV/Aids-related conditions are the primary cause of mortality including community health initiatives. among in-service employees and continue to be a burden to employee and community health. Accountability The CEO is legally accountable for the health of our employees Our HIV/Aids policy and strategy addresses employee education, and contractors, while healthcare delivery is the responsibility of eliminating the stigma around the disease and ensure that any our health department. Supporting the CEO is the Executive Vice employees with HIV or Aids have the necessary medical and President for the Process Division and Sustainability. emotional support they need to live their lives to the fullest extent. Our objectives are to: Employee health All employees and contractors have access to the Andrew • Educate and inform about HIV/Aids. In total, 408 peer educators support our interventions. Saffy Memorial Hospital, which provides facilities for minor • Provide access to voluntary counselling and testing (VCT). In surgeries, casualty, out-patients and a pharmacy on site at our 2013, 17,682 HIV tests were conducted, and of these 11.4% Marikana operations. were HIV-positive. • Provide employees who are HIV-positive with medical and emotional support through our wellness programme. • Administer ART to patients who are HIV-positive. We offer Key statistics free ART to employees once their CD4 T-lymphocyte count • 3,288 employees on ART, with a default rate of 2%. drops below 350. This year 3,288 people participated in this • TB cure rate of 82%, against a target of 85%. programme. We also offer ART for life to ensure employees are • R151.3 million spent on employee health initiatives. able to access this medication once they retire. If employees • R26.6 million spent on HIV/Aids prevention and resign, are retrenched or dismissed we continue with this or management. provide referral to those that cannot collect it from our facilities. • Ratio of employees to workplace peer educators of 70:1. • Ensure equitable treatment for those infected, in line with the law, company policies and agreements. 28 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Tuberculosis (TB) We introduced physical and functional work capacity testing We continue to screen for TB during annual occupational health in 2008 as a means of ensuring that all recruits are capable of examinations, and provided treatment when necessary. TB contact performing their jobs without health or injury risks. The tests include tracing helps us to monitor and control the disease, and this project cardio-respiratory function assessments, along with job-specific has been extended to the community during the year. capability tests. In 2013, we achieved a cure rate of 82% for cases where the Noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL) treatment outcome is known, against a target of 85%. We identified NIHL remains our primary occupational health risk and a critical 446 new cases of TB in 2013; 24 cases of multi-drug resistant TB priority. This year, initiatives to reduce NIHL included new Personal Protective Equipment which provided appropriate protection for were recorded and there were no cases of extremely drug resistant specific levels of noise, our rock drill silencing programme, medical tuberculosis (2012: 11 and 0). surveillance, and additional training and feedback. Occupational health and hygiene Despite these efforts the diagnosis of new cases of NIHL rose by Our occupational health and hygiene initiatives are aimed at 14% to 48 cases in 2013. Reasons for this increase include that reducing the risk of exposure to potentially hazardous working some cases were recorded in older employees who had prolonged conditions, as well as constantly improving working conditions exposure to noise, as well the possible hearing-loss side effects and meeting regulatory compliance in terms of risks such of HIV and TB infections and the medication used to treat them. as noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL), occupational asthma, We have established a hearing conservation steering committee to dermatitis and TB. monitor and develop programmes to address this going forward. Patients on anti-retroviral Tuberculosis (diagnosed and treated) Noise-induced hearing loss treatment (diagnosed and compensated) 3,500 600 60 3,288 3,000 500 528 545 527 50 48 472 2,500 446 45 45 Number of patients 2,510 400 40 42 Number of cases Number of cases 40 2,000 2,022 35 36 33 300 30 1,500 28 1,349 200 20 1,000 962 17 500 100 10 0 0 0 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Financial year Financial year Financial year Diagnosed Compensated Addressing community health We understand that our employees’ health is not only affected by their time at work, but also from external influences at home. By working closely with local communities and the Department of Health we are able to identify and address health needs in the areas, and monitor their effectiveness in the short-, mediumand long-term.  GLC health survey undertaken in 2006 and reviewed during 2012, revealed that community ill health often related to lack of piped A water, use of pit latrines, burning wood for cooking and heating, burning of waste, single room dwellings and risky sexual behaviour. In June 2013, we conducted a door-to-door campaign to address these issues, and to educate local communities on environmental health, which reached 4,077 households. A number of key issues were addressed, such as air pollution and waste management, and this initiative will be monitored as part of on-going health promotion projects in the GLC.  ther community health initiatives in 2013 include numerous infrastructure projects, nutrition projects and the TB outreach project. O R5.7 million was spent on community health initiatives of which R2.9 million was specifically on health infrastructure. Objectives We continue to work towards our 2014 health targets, as most of our health targets came to an end in 2013. These include: • D ecrease the number of new NIHL cases by 10% (from a 2012 baseline year). • Increase the ratio of active workplace peer educators to employees to 1:75. • Achieve a TB cure rate and treatment completion rate of 85%. • Bring the percentage of ART defaulters to be below 5%. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 29 Employee development and talent management IN FOCUS: Key statistics Our focus on skills development and talent management is • 48 hours of annual training, on average, with 23,519 crucial in South Africa, where we face a historical legacy of employees and 10,353 contractors receiving training during inadequate education which has left a large majority of the the year. population illiterate and which is, in regard to many key roles, a • R202 million spent on employee training this year, which skills scarce environment. comprises 3.24% of the annual payroll. Further, in line with the Mining Charter we have an obligation to • 8% of our employees are women, with 5.09% of these transform our workplaces. The Charter requires that, by 2014, women working in core mining positions. 40% of our management per level are HDSAs; and 10% of our • 47% HDSA, including white women in management. core mining employees are women. • 296 community members attended ABET. Training and skills develop is an important area of work, and an area where mining activity can make a positive and lasting legacy. Our focus on training and development therefore Accountability benefits both the community and the company in the short, Training and development of employees is the responsibility of the medium and long term. Executive Vice President: Human Capital, who reports directly to During 2013, however, the Marikana tragedy and the the CEO. restructuring had a major impact on our ability to provide Local recruitment training, meaning a reduction in our annual hours. While we endeavour to recruit as many people from our communities as possible, this process is complicated by skill scarcities and migrancy patterns. Furthermore, it is unsustainable Skills-scarce environment to focus purely on job creation in a community that needs skills We aim to offer equal opportunities to all employees, and training. As a result we also focus attention on community skills encourage training to ensure our employees can develop their transfer to ensure that outside Lonmin employment, people can still skills and careers. We also focus on skills development in the local benefit from our presence. community as we recognise the high level of unemployment and illiteracy in the GLC and endeavour to play our role in changing this. Focus areas for development of skills in local communities include: From this base, our training and transformation strategy have been • Education programmes for learners, teachers and parents from developed in line with the Mining Charter requirements and our own childhood development stage up to tertiary education. Social and Labour Plan (SLP) targets. This strategy focuses on: • Adult Basic Education and Training (ABET), portable skills training and artisan training for all community members to try increase skill • A  ttracting and retaining the right people for the right jobs, sets and to stimulate local economies. through thorough recruitment, competitive remuneration and • Community members have been trained on mining-related skills successful retention through effective talent management and enterprise development. programmes which recognise and develop employees to meet career goals. This year we have spent R6.93 million on education initiatives in the • E  ffective employee and development that grows skills and talent community and R9 million on community training programmes. within our Company. Expanding skills • C  reating a performance culture in which employees feel Our Adult Basic Education Training (ABET) programme is aimed motivated and empowered to achieve their and our Company’s at improving general education of adults and closing the gap historical goals, in line with Company values. education inequality has left. Through the Lonmin Training Academy We provide our employees with competitive remuneration, within we offer full-time and part-time ABET classes to provide employees the market we operate. Currently, an underground entry level and community members with the opportunity to become functionally worker earns a basic guaranteed wage of R9,611 per month, literate and numerate. This year we trained 658 employees and 296 before taxes, bonuses and additional allowances. This is made up community members. as follows: Our learnership programme provides technical skills training to both employees and community members. During 2013, we provided Basic wage: 60% 181 learnerships, including 24 to community members. Living out/accommodation allowance 30% Portable skills training refers to skills that are transferable across industries, such as bricklaying, motor mechanics, welding, driving Value of medical benefits 6% skills and agricultural skills, and are provided to community members Employer contribution to pension fund 9% and employees close to retirement age or affected by restructuring. In total, 232 employees and 154 community members received this Holiday leave allowance 5% training in 2013. For more details please see our Marikana website To meet current and future human resource and transformational (www.lonminmarikanainfo.com). needs we have set up the Lonmin bursary scheme to ensure we are 30 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 able to recruit, develop and retain competent individuals well into Providing equal opportunities the future. We have had programmes in place for a few years to ensure a fair and representative employment-equity profile to meet the Mining Bursaries are offered to students who wish to pursue a career in Charter 2014 targets. At the end of September 2013 Lonmin had mining or mining-related disciplines, with preference being given 47% HDSAs, including white women, in permanent management to candidates who are Historically Disadvantaged South Africans positions. Of our workforce 8% are women, with 5.09% in (HDSAs) and GLC members. Currently we have 35 graduates from core mining positions. We had a 4.7% decrease of HDSAs in this project employed within our company. During the year we management, including white women due to the restructuring at allocated 86 bursaries: 44 (51%) are from the GLC. management level that resulted in positions being made redundant. Our talent management structure focuses primarily on a formal Objectives mentorship programme, in which a mentor enhances the We at Lonmin set targets in 2011 which were aligned to the revised mentee’s career by building practical skills and knowledge, mining charter for 30 September 2014 and remain in place for the and Individual Development Plans (IDPs), which facilitate coming year. These are to: the construction of specific, tailored development plans for • Increase women employed at the mine to 10%. employees. In September 2013 we had 63 active mentorships • Ensure HDSAs, including white women, make up 40% of each and 2,205 IDPs in place (of which 59% were HDSA). management level. Adult basic education and training Number of learnerships HDSAs in management (employees, contractors and (including white women) (%) community members) 52 1,500 Mining Division 45 50 49.4 48 Process Division 48 47.2 1,139 1,000 46 46.5 Percentage 942 954 Technical 10 44 Number Services 793 43.3 42 603 Engineering 54 41.3 500 40 Community Members 24 38 36 0 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Financial year Financial year The Vulindlela training centre in Middlekraal. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 31  Early childhood development is a building block of education. As a result Lonmin invested in training for nine educators in school readiness assessments. 32 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Working with communities Social and Labour Planning In Focus GLC communities face many challenges, with high levels We understand that our business has a finite life span and unemployment levels and poverty, as well as low levels of literacy that we have a responsibility to the communities in which and education. We have sought to address these specific issues we operate and from which we draw labour to ensure that through our Social and Labour Plans (SLPs), which form the basis we create sustainable communities and leave a lasting for our community investment programme. legacy when our operations cease. Value of SLP community projects We have reviewed our approach to community projects (Rm) and engagement, elevating community empowerment 40 39.7 38.6 to a Board Initiative – see page 18. We need to manage 37.9 expectations, deliver on promises and really understand 32 what communities want and need from us. We seek honest, 28.7 28.1 healthy and beneficial relationships between our Company 24 R million and our communities now and in the future. 16 We contribute to our communities – around our operations and in labour-sending areas to address the historical inequalities 8 of economic opportunity, education and infrastructure, and to address current challenges of healthcare provision, poverty, 0 unemployment and lack of schooling. 09 10 11 12 13 Financial year While there can be some debate about the role that industry should play in what is traditionally considered the remit of Community spend 20131 the state, we recognise that the lack of social delivery will (Rm) continue to have an effect on our communities and on our relationship with them. 35,7 Education (schools) 6.9 Skills development 9.1 Community health 5.1 Accountability Local economic development 32.0 2 Responsibility for our commitments to the GLC lies with the Sport, art and culture 1.3 Executive Vice President: Communications and Public Affairs, who Donations 2.8 reports to the CEO. Supplier development 3.9 Other infrastructure 10.5 We engage with members of the GLC before new projects are projects Overheads 2.1 introduced, hold monthly meetings with ward councillors and use these formal channels to deal with community suggestions, queries and complaints. Any new projects also have to be developed in 1 The graph above excludes community projects we invested in through our Limpopo operations and Pandora Joint Venture. partnership with or approved by the relevant municipalities and 2 Includes other expenses such as salaries and wages. government departments. Education, a lasting legacy Our Community Education Programme takes a holistic approach to education, addressing six pillars: Key statistics • R38,661,225 spent on SLP community projects • development and maintenance of local school infrastructure; in 2013.* • student support; • 260 learners participated in schools support programme. • educator support; • 72 learners participated in our tertiary and technical • parent support; preparedness programmes. • our school nutrition programme; and • sports, arts and culture. • 154 community members equipped with portable skills training. • D eveloping the Community Value Proposition (CVP), which This approach relieves the burden on any one part of the education involves extensive engagement with our communities, and system, and allows all involved to play an active role in improving will use this as a basis to ensure we are fulfilling the needs of education. While the demand for assistance in the GLC is greater those around us in the best possible way. than what we as a single company can provide, we remain * This figure is only for community projects that are part of our SLP committed to this cause and will increase support structures as and commitments for WPL and EPL. when we are able, and will continue to work with national authorities in this regard. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 33 Working with communities continued A sports facility in Wonderkop, built by Lonmin, being grassed. Local schools infrastructure development Supporting learners to be the best they can be Lonmin’s improvement of local schools’ infrastructure and facilities Our learner support programme for learners in the GLC has started included expenditure on: to yield positive results, with a consistent improvement in matric pass rates. Learner support is provided through three platforms: • upgrading electricity supply in Mogale High School; • improving ablution facilities at Sonop Primary School; • Ithutheng Saturday School, our flagship curriculum support • u pgrading electricity supply facilities at Kgwanyape Primary programme, is for top learners in Grade 12. School; and • Examination preparedness and support (EPS) provides extra • upgrading administration blocks at four schools in the GLC. classes for Grade 12 students who do not participate in Ithutheng. This takes place on Saturday and during the holidays, We continued to maintain our computer class rooms in the GLC. and helps students work through the curriculum and prepare for These classrooms hold 638 computers across 21 schools. exams. • A holiday programme for promising Grade 4 to Grade 7 learners. Rewarding excellence This is a supplementary primary support programme that builds In recognition of the outstanding results pupils achieved in on what the students have learnt at school. the 2012 Grade 12 exam, Lonmin undertook the construction All of our learner-support programmes offer transport and two of sports amenities – for soccer, netball and volleyball at meals, to assist students’ attendance. During the year 260 students a high school in Wonderkop. The local primary school also participated in the Ithutheng and EPS programmes. has access to these facilities. This project was completed by a local, black-owned construction company, Etirele, and Lonmin has also introduced a tertiary preparedness programme is expected to be handed over to the Department of Basic for top learners to help their transition from school to tertiary Education by the end of 2013. education. The programme is split into a university stream and a technical stream, allowing students to take one or two initial We have also set up and sponsored a soccer and netball courses. The students in the university stream then qualify for the tournament and 26 schools participated, with about bursary pipeline, while the students in the technical stream qualify 1,400 learners joining the games. for the learnership pipeline. In 2013 the university preparedness programme hosted 72 students. 34 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Educating the educators recently able to purchase its own new brick-making machine to Lonmin’s educator-support system comprises on-site and off-site go with the two Lonmin had previously donated. While we still teacher training. A specific focus area during the last year was the offer some assistance to the project its growth has been positive training of 42 life-orientation teachers to administer aptitude testing, and it is hoped that it will be an independent business within the and to provide career guidance. next two years. • The servicing of 26,500 households and 5,400 informal houses We provided nine crèche teachers with early childhood across the GLC, which we run in partnership with Tedcor. The development and school readiness training, and trained 50 project has created 40 long-term jobs and established four educators in the South African Curriculum Assessment Policy SMEs. Statements. • Developed a Modderspruit facility, Ipopeng Service Centre that Local economic development will have a feeding centre, office, and a place for bead work. One of the most visible ways in which we can contribute to • While our focus tends to be on long-term sustainable communities is by improving their infrastructure and facilities. infrastructure projects we also try to help out in emergencies Lonmin plays a significant role in stimulating the local economy, and and specific cases where we can. In June 2012 winter fires our local economic and enterprise development (LED) projects are destroyed four homes in Madibeng, Bapong, Wonderkop and designed in partnership with local authorities to ensure long-term Segwaelane. We committed ourselves to rebuilding these homes value creation. and we recently completed the houses. During 2013 we started or continued working on a number of Objectives projects in the GLC and our labour-sending areas, including: For 2014, we have the following objectives: • C  onstruction of a school, Mnxekazi JSS in the Eastern Cape, • W e will be developing our SLPs for the next five year period in that will consist of seven classrooms, a nutrition centre and two conjunction with stakeholders. grade R classrooms. The school will be equipped with a science • We will also be implementing our CVP, which involves extensive laboratory and a multi-media centre. engagement with our communities, and will use this as a basis • A  brick-making facility near Marikana, that is close to being to ensure we are fulfilling the needs of those around us in the self-sustaining. The project employs 42 local people, and was best possible way. See page 18 for further details. Black umbrellas nurture small businesses In an endeavour to create a pool of sustainable businesses within the GLC, Lonmin is partnering with the Shanduka Black Umbrellas (SBU). The SBU Incubator will develop 100% black-owned smallto medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) situated in and around the Marikana mining operation. The SBU will provide business support services to local SMEs and suppliers already registered on Lonmin’s vendor list. In the first year of operation, the SBU will seek to target and register 36 local entrepreneurs. There are three parts to the incubation programme, namely: selection; pre-incubation; and full incubation. The selection process is a rigorous one, which includes an entry, a workshop and an interview. Once a candidate has successfully passed this they will join the three month pre-incubation programme that allows them to prepare an achievable business plan. Following this, suitable candidates progress to the full incubation phase. The services provided by the SBU Incubator include: • providing subsidised office facilities; • training and mentorship programme; • facilitating access to procurement; • finance and networking opportunities for local entrepreneurs; • access to post-graduate support once they have completed the incubation; and • connection with the country-wide network of businesses in incubation. The SBU Incubator is situated at Lonmin’s Community Development Offices in Mooinooi. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 35  Net cash distributed this year was US$ 1,053 million. 36 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Creating and distributing value In Focus Our economic impact is both direct and indirect. Our value-added statement below shows our direct financial impact, but the indirect value is far more difficult to quantify. Lonmin’s indirect economic value is delivered mostly through: • employment opportunities created, and the financial benefits that then accrue to employees and their dependants; • infrastructure development projects we invest in and the enabling environment that this kind of development creates; • skills development and training programmes we offer, which open a variety of economic opportunities for recipients; and • our supply chain policies that arise as a result of our activities and our policies of empowering black-owned and locally based suppliers where possible. According to Statistics South Africa, each wage-earning person living in the communities around our operations supports between three and four dependants. Applying this to our 28,379 employees and 10,042 contractors, Lonmin can be estimated to support approximately 150,000 people, simply as an employer. Key statistics • 2014 Mining Charter targets exceeded on procurement of capital and consumable goods. • Shanduka Black Umbrellas business incubation centre opened. • Total discretionary expenditure with BEE companies, as defined in the Mining Charter, was R4 billion. Value-added statement1 2013 2012 $ Variance $m $m % Net cash generated Customers, consumers and investment income Cash received for products 1,529 1,663 (8) Cash returns on investment 1 4 (75) Suppliers2 Cash payments for materials and services purchased (443) (690) (36) Cost of borrowings (34) (31) 10 Net cash flows 1,053 946 11 Cash distributed Human capital (salaries & benefits) 742 755 (2) Social capital 7.93 10 (21) Donations 0.2 0.4 100 Other community projects4 7.7 9.6 (20) Government taxes 37 30 23 Directors’ remuneration 3 4 (25) Shareholders’ distribution – 31 (100) Cash retained for growth 263 116 127 Net cash distributed 1,053 946 11 1 Figures in this table are shown in US$, with the conversion rate to South African Rands of R9.24/US$. 2 We have a 30-day payment policy on services and procurement. 3 This includes the expenses on the Social and Labour Plan community projects, donations and other community investments. 4 This includes salaries and administrative costs. Distribution of cash to stakeholders Destination US$m Cents in the dollar Payments to employees (including Directors) 745 49 Payments to suppliers* 443 29 Payments to government 37 2 Payments to/for communities 8 1 Payments to bank lenders (interest etc) 34 2 Cash retained for reinvestment 263 17 Reconciling to: Cash earned in the year 1,530 100 * A significant proportion will be wages paid to contractors. We estimate around 60% of our costs are labour related. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 37 Creating and distributing value continued We have installed kiosks and a self-service booth where employees can view and print their payslips. Business optimisation The restructuring is anticipated to realise annualised cost savings of From a business perspective, the challenges we faced in the around R200 million from the 2014 financial year. aftermath of the Marikana tragedy were unprecedented both in their nature and their scale. We lost approximately 110,000 ounces Capital to sustain and grow of PGMs value as a result of the six-week shut down, and the Lonmin’s combined capital expenditure over the last five years has damage to our reputation and to the reputation of the industry amounted to R11,343.3 million. In 2013 capital expenditure was and the country as a whole was immeasurable. Added to that are R1,500.3 million, which was divided in the following way: the persistent mining input cost increases related to escalating • Mining Division: R930.1 million (62%) electricity, labour and consumables prices in South Africa, the continued slow-down in global demand for PGMs and the poor • Processing Division: R462.5 million (31%) economic conditions that have prevailed in 2013 generally, all of • Other: R107.7 million (7%) which combine to threaten our drive to optimise value. It is expected that in 2014 capital expenditure will total about The Lonmin Renewal Plan was devised to account for this R1.83 billion. environment and incorporate a strategy not only to rebuild trust Capital expenditure among our people but also to consider a new path for cementing (Rm) the sustainability of the business as a whole. The EVP and CVP are 3,500 complemented by the Financial Value Proposition within the Lonmin 3,296 Renewal Plan and the supporting Board Initiatives. 3,000 2,844 The Financial Value Proposition includes: 2,500 • cost management; 2,000 2,081 R million 1,983 • operating model review: management restructuring; 1,500 1,500 • implementing the Theory of Constraints approach; • productivity; and 1,000 • improving our use of invested capital and infrastructure. 500 Management restructuring 0 At the end of 2012, after a thorough review of operational 11 2 3 12 13 management structures and their associated costs, we retrenched Financial year 53 management employees. We assisted affected employees by providing counselling, and financial planning advice and access to employment advisors. 38 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Royalties paid required to meet by 2014. These targets are 70%, 50% and 40% For over 18 years, we have paid royalties into a trust on behalf of respectively. the Bapo Ba Mogale Community. These royalties are based on the We pursue our Preferential Procurement Strategy as a Group taxable income generated from the PGMs mined from property priority, with a focus on maximising expenditure with locallyowned by EPL, as well as from the Wonderkop surface area. Funds are paid to the Department of Finance of the North West Provincial based suppliers and using our procurement criteria to support our Government, which retains this money in trust on behalf of the environmental, safety, health and community programmes. Bapo Community. South Africa is faced with a history of poor education, a critical skills shortage and insufficient socio-economic infrastructure to facilitate Royalties paid R million entrepreneurial upliftment. This makes established non-HDSA State royalties 76.6 suppliers difficult to replace. It therefore becomes our responsibility Royalties payable to Bapo* 0.5 both to encourage change within those suppliers and to reach Total 77.1 out and lay the foundations upon which a solid HDSA vendor base can be built, creating the environment in which meeting our * The royalties payable to the Bapo Community were at a minimum rate as procurement targets is a realistic possibility. calculated based on taxable income. We are steadily increasing our discretionary expenditure with Empowerment though procurement The Mining Charter seeks to accelerate the participation of HDSAs companies with a higher proportion of black ownership and in the mainstream economy, in line with the Broad Based Black especially black female ownership. This will become a new strategic Economic Empowerment Act 53 of 2003 and the Preferential focus area, and some benchmarking with other mines in the area is Procurement Policy Framework Act 5 of 2000.The Charter contains currently being planned. We have already begun to concentrate on targets for expenditure with HDSA-owned1 suppliers in services, building up more 50% black-owned small and medium enterprises consumable goods and capital goods, which mining companies are in the GLC. Preferential procurement of Preferential procurement of Preferential procurement of capital goods (%)2 consumable goods (%)2 services (%)2 80 80 80 Percentage of discretionary spend Percentage of discretionary spend Percentage of discretionary spend 70 70 72 70 69 68 60 64 60 60 64 58 54 55 50 50 50 50 48 40 40 41 40 30 30 30 28 20 20 20 10 10 10 0 0 0 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 10 11 12 13 Financial year Financial year Financial year Performance Performance Performance Target 40% Target 50% Target 70% Preferential procurement strategy Partnerships between Awarding community local HDSA companies Access to finance infrastructure projects to and our existing suppliers and mentorship to local businesses to assist to build capacity in local HDSA companies. them in developing their HDSA companies. expertise beyond mining 1 HDSA-owned suppliers were redefined in the revision to the Mining Charter published in 2010, as suppliers with a minimum of 25% + 1 vote HDSA ownership under a flow-through principle, instead of companies that are owned or controlled by HDSAs as had previously been the case. 2 In 2009 we were reporting the percentage of our procurement with HDSA suppliers as an overall percentage (66.6%) in our Sustainable Development Report. We began reporting on percentages of discretionary expenditure spent on capital goods, consumables and services from 2010 onwards. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 39  A member of the Lonmin team participates in a clean-up campaign as part of Mandela Day. 40 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Respect for our environment More than 18,000 specially designed 6 Watt LED lamps were issued to replace 13 Watt Compact Fluorescent lamps. Incident reporting IN FOCUS: Reporting of environmental incidents is mandatory, and We know that we are custodians and not owners of our all moderate and significant incidents (Level 3 and above) environment. We understand the value of natural capital, even are investigated according to the Incident Cause Analysis if we cannot always quantify it. Methodology (ICAM) and reported to the relevant government departments where applicable. All incidents are logged on the We recognise that, by its very nature, mining has adverse ISO14001 registers for each business unit, with investigation effects on the environment, and that is it is incumbent on us findings including recommended mitigation measures, as well as to prevent, mitigate or remediate any impacts. Our approach preventative steps implemented where necessary. to environmental management is a precautionary one, based on a sound assessment of potential risks and their mitigation In 2013, we recorded nine Level 3 incidents, a significant decrease throughout the life cycle and value chain of our operations. from the 19 incidents recorded in 2012, and no Level 4 and 5 incidents. This was due to a greater awareness of and alignment We seek legislative compliance as a minimum, while aiming for to our aim of reducing environmental incidents and we are leading industry practice and continual improvement. pleased with the decrease. E  nvironmental incidents are classified as Level 1, 2, 3, 4, or 5, with Accountability increasing severity and impact area. Level 4 and 5 incidents are Accountability for environmental management, including the risks deemed significant. A Level 3 incident is defined as an incident that associated with climate change, resides ultimately with our Board results in a moderate impact on the environment, where natural and Executive Committee, supported by management on both processes are notably altered but continue in a modified way. corporate and operational levels. Our Environmental Department Level 3 incident impacts are reversible within the lifetime of the ensures adherence to our Safety and Sustainable Development operation and are confined to mine property. Policy through the implementation of programmes, guidelines, standards and systems. Level 3 incidents 25 Key statistics 23 22 • ISO14001 certification maintained at all operations. 20 19 • 9 level three environmental incidents reported in 2013. • Energy consumption per unit of production decreased by 15 Number 5.7% year-on-year. • Fresh water consumption improved by 3.4% per unit of 10 9 production, year-on-year. 8 5 ISO14001 compliance 0 All our operations retained their ISO 14001 certification. We 09 10 11 12 13 encourage suppliers and contractors to establish and maintain Financial year systems that are consistent with our environmental practices. Contractors with on-site premises are audited on their environmental standards and form part of ISO 14001 systems and auditing. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 41 Respect for our environment continued Carbon emissions and climate change Our total carbon footprint for 2013 was 1,646,520 tonnes We are an intensive user of electricity and, due to South’s Africa’s CO2e, 4.7% higher than in 2012 (1,571,940 tonnes CO2e). As dependence on coal-fired power stations for electricity generation, Scope 2 emissions (93.5% of total emissions) make up such a of fossil fuels. PGMs, though, continue to offer significant significant proportion of our overall emissions profile, we focus opportunities in the context of the global fight against climate predominately on enhancing our energy efficiency in order to change. The most critical application of PGMs is the role played reduce our GHG emissions. by platinum in autocatalysts, which reduce the harmful exhaust emissions from car engines. Energy security and usage The demand for South Africa’s already stretched energy capacity Our Climate Change Response Strategy is based on the continues to increase and this is a continuing business concern identification and monitoring of the physical, regulatory, reputational for Lonmin. We remain cautiously confident that we have secure, and legal risks associated with climate change and the potential reliable power supply to support our operations and growth opportunities and the adaptation measures that we can embed plans until at least 2017. However, steep and rising increases in our operational and business practices to mitigate those risks. in electricity prices, together with imminent implementation of Regulatory risks being addressed are associated with new reporting carbon taxation place pressure on operational costs. requirements for LSE-listed companies and imminent implementation in South Africa of a national carbon tax scheme. Our focus is on improving operational energy efficiencies and GHG emissions are classified as Scope 1, Scope 2 and Scope 3 reviewing the business case behind renewable energy generation. emissions. Direct GHG emissions are emissions from sources We have amended our Energy Management Strategy to reflect that are owned or controlled by the reporting entity. Indirect GHG Total Cost of Ownership (TCO), which looks beyond the price tag emissions are emissions that are a consequence of the activities of electrical equipment, energy-related projects and awareness of the reporting entity but that occur at sources owned or campaigns and considering the longer-term implications of our controlled by another entity. energy decisions. Source Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Scope 1: Direct emissions from operations that are owned or (CO2e) (CO2e) (CO2e) (CO2e) controlled by Lonmin. Marikana 98,887 1,469,220 3,210 1,571,316 Scope 2: Energy indirect emissions from the generation of PMR 2,421 18,828 158 21,407 purchased or acquired electricity, heating, cooling and steam Limpopo 592 52,047 – 52,640 consumed within Lonmin. Group – – 1,157 1,157 Scope 3: All indirect emissions that occur outside of Lonmin, both upstream and downstream. Total 101,900 1,540,095 4,525 1,646,520 Grid electricity consumption (MWh)* Energy consumption (TJ) and energy Scope 1 GHG emissions by source and efficiency (MWh/PGMoz) efficiency (TJ/PGMoz) (%) 1,600,000 1,25 6,800 9 5.2 3.2 1,555,651 6,700 6,740 8 1,550,000 1.19 1,20 6,600 6,613 7 1,496,841 1.16 1,500,000 1,481,744 1,485,630 1,16 6,500 6,533 6 41.5 MWh/PGMoz 5.04 TJ/PGMoz 1,450,000 1,12 6,400 6,433 5 5.31 4.73 4.77 50.1 MWh 4.52 1 400 000 1,07 TJ 6,300 4 1,380,218 1.1 6,200 6,215 3 1,350,000 1.05 1,03 1.03 6,100 2 Mobile combustion 1,300,000 0,99 6,000 1 Stationary combustion 1,250,000 0,95 5,900 0 Explosives 09 10 11 12 13 09 10 11 12 13 Financial year Financial year Non-combustion product use Electricity consumption Energy consumption Electricity efficiency Energy efficiency * One Terajoule = 1,000 Gigajoules One Megawatt hour = 0.0036 Terajoules 42 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Energy efficiency projects We have a number of energy-efficiency projects underway, in conjunction with and partially funded by Eskom: • F ull roll-out of optimised air networks at Karee, Rowland and Easterns has reduced our electricity load by 7.18MW, hence an avoided cost of R27.9 million. • Lighting retrofit at Lonmin Platinum Division (LPD) offices in Marikana has amounted to load reduction and associated cost reductions of 0.334MW and R0.21 million. • Heat pump rollout at change houses has resulted in a 1.35MW load reduction and a R 3.08 million avoided cost, calculated at 2013 tariff rates. • Installation of 45kW energy efficient fans have contributed consumption and cost savings of 0.9MW and R 0.68 million respectively. • Installation of energy efficient lighting underground has enabled us to achieve a 0.08MW reduction. • Compressed air initiative including using the most efficient means of generating compressed air and further optimising the compressor control system and networks, is recording on-going energy and load reductions. Projects launched in 2013 include the following: • T he environmental authorisation for a 1MW solar plant as a trial of on-site generation at the LPD is in process. The plant will be built by a contracted energy savings company which will sell us the generated power through a Power Purchase Agreement. This plant will serve as a trial to determine the feasibility of solar power generation for other applications within our organisation. It is planned for completion in 2014. • A feasibility study initiated in August 2013 to determine whether the PMR in Brakpan, could be fully/partially migrated off the national grid completely using a natural gas-fired fuel cell solution as an alternative is underway. Such a project would be the first of its kind in South Africa and would provide valuable insight into Africa’s potential to increase its own power producing capacity using its vast untapped natural gas fields. The study is due for completion in 2014. • A focus on further lighting optimisation is underway. • In 2014, we will embark on a communication campaign among our workforce and in partnership with Eskom, to support Eskom’s 49M initiative, which aims to get 49 million South Africans to embrace energy savings as a national culture, not only in the workplace, but at home as well. 49M is endorsed by government and several business partners. Atmospheric emissions TSP arise from various sources, most notably tailing storage facilities Our primary atmospheric emissions are sulphur dioxide (SO2) and (TSFs), stacks, general mining activities (such as drilling and blasting), total suspended particulates (TSP), which include particulate matter materials handling, crushing and screening and from vehicle (PM10 and PM2.5) and total dust fall-out. movement on paved and unpaved roads. Dust fallout recordings are the result of a variety of sources. The majority of our SO2 emissions are released from the smelter at our Marikana operations. SO2 is associated with potential respiratory We have extensive suppression measures in place on our TSFs to health risks and can act as a precursor to various environmental manage particulates. These include irrigation, chemical suppression, hazards. side slope and surface grassing, hessian netting and covers. Our Our atmospheric emissions licence stipulates a variety of conditions performance and efficiency of dust suppression mitigation measures with which we need to comply, including an SO2 emissions limit of on all our tailings dams are externally audited every two years. 17.9t/d (as per our reduction strategy), an SO2 concentration level limit Dust fall-out is monitored on a monthly basis on and off site by an of 3,500mg/Nm3 and various air pollution control equipment availability independent service provider. and efficiency requirements. The increase from 2012 to 2013 was due to an increase in production and bypassing the sulphur fixation plant Land management (air control equipment for SO2) during February 2013 when essential From exploration and prospecting right through to closure, our maintenance was undertaken. We operated well below the emissions custodianship of the land and biodiversity under its management level conditions in 2013, recording average emissions of 11.88 tonnes is fully integrated into our operational and business strategies. Our per day and an average concentration of 889mg/Nm3. We maintain Land Management Forum, set up in 2012, is a valuable internal and monitor our air pollution control equipment on a continuous basis engagement platform that meets quarterly to discuss land-related to ensure that the necessary availability and efficiency is maintained. issues and other stakeholder concerns. We continued with the implementation of our SO2 and TSP We have 23,631 hectares of land under our management, which Emission Reduction and Fugitive Management Plan during 2013. includes operational areas supporting active mining and processing The plan to address the capture and measurement of fugitive activities, rehabilitated areas, and areas under exploration. atmospheric emissions, to ultimately establish the appropriate Management of all of these is audited regularly for compliance abatement equipment necessary to meet the requirements of the with Environmental Management Plans (EMPs), both internally 2015 and 2020 emission standards. and externally, with EMP performance assessments submitted to During 2013, the fitting of converters with secondary hoods was the DMR every two years. These EMPs contain comprehensive undertaken, which was completed. The function of the secondary rehabilitation plans for all of our open pits and disturbed land, hoods is to capture and stack 80% of the smelter SO2 fugitives which outline our commitment to on-going monitoring, repair and emissions targeting the reduction of ground level concentration of SO2. maintenance after pits have been fully rehabilitated. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 43 Respect for our environment continued Biodiversity and cultural heritage sites is still our primary means of recycling process water, and as far The biodiversity on our mining and prospecting areas is regularly as possible, we contain our process water in this closed system. reviewed through the flora and fauna component studies of We were able to recycle 31.2 million m3 of process water during EIAs and standard internal assessments. Biodiversity Action 2013 (2012: 26.87 million m3). Plans (BAPs) are in place at all of our operations which map the Lonmin owns and operates seven Waste Water Sewage Treatment biodiversity sensitivity of an area, in view of water requirements, Plants (WWSTP) at the Marikana operations. Two WWSTPs treat protected or endangered species, or any relevant threats from alien waste from GLC townships. All final effluent generated during the or invasive species. treatment process meets current standards on site, with all final Planning for closure effluent being used as input process water into our operations. Closure planning is a critical aspect of mine planning and development Although the provision and maintenance of sewage infrastructure is from the outset and is updated as the mine plan develops and a local government responsibility, we recognise the challenges faced changes. Mining companies are required to have access to by municipalities and support them where possible. An example is sufficient funds for scheduled closure, and for the possibility of the assistance provided by our Engineering Services team to clear sudden, unscheduled closure due to unforeseen circumstances. sewage blockages that are brought to our attention through our Approved closure strategies are in place at all our operations. formal stakeholder engagement structures, and the provision of tanker We are investigating the development of a regional-scale closure discharge points for the disposal and treatment of community effluent. strategy in collaboration with neighbouring mining companies and land-users. We are engaging with the National Department of Human Settlement on regional housing matters, where regional Fresh water consumption ('000 m3) and closure as well as spatial land use planning at the time of closure water efficiency (m3/PGMoz) will be critical. 9,000 8 8,800 8.885 7 Water – a scarce resource 6.42 6.09 6.20 Water scarcity is one of the greatest challenges to South Africa’s 8,600 6 8,668 economic development. This is particularly true in provinces such 5.47 8,400 5 as the North West and Limpopo where the infrastructural capacity m3/PGMoz 8,200 8.284 4 to store and transfer water is limited and where long periods of ‘000 m3 7.14 drought are common. Our Water Conservation and Water Demand 8,000 3 8.005 Management Strategy aims to: 7.912 7,800 2 • S ecure access to sufficient water to supply our operations and 7,600 1 sustain our Life of Business Plan. • Optimise our fresh water consumption and use process water 7,400 0 09 10 11 12 13 more efficiently. Financial year • Minimise the contamination of ground and surface water resources around our operations, with a view ultimately to Fresh water consumption reducing our closure liabilities. Water efficiency Water and the community Water scarcity and the lack of water storage and distribution Effective waste management infrastructure have a significant effect on the livelihoods of local Reducing the volume of our general and hazardous waste streams is community residents and are persistent stakeholder concerns. the primary focus of our Integrated Waste Management Plan (IWMP), which will be fully implemented by 2014. We promote the prevention We installed a water reticulation system in the GLC in the midof waste generation in the first place and the re-use, recycling and 1980s, and upgraded this in 1995 to supplement the area’s treatment of waste materials already generated. municipal capacity. This reticulation system transports 5.8Ml of water for communities every day. Key activities this year in the implementation of our IWMP were: Freshwater consumption and efficiency • Standardising planned waste system at Marikana and the PMR. We source our fresh water for the Marikana from Rand Water, • E  ntrenching waste separation systems at the main office block at which transports water over the Magalies Mountains to the the Marikana operations, the BMR and at our engineering offices. Rustenburg area from the Vaal Dam in Gauteng Province. In • Updated classification of a number of primary waste streams. Limpopo, our freshwater is drawn from the regional well fields. We • Review of waste contracts which are up for renewal. have an Integrated Water Use Licence (IWUL) in place that was Rock dumps and TSFs issued to Lonmin in October 2012. Rock dumps and TSFs are among the most visible waste streams We achieved our five-year water intake target of a 25% reduction from mining. Waste rock is disposed of at one of our 13 on-site waste from 2007 in 2012, and have set a new target to achieve a 15% rock dumps – an enormous task when considering that we generated reduction over five years against a 2012 baseline. 996kt of waste rock in 2013 (2012: 1,483kt). We continue to seek viable uses for this waste rock and have maintained our relationship Recycling and re-using water with the South African National Roads Agency, SANRAL, which Recycling and re-using process water is pivotal to our optimisation of purchases waste rock for road construction. We also supply finer freshwater consumption. The use of closed system reticulation material to a privately owned crusher plant on site. 44 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Hazardous waste small pockets of economic opportunity with the need for waste Our primary hazardous waste streams are calcium sulphite (CaSO3) separators. The first basic collection serviced offered to the GLC has and the acid as well as alkaline PMR effluent streams, with the resulted in 3,643 tonnes of waste removed from living areas in 2013. remainder comprising hazardous waste such as hydrocarbon contaminated waste, chemical waste and fluorescent lamps. Objectives Our environmental objectives remain in place – to: • C alcium sulphite (CaSO3) is a residue generated from the capture and treatment of SO2 emissions from our smelter, where lime • Comply with existing and new environmental legislation. (CaCO3) is added to neutralise and capture the emissions. This • Implement uniform and integrated systems across out operations. is most significant component of our hazardous waste stream • Use resources efficiently. and, while currently disposed of at a dedicated waste landfill site, • Minimise our environmental footprint, pollution, degradation research continues into alternative uses. and social liability by integrating short-, medium-and long-term • O ur PMR continues to reduce hazardous waste to landfill, by closure planning into operational environmental plans. recycling a large portion of the effluent. Around 21% of our acid • Strengthen relationships with stakeholders and enhance effluent is diverted to a rejuvenation plant and regenerated into a community wellness and development through the clean and usable input acid for the steel industry as a rust removal implementation of environmental community projects, agent. associated with our Environmental Community Care Campaign. Waste management in the community The GLC waste removal service, undertaken in collaboration with Recycling, re-use and recovered of general TedCor, has continued during the year and has now created its own waste (RRR) Since 2008, we have been able to achieve an approximate 60% diversion of general waste to landfill through the following Aquifer Storage and Recovery on-going RRR activities, in place at various business levels. Onor near-site capture of water has always been a challenge as a result of the inadequacy of infrastructure. Aquifer Storage We recycle, re-use and recover all industrial scrap metal, and Recovery (ASR) is a specific type of artificial recharge plastics, rubber including tyres and Personal Protective which could solve this problem. It involves the sub-surface Equipment (PPE) gumboots, and wood. We recycle or re-use storing of water in natural aquifers, to prevent losses due to all e-waste through the Lonmin Information Management evaporation, and is usually achieved by allowing water to Division. We re-use ash as a blending agent to treat hazardous penetrate the subsurface via infiltration basins or injection waste and for the second half of the year, have sent ash-waste boreholes and be recovered via the same borehole. (by-product) to local brick makers, to use as an input product. Batteries are returned to suppliers for recycling and all waste Of Marikana’s 34 opencast pits, 31 have been backfilled. oils are recycled at all operations through a partnership with These ‘anthropogenic aquifers’ are usually more porous than Oilkol. Recycling systems have been introduced at our on-site the surrounding rock and are often shallower and better mine office block to separate out recyclable waste, following a confined than natural aquifers, thereby creating ideal conditions successful pilot system last year. This initiative was extended to for the underground storage of large volumes of water. They the BMR in February 2013 and will be rolled out to the rest of are, by definition, near centres of mining activities and thus the Process Division in 2014. present significant water storage and re-use opportunities Waste is sorted at the salvage yard to ensure that discarded for the industry as a whole. This initiative was implemented equipment is recovered and re-used where possible. We at our central operations in May 2013 and is currently being are piloting the viability of composting our domestic sewage developed for implementation at our Karee opencast pits to sludge, wood chip waste and other organic waste streams, provide water to the Karee mining operations. with a view to using the resulting compost as part of our tailings dam rehabilitation programme. Monitoring water quality We have 211 borehole monitoring sites which we continue to check for potential groundwater contamination, quarterly at Marikana, bi-annually at Limpopo and the PMR. The groundwater samples are compared quarterly with SANS 241 Standards for drinking water and are also tested for electrical conductivity. Surface water quality is monitored monthly at 109 sites. These monthly samples are analysed for pH levels, total dissolved solids, suspended solids, electrical conductivity, water hardness and any presence of ecoli. A baseline audit was recently conducted with the issuing of our IWUL for Marikana. Internal compliance audits with any legal requirements and with our ISO-certifications are completed every two years. Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 45 Feedback from panel review For the second consecutive year, in line with our commitment to transparent third external scrutiny of our reporting, we again requested five independent experts to review our sustainability report while still in its draft form. Members of the panel were selected on the basis of their knowledge of our industry, our sector and sustainability issues and reporting. They reviewed a draft of –the contents of the abridged printed report. As will be seen from some facets of our response to their comments, they had not seen the more detailed online version of the report, and not all had read the 2012 report. In cases where we believe that those provide responses to comments made, their feedback did alert us to the need for cross-references to these other sources. Panel members were asked to bear in mind that Lonmin is committed to a certain level of disclosure, by virtue of its membership of the ICMM, and has committed to reporting in line with the GRI 3.1 guidelines to an A+ level of disclosure. None of the panel members are employed by the company, though one has done some consultancy work for Lonmin. Lonmin did not interact directly with the panel members although we were party to their selection; all evaluation and feedback was undertaken through an intermediary to preserve confidentiality and to encourage an open and robust exchange. The panel members were asked to review our report on the basis of the following: 1. Whether the report addresses the issues that they think are most material to Lonmin’s primary stakeholders, namely its investors, our employees, our communities and government? 2. Whether the report presents information in a balanced way? 3. Which issues you think require more detailed coverage and which issues do you think require less coverage? In addition to the issues raised below, panelists suggested numerous textual changes, many of which were accepted and, we believe, have improved the readability of the report. The primary areas of feedback were as follows: Issue Feedback Our response Marikana legacy Doubts were expressed whether the report grapples It was intended that the bulk of the report was focused adequately with the game-changing consequences on exactly that – the consequences of Marikana of Marikana directly enough, in particular the range and the company’s response. In response to this of socio-economic and political issues with which feedback, in a number of places this link was, made the event has come to be identified. It was felt that more explicit, including in the CEO’s letter, the context it is insufficient to defer to the ongoing work of the of the Lonmin Renewal Plan and the Stakeholder Farlam commission. The company should report on Engagement section. The front cover photograph, too, own perspectives, particularly on what Marikana was was taken at the first anniversary commemoration. and what it means for Lonmin’s future, its impact on Regarding the Farlam Commission, there is certain Lonmin’s people. detailed evidence intended to be presented to the commission by Lonmin that we believe should not be disclosed before then. That aside, we hope the impact that the events of 2012 have had on our thinking and planning are evident in the pages of this report. Human rights issues In response to panelists in 2012, Lonmin said it The report includes a section on Lonmin’s approach was “considering the implications of adopting and to human rights (see page 17). implementing voluntary global security and human rights guidelines, to further support our existing policies, procedures and values”. There are no indications of such consideration. Company v State In terms of the remedial work needed to address We carefully reviewed passages where such an responsibilities particularly the GLC’s housing issues, the company impression may have been created and made the needs to explain far more clearly its own role and partnership nature of our approach clearer. responsibilities versus the responsibilities of others in developing developmental infrastructure etc. Otherwise the company is in danger of explicitly taking on responsibilities that do not actually rest with it. Context and timelines The sustainability strategy and its various aspects do This is a complex matter to which we need to give not properly contextualise whether it is a 10-, 20or more thought. Nonetheless, we have provided 50-year programme (and life of mine) and where the greater context in respect of the life of mine. company is in that process 46 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Issue Feedback Our response Context and proportion Some of the data offer bold numbers without offering We have provided additional data and context which, context and proportion, such as the sections on we hope, goes some way towards remedying this housing and health. observation. Stakeholder participation It is necessary to elaborate on what role stakeholders The Lonmin Renewal Plan was devised by played in developing the Lonmin Renewal Plan, and management with consideration to key issues that to link it to the stakeholder engagement section are relevant to various stakeholders. Strategies arising from it, such as the Board Initiatives and their implementation, are subject to stakeholder consultation. We have provided more detail on this. Stakeholder engagement The stakeholder engagement section focuses on The section was reviewed and this issue addressed. process but fails to state what the purpose is of engaging stakeholders. Employee relations More substance required, rather than process, on We hope the review goes some way toward how the company has gone about seeking to repair addressing this question. employee relations after Marikana Migrant labour That thought is being given to remedy the migrant We acknowledge that the migrant labour system is labour system is welcome. But it is unclear how an an extremely complex phenomenon than with require “improved shift system” can work sustainably, and how far more than this to find the best solution. and whether it would remedy the ingrained patterns. Accountabilities Admiration is expressed for the CEO, as doing his Appropriate amendments have been introduced. best in a difficult environment. It would be informative and helpful to supply information on those executives responsible for implementation. Board issues and Relationship between the described Board Initiatives This has now been done. materiality and the company’s material issues needs to be made more explicit. Values and ethics There was no explanation of the company’s values, Our charter, mission and values can now be found nor any section on ethics. inside the front cover. Ethics are dealt with in the online report (http://sd-report.lonmin.com). Targets and baselines Greater consistency and clearer explanations are The Performance against Targets section was required of targets and baselines, a matter that has extensively revised. been the topic of NGO criticism. Lonmin extends its gratitude to the panel members for their considered and frank comments. We also welcome feedback from all stakeholders. Please send any feedback to: Dr Mel Mentz +27 (0)14 571 4561 mel.mentz@lonmin.com Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 47 Key performance statistics MeasureGroup Group Group Group Group ment 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Production PGMs produced oz 1,244,709 1,314,772 1,446,662 1,349,802 1,336,109 Employees Number 21,623 23,915 27,796 28,230 28,379 Contractors Number 10,497 9,131 9,564 8,293 10,042 HDSAs, including white women, employed in management on a permanent basis Percentage 41.3 43.3 46.5 49.4 47.2 Women employed in mining1 Percentage 2.9 3.22 4.33 5.11 5.09 Women employed at mining2 Percentage 6.8 7.04 7.45 8.15 8 Employee turnover rate Percentage 23.3 6.6 10.57 6.17 6.1 People attending ABET Number 1,139 793 6033 9424 954 Occupational health and safety: employees and contractors Fatalities Number 3 3 6 2 3 Lost time injury frequency rate Rate5 6.21 5.876 4.71 4.16 3.50 New NIHL cases diagnosed – employees Number 45 40 35 42 48 NIHL cases compensated – employees Number 45 28 17 33 36 Diagnosed and treated tuberculosis cases Number 472 528 545 527 446 HIV/AIDS related deaths Number 110 88 139 104 99 Voluntary counselling and testing Conducted (VCT) Number 4,680 39,0067 31,6667 46,9457 17,682 Patients on ART8 Number 962 1,349 2,022 2,510 3,288 Patients on the wellness programme Number 518 498 526 657 690 Environment Total fresh water intake m3 8,885,360 8,005,092 7,912,595 8,667,896 8,284,039 Total fresh water intake efficiency m3/PGMoz 7.14 6.09 5.47 6.42 6.20 Electricity MWh 1,481,744 1,380,218 1,496,841 1,485,630 1,555,651 Electricity efficiency MWh/PGMoz 1.19 1.05 1.03 1.10 1.16 Energy Terajoules 6,613 6,215 6,533 6,433 6,740 Energy efficiency GJ/PGMoz 5.31 4.73 4.52 4.77 5.04 Greenhouse gas emissions Kt CO2e 1,595 1,534 1,648 1,572 1,646 Kt CO2-e/ Greenhouse gas efficiency PGMoz 1.28 1.17 1.14 1.16 1.23 Tailings disposed to tailings facilities Kilotonnes 11,4788 11,038 11,820 10,666 11,661 Waste rock disposed to rock dumps Kilotonnes 1,343 1,602 1,772 1,482 996 Hazardous waste disposed of to landfill and incineration Tonnes 55,906 50,562 72,052 77,826 71,336 General waste to landfill Tonnes 7,199 9,595 9,744 10,271 9,577 Average sulphur dioxide emissions Tonnes/day 11.1 14.1 10.58 8.5 11.9 Communities Rand Value spent on approved SLP projects Rand 28,768,000 28,175,000 37,980,955 39,743,935 38,661,225 1 Women employed in mining represents those employed in core mining operations. 2 Women employed at the mine represents all women employed at our operations. 3 After audits conducted on ABET for our SLP reporting we identified that we had under reported the ABET figure in 2011 Sustainable Development report as 601. The correct figure is 603. 4 The figure includes community members as well. 5 Injuries per million hours worked. 6 In 2010, we have improved the capturing of hours worked at our operations, the denominator used for calculating LTIFR. As a result the LTIFR in prior years may have been overstated, but we believe the difference to be not material. It is not possible to restate the previous data. 7 These figures includes VCT offered to employees daily (average of 2,000 tests a month), the wellness campaign and does not exclude those employees tested twice. 8 This figure was incorrectly reported in 2009 as 17,068 kilotonnes. Please refer to our online report for detailed information on the content of this report. Our online report also includes an acronym, abbreviations and definitions table, as well as the GRI index, assurance and UNGC index. 48 Lonmin PLC Sustainable Development Summary Report 2013 Online Sustainable Development Report If you need more detailed information, please visit our Online Sustainable Development Report for the year ended 30 September 2013 (http://sd-report.lonmin.com). Site map Home Our approach board initiatives Our context Reading this report • O ur approach to • B oard Initiative 1: • Corporate profile • Report scope and sustainable development Employee relations • Forging our path of boundary • Letter from the Chief • B oard Initiative 2: fundamental change: Intro • KPMG assurance Executive Officer Empowering our to Lonmin Renewal Plan statement • Letter from the employees and and Board Initiatives • List of assured data Chairman of the Safety & communities Sustainability Committee • B oard Initiative 3: • Thank you to Ian Farmer Migrant and local labour • Stakeholder engagement • B oard Initiative 4: Use • Managing risk of invested capital and • Ethics and governance infrastructure • Membership of external • B oard Initiative 5: Housing organisations and and accommodation initiatives Human and social capital Natural capital Financial capital • E mployees and • E nvironmental auditing • Creating and distributing contractors and incident management value • Employee development • Climate change • Empowerment through and talent management • E nergy efficiency and preferential procurement • Mini case study: Artisan demand management • Empowerment through Training College • E nergising the Grace Care ownership • Lonmin and human rights Centre • Product responsibility • Safety at work • Air quality management • Our products and their • Health and wellbeing • L and, biodiversity and uses • Labour relations heritage management • Our markets • Housing our employees • Managing responsible • Community upliftment materials consumption • M anaging our water resources • Waste management www.lonmin.com Lonmin Plc Registered in England, Company Number 103002 Registered Office: 4 Grosvenor Place, London SW1X 7YL
