Engagement with the Global Compact CEO Continuing Commitment Carroll Properties Corporation has committed to taking a lead in corporate responsibility within our own organization, our professional associations and through interactions with our client base. We continue skill building and research in areas of supply chain advisory and global best practices. We serve on the International Organizations Committee of FIABCI and as such represent the Global Compact initiatives to the entire organization. We have been speaking at forums in Bahrain and San Francisco this year on Foreign Direct Investment linked with Corporate Social Responsibility. We have committed to serving a 2 year term on the Global Steering Group organized by RICS addressing issues of corporate real estate. Elizabeth Belenchia, President Work in Human Rights Last May we led an Eco Film Festival in Taichung, Taiwan loaned by the Pachamama Alliance of Indigenous People. This led to interactive discussion among professional colleagues on the cause and affects on non-sustainable activities on the people our actions impact. Over 50 members attended the Festival and participation was active. On the UN International Day of Peace we led the planning for the 6th Rotary International Peace Symposium at USC Upstate where the EU Nobel Peace Prize was shared by the German Consul General and 4 international students comprised a panel to share areas of conflict. As an advisor to the Dubai RE Institute we had the opportunity to mentor young professionals in maintaining their personal direction with a focus on participation in the industry at the highest levels. We have hosted interns this year from Germany (2) one male, one female, plus one local female minority and one local male. We encourage young people to seek their highest skill level and to expect opportunity in the profession. We advocate for sustainability, global thinking and strategic actions. One German student attended a Tibetan Monk event with me locally advancing tolerance and meditation. Work in Labour Rights As an SME we focus on diversity to reach the various segments of the marketplace. It is a strategic plan to meet the needs of a diverse business community. We focus on rejuvenation activities during time off, focus on strategic market initiatives and buffer days to organize and plan efficiency. We encourage continuing education as a routine activity participating in webinars, leadership development activities as well as providing interactive training events for skill enhancement. Students from diverse backgrounds are encouraged to participate in activities outside their comfort zone and encouraged to aim for success. We offer the theme “Fake it until you Make it!” for newcomers. Work in Environmental Areas Our Environmental activities begin with internal actions toward recycling, paper reduction, energy management and video communications to minimize travel. As an SME we continue to seek appropriate metrics for ourselves and our peers. Our key efforts are targeted toward our diverse global client base. With an emphasis on Foreign Direct Investment some clients meet us with a strong energy advocacy and others are encouraged to learn from each other. We continue to seek reductions in carbon emission by incorporating efficient activities. We plan to focus on the energy management of ISO 50001 as a part of our forward plan for continuous improvement. “Progress not Perfection!” We added water filters to drinking fountains this year and purchased biodegradable cups to provide clean cold water for customers and employees alike. We have incorporated recycled materials wherever possible but specifically in paper products. Our business focuses on sales or dispositions and not management so our major initiative is leadership and consultation with financial and time line comparisons. We have named this process “The Green Rate of Return” where capital cost and operating costs merge. Community Engagement Activities We engage with Rotary International in serving targeted global projects with low administrative fees. Our annual major initiative is the World Peace Symposium which we select student interns to manage and other students to participate. This has led to Student Government purchase of 5 International Peace Poles which have been planted in the 6 acre Upstate Rotary International Peace Park. We had a keynote speaker from the UNGC for the first symposium in 2008. We have committed to identifying outbound FDI to areas of the world where we have deep personal connections such as Iwate Prefecture in Japan. Now that JETRO seeks FDI we are targeting global players to locate here. Anti-Corruption Activities We are continuously involved in advancing transparency with our own transactions as well as to those clients we provide consultative services. We have hosted Side Events at the UN in NY on Greening the Supply Chain in concert with the UNGC. The theme we have adopted for global communication this year marries FDI with CSR. This process involves a community visioning process to assess social needs that can provide a Menu from which to select in exchange for Financial Incentives to Direct Investors. We demand financial disclosures be reported at the closing of a transaction regardless of country or site. Through our UN activities we encourage participation by our representatives in Vienna to communicate to the industry as a whole with white papers and written reports of the action agenda. Knowledge and Capacity Building We have taken a leadership role in International Studies at USC Upstate and serve on Clemson Universities, Clemson/Japan Institute. We were a delegate for SC to the Southeast US/Japan Meetings in Biloxi MS, November, 2013. We led a delegation of 10 professionals from Dubai to their first National Association of Realtors Convention (San Francisco, November 3013) where we presented our FDI/CSR program in an Environmental Symposium as well as in a private breakfast with the delegates and SFO leaders. We will participate in the Renaissance Weekend in December, an interactive think tank of broad based global topics. During the year we have spoken to Leadership Gastonia (NC) sharing an FDI Case Study. We actively participate in the UNFCCC Education Caucus as a Property Sector Advisor. Stakeholder Engagement In a senior advisory capacity on many levels we seek to share knowledge with emerging leaders and emerging nations on best practices, personal development, entrepreneurism and the pursuit of a vision for addressing Arrival Cities, Global Urbanization, Sustainable Practices, Collegial Design and Implementation of Restorative Ecology and Agribusiness as an adjunct to Manufacturing and Logistics. We nominate regionally exceptional projects for national and international recognition. We seek new technologies from our travels and interaction with the best and brightest and bring them to new audiences for sharing, revision and implementation. We engage university planners, architects, and design students in challenging projects where they can offer a fresh approach. We offer international internships in our office for one month to one year for students to obtain practical experience in global issues and service delivery. We have hosted over 150 in 37 years practice. In 2011 I served as a facilitator for MELA (Middle East Leadership Academy) in Sharm el Sheik, Egypt (26 professionals-9 countries of the GCC and Levant). Presently we are serving as advisor to MENARES (Middle East North Africa Real Estate Society). Engagement with the UN We have taken an active role in UN Activities for 10 years. In 2008 we joined the GC and were selected an Industry Expert to the Working Group ISO 26000. Activities include World Business Forum in Copenhagen 2009, US Local Network meetings, Speaker at Arabia CSR Awards (2011), Speaker Bahrain Engineers Society CSR Awards (2013), CSR Forum Rio+20 2012 (daily blog to RICS), Leaders Forum, COP 14 at Poznan (2008), ECOSOC Global Representative (FIABCI) 2009, 2011. We visited UN Offices in Beirut, Vienna, Geneva, Santiago and NY normally accompanying new representatives for engagement. Plan for 2013/2014 Profession: Meet with Global Steering Group of RICS/UNGC to advance the engagement of the Real Estate Profession in January. Diversity: As a female owned SME we will advocate more strongly for women in positions of leadership. Human Rights: Continue advocacy for indigenous people through Eco Film Presentations. Environment: Identify some replicable metrics to share with colleagues and clients. Explore implementation of ISO 50001 for real estate offices worldwide. Standards: Continuously target duplicable metrics for implementation by colleagues and clients. UN Projects: We will continue efforts targeted through UN agencies focused on Corporate Issues, Rapid Response Housing for post disaster areas, recognizing successful real estate projects, and engaging with UN Universities. Futures: We will continue active dialogue with colleagues, leadership associates and students utilizing the best in communication activities for strengthening interactive engagement in sustainable dialogue. Carroll Properties Corporation, 1989 South Pine Street Spartanburg, SC 29302 1-864-699-9804 www.cpcindustrial.com
