PLAYING TOGETHER 2012/2013 TOP-TOY’s Performance Report Reader’s guide Introduction TOP-TOY’s Performance Report with our suppliers, who provide us with our Welcome to TOP-TOY’s Performance Report 2012/13. products, and our employees, who ensure the This is our fourth consecutive report aimed at giving operation of our business. The next chapters are internal and external stakeholders a clear account dedicated to our customers and how we meet of our commitments and key achievements over their expectations, the society we are engaging the past year. Our intention is to provide you with with and the environment. Throughout the report, an accurate picture of the challenges we face and we present six selected highlights of importance the goals we are working towards. to our business. In order to give an all-round overview, the report One of our important achievements in 2012/13 was covers many diverse aspects of our business. It the rollout of our new Code of Conduct. The Code is for this reason that we have named the report serves as a framework for guiding our employees TOP-TOY’s Performance Report. with regard to responsible behaviour. In several chapters, we describe how the Code is put to use in The focus of our report our daily operations. We have chosen to focus on five key stakeholder groups and how we work with them at TOP-TOY. The report is supported by further online Each chapter is dedicated to a stakeholder, starting information at www.top-toy.com Suppliers Employees Work with our Empower our people to suppliers to ensure the ensure motivated and right product offering satisfied employees Environment Making Children Customers Understand our environmental Smile Meet the expectations of impact to reduce our customers to the footprint of give them a good our business experience Society Engage with key stakeholders to create value for society and TOP-TOY 2 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Table of contents Introduction Chapter 1 Introduction 4 Highlights of the year 6 Message from Joint Managing Directors 8 Our performance 10 About TOP-TOY 13 Our Code of Conduct 14 Stakeholder concerns Chapter 2 Suppliers 16 Our product offering 17 Our supply chain 18 Our product safety requirements 21 Our factory requirements Chapter 3 Employees 24 Our people 26 Our culture 27 Knowledge sharing and training Chapter 4 Customers 28 Customer experience 30 Customer satisfaction Chapter 5 Society 32 Our role as a corporate citizen 32 Advertising 35 Competition 36 Our role in the industry HIGHLIGHTS 20 Testing our products 23 Addressing industry challenges Chapter 6 Environment 25 Meet our employees 38 Addressing our environmental impact 34 Good efforts pay off in the gender debate 39 Our environmental initiatives 37 A human rights approach 40 Our distribution centre Chapter 7 Value chain 42 TOP-TOY’s value chain TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 3 Introduction 1 Highlights of the year Rollout of our Code of See page 13 BR Toys test store opens in See page 29 Conduct Germany 1,800,000 New TOYS”R”US webshops in Denmark, Sweden, Norway DKK donated to SOS Children’s Villages and Finland See page 35 Implementation of Factory See page 17-18 Compliance Programme for full traceability of all factories 13,000,000 products sold to our NORSTAR customers See page 30 Award for best Completion See page 14-15 emerging of materiality sustainability assessment report in Denmark 4 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Introduction 4,785 See page 19 inspections with regard to product safety 42 suppliers trained in the new chemical requirements of the EU See page 36 Toy Safety Directive 18 customers million served in our See page 29 retail stores 18,700 products in assortment See page 16 2,000,000 members of Club BR See page 29 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 5 Message from Joint Managing Directors Introduction Selling products to children is our core business. Our success depends on our ability to sell the right products providing fun and contributing to children’s development and creativity. Our financial performance must improve The past year has been financially disappointing. Our result shows an operational performance on a level with last year. This is below our expectations, and we need to improve going forward. Our performance confirms that internal control systems and business planning are not strong enough. We need to establish an environment, where we have a more realistic view of market developments and react faster to change. We also need to reduce our costs to improve our competitiveness. The decision to merge our two own distribution centres into one, announced in June this year, is one example of how we are improving our efficiency. Another is our further investment in infrastructure to provide us with strong omni-channel capabilities that will contribute to our overall competiveness. Externally, the trends towards digitalisation, globalisation and cross-border trade are gathering strength. As these trends change the way children play and lead to a more competitive market, it is increasingly important to adjust. Our strategic ambitions for the future We foresee some demanding years ahead. With our new strategy One-Vision we will address internal and external Peter Gjørup challenges to build and maintain TOP-TOY as a sustainable company. Our vision is to achieve profitable growth in the future market place. The most valuable asset in TOP-TOY is our employees. We appreciate the hard work that is put into preparing our business for the future while at the same time catering for the daily needs of our customers. All employees have shown that they are committed and loyal to TOP-TOY. 6 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Introduction Staying true to our core values We will stay true to our core values with no compromises in how we do business. We are proud to highlight some of the key areas that characterise our company. • Children can continue to play safe. We support the European Toy Safety Directive and spend considerable resources on assessing and verifying compliance to meet or exceed all applicable legislation including the new chemical requirements for toys enforced from July 20, 2013. • We have successfully implemented our Factory Compliance Standards for all factories that manufacture our products. We see the improved traceability of the factories as a great achievement. • In 2012/13, we rolled out our new Code of Conduct. The Code provides the foundation for our business ethics – essential for a responsible company driven by values. • We continue to engage actively with our key stakeholders in a transparent and honest way on issues that matter to them. This ensures we maintain the right strategic direction. During 2012/13, we conducted a materiality assessment to learn about our stakeholders’ priorities. This progress reflects our continuing support for the UN Global Compact. It is also the natural continuation of 50 years of responsible business aimed at bringing joy to Lars Gjørup children and their families. Peter Gjørup and Lars Gjørup TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 7 Our performance Introduction We are determined to improve and adapt our organisation by investing in strategic areas that secure long-term profitability, continued growth and social and environmental value. Our financial performance and closed eight BR Toys stores and opened one TOYS”R”US store. Growth in 2012/13 Overall revenue grew 1.4% to 4.1 billion DKK. In an Financial performance in wholesale overall flat market, TOP-TOY appears to have gained Revenue declined 6.7% to 693 million DKK, market share. The growth of our retail business in the partly due to the closure of our Toy Club Business face of market pressure confirms that our business in Denmark and the termination of licensed model is still the right one. On the wholesale confectionery distribution. side of the business, however, we experienced some decline. At the end of the financial year, we announced a plan to consolidate our two distribution centres in Our 2012/13 result shows that we have not achieved Denmark into one efficient operation at the existing our goal to increase earnings. Non-recurring items facilities near Copenhagen. impacted after-tax profit, which ended at 56.8 million DKK. Operational income Adjusted EBIT (operational income before interest, Financial performance in retail tax and non-recurring items) declined 11.0% to Our retail revenue grew 3.1% to 3.4 billion DKK, 164.4 million DKK, due to margin pressure from while same store sales declined 0.8%. Much of the declining sales prices, increasing purchase prices growth came from our webshops. We opened nine and increased operational costs. TOP-TOY KEY FIGURES AND FINANCIAL RATIOS Five-year key figures in DKK million 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Revenue 2,935.2 3,593.1 3,954.1 4,044.4 4,100.3 Adjusted EBITDA 263.0 362.7 312.7 274.2 239.9 Adjusted EBIT 181.2 273.6 217.9 184.7 164.4 Non-recurring items* 0.0 0.0 1.3 15.0 56.3 Profit for the year 99.3 162.7 128.2 105.7 56.8 Balance sheet total 2,100.6 2,769.5 2,891.5 2,804.2 2,767.9 Equity 1,030.0 1,180.5 1,265.9 1,363.0 1,395.7 Employees and stores Number of employees 1,805 2,128 2,261 2,358 2,352 Number of stores 266 274 286 297 299 Key financial ratios Operating margin 6.2% 7.6% 5.5% 4.6% 4.0% Return on invested capital before non-recurring items 8.8% 12.2% 8.3% 6.9% 6.3% Equity ratio 49.0% 42.6% 43.8% 48.6% 50.4% NOTE: * In 2012/13 non-recurring items related to the decision to merge our two own distribution centres into one In 2011/12 non-recurring items related to closing of TOY-CLUB activity and write-down of goodwill In 2010/11 non-recurring items related to demolition of real estate in DK 8 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Introduction The decision to consolidate our two own home deliveries, and reduce inventory markdowns distribution centres resulted in non-recurring and costs. costs of 56.3 million DKK, covering: Our sustainability performance • Re-evaluation of inventories in NORSTAR A/S Sustainability progress • Goodwill impairment related to the NORSTAR We have made good progress with our acquisition on-going sustainability efforts in 2012/13. Our • Costs related to lay-offs and activities to support main achievements included the rollout of our new employees affected by the decision Code of Conduct and completion of a materiality These are primarily non-cash, so the balance sheet assessment. remains strong with 1.4 billion DKK equity and low net-interest bearing debt, primarily related to our Looking ahead real estate investments. We will continue to work towards the integration of sustainability in our business. In doing so, we Looking ahead will engage with our key stakeholders to create Activities to increase earnings and improve short long-term shared value. Through 2013/14, we and long-term profitability have been initiated. will continue to work towards our new and These aim to improve the assortment, increase existing goals. Goals Progress Status Suppliers See page 16-23 Oeko-Tex certification of all own-design children’s clothing and home textiles All own-design textiles are Oeko-Tex certified Use sustainably harvested wood for wooden own brand 66% are FSC certified or made from rubber wood products Zero recalls Ongoing quality assurance Rollout of supplier evaluation programme Full implementation by end 2013 Implement our factory compliance standard Full implementation by end 2013 Develop positions on child labour, forced labour and overtime Expected to be finalised during 2013/14 Employees See page 13 Develop a Code of Conduct and supporting policies Code of Conduct fully implemented Society See page 14-15 & 32-37 Train suppliers in European Toy Safety Directive 42 suppliers trained in 2012/13 Systematic data collection for increased transparency To be finalised during 2013/14 Conduct materiality assessment Completed in 2013 Assess human rights impact and develop policy Expected to be developed during 2013/14 Environment See page 38-41 Reduce health-damaging lifting tasks in our distribution centre near Copenhagen All health-damaging lifting eliminated Evaluate new direct-to-store concept Test in progress Establish a baseline for energy consumption LED lighting project implemented in distribution centre Find more eco-friendly packaging options To be initiated during 2013/14 More to do On track Done TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 9 About TOP-TOY Introduction Our mission Bjarne Gjørup & Henrik Gjørup Staying true to our mission For 50 years TOP-TOY has been a truly family-owned Today, we have grown to become one of the largest company, bringing joy to children’s lives through the companies in the toy industry in the Northern products we sell. When Bjarne and Henrik Gjørup European market. We operate 299 retail stores and started the toy store chain with their father Børge a wholesale business and are managed by the third Rasmussen in 1963, it was all about making children generation of the Gjørup family. smile and creating fun childhood memories. The approach to selling our products has developed Their original idea was to establish specialised toy but our main focus remains the same – to sell fun, stores in shopping malls and other key locations – safe and high-quality products that foster the all inspired by the American way of selling products. development, learning and creativity of children. 50 years of fun Agreement with The BR toy chain is TOYS”R”US to operate founded and named TOYS”R”US stores after Børge Rasmussen. TOP-TOY is across the Nordic Børge Rasmussens’s sons Buying oﬃce opens established to region. SUPERLEG Bjarne & Henrik Gjørup in Hong Kong operate BR Toys is converted into join the company First SUPERLEG and SUPERLEG TOYS”R”US stores opens 1963 1987 1990 1992 1996 Reference: Learn more about our 50 years’ of history at www.top-toy.com/50th-anniversary 10 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Our core values Introduction Business sense Responsibility Family tree Top performance Toy fun We seek to give good service We take responsibility for our We want to bring joy to We strive to be top performers. Fun is a key driver in our work. to our retail and wholesale actions throughout the value children and families by We want to do better than We are dedicated to bringing yesterday, and we do this by customers by oﬀering the right chain and for our most important selling good quality products actively listening to relevant smiles to the faces of our quality product at the right time stakeholders – the children who that contribute to fun and stakeholders and closely customers and colleagues. and at the right price. play with our products. memorable moments. monitoring our performance. Keeping our values in play of our top priorities and reflected in our company TOP-TOY’s values are still based on the family ties values. It is the only right way to behave in a that founded the company. Our values keep us business that relies on making children happy. together and make us stronger. They also help us act responsibly and perform to the best of our A dedicated workforce ability when serving retail and wholesale customers Throughout our long journey and growth from and meeting business partners. local to global, we have preserved a strong familyoriented culture. No matter whether you have been Fun is serious business in the company for decades or just stepped inside Understanding our key stakeholders children the door, everyone is considered part of the TOP-TOY is fundamental. Having fun is a big part of most family, and we work together across locations. children’s lives, and that should be their experience when using our products. This mentality is also Throughout 2012/13, TOP-TOY had 6,067 employees reflected in the way we work, where we balance fun (corresponding to approx. 2,352 full-time positions) with the serious side of running a business. located in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Finland, Iceland, Germany and Hong Kong. Our aim is to Playing responsibly serve the customers who do business with us in Selling toys and other products to children is a big our BR Toys or TOYS”R”US stores or through our responsibility. This is why acting responsibly is one wholesale company NORSTAR. TOP-TOY signs the TOP-TOY acquires UN Global Compact K.E. Mathiasen, today NORSTAR Celebrates 50 years in Denmark Internal rollout of Strategic partnership TOP-TOY’s Code of Peter and Lars Gjørup between TOP-TOY Conduct The ICTI Care are appointed joint and Mattel in the Process is signed managing directors Nordic region 2007 2009 2010 2012 2013 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 11 Introduction Key facts about TOP-TOY Company Development TOP-TOY specialises in distributing and selling Support top-management in developing TOP-TOY and toys and other child-related products in Northern ensure governance and compliance Europe. Our organisation has two retail chains BR Toys and TOYS”R”US, for which we hold an Retail Business Unit exclusive license to operate in the Nordic region, Operate the two retail channels and a wholesale company, NORSTAR. Today Supply BR Toys and TOYS”R”US TOP-TOY is managed by Lars and Peter Gjørup part Business Unit firewall of the third generation of the Gjørup family. Manage all products and brands Wholesale Business Unit Operate NORSTAR who service • Established in 1963 a wide range of wholesale customers • Revenue 4.1 billion DKK in 2012/13 • Head office located in Denmark, including retail Business Platform office for BR Toys and TOYS”R”US Service our business units • Buying office in Hong Kong • Wholesale offices and showrooms in Denmark, Sweden, Norway and Finland Denmark BR Toys: 91 • 249 BR Toys stores in Denmark, Sweden, Norway, TOYS”R”US: 15 Finland, the Faroe Islands and Northern Germany No. of employees: 1,140 • 50 TOYS”R”US stores in Denmark, Sweden, Sweden Norway, Finland and Iceland BR Toys: 66 • BR Toys and TOYS”R”US webshops in Denmark, TOYS”R”US: 16 No. of employees: 499 Sweden, Norway and Finland Norway BR Toys: 48 TOYS”R”US: 11 No. of employees: 328 Finland BR Toys: 25 TOYS”R”US: 5 SWEDEN No. of employees: 170 ICELAND FAROE FINLAND Germany ISLANDS BR Toys: 18 NORWAY No. of employees: 86 Helsinki Sandefiord Iceland BR Toys: 3 No. of employees: 29 Aarhus Ängelholm DENMARK Copenhagen Faroe Islands HONG BR Toys: 1 franchise store KONG NORSTAR showroom and oﬃce Hong Kong GERMANY No. of employees: 100 Head oﬃce NOTE: Number of employees is based on full-time positions. 12 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Our Code of Conduct Our Code of Conduct Introduction Eleven critical issues We have focused our Code of Conduct on the eleven issues, that are most critical to our business: 1. Personal accountability We are responsible for living the Code of Conduct 2. Interaction with external stakeholders We are TOP-TOY’s ambassadors 3. Conflict of interest In 2012, we launched our new Code of Conduct. We are objective in our decision-making Based on our core values, the Code provides a framework for guiding employees with regard 4. Financial to responsible behaviour. Our employees We treat TOP-TOY’s assets as if they were our own are our ambassadors, and we want to shape 5. Gifts and entertainment an organisational culture based on personal We say no to gifts to ensure transparent accountability. business decisions The Code of Conduct is a tool for encouraging 6. Confidential information and and supporting dialogue when solving the ethical intellectual property dilemmas that employees may face in their We protect and respect our own and others’ daily work and for establishing clear roles and intellectual property responsibilities across the organisation. 7. Responsible marketing In the future, TOP-TOY plans to introduce a number We support fair play in marketing of policies in support of the Code of Conduct. 8. Antitrust We support the principles of fair competition You can find our new Code of Conduct on our website. 9. Product integrity We want our customers to trust our products 10. Employment We provide a good work environment for all employees 11. Environment We want to reduce our impact on the environment TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 13 Stakeholder concerns Introduction We actively and transparently engage with our key stakeholders on issues that matter to them. That ensures we keep working in the right direction. Staying up-to-date WHAT MATTERS TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS? We strive to maintain an on-going dialogue with Topic Related issues our stakeholders. By identifying and prioritising Product safety the issues that are most important to them, we are Product quality better able to meet their expectations and stay upProduct Educational value to-date with issues that may influence our business. responsibility Product design Use of materials and eco-labelled products As part of this dialogue, we conducted a materiality Child labour assessment in May 2013 to learn more about the Health and safety standards Factory compliance Environmental considerations topics of greatest importance to our stakeholders Labour and human rights right now. Internal communication Transparency External communication Managing stakeholder expectations Waste management and recycling One conclusion from this materiality assessment Energy consumption and is that the priorities of individual stakeholders Environment CO2 emissions Packaging typically and understandably reflect the most Transportation pressing issues within their own area of interest. This Responsible Product-specific promotion underpins the need to engage with stakeholders in marketing an on-going, issue-based manner to ensure the best Health and safety standards dialogue and to influence stakeholder expectations Workplace Career development of what we are able to influence and how. Employee rights Business integrity Code of Conduct Prioritisation of stakeholder concerns Business Transparency integrity Internal stakeholders: Workplace Retail employees in BR Toys and TOYS”R”US Office and NORSTAR employees Very important Environment External stakeholders: Factory Parents with children aged 0-12 years compliance Other external stakeholders such as suppliers, NGOs, academia and industry associations Important Product responsibility Less important Responsible marketing Less important Important Very important 14 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Introduction Addressing stakeholder concerns PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY AND FACTORY COMPLIANCE TRANSPARENCY Product responsibility and factory compliance are Transparency requires close attention and action. mature sustainability issues that we have addressed for To ensure transparency and accountability to our a number of years. Our success depends on our ability stakeholders, it is important that we communicate to continue offering customers safe and high-quality about our sustainability work and progress made. products in line with legal requirements and produced We will maintain transparent internal and external under proper conditions. communications about our sustainability work to avoid We will continue to invest in activities related to any misunderstandings with regard to where and how product responsibility and factory compliance and, our products are produced and to ensure customers when appropriate, engage and communicate with trust us and our products. stakeholders to realise opportunities. See page 16-23 ENVIRONMENT RESPONSIBLE MARKETING Environment is an area of growing importance to our Responsible marketing is regulated and driven by stakeholders. In the past, our primary priority has been legislation and a number of voluntary initiatives. As the social aspects of our value chain and, to a lesser children are vulnerable and impressionable consumers, extent, our environmental impact. we strive to carry out our marketing activities responsibly. We will increasingly investigate our environmental impact to evaluate potential risks and opportunities We will monitor and follow future developments within areas such as packaging, waste management within responsible marketing and continue to produce and recycling. We will focus on addressing areas where gender-neutral advertising. we can make a real environmental difference now and in the future. See page 38-41 See page 32-34 WORKPLACE BUSINESS INTEGRITY Creating a good workplace for TOP-TOY employees Business integrity has a high impact on TOP-TOY’s is crucial to our business. Career development business. Our ability to engage in ethical, responsible opportunities and health and safety require continuous and legal business practices is paramount to ensure attention to maintain a motivated, loyal and competent good relations with internal and external stakeholders workforce. We will continue to communicate about our Code We will monitor current employee-related of Conduct to our employees and implement targeted activities and develop specific employee engagement business integrity initiatives. opportunities to ensure employee retention, motivation and attraction. See page 24-27 See page 13 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 15 Suppliers 2 Suppliers We sell products to children. With that comes a great responsibility to ensure that our products meet high safety standards and are produced under proper working conditions. This is why we work closely with our suppliers to select the right products and ensure compliance. Our product offering “Children should always be able At TOP-TOY, we want to ensure that our products to have fun, explore their creative contribute positively to children’s happiness potential and develop skills when and development. playing with our products. I believe that play is important to a child’s development and that We have 18,700 products in our assortment. Some toys add great value to this.” we have designed ourselves, but the majority are designed by our suppliers. This makes suppliers key Hanne Hilstroem , Product Manager, Hong Kong business partners to us. The more we are involved in a product’s design, It is important to have products with popular the more we are able to influence the choice of characters that children recognise. For this reason, material used. many of our products come with a licence, such as Disney and Sanrio, to ensure our product offering Today, we have 99 wooden own brand products, meets current trends. 66% of which are made from FSC certified or rubber wood. In addition, all the clothing and home textiles Designing our products We are involved in developing own brands such we have designed in 2012/13 are Oeko-Tex certified as KIDS-WOOD and FLEXI-TRAX from the first idea to ensure they are free of harmful substances. until market launch. Other products are developed Oeko-Tex certification also applies to all towels and by our suppliers and then manufactured to our bed linen sourced from suppliers in 2012/13. specifications to ensure they fit into our own brands, for example BELLINO, PLAY2LEARN, COLOR KIDS and HAPPY HOUSE. We also design the graphics and specify the materials for tableware, children’s clothing and home textiles, such as sleeping bags, towels and bed linen. CODE OF CONDUCT HIGHLIGHT Our customers can trust our products In our Code of Conduct we address product integrity, which involves: • Ensuring product quality and safety • Ensuring decent working conditions in the factories that manufacture our products All relevant employees are trained in how to source our products, and they know when to buy and when not to buy. They are also expected to report any unethical practices that they come across in their daily interaction with suppliers. 16 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Suppliers Hasbro’s FURBY, an interactive plush toy with software that enables children to give it a unique personality. Another is LEXIBOOK tablets, designed for handling by small children so parents no longer have to worry about breakage or exposure to inappropriate content. Our supply chain The TOP-TOY supply chain is complex, including many players. We do not own any factories, so we have to work closely with our suppliers, who either own their factories or have a contract with several factories. In Asia, where up to 80% of the world’s toys are manufactured, the manufacturing environment Adapting our product oﬀering is subject to constant change. Factories are often One of the mega-trends affecting our business opened and closed or transferred to new owners or addresses. Strong, long-term supplier relations today is digitalisation. Many children spend a lot characterised by mutual trust are, therefore, of time playing online and with digital products. essential to us. For this reason, new digital products for children appear all the time. Licences bring further complexity to the value chain. Sometimes, a supplier holds the licence to We closely follow the debate on how digitalisation produce certain products. On other occasions, it influences the development of children and their is held by TOP-TOY. This means that, in addition play patterns. to working with suppliers, TOP-TOY works with a number of licensors. The shift from classical toys towards more digital products means we increasingly add new digital products to our assortment. One example is TOP-TOY LICENSORS SUPPLIERS During 2012/13 we work with: • 482 suppliers • 33 licensors FACTORIES • 761 factories TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 17 Suppliers “Our Traffic Light Concept is a Our product safety requirements precondition for doing business with We comply with the EU Toy Safety Directive us. We use it in approving new suppliers and other legal requirements to ensure that our and factories and in our continuous systematic products both toys and non-toys meet or exceed evaluation of our existing supplier base.” high standards of safety. This applies to mechanical and chemical safety and correct labelling according Christoﬀer Falkman, Sustainability Specialist, Denmark to EU standards. Setting the right requirements Meeting the mechanical requirements Our Traffic Light Concept describes our supplier Ensuring mechanical safety involves several steps. requirements, covering three important areas: The products we source undergo a substantial legal, product quality and factory compliance. safety assessment process prior, during and after production. Rolling out the Traffic Light Concept to all suppliers is an on-going process. We have worked with our Before placing an order, we often conduct an non-European-based supplier on product quality in-depth assessment of a product’s design to ensure and factory compliance for many years. The Traffic it meets the relevant requirements. If we find that Light Concept was introduced to Europe-based the design is not optimal, we work with the supplier suppliers at the beginning of 2012 and will be fully to make the necessary adjustments. implemented by the end of 2013. This means that, regardless of where our suppliers are based, our requirements are now the same. We have expanded our scope because many of our products are manufactured in high-risk countries outside Europe. Even if a supplier is based in Europe, it is likely that their products are manufactured in an Asian country. TRAFFIC LIGHT CONCEPT We require a ‘green light’ in three areas before we will purchase any products from a supplier: Legal compliance We need to have a written agreement in place setting TOP-TOY’s terms and conditions of purchase. Product safety compliance We need to ensure that the products we source meet or exceed EU regulations, local legislation and TOP-TOY’s own safety and quality requirements. Factory compliance We need all factories that manufacture products for us to commit to TOP-TOY’s Factory Compliance Standards. 18 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Suppliers In addition, our safety inspectors may visit a factory Quality assurance prior to production during production to make sure there is no deviation In-depth assessment with regard to 387 products from what is agreed and which can potentially safety, functionality and durability compromise product safety. Quality control during production Process inspections in factories 44 inspections After production, our inspectors carry out sample tests of all the shipments we dispatch from Asia Quality control after production is completed into the EU to ensure mechanical and chemical In-factory inspections of final products 3,615 inspections safety requirements are met. In-house inspections of final products 1,170 inspections Products verified with regard to 2,585 products We also ensure all documentation is in place for labeling and documentation the products we source. Meeting the chemical requirements Recalls In July 2013, the EU introduced new, more We strive for zero recalls. However, if at any time it stringent requirements for documentation and comes to our attention that something is wrong new limits for chemical substances in toys. with one of our products, we initiate a recall rather than compromise the safety of children. For us at TOP-TOY, the new requirements are demanding. Yet, as we have worked systematically Our recall process is transparent and involves with product safety for many years, we are close collaboration with suppliers, licensors and prepared to fulfil them. We have invested relevant authorities to alert them and arrange for considerable resources in assessing and verifying necessary actions. chemical compliance based on a higher level of documentation from our suppliers. TOP-TOY is positive about the new requirements, which are based on well-documented knowledge and take actual consumer issues into account. “We believe in strict but fair requirements for product safety, and We want to be part of an industry that has a we go beyond legislation where we good reputation. So our ideal scenario is that consider that it is not strict enough.” the authorities monitor the market and ensure compliance with product safety regulations. Jon Vastrup, Product Safety Manager, Denmark OVERVIEW OF PUBLIC RECALL OF PRODUCTS SOLD BY TOP-TOY DURING 2012/13 Product Year Issue Informant Smurf Moodlight 2012 Loose battery lid giving access to button cell batteries Internal control FIVE-YEAR OVERVIEW OF PUBLIC RECALLS OF PRODUCTS SOLD BY TOP-TOY 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 2011/2012 2012/2013 TOP-TOY public recalls 0 4 2 4 1 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 19 Suppliers HIGHLIGHT Testing our products We subject our toys to a series of tests, including use and abuse, torque, tension, drop and impact, compression, tip over, seam strength, flammability and chemical. In this way, we ensure the safety and durability of our products. Here you can see some of the mechanical durability tests of BELLINO ACTIVITY HORSE and BELLINO SUCTION CUP SPINNER. Colour fastness test This test checks that fabrics do not lose colour during play. A crocking machine and white cloth are used to determine whether the colour rubs off. This ensures that the colour is locked into the fabric, with no colours getting onto children’s clothes or other toys. Tension test Sound level test Products are attached The BELLINO ACTIVITY to a pull force gauge HORSE is a rattle that to determine their requires testing for ability to withstand sound levels. A sound pulling for 10 seconds level meter measures at a force of 22 pounds (10 kg). In this way, decibels to ensure the sound presents no risk we can be sure that small parts do not come to children’s hearing. off easily, avoiding the risk of swallowing by small children. Impact test Item drop test During the impact By dropping items test on the BELLINO 10 times from a ACTIVITY HORSE rattle, height of 140 cm, we we drop 1 kg onto can determine their the toy 10 times. This robustness. No small assesses its ability parts should break off to withstand impact or sharp edges form. without small parts breaking off, potentially causing sharp edges. 20 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Suppliers Our factory requirements believe we can have the biggest impact in driving factory improvements. We require our suppliers to follow our Factory Compliance Standards. This means suppliers Ensuring progress through audits may only produce our products in factories that To monitor the performance of the factories that are committed to meeting or exceeding our manufacture our products, we monitor compliance requirements. These requirements are based on core via audits. Most factories are audited according to one ILO Conventions, the 10 principles of the UN Global of the following auditing and certification schemes: Compact and the ICTI Code of Business Practices. • ICTI Care Process Focusing our eﬀorts on high-risk countries • Social Accountability 8000 (SA8000) We focus on evaluating factories in high-risk • Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI) countries where there are most challenges in respect of, for example, excessive overtime, erratic We may also conduct our own audits if a factory is payment of wages and insufficient health and safety not certified according to any of the standards we conditions. By concentrating our efforts here, we accept. Generally, though, we require the factory to book a third party audit from a TOP-TOY-accepted GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF FACTORIES 2012/13 audit company. China Nordic Countries 74% For this reason, the number of TOP-TOY audits 4% has fallen over the past year, while the number of Other 3% third party audits has gone up. We believe that this Asia gives the factory more ownership of the process (excluding China) 5% Europe as well as giving the audits third party credibility. (excluding Nordic Countries) 14% NOTE: Status June 30, 2013. TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 21 Suppliers “We have worked with factory FACTORY CERTIFICATION AND AUDITS 2012/13 compliance for many years, which ICTI 52% BSCI is why we also appreciate that TOP8% TOY has an increasingly strict approach to SA8000 compliance and documentation. As we are both Third Party Audits 1% 4% in the toy industry, it is really important to work TOP-TOY Audits together to tackle common industry challenges.” 4% Low Risk Countries Not Audited 22% 9% Andreas Torstensson, Micki Leksaker AB, Sweden. Supplier to TOP-TOY NOTE: Status June 30, 2013. After an audit has been performed either by TOP-TOY or a third party auditor, we ask the supplier and factories to take ownership of any findings and “Factory audits are of course an develop the necessary corrective action plan. important part of our sourcing work, but equally important is an It is the factory’s responsibility to implement the open dialogue with factory management and corrective actions. We can provide support and actual capacity building in the factory. We put guidance, but if the factory is not committed to change, a lot of effort into speaking to factories and we are likely to terminate the business relationship. encouraging them to be transparent about Factories that make a serious effort to undertake their operations, including working hours. corrective actions and continuous improvements, on Working hours is one of the industry’s greatest the other hand, are likely to be approved. challenges – balancing seasonal busy periods At TOP-TOY, we believe in transparency. We would with local and international standards.” rather know the reality of factory conditions, so that Wydy Ling, Social Compliance Manager, Hong Kong improvements can be made, than be presented with records that meet legal requirements on paper but are not a true reflection of the current factory status. One of the most common reasons for terminating a business relationship is if a factory refuses to show us true and accurate documentation. RESULTS OF TOP-TOY AUDITS* STATUS OF FACTORIES AUDITED BY TOP-TOY* 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Total number of audits Total number of conducted by TOP-TOY 134 87 85 83 64 70 factories audited TOP-TOY requirements 0 0 0 Number of factories are met at time of audit 41 39 58 approved Improvements required 91 57 72 Number of factories after audit 4 2 1 pending final decision Factory failed audit due 43 30 13 Number of factories to major non-compliances 38 23 11 not approved * Accepted third-party companies also conduct audits on * Accepted third-party companies also conduct audits on behalf of TOP-TOY. behalf of TOP-TOY. 22 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Suppliers HIGHLIGHT Addressing industry challenges TOP-TOY faces a variety of challenges when sourcing products in high-risk countries. We address these challenges proactively and continuously. Meeting legal safety requirements Toys are strictly regulated by the EU Toy Safety Directive, and it can be difficult for suppliers from other regions to understand the complex EU legislation. For example, stricter rules apply to a plastic toy fork that a child uses to feed a doll than to a real plastic fork used by a child to eat with. Fancy dress costumes are also more heavily regulated than everyday children’s wear. If an orange was a toy it would need to carry a safety warning because of its fragrance, and kid tablets are subject to more restrictions than the regular tablets children play on. We want to play it safe and ensure all the products we source meet the highest safety standards. This is why we require documentation for all products as well as train our suppliers in how to comply with the mechanical and chemical safety requirements that apply to toys sold in the European market. Excessive overtime High seasonal fluctuation in demand results in peak production periods and excessive overtime in the toy industry. Working overtime affects the health of factory workers and violates national and international legislation. Factories in Asia, for example, typically employ many migrant workers, who come from rural areas to increase their earnings by working as many hours as possible. Factory owners may then be tempted to ignore overtime restrictions. We work with our suppliers to improve forecasting and business planning schedules to ensure longer lead times. But, since the toy industry is fashion driven, there is a limit to how well in advance an order can be placed. We also have no control over when other companies place their orders. Products to buy or not to buy One dilemma that we may face is when a supplier owns a product or holds exclusive rights to a popular licence but the factory where the products are manufactured does not live up to our requirements. In such a situation, it is not possible to source the product from another supplier and factory. Then we must decide whether to purchase the product or not. We always try to work with suppliers to ensure a factory meets our requirements. But sometimes our influence is limited. The decision then becomes one of sourcing or just saying no. TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 23 Employees 3 Employees We believe that motivating and engaging our current workforce while attracting new colleagues is fundamental to continue delivering the right products and service to our customers. Our people Our employees are our most valuable assets. It is they who secure our business success. When we have great people, we are able to deliver great products and services and that makes happy customers. This is why we strive to make our employees the best TOP-TOY ambassadors. Working at TOP-TOY is serious fun At TOP-TOY, we want to make sure that we have the right balance between seriousness and fun in our daily work. “We need to be better than yesterday, We want our employees to have a serious approach but we should not forget to have to their job, seeking new opportunities for fun while doing it. After all, we are developing TOP-TOY, improving their performance a company selling products that make and working together to reach mutual goals and children happy.” enhance our bottom line. On the other hand, Bruno Boysen, HR Manager, Denmark we must keep in mind that we sell products for children. To be good at that, our employees must Did you know? also know how to play. A typical TOP-TOY employee is a woman in her twenties who works in a BR Toys store in Denmark and holds a part-time position. CODE OF CONDUCT HIGHLIGHT We provide a good work environment for all employees In our Code of Conduct we address employment, which aims to: • Provide a safe working environment • Ensure non-discrimination and encourage mutual respect, trust, loyalty and fairness All employees are expected to take responsibility for their actions, share knowledge and assist each other in realising assigned tasks in their daily work. Employees are also expected to make good judgment calls when required. 24 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Employees HIGHLIGHT Meet our employees Our employees 2012/13 • TOP-TOY employs 6,067 people in total (equal to 2,352 full-time positions). • The majority of our employees 72% work in our retail stores, with 50% in our BR Toys stores and 22% in our TOYS”R”US stores. • More than 75% of our retail employees work part time or have temporary contracts, particularly covering the toy industry’s peak Christmas season. GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF EMPLOYEES Denmark • The majority of our employees are women, Hong Kong 49% 4% representing 69% of our workforce. Germany 4% • TOP-TOY employs people across seven Iceland countries with many different nationalities. 1% Sweden 21% • TOP-TOY employees are typically young, with Finland Norway 7% 14% half the workforce under 25 years of age. Working in our stores is an attractive option NOTE: All numbers are based on full-time positions. for young people, giving them relevant work experience while studying or starting a TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT retail career. Distribution centres 7% BR Toys • TOP-TOY employs a diverse workforce, which 50% enables us to apply a broad range of experience, knowledge and perspectives. Some employees Administration 16% have dedicated their entire career to TOP-TOY, while others have external competences. NORSTAR TOYS“R”US 5% 22% • The employees with the longest seniority have been with TOP-TOY for more than 40 years. NOTE: All numbers are based on full-time positions. EMPLOYEES CALCULATED IN FULL-TIME POSITIONS Denmark Sweden Norway Finland Germany Iceland Hong Kong Total BR Toys 490 324 184 102 81 1181 TOYS”R”US 191 136 122 46 29 524 NORSTAR 48 21 18 18 117 Administration 244 18 4 4 5 100 363 Distribution centres 167 167 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 25 Employees Our culture EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT FACTORS Although TOP-TOY operates in several markets 1. Commitment and lines of business, the family culture remains 2. Responsibility intact. We want to have a strong company culture 3. Loyalty where we treat each other in a loyal, caring and 4. Initiative respectful manner. 5. Productivity 6. Relations Our employee engagement programme 7. Quality 8. Professional competence To strengthen our company culture, we work 9. Flexibility systematically with employee engagement through 10. Implementation a dedicated employee engagement programme, 11. Energy which builds on eleven factors. Every year, we ask our employees to share their Our new Code of Conduct The rollout of our new Code of Conduct is an thoughts about TOP-TOY as a workplace. In an online important contributor to our TOP-TOY culture. survey, employees highlight areas they are proud of With the Code, we want to empower employees or that could be improved. The outcome of the survey to make ethical decisions when facing dilemmas in is discussed at a workshop, where the eleven factors their daily interactions with colleagues, customers, are also rated. All teams then develop actions plans suppliers, regulators and others. Our aim is to build for implementing improvements in their work areas. an environment for ethical behaviour. During 2012/13, all TOP-TOY employees “Working with employee engagement participated in workshops where they had the means that we have a common opportunity to ask questions and discuss concerns language and a common way of regarding the Code of Conduct and what it means working. Based on that, we can build a TOP-TOY for their daily work. The rollout also included culture reflecting our values and beliefs.” an employee e-learning programme. All new Winny Leung, HR & Communication Manager, employees joining TOP-TOY in the future will also Hong Kong undergo training in the Code. What our employees are proud of What our employees would like to improve • Core values and culture • Internal communication • Strong family ties and high ethical standards • Knowledge sharing • Exciting job with development opportunities • Acknowledgement of employees going the • Appreciation of children and play extra mile • Sustainability work with regard to product • Ability to use existing and develop new skills safety and supply chain management 26 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Employees Knowledge sharing and training Training and providing our employees with the necessary knowledge is an important part of empowering people and an area we prioritise at TOP-TOY. Training in retail Every year, we hold our Toy Summit conference for store managers and assisting store managers. Here the participants learn about new products and trends within the industry and are able to put questions to top management. Sharing knowledge in wholesale For the wholesale side of the business, we hold Store managers also meet regularly at district level two biannual Sales and Marketing Summits. Here, to learn from each other and receive training in, for our sales staff are introduced to new products, example, service management, product safety and brought up-to-date with market trends and trained Code of Conduct. They also share knowledge on in relevant work-related subjects. different digital platforms. Working environment initiative Our service management concept focuses on In 2012/13, we introduced an online system for training retail employees in service-related matters collating employee concerns about the working so they can serve customers in the best possible way. environment, including health and safety issues. Concerns reported by employees are investigated by the workplace representative to determine Other training initiatives for retail employees their cause and the need for corrective actions to include e-learning about products and health and prevent recurrence. safety issues such as lifting techniques. So far, the system is available to store employees in Denmark. If successful, we will look into introducing it in other locations. “I think it is a great opportunity to participate in the Toy Summit. We get information about new products and I get to exchange ideas and information with my colleagues. It is a place where I build relationships and gain new skills, driving me to become better then yesterday. It is also a lot of fun as you get to try out various new products.” Cody Bjordal, Assisting Store Manager, TOYS”R”US, Norway TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 27 Customers 4 Customers We always strive to meet and exceed the needs of our retail and wholesale customers. We believe that delivering the best possible service and value while providing great products for children is the best way to achieve this. Customer experience We want to give our retail customers a good experience, starting in our stores or during the online research before purchase and continuing after the products are taken home to play with. Our goal is to have retail customers return to our stores and webshops. For our wholesale customers, we want to ensure a good experience from the initial meeting with our sales representatives until the products are delivered and sold through their distribution channels. We want our wholesale customers to choose us as Who are our customers? their preferred business partner and to see us as a Retail trustworthy company. Our retail customers are primarily children up to the age of 12, parents, grandparents and We believe that the key to good service is to have guardians. Each group has different expectations. high quality products and great retail and wholesale While children expect our products to be fun and live up to current trends, parents are more employees. Our efforts to empower and engage our concerned about the play value and safety of employees have a positive domino effect on the our products and the conditions under which service they provide. the products are produced. Wholesale “I believe that by putting people first Our wholesale customers are large retail chains and small local stores across the Nordic region. then they will put customers first. They expect us to be a trustworthy business Empowering our store employees will partner, offering an attractive assortment of have a positive effect on the service they provide branded products. They expect us to comply to our customers. This in return will improve the with the firewalls between our retail and customer experience.” wholesale business unit. Fritz Dimmlich, Customer Experience Manager, Sweden REVENUE IN MILLION DKK (EXCLUDING VAT) IN 2012/13 Denmark Sweden Norway Finland Germany Iceland Total BR Toys 676 610 365 152 86 1,889 TOYS”R”US 467 471 399 118 56 1,511 NORSTAR 198 183 153 159 693 28 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Customers Shopping in BR Toys and TOYS”R”US TOP 10 MOST SOLD BRANDS IN BR TOYS AND We want customers to enjoy visiting our retail stores. TOYS”R”US IN 2012/13 Our two retail chains have different identities to 1. LEGO accommodate diverse customer needs. While BR 2. DISNEY CARS Toys is the local chain store known for “making 3. BARBIE children happy”, the TOYS”R”US identity is “it doesn’t 4. MONSTER HIGH get bigger than this”. In 2012/13, we served some 5. SKYLANDERS 18 million customers in our 249 BR Toys and 50 6. OUTRA SPORT TOYS”R”US stores. 7. COLOR KIDS 8. HELLO KITTY We have a standardised store concept for each chain 9. DISNEY PRINCESS and we analyse shopper behaviour to help create 10. NINTENDO the most effective store design. In September 2012, we opened a test store in Germany with a new and very different BR Toys concept. As part of the shopping experience, our customers can become members of our Club BR loyalty programme or subscribe to our TOYS”R”US “Our retail colleagues should have newsletter. Since we launched the Club BR loyalty the best possible knowledge for programme in 2009, more than 2 million have answering the questions they receive signed up. from customers. It is important to me and my team that store staff feel just as passionate Oﬀering digital solutions to retail customers about the products as we do. In that way, they We see an increasing trend towards online shopping. can guide customers both young and old Responding to this, our BR webshops have towards the right products.” operated since 2010, and in 2012, we opened our Thomas Bahn Jespersen, Retail Category Team TOYS”R”US webshops. Manager, Denmark NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS PER MONTH IN BR TOYS AND TOYS”R”US IN 2012/13 MILLION 3.5 3 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 0 ly st ber er r be er ar y ua rch ril Ma ne Ju Au to b mb nu ry Ma Ap y Ju gu ptem No Fe Oc ve m ce De Ja br Se TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 29 Customers Operating webshops has its challenges. Delivering products to private households requires a new logistical set-up. The environmental impact of home deliveries is also arguably higher than when customers come to our stores to shop. When shopping online, children are unable to explore and play with the products, as they are in our physical stores. In addition to our webshops, we pilot various initiatives to create a seamless customer experience across digital and traditional sales channels providing our customers with new possibilities and NORSTAR serves more than 4,500 retail stores increased convenience. across the Nordic countries this includes large retail chains as well as small local stores. In 2012/13 Doing business with NORSTAR NORSTAR sold more than 13 million products to our Through NORSTAR, we supply well-known brands wholesale customers. such as BARBIE, SCHLEICH and NINJA TURTLES to our wholesale customers. We also offer a selection We want to sell more than just a product to our of licensed lifestyle products such as apparel, customers – we want to help them grow their home textiles and tableware. business. The dedicated sales force in each of our markets ensures the right local knowledge is in place “Working with NORSTAR enables me to to give customers the best all-round experience. challenge myself every day. The width of their product range and the high Customer satisfaction importance of their main brands to our market Customer feedback is important to ensure the require detailed joint planning and almost daily continuous improvement of our products and updates on how we are doing. The work never services. For this reason, we listen to and engage ends, and that’s what fascinates me the most.” with customers in order to understand and respond Mari Hyvönen, Toys Buyer at Citymarket, Finland. to their changing expectations and evaluate NORSTAR customer to TOP-TOY their satisfaction. TOP 10 MOST-SOLD BRANDS IN NORSTAR IN 2012/13 Measuring customer satisfaction in wholesale 1. BARBIE 2. FISHER-PRICE In May 2013, we conducted a satisfaction survey 3. MONSTER HIGH among both large and small wholesale customers. 4. BRÜDER We received more than 300 answers. Small customers 5. HOT WHEELS responded to an online survey, while large customers 6. SCHLEICH were interviewed over the phone. 7. DISNEY CARS 8. DISNEY PRINCESS Feedback on our product portfolio was positive. 9. TRASH PACK Customers also commented on the extensive market 10. MONSUNO knowledge of our sales representatives and good service adjusted to local needs. 30 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Customers Overall, the customers responded that NORSTAR addition, they value communication about our adds value to the final consumer and that doing work and transparency. business with us enhances their business. We also received suggestions for areas to improve, which we We also asked the parents whether BR Toys and are now investigating further. TOYS”R”US currently meets these expectations. Even though most are satisfied with our current Measuring customer satisfaction in retail work, the feedback from around half of the In the past, we have used exit interviews to evaluate respondents was that they actually do not know the service level in our stores, but we are now what we are doing. This tells us we should make a looking into an on-going interaction with our retail greater effort to communicate and provide retail customers at store level through direct dialogues customers with more information. and online surveys. This will provide us with more systematic data and improve our retail employees’ ability to listen and respond to our customers’ needs. What is important to parents with children aged 0-12 years? Each week, we ask 600 parents across our markets about their preferences when it comes to purchasing toys. This gives us a good indication of brand awareness and current trends. In May 2013, we asked parents what they expect from BR Toys and TOYS”R”US with regards to sustainability. The results were not surprising. They expect our products to be safe, educational and produced under appropriate conditions. In SUSTAINABILITY AREAS PRIORITISED BY PARENTS WITH CHILDREN AGED 0-12 YEARS 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 0 t ral t now t ral t now t ral t now ant ral t now t ral t now tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan tan Ne ut Ne ut Ne ut por Ne ut Ne ut por por Don’t por por Don’t por por n’t K t por n’t K por Impor n’t K im Im K im Im K im Im Do im Im Do im Do No t No t No t No t No t Environment Factory compliance Responsible marketing Product responsibility Transparency TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 31 Society 5 Society We recognise that we have an impact on society. We seek to make a positive impact through our products, our commercial operations and our stakeholder relations. Being a good corporate citizen is top of mind at TOP-TOY, and we always strive to reach the right balance between profits and responsibility. Our role as a corporate citizen Advertising in a responsible manner As an international company, working in many We fully recognise our responsibility to use markets, employing many people and operating advertising messages that accurately portray the several lines of business, TOP-TOY has a direct features, quality and performance of our products impact on society. This poses a number of and avoid misleading consumers. In this way, we opportunities and challenges. At the same time, both protect our young target consumers and we are aware of the responsibility we have towards meet all applicable regulations, best practices and society and our stakeholders. stakeholder expectations. By putting mechanisms in place and collaborating with relevant stakeholders, we try to address our challenges and live up to our responsibilities within, “We conduct our marketing in for example, advertising and competition. a responsible manner. When it comes to marketing to children, we Advertising pay even more attention, since children are When we advertise towards children, we need impressionable. Therefore, we strive at all times to strike the right balance to ensure we respect to communicate in a fair, honest and clear way children’s rights. On the one hand, we want to increase towards children of all ages.“ awareness of our brands and products. On the other Thomas Bundgaard, Brand Marketing Manager, hand, this should not be at the expense of the child. Denmark 32 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Society Promoting equal play for both genders ”I am convinced others will follow the Over the past years, a dominant gender debate same line as TOP-TOY with regards has arisen, starting in Sweden. This focuses on how to gender-neutral advertising to genders are portrayed in their traditional roles children. It is especially important when it versus more modern roles. comes to children and young people since they do not have the same experience TOP-TOY has previously been found guilty of and opportunities to evaluate marketing portraying stereotype gender roles by the Swedish communication.” Advertising Ombudsman, and we have taken a Elisabeth Trotzig, Swedish Advertising Ombudsman, number of steps to improve our advertising to Sweden children in respect of the gender debate. During 2012, we have had a constructive dialogue with the Swedish Advertising Ombudsman. We have worked with internal guidelines and conducted workshops on how best to approach this area. As a result, we have changed the way we portray boys and girls in our printed catalogues. We have learned a lot from this work and implemented a number of changes in our 2012 BR Toys and TOYS”R”US Christmas catalogues. With our new approach, there is no such thing as a boys or girls product. The changes in the catalogues received a lot of positive attention from customers, global media and other stakeholders, including the Swedish Advertising Ombudsman. CODE OF CONDUCT HIGHLIGHT We support fair play in marketing In our Code of Conduct we address responsible marketing, which means: • Conducting marketing activities with honesty and fairness All relevant employees have received the necessary training in how to advertise in a responsible manner, appropriate to the audience. Employees are also required to safeguard and respect the privacy of customer data by following appropriate policies at all times. TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 33 Society HIGHLIGHT Good efforts pay off in the gender debate 34 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Society Competition Our commitment to protecting confidential information and competing fairly is also reflected The combined retail and wholesale activities of in our new Code of Conduct. This commitment TOP-TOY pose some challenges with regard to applies to the wholesale customers that purchase competition, as some of our wholesale customers products from NORSTAR and to the individuals sell products to the same market served by our who provide us with personal data when retail stores and vice versa. registering for our Club BR loyalty programme and TOYS”R”US newsletter. However, competition provides an obvious benefit to consumers. Due to our size, we have the opportunity to distribute a wider range of products “I regularly consult my brand to the Nordic market than would otherwise be marketing colleagues about the possible, due to the complexities of the business creation of effective trade-marketing environment, with different national requirements activities for our wholesale customers. I do this and languages. secure in the knowledge that my colleagues will not share confidential wholesale customer Information firewalls information with my counterparts on the retail To earn the trust of our wholesale customers when side of the business.“ operating both a wholesale and retail business, Anja Søgaard Olsen, Nordic Trade Marketing Manager, TOP-TOY maintains information firewalls to protect Denmark customer information. Any breach of these firewalls may compromise the reputation of TOP-TOY as a trustworthy business partner. Did you know? Additionally, our organisational setup is designed We have donated DKK 10.3 million to SOS to ensure compliance with competition laws in the Children’s Villages since initiating our sponsor markets where we operate. agreement in 2009 primarily by selling plush dogs in our BR Toys stores. All employees with direct contact to customers and suppliers are trained to respect both commercial and legal firewalls to avoid any discussions of prohibited subjects. CODE OF CONDUCT HIGHLIGHT We compete with respect for the law In our Code of Conduct we address antitrust, which involves: • Competing fairly in all markets where we operate All relevant employees receive antitrust training. They are also required to report any suspected breaches to the legal department. TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 35 Society Our role in the industry “Through our supplier training, TOP-TOY is a small player in the global toy industry, we strengthen our suppliers’ accounting for less than 1% of the market. When it understanding of the increased comes to lifestyle products for children, we are even chemical requirements. They need to know how smaller. This makes it difficult to solve challenges to make proper safety assessments and provide single-handedly. us with the right documentation.“ Clarence Wong, Quality Assurance Manager, For this reason, we encourage industry Hong Kong cooperation. Companies should not invent their own systems, but help to shape better standards Raising the bar for safety in the industry. This can also help avoid audit Through the Danish Standardisation Agency, we fatigue among factories. have taken an active role in the development of the EU Toy Safety Directive. The result is a great We participate in relevant international and regional improvement in European toy safety. We also associations to share our knowledge and stay updemonstrate our commitment to product safety to-date with industry developments. We also have by participating in the European Committee for the on-going dialogues with relevant authorities in the Standardisation of Toys (CEB TC 52). Nordic countries and EU. We welcome strict and meaningful regulations and encourage the authorities to conduct market “TOP-TOY has been present in Asia surveillance to ensure a level playing field and an for more than 20 years, and we have accountable industry that customers can trust. built up a lot of knowledge on how to balance the expectations of European customers In response to the EU Toy Safety Directive, with the Asian reality. We contribute this during 2012/13 we trained 42 of our core Asian knowledge to the ICTI Care Process as a member suppliers in the new requirements for chemical of their Technical Advisory Committee and as an substances. The aim of the training was to ensure advocate for improved human and labour rights. “ the continuous sourcing of products that live up to Jens Hansen, Group Director Operations, Hong Kong safety requirements. Supporting the improvement of standards The training took the form of group sessions We support the ICTI Care Process, which is a followed up by one-to-one meetings with common compliance system established by the the suppliers. In the one-to-one meetings, we toy industry to address human and labour rights gathered first-hand information about the issues at factory level in China. We contribute to individual suppliers’ knowledge of the EU Toy the further development of the process by actively Safety directive and their preparation for the new participating in the Technical Advisory Committee. chemical requirements. After the meetings, we have supported the suppliers in finding the best In addition, we are in regular dialogue with Social solutions to fill identified gaps. Accountability International, which has developed the SA8000 certification scheme, and actively participate in the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI). 36 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 HIGHLIGHT Society A human rights approach The UN Guiding Principles on Business New principles in place and Human Rights were adopted by the We expect the launch of the UN Guiding Principles UN Human Rights Council in June 2011. on Human Rights and the framework for Children’s The principles state that companies should Rights and Business Principles to influence respect human rights, establish a process to businesses in the years ahead. carry out ‘Human Rights Due Diligence’ and establish appropriate access to remedy. The new principles illustrate society’s growing expectations of companies in terms of managing the human rights impacts that may arise from their The Children’s Rights and Business business activities. Principles provide a framework for childfriendly businesses and a guide for companies At TOP-TOY, we fully acknowledge our concerning actions aimed at respecting and responsibility to respect human rights. For us, it supporting children’s rights in the workplace, is only natural that we focus on this area from a marketplace and community. child rights based approach. The Children’s Rights and Business Principles Taking our responsibility forward The map below outlines the 10 principles that During 2013/14, we will conduct our first human businesses should follow in respecting and rights impact assessment in cooperation with supporting children’s rights. relevant external stakeholders. This will result in a list of potential risks and opportunities that will provide the basis for developing a human rights policy to guide our future work and investigate PRINCIPLE 4 PRINCIPLE 5 TH AC Child protection & Products & possible means of improvement. E E safety services M PL CE TPLA MITMENT T HE W M CO ORK PRINCIPLE 3 PRINCIPLE 6 KE POLICY We recognise that this is not a one-off exercise Young workers, Marketing & AR parents & advertising but an on-going process that requires continuous caregivers PRINCIPLE 1 monitoring and evaluation. Child Rights Integration ENC I E PRINCIPLE 2 IAT DI ED LIG Child labour RE M ON E DU We hope to work with other companies in the process to optimise the overall positive impact PRINCIPLE 10 PRINCIPLE 7 Community & Environment & land on those who may be affected by our operations. government efforts TH PRINCIPLE 9 PRINCIPLE 8 EC Emergencies Security NT OM N ME MUN O ITY & THE ENVIR Reference: Children’s Rights and Business Principles, Save the Children, UN Global Compact and UNICEF. TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 37 Environment 6 Environment We want to undertake initiatives that promote environmental responsibility. Our work to reduce our environmental impact is a win-win situation – good for the environment and good for the bottom line. Addressing our environmental impact a dialogue to determine how we can best address our environmental impact. Our employees are our At TOP-TOY, we are faced with growing most important stakeholders in such a discussion. expectations from stakeholders with regard to In their daily work, they come across many areas our environmental impact. where just a small change can have a positive effect. In the past, we have focused our efforts primarily The first step in this dialogue was to send a survey to on the social aspects of our value chain. However, all our retail store managers and office employees. we recognise that we need to pay increasing In this, we asked a number of questions concerning attention to the environmental impact of buying the environment, including open-ended questions and selling our products. Our intention is to where people were invited to express ideas and investigate where we need to focus our efforts concerns. We were pleased to obtain a very good and how to reduce potential risks. response rate and much useful input. A main focus of our environmental efforts so far is Following the survey, we arranged meetings our distribution centre near Copenhagen, which with our store managers at district level. At these is by far our largest site and, as such, the location meetings, we also learned what our retail customers with the greatest environmental impact. ask about with regard to the environment when Engaging our employees visiting our stores. During 2012/13, we have involved our employees in 38 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Environment Our distribution centre near Copenhagen puts “We should start thinking more considerable effort into recycling transportation actively about how we can work with packaging. At store level, we also collaborate with the environment both from the municipal services to recycle as much cardboard wider TOP-TOY perspective and on a practical wrapping as possible. day-to-day store-level basis. If all stores start working more systematically with recycling, for example, that would have a positive impact.” We plan to find more eco-friendly packaging options on our own brand products as this is Angelica Alm, Store Manager, BR Toys, Sweden where we can have the greatest impact. Using this, we will set targets for further environmental The input obtained from the survey and meetings improvements. will be used as a source of inspiration and set the priorities for our ongoing environmental efforts. Transportation It is already clear that there are a number of lowThe majority of the products we sell are hanging fruits we can pluck in our environmental manufactured in Asia. We aim to transport work and other areas where we can make a real our products in the most cost-efficient and long-term difference. environmentally friendly way. For this reason, we strive to avoid air freight and, instead, transport Our environmental initiatives our products to Europe by sea. On their arrival at At present, the two main areas that we address are the harbour, we transport products by truck to our packaging and transportation. In the near future, distribution centres. we will expand our environmental initiatives to cover further aspects of our work. Consolidating containers in Asia We are currently testing a direct-to-store approach. Packaging This involves sending products directly to our Packaging plays a significant role in the toy industry. TOYS”R”US stores from the factories or through We use transportation packaging to protect our a designated consolidation point in China in products during transport and retail packaging for accordance with our sales forecasts. In this way, we labelling and customer information purposes as are able to reduce both our logistic costs and our required by law. CO2 emissions, as products no longer need to pass through our distribution centre near Copenhagen. CODE OF CONDUCT HIGHLIGHT We want to understand our impact on the environment In our Code of Conduct we address the environment, which focuses on: • Undertaking initiatives within packaging, CO2 reduction and waste management We encourage our employees to take an active part in protecting the environment, making suggestions for environmental improvements and passing on any environmental concerns related to our business activities. TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 39 Environment HIGHLIGHT Our distribution centre TOP-TOY operates a 60,000m2 distribution centre near Copenhagen our largest site. Here we have implemented various initiatives during 2012/13 to address our environmental impact and the health and safety of our 111 employees. This is where our heavy This is where the products are packaged on items are stored. pallets before transportation to the stores. To protect the products from damage during transportation, we wrap the pallets, first with banderole foil and then plastic foil. This is where we receive the goods. This is where goods are loaded. Saving wrapping material To save costs while benefiting the environment, we have introduced a more Noise reduction environmentally friendly and longerWe have invested half a lasting banderole foil. We are also testing million DKK in rockwool pads thinner wrapping foil (16 micron). to reduce the noise in the • 50% reduction in use of banderole foil packaging area. • Reduced use of wrapping foil due to • General improvement of the thinner quality acoustics 40 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Environment Health & safety – less heavy lifting Manual lifting of heavy items, such as trampolines and pools, is a health and safety challenge. To protect our employees, we have installed automated vacuum tube lifters for handling heavy items. • Total abolition of health-damaging lifts, eliminating approx. 800 tonnes of lifting Managing our waste The largest sources of waste are cardboard, plastic and other material used for protecting products during transportation to the distribution centre. To improve our waste management, we have teamed up with ISS for guidance in addressing this area. • We expect to reduce waste by 200 truckloads a year Introducing LED lighting We have rolled out an LED lighting project to cut CO2 emissions and costs and REPORTED INJURIES DURING 2012/13 improve employee well-being. This has involved changing Injuries all indoor and outdoor light Fell backwards bulbs an investment with an Truck ran over foot anticipated 5-year payback time. Tripped over truck guard • We expect to save 710,000 kWh annually, equivalent to 400 Cardboard fell on hand tonnes of CO2 emissions Pallet fell down when unloading a • Better lighting will improve the well-being of our container employees, particularly those working the night shift NOTE: All injuries during 2012/13 were minor. 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Injuries 9 4 5 2 5 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 41 Value chain 7 TOP-TOY’s value chain The value chain journey starts with the design of our products and ends when the products reach the children. Each step represents a value-adding activity. 1. CREATIVITY AND DESIGN 2. WE BUY LOTS OF PRODUCTS Our top priority is to offer a product range that Purchasing the right products is essential to our contributes positively to child happiness and business. When we have decided on a great product development. We want to create fun and happy that we want to sell, we start the purchasing childhood memories. process. This is a complex process that includes many stakeholders and challenges. 1. CREATIVITY AND DESIGN 2. WE BUY LOTS OF PRODUCTS 4. OUR PRODUCTS ON THE MOVE 3. HOW OUR PRODUCTS ARE MADE 3. HOW OUR PRODUCTS ARE MADE 4. OUR PRODUCTS ON THE MOVE Our products are manufactured at 760 factories Transporting our products from the factories to our across 40 countries. While we do not own any customers requires careful planning, environmental factories and, therefore, cannot fully control what considerations and a constant focus on the health happens on the factory floor, we still work hard to and safety of our employees. ensure decent working conditions. 42 TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 Value chain 5. WE SELL LOTS OF PRODUCTS THROUGH RETAIL 6. WE SELL LOTS OF PRODUCTS THROUGH We sell our products through our BR Toys and WHOLESALE TOYS“R”US stores. Our goal is to meet the We sell products for children through NORSTAR. expectations of our customers through the We always strive to be a trustworthy business products we sell and the service we provide. partner for our wholesale customers and add value to their business. 5. WE SELL LOTS OF PRODUCTS THROUGH WHOLESALE 8. OUR PRODUCTS IN PLAY 7. SAFE PRODUCTS 6. WE SELL LOTS OF PRODUCTS THROUGH RETAIL 7. SAFE PRODUCTS 8. OUR PRODUCTS IN PLAY Product safety is a key stakeholder concern and also Our best achievement is when children play with our a key priority for TOP-TOY. We want to make sure products, bringing a smile to their faces. that our customers can trust our products, whether they are parents and children shopping in our retail stores or wholesale customers. TOP-TOY Performance Report 2012/13 43 TOP-TOY Roskildevej 16, 4030 Tune Methodology and reporting framework Denmark Tel +45 4616 3656 Scope and reporting framework www.top-toy.com This report focuses on our financial and sustainability performance during the financial year covering July 1, 2012 TOP-TOY Hong Kong to June 30, 2013. 11/F, Central Plaza, 18 Harbour Road Wanchai, Hong Kong The report lives up to the criteria of the UN Global Tel +852 3143 8888 Compact, including the commitment to issue an annual www.top-toy.com Communication on Progress (COP) report. In addition, the report lives up to the legal requirement for Danish companies to disclose how they work with sustainability. NORSTAR Sintrupvej 12, 8220 Brabrand TOP-TOY looks to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Denmark framework for inspiration, but we do not follow the Tel +45 8944 2200 guidelines in full. www.norstar.eu Data This report is based on quantitative and qualitative data collected from internal systems and key people across the organisation. Statements and data have been verified for correctness by responsible managers to ensure the report is an accurate reflection of TOP-TOY’s performance. We work continuously to improve our data collection and verification systems and to become more data-driven. Legal notices Throughout this report references are made to the TOP-TOY, which means TOP-TOY Holding A/S and its subsidiaries: TOP-TOY A/S and TOP-TOY Ejendomme A/S. TOP-TOY is a registered trademark of TOP-TOY (Hong Kong) Ltd. KIDS-WOOD, FLEXI-TRAX, BELLINO, PLAY2LEARN, HAPPY HOUSE, COLOR KIDS, BR and Club BR are registered trademarks of TOP-TOY A/S. TOYS”R”US and the TOYS”R”US & Star design are registered trademarks of Geoffrey, LLC. TOP-TOY A/S is a licensee of Geoffrey, LLC. 100% From wellmanaged forests All other trademarks referred to in this report are the C009089 541-492 Printed matter property of their respective owners. For more information on our performance contact our Sustainability Department at sustainability@top-toy.com or our Communications Department at com@top-toy.com or visit our website TOP-TOY.com © 2013, TOP-TOY Holding A/S. All rights reserved.
