 1  THE GLOBAL COMPACT – COP 2013 www.akkadgroup.com Chairman Ch i 3 Q Quality A lit Assurance 19 E Environment i t 35 Message………... …………… …………………. Akkad Group Logos 4 Environmental 21 Planting trees in 36 ………... protection p company p y site in Syria y & ………………………… Iraq …………. HSE Statement 23 ………………………….. Akkad Group p 26 Responsibilities ………………. Akkad Group 5 Supporting the Global 28 Media Campaign for 37 Introduction Compact Environmental Principals………….. Responsibilities ……………... Akkad Group Activities 7 Human Rights 30 Anti-Corruption 39 …… ………………… ………………. Akkad Group People 8 Akkad Group respect 31 Working Against Anti40 ……… the Human Rights Corruption ………………. …………………….. Akkad Group Mission 11 Akkad Group not 31 …….. complicit in Human www.akkadgroup.com 2 Rights abuses…... Welcome to Akkad Group! Akkad Group continued support for the global compact and renewed commitment to the initiative and its principles that The Global Compact represent p and which reflect at the same time our believes which we inherited from elder generations. As a Group we’re always adhered to social responsibility. In all of our activities we do our best to ensure that all economic, environmental and social i l ffactors t are considered. id d In addition of being committed to our principles of honor, respect and Sincerity makes us more responsible as an enterprise, managing a leading group enforces a process that starts at my office and goes th throughout h t th the C ti tto each Corporation h and d every employee l and d manager iin this enterprise. We share in this commitment as a team because it is the right path. I believe that 2013-2014 2013 2014 bring new challenges and improved bases for business and for Human Rights Rights, Labour, The Environment and the Anti-Corruption, giving me the confidence to say that we will enjoy the experience of achieving our 2013 goals. Sincerely yours, yours Hashem AKKAD www.akkadgroup.com 3 www.akkadgroup.com 4 Anwar Akkad Sons Group is a diversified group of companies in the fields of Oil & Gas Industry, Food Industry, Tourism, Insurance, contracting and Exhibitions. The reputation Akkad Group gained through the excellent performance, integrity and competence, and which reflects the closely-knit management of professionals whom have decades of experience. i While the business continues to evolve with the development of new technologies and discoveries, Akkad Group is well positioned to adapt and capitalize on this dynamic environment. We are working for a brighter future and we value the confidence that each partner places in us, and this trust is vital in all of our decision-making. Akkad Group strategy is based on a continuous development plans renewed annually according to the group activities, compatible with the universal development. Moreover, Akkad Group cares to make use and access to the latest inventions and technology applications through the alliances and cooperation with sound international companies. www.akkadgroup.com 5 www.akkadgroup.com 6 www.akkadgroup.com 7 Akkad Akk dG Group andd employees l are wellll experienced i d and dhhave sett up a fifirm ffooting ti iin th the industry, developing a sound relationship with the clients based on trust and passion to deliver on time and exceed expectations. As a world-class world-class, multi-activities business leader leader, we need to continually reach out to new and various horizons to succeed in the regional market. This means we had to create a working environment that attracts the best professionals with the biggest ambitions and the highest standards. The Akkad Group team is naturally multifarious Comprises 1000 people with a wide combination of skills, backgrounds and perspectives. We use this source of massive potentials to form a great group, a great team of professionals adhered to the success of our branches on projects of Great importance to our country. The applied quality system is matching the large international companies companies’ conditions, conditions and internationally accepted standards. www.akkadgroup.com 8 Anwar Akkad Sons Group draws its strength from:  Strong business relations and market presence.  Projects understanding and full respects of their needs needs.  Fast accommodation with projects requirements.  Respect of customer needs and benefits.  Commitment C it t iis fifirstt priority i it obligations. bli ti  Following modern business practiced activities and continuously upgraded ambitious targets. www.akkadgroup.com 9 www.akkadgroup.com 10 Akk Akkad itt d tto perform Group iis committed dG f allll itits b i businesses iin th t ti the iinternational l market k tbby following the international standards rules, laws and ethics. In addition, the Group is committed to protect the environment, human and assets of others, in all its operational areas. These targets are achieved by applying the most restricted Health, Safety and Environmental protection standards, rules and regulations. Akkad Group p is also committed to p perform all its transactions,, operations p and management systems following the international ISO standards. www.akkadgroup.com 11 www.akkadgroup.com 12 Akkad Group was, and will remain, famed for its quality jobs, we will strive to be recognized among our customers as The Best , and we shall understand and anticipate their needs and respond p them with innovative,, value-added services. Improvement, quality control shall be the integral part of our business process. Akkad Group is cooperating with well-known well known experienced international consultants in all related fields of activities. www.akkadgroup.com 13 www.akkadgroup.com 14  Maintaining a leading position in its activities. Akkad Group will work harder and harder to maintain the leading position it has obtained and develop it to be recognized worldwide as Leader CompanyCompany.  Investing in developing the team and attracting skilled staff and management Akkad Group consider its team as an asset who will push forward to get to our target; therefore an extensive courses in all sectors is applied in cooperation with an international houses to enhance the standards of its employee  Expanding our activities in a very steady steps The Group p does not pplan a rapid p p expansion but is more willing g to p proceed with sure and steady steps, which shall be taken after careful study of the market and the importance of contracts to be signed.  Extending our activities worldwide Despite the global economic downturn, we are always looking to expand our Business into new locations around the region, and around the world! www.akkadgroup.com 15 www.akkadgroup.com 16 A quality policy at Akkad Group is a part of the general policy of the group that express its desire in being a leading group in all its activities and continuous improvement of the styles and methods. The group is the application of effective quality management system that matches the requirements of international standard ISO 9001 -2008, and legislative and legal requirements to ensure product quality and safety and the observance of the requirements to maintain occupational safety and the environment. And continuous improvement of production elements and methods by applying the processes approach in all activities to ensure the development of performance to meet constantly changing requirements of customers and focus on the appeal to them. Management in the group is committed a general framework for quality objectives to ensure that: 1. Develop and improve methods through the rational use of available resources. 2. Development of systems to maintain the environment and contribute to projects that purposes to reach a better environment. 3. The permanent development of the material and human resources through training and awareness. 4. Improve the group's position in the market and work to develop sales. 5. Meet current and future needs of the market and meet the changing requirements of clients and agencies contracted with and to focus on their satisfaction. 6. 6 Work i f t t W k on infrastructure d development l t and d iimproving i th the work k environment. i t 7. Create a spirit of cooperation and creativity among all employees in the group and work as one team. 8. Application of the processes approach in all activities to ensure the development of performance consistently. 9. Fulfill the conditions of occupational safety and working environment, and developed it to include employees of the group group, contractors contractors, sub contractors contractors, building building, facility and equipment in all work sites of the group's head office, branches and transport mechanisms and employees. And the preservation of the environment and reduce pollution. The high management in the group is committed to lead the group always for the better and to follow of systemic approach in management and a realistic approach in decision making and participation of workers to achieve the goals of quality quality. Management is working seriously to establish a mutually beneficial relationship with suppliers and the consolidation of good relations with all interested parties. www.akkadgroup.com 17 www.akkadgroup.com 18 The following are our practice to maintain quality assurance. • Establishing a high level of communications and understanding with customer to satisfy all customer’s needs. • Focusing F i upon services i which reflect our customer satisfaction and continuously y promote p effort toward improvement • Carefully selected our chain suppliers’ base according to our customers' quality standards. • Maintaining g the highest g levels of quality by using documented specialized control methods and supervision. supervision www.akkadgroup.com 19 Our Customers: Experience our services, services as exclusive standard at the most economical rate. They recognize Akkad Group as one of the dedicated Group that would meet both their current requirements and future needs. Our Suppliers: view us as partners who clearly define requirements and expect in return, raw materials, products and services that fully meet these requirements. Our Employees: Is a part of Akkad Group family family, as an integral family Akkad Group has strived to achieve the zero defects. They understand that as an employer, Akkad Group values them as assets and will provide them with opportunities for future growth. www.akkadgroup.com 20  21  Environmental Protection Policy y www.akkadgroup.com Environmental Protection Policy Akkad group is committed to following: Minimize emissions, effluents and wastes which caused from company's different activities to the less standard and improve efficient use of natural resources and energy energy. Minimize the impact of its different activities to the less standard on the environment and protect endemic fauna and flora at all sites of operations. Will operate its facilities and equipments in compliance with applicable National, International and local environmental regulations. Where Akkad group becomes aware of a hazard representing a risk and not covered by existing laws or regulations, Akkad group will develop its own environmental standards and practices to provide for adequate protection of employees, public health and the environment. Akkad group will adequately train its employees to ensure awareness, understanding, and implementation of environmental rules, responsibilities and accountabilities. Akkad group facilities managers( equipments, warehouses, workshops) will ensure that this policy is followed and they are familiar with the environmental issues at their facility. www.akkadgroup.com 22  23  HSE Policy y Statement www.akkadgroup.com www.akkadgroup.com 24 HSE Policy Statement We are in Akkad group company committed to: Pursue the goal of no harm to people – prevent pollution and protect the environment. Assure the integrity of people and facilities. Support energy conservation. Promote ownership and leadership HSE at all levels of Akkad group contractors and clients clients. Play a leadership role in promoting HSE best practices in community. Promote a positive culture in which Akkad group employees and contractors share this commitment. To achieve this commitment Akkad group will: Comply with all applicable laws and regulations, and relevant international laws and standards. Implement an effective risk based HSE and integrity management system with clear HSE targets and objectives to achieve continuous improvement. Manage all foreseeable risks to the health environment and take appropriate measures to eliminate where possible, otherwise minimize HSE risk. Take necessary measures in the design construction, operation, maintenance, and documenting of our facilities to ensure the prevention of injury injury, ill health health, and pollution pollution. Openly report measures, monitor, apprise, and learn from HSE performance and take corrective actions when necessary. Conduct periodic audits and reviews to verify compliance with the principles of this policy and take appropriate corrective actions. The application of this policy is on behave and direct responsibility of management, employees, and contractors involved in Akkad group activities. activities www.akkadgroup.com 25 Akkad Group is committed to play a development role in each country it operates, and is proud to be recognized among the domestic staff and the people as a company that p perform its jjob considering g the culture and upgrading pg g the level of its employee p y and prepare them to be a strong asset to build their country. www.akkadgroup.com 26 www.akkadgroup.com 27 Akkad Group is committed to continued support the Global Compact principals in the fields of Human Rights, Labour, The Environment and Anti-Corruption. We are looking to be an active p partner in implementing p principals g theses p p which g go with our believes. Our commitment exceed our own group, we are making a whole campaign utilizing our facilities to explain the importance and advantages of implementing the ten principals. We have made several workshops and meetings with the executives in our group to consider the implementation of the ten principals in their day to day activities. We have implemented an Environmental Protection Policy, HSE Policy, expand and developed our Anti-Corruption Policy. www.akkadgroup.com 28 www.akkadgroup.com 29  P i i l 1: Principal B i 1 Businesses h ld supportt and should the protection d respectt th t ti off iinternationally t ti ll proclaimed human rights, and  Principal 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Akkad Group respects the Human Rights and is applying a healthy and safety management system that conform to the best practices in the world. Human rights are an essential part of the group operations, we have done many workshops and courses to ensure and clarify to our employees the importance of respecting p g the human rights g p y of the employees, , colleagues, g , family y and society. y Akkad Group is also not complicit in human rights abuses, on the contrary, Akkad Group p prevent any g abuse by y kind of human right yggivingg a clear instruction to the executives in the group to make sure that all the employees should work against any kind of human rights abuse by having long and detailed discussions with all the people in the group. www.akkadgroup.com 30 Akkad Group continued support and adheres to the guiding principles that promote worker human rights. Chairman, General Managers, Chief Executive Officers, Project Managers, Division Managers and every one are responsible for identifying human rights needs and providing appropriate training. www.akkadgroup.com 31 www.akkadgroup.com 32  P i i l 3: Principal B i 3 Businesses h ld uphold h ld th should the ffreedom d off association i ti and d th the effective ff ti recognition of the right of collective bargaining;  Principal 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  Principal 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and  Principal 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Akkad group is committed to continued support the four principals of labour and is working to ensure workforce is aware of theses principals. The labour has an important part of Akkad Group p p strategy gy and we are committed to eliminate of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Because we consider it as red line, Akkad Group ppprevent child labour in its companies p and factories, theses instructions is clearly stated in the internal system of the company and in the Human recourses System. www.akkadgroup.com 33 www.akkadgroup.com 34  P i i l 7: Principal B i 7 Businesses ti h ld supportt a precautionary should t l h tto environmental approach i challenges;  Principal 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and  Principal 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. All Akkad Group employees and company worksites are responsible for maintaining the integrity of environment programs, obeying all environmental i t l rules, l ffollowing ll i environmental i t l practices, and informing supervisors of any unsafe act for environment. www.akkadgroup.com 35 It is Akkad group policy to prevent damage and minimize environmental impact as much as possible; Akkad Group will specifically strive to: Always exercise due diligence in protecting the environment. Abide by all governing regulations. Containment spills; water source contamination, destruction of vegetation or any other violation of environmental laws is not permitted. Workers must immediately report all chemical or hydrocarbon spills to their manager. Go Green in all the company sites, and we have planted l t d many trees t in i our company site it in i Syria & Iraq. Moreover, Akkad Group has executed several campaigns for instructing people to take care of the environment; hundreds of posters were spread in the advertising company network t k all ll over Syria. S i www.akkadgroup.com 36 www.akkadgroup.com 37 www.akkadgroup.com 38  Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have in Akkad group a clear instruction to avoid and not doing anything related any kind of corruption internally and externally and all the executives are responsible to make sure that everyone y in the g group g against p is working g corruption p in all its forms including g extortion and bribery. www.akkadgroup.com 39  40  Akkad g group's Anti-Corruption Policy y www.akkadgroup.com The Policy: Corruption is the abuse of entrusted power for private and usually commercial gain. Akkad group takes a zero-tolerance approach to corruption and is committed to carrying out business fairly, honestly and openly, and without improper influence. influence United Oil Inc Inc. does not indirectly, through intermediaries or other third parties not, either directly or indirectly parties, solicit solicit, receive receive, offer, promise or provide any financial or other advantage of material value or otherwise exercise improper influence in its dealings with other businesses, or with government or public officials with the intention of obtaining any improper advantage in the conduct of its business. All Relevant Persons are required to comply with this policy and are responsible for ensuring that Akkad group business is undertaken with the utmost integrity with regard to the following matters: 2 Bribery: Bribery is unlawful in all jurisdictions in which Akkad group operates . Akkad group prohibits all forms of bribery. Bribery is the direct or indirect offering, promising, giving, accepting or soliciting of a financial or other advantage that results in an activity act ty being be g pe o ed improperly performed p ope y ((for o eexample a p e in bbreach eac o ust, in bad faith of ttrust, at o biased or in a b ased manner).The a e ) e ad advantage a tage may have been offered or received, or the improper performance undertaken, directly or indirectly (for example, via a customer, agent, intermediary or supplier). The improper activity may be connected with . Akkad group ‘s business (including the activity of employees or third parties working on behalf of . Akkad group ) or with the functions of government or other public bodies. 3 Facilitation payments: Akkad group prohibits facilitation payments. A facilitation payment is payment of a bribe to a government or public official to secure or expedite the performance of a routine action to which the payer is entitled. United Oil Inc. recognizes that there may be circumstances in which an official immediately threatens or compromises the personal safety and security of an individual concerned (or another) in order to procure the payment. In such situations, any payment must be reported in accordance with the relevant procedures. www.akkadgroup.com 41 4 Gifts, entertainment (hospitality) and expenses: Akkad group recognizes that fostering good relationships with business partners is important to its continued success. The provision and receipt of modest gifts and entertainment, and the incurring of modest expenses, are acceptable in principle provided that they are reasonable and made transparently. However, the provision or receipt of any gift or entertainment, or the incurring of any expenses, is not permitted where it is offered or received in exchange for a business or other improper benefit, creates (or may create) any sense of “obligation”, influences (or could influence, in any way) business judgment or creates (or may create) a conflict between a Relevant Person’s Person s personal interests and those of Akkad group or is otherwise illegal. Any activity that could be perceived as having any of the above effects is also prohibited. Akkad group ‘s business decisions and those of its partners must be made (and be seen to be made) objectively and without influence by gifts or favors. Relevant Persons may only offer or accept corporate or personal gifts of a modest value. In all circumstances, gifts, entertainment and other expenditure must be subject to an appropriate disclosure process and gifts, entertainment and expenditure above a specified value must be subject to an appropriate (prior) approval process. It is anticipated that values will vary according to the jurisdiction concerned. 5 Third parties: Akkad g group p is aware that its reputation p mayy be damaged g by y the conduct of third pparties acting g on its behalf or by y others with which it does business. In certain circumstances, their actions can have legal implications for United Oil Inc. As such, it is not acceptable for a third party acting on United Oil Inc.’ behalf to act in a way which would breach this policy were the act in question undertaken Akkad group directly. Akkad group is therefore committed to: A. Taking reasonable steps to ensure that its business partners are made aware of, understand and adhere to this policy (and, (and where relevant, relevant its associated procedures) procedures). B. Verifying the integrity and reputation of its business partners through appropriate and reasonable due diligence in light of perceived levels of risk. C. (where appropriate and possible) putting in place appropriate and reasonable controls to monitor the use of Akkad group’s money by third parties acting on Akkad group ‘s behalf. 6 Interaction with government officials and lobbying: Akkad group does not, directly or indirectly through intermediaries or other third parties, offer, promise or provides any financial or other advantage or otherwise seeks to exercise improper influence in its relations with government or p public officials in order to obtain any y improper p p advantage. g www.akkadgroup.com 42 7 Charitable contributions and sponsorships: Akkad group makes charitable contributions and offers sponsorships for the purposes of socio-economic development or linked to cultural or sporting activities and not for improper business purposes. Charitable donations and sponsorships must not be perceived as being given for improper purposes. When a charitable contribution or sponsorship is proposed, it must be transparent, transparent documented documented, made in accordance with applicable law and assessed for compliance with this policy and any related procedures. 8 Political donations: Akkad group does not participate directly or indirectly in party politics and does not make payments to political parties, politicians or related organizations. 9 Use of company assets: Relevant Persons have a responsibility to protect . Akkad group assets from theft, loss, abuse, unauthorized use or disposal. They must use company assets only for purposes related to conducting their . Akkad group’s group s responsibilities and may use company assets for other (including personal) uses only when properly authorized. 10 Conflict of interest: Relevant Persons must avoid conflicts of interest and are expected to perform their duties conscientiously, honestly and in accordance with the best interests of . Akkad group Relevant Persons must not abuse their position position, misuse confidential knowledge for personal or third party gain, or have any direct involvement in any business interest which diverts their attention from, or is in conflict with, . Akkad group’s commercial interests, or which in anyway compromises their independence and impartiality. 11 Mergers, acquisitions and joint ventures: Akkad group is committed to undertaking appropriate and reasonable due diligence on the reputation and integrity of any business in which it invests. www.akkadgroup.com 43  44  www.akkadgroup.com www.akkadgroup.com
