4 Graphics that illustrate this report are the result of the annual internal competition of photography, drawing and collage that OMA promotes among their employees and families 5 INDEX Letter from the OMA Board 7 3. Sustainability 91 Charmain Letter from the CEO 12 4. Economic Dimension 102 Memory Parameters 16 5. Social Sphere 109 5a. Social Responsability 111 1. Profile 28 5b. OMA Labor Practices 125 1a. OMA Culture 30 5c. Health and Safety in the Workplace 145 1b. OMA: 12 years fostering our 36 5d. Quality and Service for Customers 163 growth 5e. Airport Security 177 1c. OMA facilities 42 1d. Services and Diversification 50 6. Environmental Dimension 185 6a. Water 190 2. Corporate Governance 62 6b. Energy 195 2a. Board of Directors, Support 65 6c. Waste Management 201 Committees and Managerial 6d. Air Emissions 205 Team of OMA 6e. Biodiversity 208 2b. Risk Management 76 6f. Climate Change 214 2c. Ethics in Business 80 2d. Human Rights 85 7. Global Index 220 Reporting Initiative 6 7 LETTER FROM THE OMA BOARD CHARMAIN Dear Readers: As the current President of the Board of Directors, a post I have occupied since April 16, 2013, it is with great pleasure that I present the 2012 sustainable performance report of Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte (OMA). I would also like to take this opportunity to reaffirm, as part of my commitment, the continued promotion of the company’s initiatives and actions in connection with the Sustainability strategy established by the Board. Sustainability represents a strategic decision leading to the establishment of a management system designed to continually and harmoniously improve the overall performance of OMA in the economic, social and environmental fields. This vision provides direct benefits for our groups of interest and makes an important contribution to the management of costs and risks associated with an ever-changing context in order to seize opportunities to improve the company’s performance. At present, a company’s sustainable development represents the key factor in decisions taken by investors with a socially responsible vision. Since we are one of the companies forming part of the Sustainable Price and Quotations Index (IPC) of the Mexican Stock 8 Exchange, being included for the second consecutive year, OMA is committed to taking actions that promote the importance of balanced policies and management systems for economic, social, environmental and corporate governance practices. With this purpose in mind, this fourth OMA Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with the GRI G3.1 guide and the sector supplement for airport operators, paying special attention to the importance of each topic for the people and institutions with which we have established links. This focus has allowed us to identify our strengths and areas of opportunity, implementing actions to ensure the continual improvement of our sustainable performance. OMA believes it is important to balance the resources used in its operations with environmental concerns, highlighting the implementation of strategies that help maintain stable levels of energy consumption despite the growth of airport infrastructure while maintaining the comfort levels of passenger facilities. As a result of these strategies, 2012 proved to be an important year due to the construction of a Solar Park at Zacatecas Airport for the generation of sustainable energy, making Zacatecas the only airport in Mexico and the whole of Latin America to use such infrastructure. This park combines the use of two photovoltaic panel technologies to generate almost 400,000 Kw/h a year, which is sufficient to cover roughly half the airport’s total energy requirements. This represents a 50% saving on consumption costs and the cost of electricity as well as the reduction of carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 200 Tons per year, which is equivalent to planting 2,000 trees each year during the useful life of the Solar Park. 9 Another of the environmental areas where OMA has developed strategic initiatives is the preservation of biodiversity in those regions where it operates, leading to the introduction of two important projects in 2012: The Environmental Management Unit (UMA) for Mangroves at Zihuatanejo Airport and the Collaboration Agreement with the Autonomous University of Guerrero to help preserve the Laguna de Tres Palos in Guerrero. These projects demonstrate the importance of collaborating with organizations specializing in sustainability in order to perform actions that promote dynamism between companies, organizations and groups of interest for the purpose of working for the common good: the rational use of resources for the promotion of actions designed to protect the environment. In order to continue these sustainable actions, in 2013 OMA will continue to work on programs that help reduce the company’s consumption of water and energy; optimize treatment processes for waste water and energy efficiency; increase customer satisfaction through the implementation of quality development programs for suppliers and business partners; promote active participation in the socioeconomic development of neighboring communities; and obtain Safe Company Certification for all work centers from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security, among others. These goals, together with the company’s other activities, are determined in accordance with the sustainability policy which establishes the guidelines for airport operations by means of a scheme that permits a balanced use of resources so they can be preserved for future generations. 10 I invite you to learn about the actions performed by OMA in 2012 and take this opportunity to thank all our collaborators for their strong commitment to Sustainability. Mr. Diego Quintana Kawage President of the Board at OMA 11 12 LETTER FROM THE CEO Dear Readers: Sustainability is one of the values that helps define the business culture of OMA. We have strong convictions about the importance of adopting a balanced approach to issues considered important for our groups of interest as part of an Integrated Management System which allows us to harmonize actions related to economic, social, environmental and corporate governance at the thirteen airports of the Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte (OMA). With respect to sustainability, OMA places importance on quality, customer service, health and security in the workplace, care for the environment, and social responsibility. This emphasis allows us to optimize the efficiency and effectiveness of our actions by orienting plans and projects for the benefit of present and future generations. In recent years OMA has undertaken actions in support of its Sustainability Policy with 2012 in particular being an important year for consolidating our understanding of topics considered relevant for the individuals, companies and institutions that interact with the Group. Their requirements were incorporated into the OMA Sustainability Plan and this has helped increase the number of indicators reported from 35 to 50 in accordance with the Sector Supplement for Airport Operators of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) at application level B+. 13 This management focus has resulted in OMA becoming a member of the group of corporations forming the Sustainable Price and Quotations Index (IPC) of the Mexican Stock Exchange for the second consecutive year, something that commits the group to continue performing actions for the benefit of stockholders and the communities where our airports are located. In turn this has consolidated the position of OMA as a company that is sustainable, liquid and suitable for investment, providing continuity and compliance with previously established programs. As part of the follow-up on the commitments established in the 2011 Sustainability Report we introduced the 6-Sigma Improvement Program to increase the effectiveness of processes; our water footprint and consumption of electricity per passenger were reduced by 0.1% and 0.7% respectively; we received Safe Company Certification from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security for 6 of our airports and eliminated the education lag at the elementary level at all OMA work centers. In this last area, 7 airports as well as our corporate offices are already free of any education lag at the middle school level. In addition, the Mexican Center for Philanthropy awarded the group the Socially Responsible Company Distinction for the fifth consecutive year, and the OMA has also been included on the Corporate Sustainability Transparency Index issued by Gestión Social y Cooperación A.C. and the Center for Institutional Governability Studies of the IPADE (PanAmerican Institute for High Business Direction). Both of these awards highlight the performance of OMA in the area of corporate social responsibility. 14 For the third consecutive year OMA validated its certification as a Great Place to Work, which is issued by the Great Place to Work Institute of Mexico, and was listed among the top 100 companies to work for in Mexico in the category 500 to 5000 employees according to the rankings released by this body. With respect to care for the environment, we revalidated our ISO 14001 Multisite Certification; the airports in Culiacán, Chihuahua, Ciudad Juárez, Durango, Mazatlán, Tampico and San Luis Potosí revalidated the Environmental Quality Certification issued by PROFEPA (the Federal Environmental Protection Agency); the project for collaboration to assist in the preservation of the Laguna de Tres Palos and mangrove forests at the Acapulco Airport commenced; we can also highlight the first year of operations for the Environmental Management Unit which worked on the production of button-wood mangroves at Zihuatanejo Airport. In addition, at the Zacatecas Airport a Solar Park was built using photovoltaic panel technology to generate 50% of the energy consumed by the airport. With this work the Zacatecas Terminal area became the first in Latin America to use a sustainable system of energy generation. As part of its Health and Safety in the Workplace Initiative, OMA maintained its OHSAS 18001:2007 Multisite Certification and renewed its Company Free of Drug Consumption Certification for all the Group’s work centers. More specifically, the Reynosa Airport received the National Labor Award from the Ministry of Labor and Social Security. Regarding quality assurance, we received ISO 9001:2008 Multisite Recertification for the Group’s 13 airports and Corporate Offices for the period 2012-2015, registering a grade of zero non-conformity for the ninth consecutive year according to the report issued by the certifying agency. 15 As part of the ongoing improvements to our sustainable performance, in 2012 we identified priority areas that will receive special emphasis: the mitigation of significant environmental impacts such as water footprint and carbon footprint by passenger; the establishment of a biodiversity policy leading to the implementation of actions to help preserve flora and fauna in those regions where we conduct operations; the facing of challenges to minimize risks in the workplace and to achieve our goal of zero accidents; the identification of mechanisms that will help OMA forge a link with neighboring communities; and the establishment of measurement tools for air quality and noise levels resulting from our operations. The development of effective channels of communication between OMA and its respective groups of interest are key elements for improving the Group’s global performance, and for this reason we hope the information offered in this Sustainability Report proves useful and helps stimulate feedback as well as attention to and follow-up on all comments. We would like to extend our sincerest gratitude to advisors, stockholders, directors and collaborators for their valuable contributions to the achievement of our sustainable development goals and for making OMA the leading airport group in Mexico, creating value for the airport industry, its staff and stockholders. Yours faithfully Porfirio González Álvarez CEO 16 Memory Parameters [2.1, 2.4, 2.9, 2.10, 3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.6, 3.7, 3.9, 3.10, 3.13] 17 Memory Parameters 18 The content of the 2012 Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte (OMA) Sustainability Report has been defined using a variety of mechanisms that reflect material aspects related to company sustainability. At the OMA we publish our sustainability reports annually so the present document contains information corresponding to the months of January to December 2012, providing followup on information presented in the report published the previous year. The information presented was consolidated via documentation held in our Integrated Management System along with exercises and interviews held with the people responsible for the organization’s different areas. This information was checked by the company PricewaterhouseCoopers S.C., which awarded us Application Level B+ in accordance with the GRI G3.1 guide. Memory Parameters 19 Level of GRI Application Memory Parameters 20 Each year the OMA Strategic Plan serves as our guide for determining the actions to be taken concerning sustainability. These actions, aligned with our Sustainability Policy, are duly coordinated and managed using our Integrated Management System. The mission of the OMA Sustainability Committee, headed by our Managing Director and representatives from all areas of the organization, is to plan and define the guidelines used to provide follow-up for our Sustainability Policy. This is the internal body responsible for establishing the standards for focusing our efforts and ensuring they are always oriented towards sustainable growth. Memory Parameters 21 Memory Parameters 22 In 2012 the OMA VYNMSA AERO INDUSTRIAL PARK was created for the acquisition, development, construction, operation, leasing, maintenance, commercialization, financing, sale or any form of use of immovable and movable assets. The results shown in the report correspond to the operation of 13 of the group’s airports, excluding the Hotel NH at Terminal 2 of the Mexico City International Airport (except for those cases when mentioned), the OMA VYNMSA AERO INDUSTRIAL PARK, as well as the operations of our business partners and suppliers. Memory Parameters 23 Definition process for report content [3.5, 3.11] The importance for OMA of interest groups led us to undertake a process of determining the relevance/materiality of indicators in 2012 with the support of an external company. This allowed us to fine-tune and complement the relevant information for those persons and organizations we deal with. This process consisted of evaluating the indicators for the economic, environmental and social spheres. The documents supporting for this evaluation were as follows: w The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI G3.1) guide, as well as the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines & Airport Operators Sector Supplement. w The evaluation of the Sustainable IPC (Prices and Quotations Index) of the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV). w The regulatory framework used for our operations. w OMA risk analysis. w The materiality analysis performed by PricewaterhouseCoopers S.C., which included surveys of internal and external interest groups, sector benchmarking and the analysis of public information from the airport sector in order to identify relevant topics and indicators. w The contribution of sustainability indicators for meeting Business Objectives. Memory Parameters 24 The GRI G3.1 guide, the evaluation of the Sustainable IPC and the regulatory framework used for our operations facilitated comparison with other organizations and the identification of our performance throughout 2012 in terms of sustainability. These external guidelines set the tone for determining which economic, environmental and social aspects need to be measured and reported according to the risks and objectives of our company. Approximately 60 potential risks for OMA were analyzed in this process and classified according to the economic danger and impact they could have on our operations. Similarly, materiality analysis was performed with internal and external interest groups, comprising of 740 on-line surveys, 520 of these with internal groups and 220 with external groups. The response was 42% and 21% respectively. With respect to Corporate Governance, the topics considered highly relevant according to the majority, both internally and externally, were as follows: w Analysis of sustainability risks and opportunities w The fight against corruption w Code of ethics With respect to Economic topics, those considered highly relevant, both internally and externally, were as follows: w The economic impact of investment on local infrastructure w The number of flights w The number of passengers w The generation of value for interest groups Parámetros Memoryde Parameters la memoria 25 In addition to the above, internally the topic of salaries was considered highly relevant for future reports. With respect to the Environment, the topics considered highly relevant for internal and external interest groups were as follows: w Environmental investment w Spills w Emissions into the air w Energy use and energy efficiency w Waste generated by international flights w Waste handling w Water management w Rainwater collection In this same area, internally the reporting of noise pollution was considered highly relevant as well as a biodiversity strategy. With respect to Social topics, the most important according to the majority, both internally and externally, were as follows: w Customer satisfaction w Training w Runway accidents involving wildlife w Safe working conditions w Positive and negative impacts on communities Memory Parameters 26 In relation to the question of Human Rights and Gender Equality, the internal public classified these as highly relevant while the external public considered them relevant. All of the above, when added to our comparative studies with companies from the airport sector, allowed us to determine which indicators are relevant for meeting the company’s financial objectives, which in turn would allow us to maximize the profitability and optimize costs and expenses related to our operations. Process for defining the relevance of OMA indicators Memory Parameters 27 Contact Information [3.4] Sustainability Department sustentabilidad@oma.aero Tel. +52 (81) 8625-4300 Corporate Offices Servicios Aeroportuarios del Centro Norte, S.A. de C.V. Torre Latitud Av. Lázaro Cárdenas 2225, L501 Col. Valle Oriente San Pedro Garza García, N.L. México CP 66269 28 1. OMA Profile [2.1, 2.4, 2.5, 2.6, 2.8, 4.8, 4.12] 29 30 1a. OMA Culture 31 OMA Profile OMA Culture 32 We are distinguished by Our Culture because this pushes us to be a company dedicated to principles and values that determine the integrity of all people forming part of OMA. Vision To be the leading Airport Group in Mexico for the creation of value for the airport industry, its staff and stockholders. Mission Develop airports with world class infrastructure and services in terms of quality and security that satisfy the needs of customers and lead to sustainable development. The generation of social, economic and human value is one of our priorities. The values guiding our daily operations create an organizational culture demonstrating our convictions. OMA Profile OMA Culture 33 Values w Ethics, integrity in the performance of our activities. w Collaboration, to motivate and promote initiatives that contribute to team work. w Innovation, the application of new ideas that offer solutions and promote ongoing improvements. w Customer Service, to exceed expectations with a service oriented-attitude and vocation. w Sustainability, to orient our operations and take actions that benefit current and future generations. OMA Profile OMA Culture 34 HUMAN RIGHTS [HR2] The values of OMA form the basis for the performance of all our collaborators; consistent with these values, since 2009 we have voluntarily adhered to the United Nations (UN) Global Compact. This initiative, the most important internationally with respect to Human Rights, promotes ten universal principles. THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT: Human Rights: 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence; and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards: 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; 5. The effective abolition of child labor; and 6. Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. OMA Profile OMA Culture 35 Environment: 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption: 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. We established a goal for 2012 that all contracts signed with suppliers and contractors during the course of the year would include a human rights clause. Our main contractors provide cleaning, monitoring and security staff as well as operational staff for parking garages. 100% of these contracts include human rights topics as part of the contractual obligations. Our goal for 2013 is to design a code of ethics and code of conduct for suppliers that establish respect for human rights in line with the United National Global Compact. 36 1b. OMA: twelve years fostering our growth 37 OMA Profile History 38 OUR COMPANY Grupo Aeroportuario del Centro Norte, S.A.B. de C.V. (OMA) is a concession awarded by the Federal Government of Mexico since 1998. It operates and runs 13 airports in the CentralNorthern region of Mexico and also includes OMA Cargo and the Hotel NH at Terminal 2 of the Mexico City International Airport. Its offices are located in San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, and the company has 1,021 direct collaborators and another 1,165 indirect collaborators1, allowing the company to provide a service based on quality, excellence and good treatment of the more than 12 million passengers using our facilities. 1 Indirect employees: workers contracted by a third party for the following tasks: security guards, reviewers, parking garage cashiers and cleaners. OMA Profile History 39 OMA Profile History 40 The share structure of OMA includes two strategic partners that operate via Servicios de Tecnología Aeroportuaria S.A. de C.V. (SETA): w AEROINVEST (ICA): 100% subsidiary of Empresas ICA, the largest construction and engineering company in Mexico, founded in 1947 and with operations in Mexico, Central America and Europe. ICA is the owner –directly and indirectly – of 54% of OMA shares. w ADPM: Aéroports de Paris Management (ADPM), an affiliate of Aéroports de Paris, a company that manages the investment and administration of 26 airports in different parts of the world, including Paris Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget. It is the second most important operations group in Europe with traffic of 88.8 million passengers a year. Aéroports de Paris Management –through SETAowns 4.2% of the shares in OMA. OMA Profile History 41 1 SETA: Servicios de Tecnología Aeroportuaria, S.A. de C.V. 2 SETA: Includes 872,473 shares the company bought back. 42 1c. Infrastructure 43 OMA Profile Infrastructure 44 INFRASTRUCTURE [2.1, 2.2, 2.7, 2.8, 3.8] OMA has connected passengers and their destinations for more than 12 years and the experience gained during this period allows us to channel our growth and diversification efforts towards consolidating OMA as a company with a sustainable profile. We make a concerted effort at all of our facilities to provide a service marked by quality while seeking operational effectiveness. OMA Profile Infrastructure 45 OMA Profile Infrastructure 46 We work day after day to ensure the infrastructure and operations of our 13 airports are geared towards sustainability and to comply with and exceed the international quality standards used in the industry. During 2012 we received awards and certifications for eight of our airports. OMA 2012 Prizes and Awards [2.10] OMA Profile Infrastructure 47 2012 Prizes and Awards by Airport OMA Profile Infrastructure 48 In order to ensure that in the future we continue to connect users and passengers both safely and efficiently the development of infrastructure, which forms the base of our business operations, are aligned with our Development Master Plan 2011-2015. Actions taken as part of this Plan make a very important contribution to the growth and sustainability of OMA and for this reason in 2012 we invested a total of $572 million pesos in works and infrastructure projects. OMA Profile Infrastructure 49 Terminal equipment refers to investment in luggage scanning equipment, the acquisition of a fire fighting unit, sweeper and utility vehicles, rehabilitation of air conditioning systems and the installation of photovoltaic panels. Note: 2010 does not include investment in Terminal B of the City of Monterrey Airport, which was for a total of 840 million pesos. 50 1d. Services and Diversification [2.7] 51 OMA Profile Services and Diversification 52 Customer experiences are of major importance for OMA, so offering our users, visitors and passengers a variety of options to ensure the time spent at our facilities meets their expectations enjoy a high priority. The services offered at our airports, pursuant to Mexican Airport Law, are classified as: airport services, complementary services and business services. Airport Services These are the services provided as part of our concession: w Landing and takeoff. w Platform parking service, embarkation, disembarkation, longtime or overnight parking of aircraft. w Mechanical Boarding Devices, telescopic passageways and shuttle cars. w Airport Usage Tax (AUT), including the use of terminal building facilities such as areas with free access, restricted access, revision and luggage delivery areas and rooms, departure lounges, passageways, signposting, information systems for flight arrivals/departures, flight information screens, access for the disabled and customer service modules. w Leasing of hangars, workshops, warehouses, stores, retail premises and facilities considered indispensable for airline operations and complementary service providers, as well as ticket counters for the sale of air transport and ground transport tickets. w Parking for cars and public ground transport vehicles. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 53 w Sanitary services, medical attention for emergencies and ambulances. w Water treatment, garbage collection and incineration of organic products from international flights. w Security and monitoring, passenger and hand luggage revision. w CREI: Fire-fighting and Rescue Services. w Rights of access for ground transport services for the public and service providers. w Conservation, maintenance and cleaning services. Complementary Services These are offered to users of our facilities as part of the service and include: w Ramps. w Traffic. w Dispatch. w Fuel supply. w Towing of vehicles. w Removal of unused aircraft. w Security and monitoring of aircraft, luggage, cargo and mail. w Maintenance and repair of aircraft and ground support equipment. w CREI, brake cooling and washing of asphalt after fuel and lubricant spills. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 54 Commercial Services These services are available to users and, despite the fact they are not essential to our operations, they do allow us to attend to our visitors in a friendly manner. Among the business services OMA offers to passengers and visitors to its airports are the following: w ATMs. w Ticket sales. w Direct telephone lines for car hire. w Wireless Internet and public telephones. w Massage chairs. w Bank branches. w Currency Exchange. w Phone booths. w Hotels. w Tourist information. w Car hire. w Business center. w Time shares. w Shoe Shine. w Vending machines. w Packing and packaging of luggage. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 55 OMA Plaza provides 278 business premises offering a variety of products and services that help make the experience of travelers and visitors a pleasant one. Among the businesses on offer at OMA Plaza are the followingt: w Handicrafts and souvenirs. w Duty Paid. w Books and magazines. w Lottery tickets. w Gifts. w Gastronomy. w Prestigious brand boutiques. w Fashion and accessories. w Areas providing restaurants, bars, snacks, cafés and food and drinks vending machines. Advertising at airports: for all those companies wishing to advertise their products and/or services at our facilities we offer: w Digital advertising. w Fixed advertising w Alternative advertising w Showrooms w Temporary exhibitions w Podiums w Seasonal decoration w BTL (below the line) Activations. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 56 Our business offer is dynamic and contemporary since we seek to satisfy the ever-changing needs of customers. Among our main achievements in 2012 in the area of commercial services was the opening of 68 new business premises in the form of stores, restaurants, advertising and services. Similarly, the shopping areas of our airports have become a desirable destination for many companies due to the popularity and the customer profile of visitors. For this reason, products such as the magazine developed by OMA in 2012 have proved successful due to their recognition and differentiation with respect to traditional airport advertising. With the launch of the magazine Airport Style, OMA became the first airport group in Mexico with its own publication. This year we also attracted 71,000 followers on Facebook thanks to the organization of special events in the social media and we also launched alternative advertising projects which generated major visual impact and greater demand for advertising space. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 57 DIVERSIFICATION [2.7, 3.8, AO8, EC8] In addition to our airports and their commercial areas, at OMA we try to stay on the cutting edge, optimize the profitability of our business and offer customers, suppliers and users an additional set of products and services. Among OMA’s most noteworthy diversification achievements in 2012 are the following: w Commencement of operations of a Strip Mall at the Monterrey Airport that provides such services as a convenience store, fast food restaurants and a hardware store as well as offices to accommodate corporations and companies associated with the airport sector, areas that will be expanded in 2013. w The inauguration in Monterrey of the first gas station to operate on the property of OMA airports. w In the final quarter of the year OMA and VYNMSA signed an agreement for the development of the first industrial park in Mexico to be built on airport land given in concession. w Advances were made in the selection and search for an operational partner for the Monterrey hotel to be built between terminals A and B. We continue to promote business initiatives at the other airports owned by the group. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 58 As a result of these diversification actions, in 2012 there were no physical or economic displacements of persons as a result of the operation of our airports or any new infrastructure projects. OMA Carga [AO3] The logistics and cargo business enjoyed growth in 2012 as the result of a promotional strategy at the Monterrey and Chihuahua airports to attract ground transport business in addition to air transport. Similarly, business initiatives were advanced ranging from the promotion of cargo management and operation services at other customs areas in the state of Nuevo León and railway terminals to the introduction of a temporary storage business outside the Monterrey In-Bond Facility. The emphasis has been on customer service and customer needs to promote business growth. In 2012 ground transport represented 19% of total income, with the inauguration of routes mainly to Dallas, Chicago and Los Angeles. In 2012 OMA Carga operated 9.7 million tons of cargo with the 13 airports moving 89,860 tons of total cargo, domestic and international. These activities helped to increase income by 23%. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 59 OMA Profile Services and Diversification 60 Among the most important actions and achievements of OMA Cargo in 2012 are the following: w We provided conditioned and furnished offices for the customs agent community with operations inside and outside the OMA Cargo In-Bond Facility in Monterrey. w OMA Cargo in Monterrey expanded its range of services, operating in other customs areas with a competitive offer of maneuvers and a new temporary storage space outside the In-Bound Facility in Monterrey. w The logistics and cargo business grew in 2012 as a result of the promotional strategy used in Monterrey and Chihuahua airports to attract ground transport business in addition to air transport. w Business initiatives ranging from the promotion of cargo management and operational services in other customs areas in the state of Nuevo León and at railway terminals to the start-up of a temporary storage business outside the In-Bond Facility in Monterrey were pushed. Emphasis has been on customer service and an awareness of customer needs to promote business growth. w In 2012, ground transport for OMA Cargo represented 19% of its total income, commencing the operation of routes mainly to Dallas, Chicago and Los Angeles. w Progress was made in preparations for the commencement of operations in the customs area of Torreón. OMA Profile Services and Diversification 61 Hotel NH At the Hotel NH at Terminal 2 of the Mexico City International Airport renovations were completed and the parking area began operations offering a preferential rate for hotel guests and providing important support for the events and activities held at the hotel. The Hotel NH closed 2012 with a total income of 158.4 million pesos and an average occupancy rate of 79.3%. 2. Corporate Governance [2.3, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, LA13] 63 Corporate Governance 64 In order to maximize the value of our business we have a solid Corporate Governance structure formed by executives who are experts in business and decision making. 2a. Board of Directors, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 67 Our Board of Directors is formed by 11 members, five of whom are independent and are responsible for defining OMA’s general guidelines and establishing the strategies which set the course for our company. Their functions include establishing the company’s business strategy and ensuring this is correctly implemented, approving the business plan and annual Budget, proposing increases to the social capital of OMA or any of its subsidiaries as well as approving the five-year Development Master Plan and any modifications to this plan. As part of our corporate strategies, sustainability is a topic falling within the scope of the Board of Directors which provides guidance and ensures supervision. In this way the team monitors adherence to and compliance with internationally agreed standards though the use of a Board of Director’s Manual, Committee Regulations, a Company Code of Ethics and Conduct and our Sustainability Policy. This Board also evaluates any potential risks the company is exposed to and monitors punctual compliance with the standards, certifications and codes of conduct governing the company. Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 68 Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 69 The Managing Director is responsible for management, supervision and implementation of company business and the staff members under their control; these actions are supervised by the Board of Directors and its committees in accordance with their financial, administrative and legal relevance. The composition of the Board of Directors is determined by following the guidelines established in the Board of Directors Manual. In addition, in the case of Independent Board Member applicants these applications must be communicated to the Board. Candidates for the position of Chairman of the Board must meet the Financial Expert Criteria established by the Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Act. In the case of advisors, professionals with previous experience are chosen as established by Securities Market Law (LMV). We have an Integrated Remuneration Policy (fixed and variable) for the Managing Director and Directors which is reviewed by the Support Committee and Board of Directors annually. This policy establishes the amount of compensation and it is indicated in the annual report. In order to evaluate the performance of the highest governance body, during the month of February 2012 an anonymous self-evaluation procedure was conducted by the Board of Directors using an external provider to ensure objectivity, confidentiality and autonomy in the process. In the future this evaluation will be performed annually. Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 70 The results of this self-evaluation will be incorporated into the recommendations of advisors in the Board’s practices concerning audits, finances, planning, sustainability and risks in order to ensure the ongoing improvement of our highest governance body’s performance. Communication with the Administrative Board The internal body responsible for ensuring communication and transparency between our highest governance body and groups of interest is the Investor Relations section which uses a variety of mechanisms to promote efficient two-way communication. The mechanisms used include conference calls with investors, monthly and quarterly reports which are published on our web site and are also submitted to the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV), the National Banking and Securities Commission (CNBV) and NASDAQ. We have also established a policy for the preparation and publication of events considered relevant to the company. As part of this two-way communication, prior to holding the Meeting of Stockholders all members are contacted and supplied with information so they can make comments and give any indications they consider relevant. Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 71 SUPPORT COMMITTEE Securities Market Law establishes that the Board of Directors will receive the support of one or more Committees in order to perform Corporate Practice activities and Audits. The OMA Board of Directors receives the support of a Special Committee responsible for Audits, Corporate Practice, Finance and Planning activities. This committee is formed by five independent advisors and its President is elected by the stockholders. With regard to Audits, in order to comply with corporate, accounting, financial information and internal control policies, as set forth in Law, the Special Committee has the following functions and responsibilities: w To select and promote the designation of an independent external auditor and offer an opinion concerning their possible removal. w To supervise the work of the external auditor and analyze their reports. w To discuss and supervise the preparation of financial statements. w To submit a report concerning the efficiency of internal control systems to the Board of Directors. w To request reports for the relevant directors when the committee believes it necessary to do so and provide assistance to the Board of Directors for the preparation of reports that include accounting and information guidelines mainly used for the preparation of financial statements as well as the preparation of the report for operations and activities the Board of Directors has participated in pursuant to Securities Market Law. Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 72 w To inform the Board of Directors of any irregularities brought to its attention. w To receive and analyze comments and observations made by stockholders, advisors, relevant directors, and external auditors, as well as to carry out any actions deemed relevant in relation to these observations. w To convene Stockholders’ Meetings. w To supervise implementation of the resolutions of stockholders and advisors by the Managing Director. w To prepare and present an annual report of its activities to the Board of Directors. With respect to Corporate Practices, in order to reduce the potential risk of operations being conducted in disadvantageous conditions for OMA or in circumstances that privilege a specific group of people or stockholders, the Special Committee has the following functions and responsibilities: w To issue opinions to the Board of Directors concerning matters within its purview. w To request the opinion of independent experts when this is considered necessary. w To convene the Meeting of Stockholders. w To provide the Board of Directors with support for the preparation of annual reports and the submission of information. Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 73 With respect to Finances and Planning, in order to evaluate long term strategic planning, investment and financing policies and to identify any risks the company is exposed to, the Special Committee has the following functions and responsibilities: w To analyze and propose general guidelines for the Strategic Plan and provide follow-up. w To evaluate and issue opinions concerning investment and financing policies proposed by Directors and verify these are congruent with the Strategic Plan w To issue opinions concerning the bases used for the annual budget and provide follow-up to its introduction as well as the control system w To analyze and evaluate risk factors the Company is exposed to as well as the mechanisms for the control of these risks w To evaluate and review financial projections and ensure these are congruent with the Strategic Plan. Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 74 MANAGEMENT TEAM [2.9, 3.11] A Managing Director and Seven Area Directors are responsible for ensuring OMA is on the right track and its economic performance meets expectations. This expert group in airport and commercial services enjoys the support of a team formed by managers, airport administrators, assistant managers, administrative staff, area managers, coordinators and operational staff. In 2012 Human Capital Management was relocated in the organizational chart, being moved to the Administration and Finance Section after having reported directly to the Managing Director in previous years. Corporate Governance Board of Director, Support Committees and Managerial Team of OMA 75 2b. Risk Management [1.2, 3.9, 4.9, 4.11, SO2] Corporate Governance Risk Management 78 One of the strategic activities used by companies to ensure long term sustainability is the satisfactory management of potential risks the company is exposed to. At OMA we not only identify these risks but have also managed to prioritize, evaluate and analyze these risks according to the impact they could have on our operations and/or profitability. This has been achieved by the Risk Management Committee which was introduced in 2010 for the purpose of identifying and adequately managing the company’s potential risks and for devising key strategies to avoid these risks, minimize them or mitigate them and in this way ensure the company’s long term survival. This committee is formed by six Directors and four managers drawn from the ranks of OMA and reports directly to the Board of Directors. Among its responsibilities are the direction and coordination of risk management activities, providing follow-up and reviewing the process of these activities as well as revising and approving risk management policies. Corporate Governance Risk Management 79 A methodology is used to identify and classify the following risks: 1. Compliance Risks 2. Operational Risks 3. Financial Risks 4. Environmental / Market Risks 5. Strategic Risks By honoring the commitment established the previous year, in 2012 a total of 64 potential risks were identified and actions were taken to deal with them, mitigate them and minimize residual risks. Similarly, all of our business units were analyzed during this period for risks associated with corruption. The commitment for 2013 is to review the list of risks in order to identify new potential risks arising from the current context in order to develop plans of action that would help us prevent them, mitigate them or eliminate any that no longer represent a risk. 2c. Business Ethics [4.6, 4.8, SO2, SO3] Corporate Governance Business Ethics 82 Full compliance with the Code of Ethics is the duty of all OMA collaborators. Following the guidelines of this code helps strengthen the values that define us and generate trust in our groups of interest. The Company Code of Ethics and Conduct governs questions related to ethics, bribery and corruption in the workplace practices of our collaborators, whether they work inside the company or are contracted externally. As part of the actions implemented to promote ethics in our organization, in 2012 a total of 90% of our administrative and operative staff received training on the subjects of ethics and corruption. Similarly, all our operations were subjected to risk analysis in relation to acts of corruption. The topics covered by this document are: w Respect for the law w Conflicts of interest: • Due to employment by third parties • Due to investment • Due to the use of time and company assets for personal benefit • Due to loans made to employees • Due to the receipt of hospitality and gifts from third parties • Due to relationships with family and friends • Due to public activities Corporate Governance Business Ethics 83 w The use of posts and relationships for personal benefit w The abuse of privileged information w Conduct to combat extortion and bribery w Confidential information and patents w Fair treatment for • Customers • Suppliers • Competitors • Employees w Restrictions on competitiveness w Austerity w Protection and adequate use of assets and the society’s other resources w Keeping appropriate books and logs w Access to OMA assets, authorized transactions and accounting w Source of payments w Appropriate internal controls w Full, accurate and timely disclosure w Discrimination and harassment w Health and safety w The environment w Bribery of public officials w Waivers to the Code of Ethics and Conduct in business w Government research w Audits, investigations and disciplinary action. Corporate Governance Business Ethics 84 This document specifies the procedures necessary to help prevent conflicts of interest in the highest governance body. Among these, it states that Advisors must abstain from voting on those matters where they may suffer a conflict of interest. Similarly, Independent Advisors sign a letter for the Board in which they declare they are not subject to the conditions established in Securities Market Law (LMV) in order to avoid conflicts of interest. The OMA Code of Ethics is available to all groups of interest and can be consulted on the OMA web site: http://www.oma.aero/es/somos/gobierno-corporativo which indicates a toll free number -001 877 495 3315for registering complaints related to failure to comply with the code. http://www.oma.aero/es/somos/gobierno-corporativo 2d. Human Rights Corporate Governance Human Rights 87 COMPLAINTS PROCEDURE [HR4, HR9, SO4] Inspired by OMA’s values, vision and Code of Ethics, we have attempted to make the organization’s internal activities and those of our different groups of interest fully transparent. In order to achieve this transparency we have established a system for registering anonymous complaints that is coordinated by an independent company, thereby avoiding conflicts of interest and guaranteeing the satisfactory channeling of complaints. Of the complaints registered in 2012, none of these was in connection with incidents involving indigenous people or violations of their rights. During 2012 a total of 16 complaints were received. Of all complaints lodged and investigated, six (37.5%) were considered valid and 10 (62.5%) were not pursued since it was not considered they represented violations of the Code of Ethics and Conduct. As a result of the complaints pursued, four people were fired by the company and two others received sanctions. Corporate Governance Human Rights 88 Of the six complaints pursued, one was presented anonymously and five in person. Corporate Governance Human Rights 89 Flow chart for complaints received from receipt to resolution Corporate Governance Human Rights 90 The direct line is available 24 hours a day, 365 days a year for all our collaborators and groups of interest and can be used for registering complaints related to failures to comply with the Code of Ethics: 001 877 495 3315 This line can be used anonymously and confidentially without the risk of reprisals. Similarly, complaints can be received personally by the following: the Office of Legal Matters, Human Capital Management, or through the person’s immediate superior. These complaints are channeled to Auditing Management for their investigation and resolution. 3. OMA Sustainability [3.9, 4.11, 4.17] OMA Sustainability 93 Pushing the company in the direction of sustainability is a priority for all of us at OMA. For a period of 12 years we have worked to offer air connectivity services to our customers and passengers; we have brought people closer, facilitated business, and strived to integrate complementary services that make the travel experience a pleasant one for those people using our infrastructure. Providing this wide range of services not only requires attention to quality, it also demands we are at the cutting edge when providing of services and taking actions. This is done in the knowledge that these services and actions will not harm the environment, serve to protect the wellbeing of our collaborators and do not harm our community and groups of interest, while ensuring the company’s profitability. In order to give our actions continuity, OMA has a Sustainability Policy that guides our actions as well as an Integrated Management Model that permits the satisfactory administration of all activities at our airports. OMA Sustainability 94 OMA Integrated Management Model Sustainability The Sustainability Committee is presided by our Managing Director and is responsible for defining actions related to the execution of our Sustainability Policy. OMA Sustainability 95 OMA Sustainability 96 OMA Sustainability 97 SUSTAINABILITY POLICY This is designed to contribute to the wellbeing and satisfaction of our employees and their families, customers, stockholders and economic partners through the development of airports with quality infrastructure and services based on the following: respect for human rights, the mitigation of the environmental impact of our operations, care for the quality of life in the workplace and balance in the use of economic, social and environmental resources, making sure we preserve them for future generations. Similarly, we collaborate in the socioeconomic development of communities near our airports. Our commitments are as follows: Corporate Governance I. Establish an economic, company, environmental and social performance in line with the OMA Code of Ethics, the adoption of better practices and compliance with applicable national and international standards. II. Effectively control of any risks the company is directly responsible for III. Promote an anti-corruption culture IV. Be accountable to those parties interested in maintaining a regular and transparent base. OMA Sustainability 98 The Environment I. Systematically integrate a preventive perspective that favors care for the environment in all our activities. II. Promote the values and best environmental practices for interested parties. III. Establish objectives for the prevention of environmental pollution. IV. Favor the re-use, recovery and recycling of materials. V. Mitigate the environmental impact of our operations with respect to water, air, the soil, biodiversity, noise, waste and energy. VI. Establish actions for the conservation of biodiversity in those regions where we maintain a presence. The Social Sphere I. Respect fundamental and universally recognized human rights. II. Operate within a framework of Social Responsibility. III. Maintain a social balance between our groups of interest. IV. Respect diversity and promote equal opportunities. V. Promote the inclusion of people with other capacities in the workplace. VI. Promote a working environment that contributes to improving the quality of life of employees. VII. Establish objectives for the prevention of workplace risks that will help us meet our goal of zero accidents at work and zero work-related illnesses. OMA Sustainability 99 VIII. Stimulate individual and collective efficiency by motivating and developing employee skills. IX. Train employees in the principles of Quality, Health and Safety, the Environment, and Social Responsibility in order to help us deal with the challenges faced by our company and community. The Economic Sphere Customers: I. Satisfy the needs of customers quickly and innovatively, with quality and efficiency. II. Continually improve the efficiency and efficacy of our processes. III. Cooperate with airlines, service providers and business partners and involve them in projects to improve the quality of service. IV. Use marketing tools while respecting the ethical principles of respect for consumers, the community and the environment. Suppliers: I. Establish fair business relations with suppliers II. Put the OMA Code of Ethics into practice and ensure it is complied with when making acquisitions III. Involve suppliers and business partners in efforts to comply with quality, corporate governance, environmental and social standards. The Neighboring Community: I. Work for the socioeconomic development of communities neighboring our operations. OMA Sustainability 100 Integrated Management System Our Integrated Management System allows us to follow-up on matters relevant to company operations related to sustainability. The scope of the system includes administration services for terminal facilities, including the revision of passenger luggage, cleaning and the maintenance of facilities as well as operations that involve parking areas. As part of the Integrated Management System we have established an annual internal audit program that includes the review of processes included in the scope of the system and audits compliance with the following three certified standards: ISO 9001:2008; ISO 14001:2004; and OHSAS 18001:2007. Similarly, the Integrated Management System includes an annual management review program. These reviews are programmed to be performed twice a year locally and twice a year in a consolidated way to evaluate the global compliance of the entire group. OMA Sustainability 101 Among the indicators subjected to evaluation as part of this system are the following: w Financial and market perspective: related to the achievement of airport profitability. w Customer viewpoint: focused on identifying the needs and levels of satisfaction of those customer and market segments providing the airport with financial returns w Internal perspective: related to the performance of the airport’s relevant processes w Learning perspective: related to the training of employees and corporate culture attitudes related to the company’s individual and global improvement. 4. Economic Dimension [2.8, 3.9, AO1, AO2, EC1, EC4] Economic Dimension 104 The OMA generates value for business partners and stockholders. In 2012 we increased the number of passengers passing through our terminals by 7%, connecting 12,594,000 people through 28 airlines which offered their services to fly them to 96 national destinations and 61 international destinations. Economic Dimension 105 Economic Dimension 106 Economic Dimension 107 We use three mechanisms for monitoring and providing timely follow-up on our economic performance: 1. Annual Budget: This is the budget for all the Group’s companies and it is reviewed monthly; in addition, quarterly projections are prepared in order to monitor any possible gaps in the original plan. 2. Strategic Planning: With quarterly reviews, any possible deviations are reported to the Strategic Planning Committee in order for it to prepare a mitigation plan for the deviation. As part of the Strategic Plan the KPI (Key Performance Indicators) are identified for each of the strategic initiatives of the Group on a company by company basis with the financial indicators for each being included. 3. Risk Management Committee: The committee’s mission is to detect any dangers and possible risks that may affect the company and prepare mitigation plans for them. Economic Dimension 108 OMA’s 2012 Economical Development For further information concerning our economic performance please refer to our Annual Report available on our web site www.oma.aero The OMA receives no Federal Government funds for the operation of its airports. 5. Social Sphere 5a. Social Responsibility Social Sphere Social Responsibility 113 “Social Responsibility is a fundamental commitment to the wellbeing of employees, their families, the communities where we operate, our customers, economic partners, as well as care for the environment”. The OMA Social Responsibility Framework serves as a guide for behavior that defines the most important areas for planning and performing a variety of different actions. Frame of reference for OMA Social Responsibility Social Sphere Social Responsibility 114 In 2012, the Social Responsibility objectives were to: w Stage 98 events, a goal that was exceeded since 130 events were organized in 2012. w Eliminate the elementary education lag at all airports, an important objective established in 2009 and fulfilled in 2012. In 2012 we received the Socially Responsible Company Award from the CEMEFI for the fifth consecutive year. For 2013 we have proposed 105 activities related to Social Responsibility for the group’s airports and to confirm the Socially Responsible Company Award, increasing the overall grade by 11%. Social Sphere Social Responsibility 115 GROUPS OF INTEREST [4.13, 4.14, 4.15, 4.16] Our groups of interest were determined* in accordance with the kind of influence they have on our organization as well as the degree of Independence between each of these and the OMA. As a result nine groups were identified, composed of 91 bodies with which we have a high level of interaction. *Reference: AccountAbility, United Nations Environment Programme, Stakeholder Research Associates Canada, Inc. Social Sphere Social Responsibility 116 Social Sphere Social Responsibility 117 We have set up Consultative Committees at our 13 airports and these are formed by federal, state, and municipal authorities along with persons representing the economic activity of each state. These commissions have the following objectives: w To promote the airport w To interact with authorities and representatives of the productive sectors w To strengthen the socioeconomic activity of the region where located Social Sphere Social Responsibility 118 As a result of the work of these commissions, in 2012 we worked on 44 actions related to the following: increasing connectivity, participation in the development of neighboring communities and growth of infrastructure. Similarly, we participated in a number of associations and organizations at both the national and international levels and this allowed us to strengthen our organization and work with bodies that form part of our groups of interest. At the corporate level we form part of the following initiatives: w UN Global Compact w Congruence Movement (Movimiento Congruencia) w ACI Airports Council International w American Society for Quality w Participation in the Technical Committee for ISO Standard 26000 Social Sphere Social Responsibility 119 Social Sphere Social Responsibility 120 Social Sphere Social Responsibility 121 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIONS [3.9] During 2012 we continued to consolidate our social responsibility activities by means of actions consistent with our values. This allowed us to continue making contributions to communities neighboring our business units and in 2012 we organized 122 Social responsibility actions. Sustainability Fair In October 2012 we held the fourth Sustainability Fair at all our airports. The principal objective of this event is to promote the awareness and participation of all our collaborators and their families in topics concerning sustainability. The event took place over the course of a week and in addition to our collaborators and their families we invited representatives from government departments, local universities and companies that offer benefits to our employees. During the course of the week we organized activities on such topics as customer service, the environment, social responsibility, and health and safety. We also organized competitions, guided tours of the airport facilities and visits to civil associations, concluding with voluntary activity. This year the fair was attended by more than 2,000 people. Social Sphere Social Responsibility 122 As part of the Sustainability Fair we held the fourth photography, drawing and collage competition focused on topics related to sustainability. 2012 was the first year to include a children’s category and we received a total of 150 entrants with three winners per category. OMA Women Its purpose is to promote the integrated development of our collaborators and forge a link with the spouses of our collaborators in order to strengthen family relations. During 2012 a number of conferences were held at all our airports with a focus on the wellbeing of women. These conferences included such topics as: a balance between family life and work, nutrition, communication, health and breast cancer. OMA Good Neighbor Program As part of this program each of our airports organizes events for and/or makes donations to neighboring communities. 24 activities were organized in 2012 as part of this program, including the Volunteer program. Through this program, to which our collaborators dedicate their own time, we have adopted schools in communities neighboring our airports. At these schools we provide decoration and maintenance services, inviting the participation of employees and their families. Social Sphere Social Responsibility 123 In order to professionalize the program we have developed Community Link Diagnostics at the airports in Monterrey, Acapulco and Mazatlán and by means of these diagnostics we are able to identify the principal needs in the respective areas so that each airport can focus its efforts more clearly on local needs. In 2013 we will continue developing these diagnostics and extend them to the Group’s other airports. As part of this program we have made donations in cash and in kind to support social and environmental causes that benefit the community. As part of the donations in kind, the airports of Acapulco and Monterrey donated safety items and equipment, as well as a Titán E-81 rescue unit donated by the Zihuatanejo airport, for a total value of $ 1,300,000 pesos. Social Sphere Social Responsibility 124 5b. OMA Labor Practices Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 127 Training [LA10] We promote the professional development of our collaborators at all levels of the organization, both administrative and unionized staff, since we firmly believe that training and professional growth lead to greater levels of productivity for the organization and serve to motivate our collaborators. In 2011 we developed a Training Plan to be introduced in 2012. This plan is the tool that will address the training needs identified and offers a global vision of the areas in which our collaborators require training. Having these points of reference at our disposal has allowed us to program and schedule the courses required in order to organize them throughout the year and coordinate them with the schedules of our collaborators. In 2011 we provided each collaborator with their Individual Training Plan (PIC) to inform them of the list of courses they would be taking during 2011 and 2012. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 128 The goals we have set for training in 2013 are designed to comply with the following average amounts of training hours per employee: w Operational Staff: 70hrs. w Administrative Staff: 65hrs. w Key Personnel: 70hrs. w Project AC2: training is focused on the development of skills required by the company. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 129 Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 130 Similarly, we train workers from the cleaning and security companies providing services at 11 of our work centers in the following subjects: OMA Culture, Sustainability Policy, Customer Service, Social Responsibility, Code of Ethics, the Environment and Occupational Health and Safety. In 2012 the amount invested in scholarships for our collaborators, their spouses and children was $1,511,067.00 pesos for 301 scholarships. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 131 Education Lag In order to promote personal and professional growth and increase the wellbeing of our employees and their families, in 2009 we proposed the goal of zero education lag at the elementary school level for all our airports, an objective that was met in 2012. Currently, eight of our airports suffer no educational lag at the junior high school level. For this reason our goal for 2013 is for all the Group’s airports to share this achievement. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 132 Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 133 Great Place to Work 2012 For the second successive year OMA received an award from the Great Place to Work Institute of Mexico® (GPTW), appearing on the list of the Best Companies to Work For® in Mexico, in the category 500 to 5000 Workers and Multinational Companies. OMA also received recognition in the Northeast and Northwest Regional Rankings. We appeared at number 56 on a list of 100 companies. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 134 Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 135 Employee Benefits [EC5, LA3, LA11 , LA12, LA14] In addition to the benefits provided to supplement salaries as required by Mexican legislation, at OMA we provide the following extra benefits: Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 136 The OMA makes no distinction between salaries on the basis of gender or age since salaries are based on skills and performance as well as the employee, airport and seniority categories. Our direct collaborators at the lower end of the salary scale receive remuneration above the minimum salary for each region where we operate. In 2012 the abilities Management Model was introduced, seeking growth both at a personal and at an institutional level. This model has been designed specifically for our organizational culture and embodies diverse processes aimed to align our personnel towards OMA strategy and to develop the abilities in each person to make this alignment even more effective and beneficial. The Director Committee defined the model based on our Mission, our Vision, our Values and OMA´s Strategic Plan. Three seminars were organized to guarantee the communication of this model: w Model Theory w Case Studies w Action Plans Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 137 At the beginning of each year we perform an evaluation of the performance of our collaborators. 37.5 % (374 persons, of which 241 are men and 136 women) of our direct employees are evaluated annually with al 98.7% of them (374 collaborators) being evaluated in 2012. 100% of administrative staff undergoes a performance evaluation and as a requirement they must have served a minimum of three months in the post during the year being evaluated. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 138 OMA Innova Innovation forms part of the strategic structure of the company and is also one of the institutional values of OMA Corporate Philosophy. We define Innovation as the application of ideas and knowledge and their transformation into products, processes and/or services that generate value for all our groups of interest. OMA Innova is a forum for the proposal of ideas in a number of categories: w Savings w Communication / Brand w Sustainability w Operational Efficiency w Income Generation w The Working Environment Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 139 OMA TEAM [EC7, LA1, LA2, LA4] Gender and cultural diversity among our employees allows us to view multiple perspectives of our operation. That is the main reason in OMA we are against any type of discrimination. Our recruitment process and personnel development plans are based in ability selection. Open positions are posted internally so our co-workers can find growth opportunities, they have application and evaluation preference for any promotion. Our workforce in 2012 was 1,021 strong, composed of direct staff members who work either in our corporate office or in one of the 13 airports we operate. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 140 Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 141 Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 142 Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 143 Our senior management team – Directors, Airport Administrators and Managers – is formed by 42 collaborators of which 31% are originally from regions where we conduct operations, 10% of them are foreigners and 90% are originally from Mexico. Social Sphere OMA Labor Practices 144 5c. Health and Safety in the Workplace [PR1] Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 147 Identification of Dangers and Analysis of Worker Health and Safety Risks OMA identifies and evaluates risks associated with health and safety in the workplace as part of its processes and activities in order to identify potentially significant risks for the organization and to establish, where applicable, administrative, operational and engineering controls for their possible elimination, replacement, mitigation, reduction or control. Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 148 The identification of health and safety risks is performed once a year or, where applicable, when a process, activity or service is developed, modified or eliminated as indicated in the following table: Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 149 Of the goals established in 2012 concerning reductions to the frequency, severity and accident indexes, we achieved 56% compliance with established goals. In 2013 we reaffirmed our commitment to work more earnestly to overcome the challenges faced by our management performance and consequently established the following parameters: w Frequency Index: 0.35 w Severity Index: 7.1 w Accident Index: 2.49 In order to achieve this we are working to obtain Safe Company Certification for all our airports while developing a Health Program that will help us reduce the amount of working days lost due to general illness. The physical integrity of our collaborators is a key issue for OMA. In order to achieve this we have devised a variety of programs that promote and ensure health and safety in the workplace, with these programs forming part of our Strategic Business Plan. Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 150 Safe Company Certification This program is coordinated by the Ministry of Labor and Social Security (STPS) with the primary objective of ensuring compliance with standards and improving Health and Safety performance in the workplace. Our 13 airports are registered with this program and six of them have already been certified by the STPS: Chihuahua, Culiacán, Monterrey, San Luis Potosí, Torreón and Mazatlán. Drug Free Workplace Certification In the area of health and safety we have also established actions for mitigating present risks to our employees and their families, suppliers and contractors. In order to prevent risks associated with addiction to illegal substances, for the fourth consecutive year we have ratified the Drug Free Workplace Certificate which is based on the performance of tests for the detection of illegal drug consumption as well as corrective actions in the case of positive tests. In this way, at OMA we reaffirm our commitment to zero tolerance of illegal drug consumption. 100% of staff at all the Group’s airports is tested as are all directors, middle managers and key staff at corporate offices. Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 151 Civil Protection Family Plan For the second consecutive year we have developed the Civil Protection Family Plan which is used for the organization of first aid workshops for all airport and corporate office staff so these practices can be used in the homes of those taking the workshop. 1,173 family first aid kits are distributed to collaborators and their families during the workshop, with these kits consisting of a bag with didactic material, a dynamo flashlight and materials for treating emergencies. Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 152 HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAINING [LA7, LA8] Since we are aware of the importance of health and safety, we have strengthened support for this topic as can be seen by the total amount of training hours dedicated to education, training, counseling, prevention and control concerning risks given throughout the course of 2012. These are listed in the following table by topic and airport. Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 153 Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 154 We have focused our efforts on the premise that the wellbeing of our collaborators is of utmost importance to our company. In 2012 we included subcontractors from companies providing security, cleaning and parking, shuttle cars and documented luggage control services in this category of the company’s objectives. In this way we have reaffirmed that at OMA our responsibility extends to our groups of interest and this commits us to redouble our efforts in the areas of prevention and control. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our efforts, in 2012 we accumulated 2,108,304 manhours without accidents. Similarly, our ongoing goal remains clear: to achieve a zero work accidents rate at all our work centers. Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 155 Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 156 Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 157 Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 158 Health and Safety Commissions [LA6, LA9] 100 percent of our collaborators are represented on Health and Safety Commissions established at all our work centers. These committees are represented by a percentage of collaborators at each work center and are governed by regulations currently in force: w Official Mexican Standard NOM-019-STPS w OMA Health and Safety Regulations w Procedures established by the company Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 159 Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 160 Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 161 Dialog with the Mexican National Union for Airport and Services Industry Workers, Similar and Related concerning Health and Safety in the Workplace is based on the following participation agreements: w The Collective Labor Contract w Internal Work Policy w Internal Health and Safety Policy w Sustainability Fairs for employees and their families w Safety Procedures w The CREI Program of Excellence w The OMA Scholarship Program w General and Local Health and Safety Commissions w Participation in Great Place to Work surveys Social Sphere Health and Safety in the Workplace 162 OHSAS 18001 Certification In 2011 we received OHSAS 18001:2007 Multisite Certification for our 13 airports, which establishes a system for mitigating health and safety risks to our staff and other people involved in daily operations. In 2012 we provided follow-up for this Certification by means of internal audits at all airports and external audits performed by Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance at the Zacatecas and Monterrey airports. 5d. Quality and Service for Customers [PR5, PR7, PR8] Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 165 With a focus on offering world class services in terms of quality and safety, at OMA we perform actions designed to satisfy our customers, users and passengers. In order to achieve this we have introduced a variety of communication mechanisms for passengers and users, which include the following: w Information screens and booths w e-mail / info@oma.aero / sustentabilidad@oma.aero w Web Site w Local Operations Committee and Schedule w Telephone Line w e-mail: sugerencias@oma.aero and suggestions@oma.aero w Suggestion Box System: All airports feature suggestion boxes so users can provide feedback concerning the services offered at our air terminals. Our Personal Data Protection Policy ensures the satisfactory handling of the personal information of passengers and users as well as confidentiality. In 2012 we received no complaints concerning the privacy or leaking of personal information. Neither did we record any incidents resulting from the failure to comply with regulations for the communication, advertising or promotion of our services. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 166 In 2012, we achieved 96% compliance with established goals for increasing customer satisfaction, achieving a Passenger Satisfaction Index of 85.7 when the goal was 89.5. The Airline Satisfaction Index was 72%, exceeding the initially established goal of 60%. In 2013 our goals will be to achieve a Passenger Satisfaction Index of 89.6 +/5% and an Airline Satisfaction Index of 75. With this goal in mind we will continue to develop initiatives such as the following: w A quality development program for suppliers and business partners. w The 6-sigma Project. w A customer Service Program. Constant contact and feedback has allowed us to identify and attend to the needs and concerns of our groups of interest. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 167 Customer Satisfaction Index Since 2003 we have conducted an annual Passenger Satisfaction Survey at all our airports in order to identify the opinions of our passengers and users. In 2012 the sample was 6,000 passengers, ensuring a confidence level of 95% with a margin of error of 5%. The areas evaluated were as follows: roads to airports, parking, airlines, public areas at airports, gates, passenger and hand luggage inspection points, services, stores, restaurants and bars. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 168 As a result of the 2012 Passenger Satisfaction Evaluation the strengths of OMA airports were identified as Airport Security, services provided by Airlines, and the Gates provided at our airports. We also identified our main areas of opportunity, which are as follows: Services provided within airports, Restaurants and Bars as well as Stores or Commercial Premises. It should also be mentioned that during the course of 2013 we will be taking corrective action to improve the rating received in these three areas and in this way increase passenger satisfaction. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 169 ASQ Surveys The ASQ (Airport Service Quality) Surveys Program is an international comparative study of the services offered by more than 200 airports. It has been designed to evaluate airports serving international passengers with a volume of above 400,000 passengers a year for the purpose of improving the quality of services offered, to identify best practices and to precisely measure airport performance. The ASQ Surveys Program includes two areas of participation: 1. General Program (for airports of any size) and 2. Regional Program (only for airports serving less than 2 million passengers) The airports participating in the General Program are evaluated on a monthly basis and are eligible to receive recognition for the highest levels of passenger satisfaction. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 170 In 2012 two OMA airports were registered for the general program (Mazatlán and Monterrey). It should be pointed out that this program includes two prize-giving categories: w one for geographical region (six geographical regions: Europe, North America, Africa, the Middle East, Asia-Pacific, Latin America and the Caribbean), and w another prize within each geographical region named Regional Airports which only applies to airports serving less than 2 million passengers a year. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 171 Only airports serving less than 2 million passengers a year participate in the Regional Program. Airports participating in this program are evaluated twice a year and are not eligible to receive a prize or an award. Their evaluation is based on the following: • Surveys for the «Summer» period begin in April and end in August. • Surveys for the «Winter» period start in October and end in February. The main benefit is to receive a rating that can be compared at the international level along with a ranking of the participating airports. In 2012 four OMA airports participated in this program: Zihuatanejo, Torreón, Tampico and Acapulco. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 172 Airline Satisfaction Surveys In 2012 this communication mechanism was designed and implemented to improve the service OMA provides to airlines. The surveys were conducted with corporate staff from 12 airlines, 66 airport managers and 200 airline pilots. The features evaluated were: OMA interaction with their company; administration processes; terminal services for airline staff; services for their passengers and services for air operations. We received a rating of 72 points, on a scale of 100, on the general satisfaction index for this study, exceeding the goal initially established. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 173 Suggestion Box The suggestion box is a means of contact with passengers and users. With the updating of our suggestion boxes to electronic platforms at all airports we have increased the number of interactions with our visitors. We installed 31 electronic suggestion kiosks at all our airports to replace traditional paper suggestion boxes. This change has incentivized feedback from our customers since the communication process has become more efficient. In 2012 we received 1,278 suggestions, 8.7 percent more than the number received in 2011. The number of complaints received fell in comparison with the previous year, from 56 percent to 45 percent, while the number of congratulations increased from 8 percent received in 2011 to 14 percent in 2012. At OMA we respond to 100 percent of the feedback indicating contact information for users and all comments received are sent to the corresponding areas for follow-up and resolution. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 174 Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 175 Actions for Improvement On the basis of feedback from our customers, in 2012 we signed an agreement to introduce baggage trolleys at our airports. Installation will commence in 2013 with the first phase including the Acapulco, Chihuahua, Mazatlán and Monterrey airports. We also installed 50 posts offering wireless Internet connection and sockets for recharging electronic devices at all our airports. In order to improve the OMA public address system, a Public Address Committee was formed including staff from Airport Management, Infrastructure and Maintenance Management, Administration and Finance Management, and Master Plan. Social Sphere Quality and Service for Customers 176 ISO 9001 Certification In November 2012 OMA received ISO 9001:2008 recertification for Multiuse Certification. This certificate is valid for a period of three years and for the eighth consecutive year was received with a non-compliance rating of zero. Six Sigma Improvement Program During 2012 the first generation of Green Belt certified collaborators were developed, with staff from 12 airports and the Corporate Offices participating. This project produced 34 proposals for the improvement of processes, of which 26 were approved by managers. These were subsequently divided into eight work teams. Among the projects being developed according to this methodology are the following: 1. A reduction of the number of general aviation operations pending invoicing. 2. A reduction in the collections time for general aviation operations. 3. An improvement of delivery times for imported merchandise from agents. One of our collaborators also received Black Belt certification for developing the project Increasing Success (the number of correct decisions made by inspectors using the x-ray machine) for line 1 at Terminal A of the Monterrey Airport. 5e. Airport Security Social Sphere Airport Security 179 In order to guarantee security in all our operations and at our facilities we ensure compliance with national and international standards, thereby minimizing risks related to illicit interference, injury and material damage at all the Group’s airports. Nevertheless, our actions go beyond what is required by these standards as we have established a Documented Luggage Control Program, Airport Security Benchmarking and a Control of Wildlife Presenting a Risk to Aviation Program, among other security measures that allow us to guarantee the safety of our groups of interest. Social Sphere Airport Security 180 Security Investments Due to the importance of security in all our operations, in 2012 we invested $32,238,687 pesos in this area. During the course of the year we continued with the program for acquiring the latest technology for passenger and hand luggage inspection points. We have also reinforced security at the Acapulco and Culiacán airports where we have installed automated access controls in order to reduce risks and optimize staff deployment. In order to improve the performance of inspection staff, training was introduced for point of inspection staff using a series of imagined scenarios involving x-ray equipment to increase the efficiency of collaborators in this key section for passenger security. Social Sphere Airport Security 181 Wildlife Control Program Presenting a Risk to Aviation Program [AO9, 3.11] As a result of the diagnostic conducted for wildlife risks at the Group’s 13 airports, in 2012 the Management Plan was introduced at 10 of the Group’s airports leading to increased controls and activities focused on the identification and reduction of risks associated with the presence of wildlife at airports. The purpose of the Plan is to manage these risks by means of such actions as the continual monitoring of the presence, behavior and habits of wildlife, the reduction of attractions for this wildlife, the improvement of waste and staff management practices, the adaptation of facilities and infrastructure, and activities for wildlife control and management. Activities have been performed to inform and raise awareness in the airport community, leading to the relocation of more than 40 animals outside the airport facilities –mainly birds and mammals. Investments have also been made in specialized equipment for wildlife control and the reporting of events has been incentivized. As the result of continuous monitoring the species of wildlife representing a risk to airport operations have been identified together with the environmental protection framework for these species, leading to the introduction of specific strategies for reducing said risk in line with environmental regulations. Social Sphere Airport Security 182 As a result of these actions, in 2012 there were 0.9937 wildlife impacts for every 10,000 operations2 at the Group level, representing a total of 33 reported events. 2 The indicator is calculated by using as its base the 332,062 operations of the OMA in 2012. Social Sphere Airport Security 183 Aerodromes Certification During the course of 2012 the Evaluation Process for Certification of the Monterrey Airport commenced with the preparation of required documentation (Operations Manuals and Technical Studies), the Preparation of OACI Obstacle Plans, Improvements to Movement Infrastructure and implementation of the Operational Security Management System (SMS). Similarly, and in preparation for Aerodrome Certification for the other OMA airports, the required documentation (Operations Manuals and Technical Studies) was prepared, improvements were made to movement infrastructure and the Operational Security Management System (SMS) was implemented. Social Sphere Airport Security 184 Fire Fighting and Rescue Services (CREI) During the course of 2012 two fire extinguishing units were acquired for the Monterrey and Zihuatanejo airports. Fire-fighting staff at these airports received the corresponding training for the operation of these units. A set of tools was acquired for Durango Airport and personal protection equipment for the Cd. Juárez and San Luis Potosí Airports. With respect to staff training, in 2012 training was provided in the following ways: regionally by internal instructors; and locally with CREI Chiefs and Shift Leaders for those assigned to each airport; this training was for a total of 287 persons forming the CREI teams at the Group’s 13 airports. The performance of all these staff members was evaluated as part of the CREI Excellence Program. 6. Environmental Dimension [EN30] Environmental Dimension 187 The environmental impact of operations at our 13 airports is handled by the OMA Integrated Management System. However, at OMA we are not only interested in handling or managing this impact since we also take actions to improve our environmental performance, reduce our consumption of water and energy, and improve the management of waste and CO2 emissions while promoting care for biodiversity in the communities where we operate. A Corporate Environmental Protection coordinator and another eight coordinators assigned to the 13 airports are responsible for unifying the environmental efforts of the entire organization. Environmental Dimension 188 Environmental Dimension 189 The total amount of environmental spending and investment for 2012 is shown in the following table. 6a. Water [EN8, EN9, EN10] Environmental Dimension Water 192 In order to guarantee the efficient use of water, at OMA we have introduced actions to save and treat this valuable natural resource. Nine of our 13 airports have subterranean wells for drawing water while the other four receive their supply from the municipal network. In 2012 no serious harm to water sources was reported as the result of use or collection of water for our operations. Environmental Dimension Water 193 Environmental Dimension Water 194 We have waste water treatment plants at our 13 airports and these plants use biological systems and tertiary processes such as filtration and chlorination with the capacity to treat and reuse 555,964 m3 of water annually. This treated water, which is equivalent to 94% of our annual consumption, is used for watering green areas while the rest is discharged into the soil once it has passed through this process. One of the challenges for OMA during 2012 is the development of mechanisms that permit the reuse of treated water that is currently poured or dumped on soil. 6b. Energy [EN3, EN4, EN5, EN6, EN18] Environmental Dimension Energy 197 Electricity is an essential resource for the services we offer so we perform ongoing actions to care for and reduce the consumption of this vital resource. In 2012 we introduced an important project at the Zacatecas Airport that consisted of the installation of a Solar Park that commenced operations in October of the same year. Resources close to a million dollars were invested in the park using two photovoltaic generation technologies: rigid microcrystalline silicon panels and parabolic photovoltaic concentrators, each with an installed capacity of 100 KW that allow the airport to generate more than 370,000 Kw/h of electricity a year. This amount is sufficient to cover approximately half of the airport’s total energy requirements. Environmental Dimension Energy 198 From an ecological perspective the Zacatecas Airport will reduce carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions to 200 Ton eq CO2., which is equivalent to planting 2,000 trees every year during the useful life of the Solar Park. The energy saving resulting from this initiative was, during its period of operation, 177.7 gigajoules. Similarly, a project was also introduced to achieve energy efficiency for operations at the Monterrey Airport where luminaires were replaced along roads and in parking garages and this led to energy savings totaling 188 gigajoules. Environmental Dimension Energy 199 Environmental Dimension Energy 200 6c. Waste Management [AO6, EN22, EN23, EN27] Environmental Dimension Waste Management 203 Waste classified as non-hazardous is waste from our facilities and airport platforms that includes plastics, fibers, wood, plastic bottles, cardboard, scrap, paper, and glass, among other substances. There is also a program to promote awareness for the placing of rubbish in bins assigned for this purpose. This waste is ready for recording and storage by authorized companies that deposit the waste in sanitary landfills. Waste classified as hazardous includes used oils, paint, solvents and grease. Once stored they are registered and disposed of by a private company authorized by the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) for final disposal without recycling. At OMA we do not use anti-freeze liquids in our operations. Environmental Dimension Waste Management 204 With respect to accidental spills, there were no significant spills in 2012 pursuant to Mexican regulations, that is, no spill exceeded one cubic meter or 1,000 liters. In total there were 10 minor spills at seven of our airports. 6d. Air Emissions Environmental Dimension Air Emissions 207 Emissions to the air as a result of our operations are generated by the use of emergency plants located in electric substations and organic waste incinerators from international flights. Emergency plant emissions into the atmosphere are minimal due to the sporadic use of plants during the course of the year. They are only called into service when there are faults or the electricity supply is cut. In the case of organic waste incinerators, this equipment uses controlled combustion which minimizes the environmental impact since it does not pollute the soil or water. The main products of the incineration process are gases that are easily reincorporated by nature: water vapor, CO2 and air. 6e. Biodiversity [EN11, EN13, EN15] Environmental Dimension Biodiversity 210 None of our airports is located in a Natural Protected Area. Conscious of the importance of preserving flora and fauna in the regions where we conduct operations, throughout the course of 2012 we worked on two important projects for the preservation of biodiversity: The Aero-Zihuatanejo Environmental Management Unit (UMA) and the Laguna de Tres Palos Project in Guerrero. We have reforested 65,000 m2 of mangrove forest at the Zihuatanejo Airport; 6,000 m2 of protected mangrove areas at the Acapulco and Zihuatanejo Airports; and 800 m2 of UMA mangroves also at Zihuatanejo Airport. Environmental Dimension Biodiversity 211 Aero-Zihuatanejo UMA The main purpose of the “Aero-Zihuatanejo” Environmental Management Unit (UMA) is to establish a nursery for producing young button-wood mangrove (Conocarpus erectus) plants using a variety of propagation techniques such as seeds, young plants and cuttings, thereby contributing to the reforestation, protection and conservation of this species on land belonging to the Zihuatanejo Airport. The indicators for success during this period of time are the following: 1. The establishment of a nursery for producing button-wood mangroves (Conocarpus erectus) which occupies a surface area of 800 m2 surrounded by shade netting, metallic structures and steel supports bars. w Nursery equipment with work tables, platabandas, seedlings, a water pump for manual watering using a hose, and a water tank with a volume of 2,500 liters. w Supplies needed for the nursery’s operation such as rooters, fertilizers, substrate, soil from UMA land, germination trays, and container bags for the production of young plants and cuttings. Environmental Dimension Biodiversity 212 2. The production of plants at the Aero-Zihuatanejo UMA nursery is for the development of a reforestation program within the UMA with an estimated goal of 30,000 plants to cover a surface area of approximately 10 hectares. During its first year of operations the UMA produced: w Seeds: a total of 30,000 seeds were planted in nursery beds and trays of which 2,530 germinated. w Rescued young plants: to date a total of 8,722 young plants have been rescued from UMA land and placed in individual bags measuring 30 x 30 cm. w Cuttings: a total of 9,889 cuttings have been taken from mangroves located on UMA land. In total 21,141 button-wood mangrove plants (Conocarpus erectus) have been produced, representing 70.47% of the number established as the goal for the reforestation program. Environmental Dimension Biodiversity 213 Wildlife The OMA Wildlife Management Plan encompasses a variety of activities performed on airport land, with one of the main activities being the continuous monitoring of species. By means of this monitoring the fauna at each and every airport can be identified and classified and then associated with the specific surroundings of each site in order to design effective strategies for its control and management. During the course of 2012 the list of registered species active at airports was updated for those species classified as being at risk in accordance with Official Mexican Standard NOM059-SEMARNAT-2010 “Environmental protection –native Mexican species of wild flora and fauna -Categories of risk and specifications for their inclusion, exclusion or change of status –List of species at risk”, which produced the following information. 6f. Climate Change [3.10, EN16] Environmental Dimension Climate Change 216 In order to make a contribution to the measurement and control of our carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gas emissions, we use a methodology aligned with that of the IPCC (Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change) in accordance with the GEI Mexico Program coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment and Natural Resources (SEMARNAT) and the Commission for Private Sector Studies in Sustainable Development (CESPEDES). Environmental Dimension Climate Change 217 Environmental Dimension Climate Change 218 Laguna de Tres Palos Project Under an agreement with the Autonomous University of Guerrero, in May 2012 a project was initiated to help preserve the Laguna de Tres Palos and the mangrove forest at the Acapulco Airport. The purpose of this project is to promote care for the environment through the performance of a socio-environmental diagnostic of Shoreline Communities and the Laguna de Tres Palos in the Municipality of Acapulco de Juárez. This lagoon covers an area of approximately 55 km2 and is located between the La Sabana and Papagayo rivers. The environmental problems of the lagoon stem from the fact it is the receiving body for the La Sabana river, which receives waste water from a number of towns. The project is designed to preserve the ecosystem of the Laguna de Tres Palos; promote investigation into and the development of technologies for the conservation of wetlands; control pollution in the region, restore fishing, and promote ecotourism. Environmental Dimension Climate Change 219 With a team formed by nine academic researchers and 23 university students, a socioenvironmental diagnostic was performed with OMA providing the financial resources to cover operational costs and investment in the project for a total of $791,252 pesos, including the purchase of equipment, laboratory materials and offices. The next phase of the Project, to be developed in 2013, will involve the identification of courses of action in which the OMA can participate to deal with priority areas for improvement. This will be done in accordance with the University’s recommendations and technical support. 7. GRI Index Reporting Initiative GRI Index 222 GRI INDEX [3.12] Social Performance Indicators Pages Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from top responsible individual in making decisions for the 6, 11 organization 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 76 2.1 Name of the organization 16, 28, 44 2.2 Main services 44 2.3 Operational structure of the organization 62 2.4 Location of headquarters of the organization 16, 28 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates 28 2.6 Nature of the ownership and legal form 28 2.7 Markets served 44, 50, 57 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 28, 44, 102 2.9 Significant changes in the size, structure and ownership of the 16, 74 organization during the period covered 2.10 Awards and distinctions received 16, 46 GRI Index 223 Memory Parameters 3.1 Reporting period 16 3.2 Date of most recent previous report 16 3.3 Reporting cycle 16 3.4 Contact point for report matters 27 3.5 Process for defining report content 23 3.6 Report coverage 16 3.7 Limitations on report scope or coverage 16 3.8 Base in including information in case of joint ventures 44, 57 3.9 Data measuring techniques and bases for calculations 16, 76, 91, 102, 121 3.10 Description of re-statement of information provided in earlier reports 16, 214 3.11 Significant changes from previous periods in scope, coverage or 23, 74, assessment methods of the report 181 3.12 Table of report basic contents 222 3.13 Current policy and practice regarding report external verification 16 GRI Index 224 Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 62 4.2 Position of chairman of highest governance body 62 4.3 Number of independent members in highest governance body 62 4.4 Stockholders and employee mechanisms to communicate 62 recommendations or indications to highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between retribution of members in highest governance body, 62 top directors and executives 4.6 Implemented procedures to prevent conflict of interest in highest 80 governance body 4.7 Procedure to determine training and experience of highest governance 62 body 4.8 Mission, vision, and internal values, code of conduct and principles 28, 80 relevant for economic, social, environmental performance and implementation status 4.9 Highest governance body procedures in overseeing identification and 62, 76 management of economic, environmental and social performance. 4.10 Performance evaluation procedures of highest governance body 62 4.11 Description of how the organization has adopted a precautionary 76, 91 principle GRI Index 225 4.12 Principles or social, environmental and economic programs developed 28 externally. 4.13 Main associations it belongs to. 115, 119 Groups of Interest Participation 4.14 Stakeholders relation the organization has included. 115 4.15 Base for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom the 115 organization is engaged. 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of 115 engagement by type and by stakeholder group. 4.17 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 91 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Perspective EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including earnings, 102 exploitation costs, employees retribution, donations and other investments in the community, non-distributed benefits and payments to capital providers and governments. EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. 102 EC5 Range in relation between standard initial wage and local minimum 135 wage in places where significant operations are performed. GRI Index 226 EC7 Local hiring procedures and proportion of top directors native from the 139 local community in areas where significant operations are performed. EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 57 provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Social Perspective LA1 Breakdown of workers by type of employment, by contract, and by region. 139 Total number of employees and average turnover, broken down by age LA2 group, gender, and region. 139 LA3 Social benefits for full-time employees, not offered to temporary workers 135 or part-time, broken down by main activity. LA4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement. 139 LA6 Total percentage of employees represented in health and safety joined 158 committees management-employees, established to support in controlling and counseling regarding health and safety in the job programs. LA7 Rates for absenteeism, professional diseases, lost days and number 152 of fatalities related with work by region. LA8 Programs on education, training, counseling, prevention and risk control 152 applied to the workers, their families or members of the community related to severe diseases. LA9 Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements with unions. 158 GRI Index 227 LA10 Average number of hours of formation per year per employee, divided 127 by category. LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the 135 continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career 135 development reviews, by gender. LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per 62 employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee 135 category, by significant locations of operation. Environmental Perspective EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary sources. 195 EN4 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary sources. 195 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. 195 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based 195 products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 190 GRI Index 228 EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 190 EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. 190 EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, 208 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 208 EN15 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 208 with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 214 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions EN18 achieved. 195 Total weight of waste managed, according to type and treatment EN22 method. 201 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 201 EN27 Percentage of products sold, and its packaging material recovered at 201 the end of its useful life, by product category. EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 185 GRI Index 229 Human Rights Performance Indicators HR2 Percentage of key distributors or contractors that have been subject 34 to analysis in regards to human rights, and measures adopted as a consequence. HR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and the corrective actions taken. 87 HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous 87 people and actions taken. Social Performance Indicators SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed with regards 76, 80 to risks related with corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and 80 procedures in the organization. SO4 Measures taken in response to corruption incidents. 87 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and 145 services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. PR5 Customer satisfaction practices including the results of the customer 163 satisfaction studies. GRI Index 230 PR7 Total number of incidents resulting from non-compliance of regulations 163 regarding marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, distributed based on the type of result of such incidents. PR8 Total number of complaints dully supported in regards to privacy and 163 customer information leaks. Sector Indicators AO1 Total number of passengers annually, broken down by passengers 102 on international and domestic “ights and broken down by origin-anddestination and transfer, including transit passengers. AO2 Annual total number of aircraft movements by day and by night, broken 102 down by commercial passenger, commercial cargo, general aviation and state aviation “ights. AO3 Total amount of cargo tonnage. 58 AO6 Aircraft and pavement de-icing/anti-icing fluid used and treated by m3 201 and/or tonnes. AO8 Number of persons physically or economically displaced, either voluntarily 57 or involuntarily, by the airport operator or on its behalf by a governmental or other entity, and compensation provided. AO9 Total annual number of wildlife strikes per 10,000 aircraft movements. 181 231 Our Recognitions: We are listed on: Strategic Partners: oma.aero
