Annual Report MESSAGE FROM MESSAGE THE BOARD FROM THE CEO OF DIRECTORS CORPORATE PROFILE MATERIALITY QUICK READING MATRIX FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Annual Report 2012 p.2 Corporate Profile Strengths LARGEST FINANCIAL INSTITUTION IN LATIN AMERICA, BB IS THE LEADER ACROSS A VARIETY OF SEGMENTS AND A BENCHMARK IN SUSTAINABILITY AND GOVERNANCE. IT STANDS OUT FOR THE STRENGTH OF ITS BRAND AND THE FACT THAT IT APPLIES LEADING-EDGE TECHNOLOGY TO ITS OPERATIONS GRI 2.7 | 2.8 | HR1 Banco do Brasil S.A. (BB) is Latin America’s largest financial institution, having exceeded in 2012 R$1.15 trillion in assets and R$580.8 billion in its loan portfolio – broad concept. It provides solutions, services and products in the banking, investment, asset management, insurance, social security, premium bonds and payment systems, among others, having attained the mark of 37.4 million checking accounts and a portfolio of 58.6 million customers at the end of the period. To achieve this, it has over 114,000 employees. GRI 2.1 | 2.2 | 2.6 In Brazil, BB’s service network is the largest among financial institutions, providing its customers with 5,362 branches and 44,393 automated teller machines. Since January 1, 2012 the service network of Banco Postal, with over 6,000 outlets, became a component of the Mais BB network of banking correspondents. Thanks to this alliance, at the end of 2012 the service network of Banco do Brasil was present in 5,425 Brazilian municipalities, accounting for 97% of the total. GRI 2.3 | 2.9 Abroad, the bank is present through 49 facilities located in 24 countries, including branches and representative offices distributed over four continents (1). In addition, it has agreements with 1,124 financial institutions that function as correspondents of BB in 139 countries. As a result, the organization is considered the Brazilian bank with the largest abroad service network, with its operations dedicated to existing Brazilian communities, the internationalization of Brazilian companies and the expansion of Brazil’s trade relations with the world. GRI 2.5 (1) Germany, Angola, Argentina, Austria, Bolivia, Chile, China, Singapore, South Korea, the United Arab Emirates, Spain, the United States, France, Cayman island, the United Kingdom, Italy, Mexico, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Portugal, Uruguay and Venezuela. Annual Report 2012 Corporate Profile Strengths GRI 4.8 Strengths Mission To be a competitive and profitable bank, promoting the sustainable development of Brazil and fulfilling its public Market Leadership function in an efficient manner. • The Institution is Brazil’s largest in terms of total assets, having attained the mark of R$1.2 trillion; Vision • The BB maintained its leadership of the Brazilian BankTo be the number one bank for Brazilians, companies and ing Industry in terms of the domestic loan portfolio, with a the public sector; a benchmark abroad; the best bank to balance of R$480.6 billion and a market share of 20.4%; work for, recognized for its performance, long-lasting rela• In the case of BNDES card-related transactions tionships and socio-environmental responsibility. it is leader in terms of the amounts disbursed, the number or cards and transaction volume. With its Values 28.6% market share, BB tops the ranking of BNDES • Ethics and transparency; onlending transactions; • Commitment to the sustainable development • The bank is the principal partner of Brazil’s internaof communities and Brazil as a whole; tional trade, with 32.1% of Pre-Shipment (ACC)/Post• Socio-environmental responsibility; Shipment (ACE) Export Finance; • Respect for the consumer; • It is also absolute leader in agribusiness loan portfolio, • Excellence and specialization in customer with a market share of 62.5%; relationships; • Its leading position in payroll loans received a boost • Participative management, collegiate decision-making in 2012, with growth of 14.3% in the twelve months and team work; period, attaining a market share of 31.2%; • Merit-based professional advancement; • BB Asset Management – BB DTVM has been the • Brand name with a competitive differential; leading investment fund manager since 1994. • Proactivity in risk management; The company is also market leader in asset manage• Commitment to solidity, profitability, efficiency ment in the institutional investor, government and and innovation; the retail sectors; • Respect for diversity; • Banco do Brasil is the market leader among financial • Commitment to shareholders and society. institutions in asset management for public employee pension funds (RPPS), with a total of R$24.4 billion in assets under management in December 2012; • The organization has the largest service network among financial institutions. Its customers have at their disposal over 19,000 service network outlets, including branches, service channel and self-service rooms. Annual Report 2012 Corporate Profile Strengths Growth Potential of the Loan Portfolio The extensive franchise, experience in the granting of financing and the strength and tradition of its brand name, all lead Banco do Brasil to believe that it will continue to expand the size of its loan portfolio, and consequently maintain its leadership position in the sector. The table below indicates this expansion potential. Growth Potential of the Loan Portfolio (R$ million) 2010 2011 2012 Sources 480,422 576,335 690,414 Commercial Funding 377,136 450,480 515,714 Total Deposits 376,851 442,386 472,085 Letters of Credit – Agribusiness + Mortgage Bonds 285 7,431 34,075 Repurchase Agreem. Oper. with Priv. Securities 664 9,554 Domestic Onlending 50,764 50,991 63,519 Financial and Development Funds 3,568 4,002 5,089 Subordinated Debt 20,855 25,101 32,657 Other Commercial Papers (1) 4,314 8,708 9,853 Domestic Hybrid Debt Capital Instruments 8,215 Foreign Borrowing (2) 23,785 37,053 55,368 Uses 480,422 576,335 690,414 Available Funds 36,459 52,460 70,832 Compulsory Deposits 87,035 93,660 80,098 Net Loan Portfolio (a) + (b) (c) 356,928 430,215 539,484 Classified Loan Portfolio (a) 358,366 422,989 525,672 Private Securities (b) 15,877 26,241 35,022 Allow ance for Loan Losses (c) (17,315) (19,015) (21,210) Indicators (%) Net Loan Portfolio/Total Deposits 94.7 97.2 114.3 Growth Potential of the Loan Portfolio 133,002 155,961 253,548 (1) Includes letters of credit and debentures. (2) Includes offshore loans, obligations for offshore securities, obligations for offshore on-lending, offshore subordinated debt and hybrid offshore capital and debt instruments. Brand Strength Strategic Relationship with Last year the Bank’s brands received awards for several initiatives: 3rd place in the Brand Finance ranking (most the Government at Federal, valuable brands in Brazil and Latin America 2012); 1st State and Local levels place in the Banks category and 3rd in the overall classiBB is the financial agent of the National Treasury, fication of the Reliable Brands 2012 ranking compiled by responsible for the government’s sole account and in the magazine, Seleções do Reader’s Digest; the brand charge of transferring funds to other elements of the with the highest recall in the Bank category of the Folha Federation. With other federal entities it operates in newspaper Top of Mind award since the 1st edition; the raising funding and programs. The Bank is also the favorite brand of the new Brazilian middle class, in a surofficial financial agent of 16 states and 16 capital vey by market research institute Data Popular; and the cities. It also provides specific solutions for all brand with the highest recall in the Bank category among Brazilian municipalities. financial institutions when the subject is the FIFA World Cup Finals and the Olympic Games. Annual Report 2012 Corporate Profile Strengths Modern Platform with Leading-Edge Technology Areas of Operation The investments made over the last decade have raised Banking: deposits and lending transactions, the profile of BB in terms of banking technology at the among others, intended for the retail, wholesale domestic and international levels. The institution was and government sectors are responsible for the first in the retail segment in the Americas and in the a significant tranche of the BB’s earnings. Southern Hemisphere, as well as the tenth worldwide, to be awarded ISO 20000 certification in technology, Investments: includes intermediation and according to IT Service Management Forum. distribution of debt in the primary and secondary markets, in addition to equity holdings and A major investment in technology in the year was the rendering of financial services. the start of construction of the BB-Caixa Datacenter Complex, in partnership with Caixa Econômica Federal. Asset Management: covers transactions Inaugurated in March 2012, the purpose of the complex involving buying, selling and custody of is to ensure the continuity and growth of the business securities, portfolio management and of BB and Caixa for the next 15 years, in addition to investment funds and clubs. reducing operational risks. Insurance, pension plans and savings bonds: High Standards of Corporate Governance includes products and services involving life, mortgage and auto insurance, as well as and Professionalized Management supplementary pension and savings bonds. Since 2002 BB has adhered to the best corporate governance practices required by the Novo Mercado segment of Payment means: refers to the transmission, the BM&FBovespa, having been admitted to this segment capture, processing and financial settlement in 2006. The Bank’s executive and operational positions of electronic transactions. are held by highly-trained professionals with extensive knowledge of the financial and banking sectors. Others: include operational support processes and consumer purchasing pools. One of the Global Benchmarks in Sustainability BB’s excellent socio-environmental performance has been acknowledged by the bank’s admittance to the New York Stock Exchange Dow Jones Sustainability Index and, for the eighth consecutive year, to the BM&FBovespa Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE). In 2012 the Bank was acknowledged as one of the leading companies in the Época Green Company Award. Annual Report 2012 Index Message from the Board of Directors 7 Message from the CEO 8 Quick Reading 10 About This Report 12 Definition of Materiality 13 Corporate Governance 17 Organizational Structure 18 Risk Management and Corporate Controls 25 Business Strategy 30 Socio-Environmental Responsibility 34 Intangible Assets 44 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM 46 Economic and Financial Performance 47 Socio-Environmental Performance 78 Awards and Recognitions 106 Ibase Social Balance Sheet + NBCT 15 108 Corporate Information 112 Annexes 113 Letter of Assurance 113 GRI Letter 115 GRI Remissive Index 116 Credits 127 Annual Report 2012 p.7 Message Corporatefrom Profile the Strengths Board of Directors 01 Increase efficiency and productivity while producing sustainable results are two of the BB’s objectives for the period from 2013-2017 Nelson Henrique Barbosa Filho Chairman of the Board of Banco do Brasil GRI 1.1 | 1.2 In 2012, the international scenario was one of high risks for global financial stability. This scenario had a strong influence on economic activity in emerging markets. The Brazilian government adopted a series of economic measures in order to encourage the level of production and domestic consumption. Led by Banco do Brasil, the country embarked on a unprecedented and aggressive reduction in interest rates on loans, which sparked off the most important reduction in bank spreads ever experienced by the domestic financial market. This initiative led to higher levels of confidence on the part of businessmen and consumers. Strong domestic demand was also driven by real increases in income, social mobility and the creation of new job positions. The challenges and priorities to be faced in 2013 include the continued strengthening of employment, the expansion of projects for improving infrastructure and logistics, growth in exports and the extension of social programs. One of the principal levers for achieving these objectives undoubtedly lies in prioritizing education, which is sine qua non for the development of any society. The Banco do Brasil has embarked on several financial education initiatives for the conscientious use of financial products and services, as can be seen in the BOMPRATODOS strategy. Using this strategy the BB has improved the lot of the less well-off strata of the population while stimulating the demand for services by smaller companies, in line with the trend towards better economic and social indicators. For these ground rules to be continually in tune with the expectations of the market and BB stakeholders, the bank is facing the constant challenge of enhancing its corporate governance structure and sustainability by strengthening the commitment by the departments to this cause. For the period from 2013-2017 Banco do Brasil will allocate priority to two primary objectives: increasing its efficiency and productivity, and producing sustainable results. Higher efficiency and productivity will entail an in-depth review and simplification of processes. On the one hand, this movement will make itself felt in those channels, products and services perceived by our customers as most innovative, convenient, useful and effective; while on the other it will bring about lower costs and the resultant generation of income for our shareholders. Social businesses will continue to be part of our strategy, since they represent a fundamental part of our corporate mission of promoting the sustainable development of Brazil. Maintaining good corporate governance practices, together with investments in infrastructure, technology and the preparation of our employees for these new challenges will enable the Bank to achieve its strategic objectives over the next five years. Aware of its role as the leading player in Brazil’s development across a wide variety of segments based on its position as market leader, its performance and soundness, Banco do Brasil is optimistic and looking forward to overcoming the challenges to come. Annual Report 2012 p.8 Message from the CEO 02 We played an important role in transforming the Brazilian banking scene in 2012 and are now ready to FACE on the challenges of this new business reality Aldemir Bendine CEO of Banco do Brasil GRI 1.1 | 1.2 The year of 2012 continued to reflect the uncertainties and insecurity in global markets. In spite of this, the Brazilian economy grew, driven by the stimulus to credit and the aggregate supply of the economy. Once again Banco do Brasil showed its strength on the Brazilian economic scenario. We ended 2012 as an example of the solidity of the banking market: we attained R$1.2 trillion in assets, growth of 17.2% – R$12.2 billion in net income, representing an annualized return on shareholder’s equity of 19.8%. As a result we consolidated our position as the largest bank by total assets in Latin America. The loan portfolio – broad concept – stood at R$580.8 billion, with growth of 24.9% driven by the BOMPRATODOS Program. The classified domestic loan portfolio achieved a market share of 20.4% against 19.2% in December 2011. With the BOMPRATODOS Program, Banco do Brasil led the steady downward movement of interest rates in the banking system, playing the role of encouraging other financial institutions to adopt similar initiatives. We have consolidated our position among the most important agents providing investment credit in Brazil in areas such as energy, oil, highway infrastructure and shipbuilding. Disbursements under these facilities stood at R$42.8 billion, representing growth of 27% for the year. On the international capital markets the BB raised funding of US$1.8 billion through a perpetual bond issue, in addition to the record transaction of US$1.9 billion in subordinated debt. We also raised funding of R$1.6 billion through a public offering of the second Banco do Brasil real estate fund, for which demand exceeded the quantity of shares offered by a factor of 12. In November, we announced the intention of creating BB Seguridade, a subsidiary that will be the umbrella entity for all business in insurance, open supplementary pension plans and savings bonds, among others, including future expansions. Retaining our leading position as a transformer of the market and society continued to be a huge challenge in 2012. Customers continue to be the center of our strategy and we are constantly seeking to optimize the resources available for creating value for all our stakeholders. During the year we reviewed the strategy for our operations in Oriented Productive Microcredit (MPO) in order to expand the offer of this program to entrepreneurs, in addition to increasing our presence in transactions under the Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Lending Program (PMCMV). As the largest financier of Brazilian agribusiness, BB attained a market share of 62.5%. Annual Report 2012 p.9 Message from the CEO In line with the commitment to generating sustainable The Banco do Brasil movement to expand the range of results, in 2012 we promoted on the fourth process to the Voluntary Work Program resulted in almost 9,000 of upgrade the actions of our Sustainability Plan – Agenda our employees enrolled at the end of 2012, an investment 21, version 2013-2015. Our stakeholders provided us with of almost R$10 million in 158 projects. This is yet another important inputs regarding the processes to be prioritized, record in supporting entities that rely on voluntary particiand we involved senior management in defining the new pation by BB employees. challenges to be taken up in this regard. Banco do Brasil is alive and active in the market, as its The Agenda 21 review process, which seeks to enhance fundamental principles include the desire for continuous inour sustainability practices while disseminating the connovation. In line with its role as a leader of transformation, cept throughout our value chain, contributed to Banco do the bank will continue to promote the integrated developBrasil being listed on the New York Stock Exchange’s Dow ment of people, companies and society. Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), international acknowledgement by the capital markets of our organization’s With the support of these achievements, we can look socio-environmental performance, establishing us an one to the future with optimism. I have full confidence in the of the leading companies in this theme worldwide. performance and commitment of our employees, in our customers’ increasing loyalty, in the support and trust of In 2012, Banco do Brasil actively participated in the our shareholders, in the support provided to government at Rio+20 Conference, worthy of note being our involvement all levels and in rewarding and transparent interaction with in putting together the Document of Brazil’s Contribution to all segments of society with whom we relate. the Rio+20 Conference. Partners in the event, we fostered the sharing of initiatives, provided differentiated areas and involved the community and several employees in the debate about how to reconcile socioeconomic development and environmental conservation. Annual Report 2012 p.10 Message Quick Reading from the CEO 03 SEE BELOW THE MAIN HIGHLIGHTS AND RESULTS OF BANCO DO BRASIL IN 2012, SHOWING ITS COMMITMENT TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF BRAZIL. TO FIND OUT MORE ABOUT EACH OF THEM, CONSULT THE RESPECTIVE CHAPTERS Corporate Governance The year 2012 saw the upgrading of the Banco do In 2012, Banco do Brasil (BB) joined the Dow Jones Brasil Sustainability Plan – Agenda 21, defining its 30 Sustainability Index. respective challenges for the 2013-2015 period. The Remuneration Committee created within the scope THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM of the Board of Directors will assist in implementing and The BOMPRATODOS strategy assured the BB of the reviewing the remuneration policy for the management leading role in the movement to reduce interest rates of Banco do Brasil. and in the changes that took place on the financial scenario in 2012, encouraging conscientious credit. The composition of the Board of Directors as stipulated in the bylaws was amended from seven members to The quality growth of the loan portfolio benefited from eight to enable directors to participate more effectively the BOMPRATODOS Program. The loan portfolio – in advisory committees. broad concept (including guarantees provided and private securities) stood at R$580.8 billion in 2012, up by Between 2013-2017, the Bank’s strategy will allocate pri24.9% in the year. In the Brazilian banking industry BB ority to expanding the loan portfolio, improving customer raised its market share of credit transactions to 20.4% service, expanding business on cards and insurance, in in December. addition to boosting its role as a partner in Brazil’s development and on the international market. Economic and financial performance 2012/2011 Structural Data 2010 2011 2012 Variation (%) Branches 5,087 5,263 5,362 1.9 (Own) ATMs 44,954 43,602 44,393 1.8 Employees 109,026 113,810 114,182 0.3 Customers (thousands) (1) 54,366 56,001 58,551 4.6 Checking Accounts 35,934 36,121 37,418 3.6 (1) Includes account holders, savers and Brazilian Social Security (INSS) beneficiaries. Annual Report 2012 p.11 Quick Reading Net Income (R$ Billion) Breakdown of Loan Portfolio (R$ Billion) (1) 11.7 12.1 12.2 % 24.9 580.8 46.4 465.1 0.7% 388.2 35.0 152.6 23.0 89.4 75.7 108.0 130.6 113.1 210.2 273.8 176.4 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Companies Offshore Total Assets (R$ Billion) Individuals Agribusiness (1) Includes guarantees provided and private securities. 1,150.5 981.2 Other Performance Variation 811.2 2010 2011 2012 Indicators (%) % 17.2 Total Deposits (R$ billion) 376.9 442.4 472.1 6.7 Shareholder's Equity (R$ billion) 50.4 58.4 66.1 13.2 NPL + 90 Days BB (%) (1) 2.3 2.2 2.1 Cost/Income Ratio (2) (%) 42.6 42.9 43.2 Card Revenues 112.8 140.1 168.2 20.1 (R$ billion) 2010 2011 2012 (1) Loans overdue + 90 days. (2) Ratio of administrative expenses to adjusted operating revenue. Without one-off Items. Socio-Environmental Performance Within the context of the Brazil Water Program, investments of almost R$10 million in 158 projects the process for defining socio-environmental supported by BB volunteers. guidelines on credit focused on the civil construction and mining sectors in 2012. Also in 2012 Banco do Brasil channeled a significant portion of its loans to social businesses, initiatives in search In a survey by the Brazilian Consumer Protection of solutions for the socioeconomic problems of society. Institute, the BB was given the best evaluation and was the only one among Brazil’s six largest financial institutions to be rated “good” in the Consumers block. Social Business Disbursements in 2012 (R$ thousand) Student Financing Fund (Fies) 6,327,788 Banco do Brasil was among the leading partners of Rio+20, where it submitted some of the initiatives BB Accessibility Loan 15,320 from its sustainability strategy. Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Lending 789,153 Program (PMCMV) (1) Oriented Productive Micro Credit (MPO) 763,222 In 2012 the Volunteer Program reached the Total 7,895,483 mark of 8,900 employees enrolled, an increase (1) Individuals + Companies. of 79% in relation to 2011. This increase resulted in Annual Report 2012 p.12 MessageThis About from Report the CEO 04 GRI 4.15 | 4.16 THIS REPORT WAS PRODUCED BY THE DIFFERENT AREAS OF THE BANK AND assured BY KPMG AUDITORES INDEPENDENTES. IT STRENGTHENS THE BANK’S ACCOUNTABILITY TO ITS STAKEHOLDERS The content of this report covers the initiatives undertakFor additional clarification about the form and content en by the different departments of Banco do Brasil (BB) presented here please contact the following departduring the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, ments of the BB: GRI 3.4 2012. The publication enjoys application level A+ of the guidelines established by the Global Reporting Initiative Investor Relations Unit (GRI), Financial Services Sector Supplement, and takes www.bb.com.br/ir into account the criteria disseminated by the Brazilian ir@bb.com.br Association of Listed Companies (ABRASCA). GRI 3.1 Sustainable Development Unit BB produces and publishes its annual reports on a variety www.bb.com.br/sustentabilidade of platforms: the online version, PDF format, flash drive, sustentabilidade@bb.com.br tablet and cell phone. It also publishes the magazine, Conexão BB, compact and with accessible language both GRI 3.9 | 3.10 | 3.11 | 3.13 in printed and PDF versions, as well as for tablets, both available on the Bank’s portal. The last report submitted to Reliability of the Information the market referred to the year 2011. GRI 3.2 | 3.3 The accounting information in this report adheres to the requisites of Law No. 6,404/76 and its updates, Economic and financial data refer to Banco do Brasil the rules and instructions of the Brazilian Securities and all its subsidiary and associate companies, directly and Exchange Commission and the Brazilian Central Bank, in addition to the pronouncements of the or indirectly, in Brazil and abroad. However, the socioAccounting Pronouncements Committee adopted environmental information presented in this document by the regulatory bodies. The management informadoes not include several companies belonging to the tion herein has been measured and validated by the Organization (1). To understand the Bank’s corporate Bank’s management departments, using a process structure access the link www.bb.com.br/docs/pub/inst/ that includes systems for controlling, gathering and dwn/EstSocietariaIngl.pdf. GRI 3.6 | 3.7 | 3.8 storing management data. Any changes to how the information is raised and In view of the trend towards integrating reports, the presented are duly indicated throughout the reAnalysis by Business Segment section also describes port. This publication have been assured by KPMG the products with a socio-environmental bias of each of Auditores Independentes. The socio-environmental these operations. In addition, several GRI indicators are information has been externally verified since 2008. highlighted in the Accounting Statements attached to this report. (1) Aliança do Brasil Seguros S.A., Cobra Tecnologia S.A., BB Tur Viagens e Turismo Ltda., Seguradora Brasileira de Crédito à Exportação (SBCE), Kepler Weber S.A., Neoenergia S.A., Cielo S.A. (Visanet), Cibrasec – Companhia Brasileira de Securitização, Cia. Brasileira de Soluções e Serviços (CBSS) – Visa Vale, Tecnologia Bancária (Tecban), Brasilveículos Companhia de Seguros, Banco do Brasil – Vienna Branch, Banco Votorantim and Banco Patagonia S.A. Annual Report 2012 p.13 About This Report Definition of Materiality Definition of Materiality GRI 3.5 Putting the Annual Report together involves practices, of Officers of the proposed actions for addressing these initiatives and strategies developed by the Organizachallenges. In order to draw the report closer to managetion in 2012. It should be pointed out that this year the ment, this same upgrade process defined the material more relevant themes have been defined in line with the themes for this report. This represents an important evoprocess that upgraded the strategic sustainability objeclution by the Bank within this scope, as it enhances the tives established in the Sustainability Plan – Agenda 21 already existing practices of transparent accountability. of Banco do Brasil. Hand in hand with the phases that defined the challenges and actions for upgrading this plan, the IN THIS EDITION, THE MATERIALITY movement to engage with stakeholders and with the different departments of the Bank also provided input OF BB WAS ACHIEVED BY INTEGRATING in preparing the content of this report. The process is shown in greater detail below. IT WITH THE PROCESS FOR UPDATING THE BANCO DO BRASIL SUSTAINABILITY In 2012, Banco do Brasil upgraded the challenges to its sustainability strategy, the Banco do Brasil SustainPLAN AGENDA 21 ability Plan – Agenda 21. This biannual process involves contributions from stakeholders, in addition to consideration and approval by the Bank’s executives and Board IV Sustainable Development Workshop BB Strategic Studies 2013-2017 Strategic Overview 2013-2017 Corporate Strategy Satisfaction Surveys Internal Stakeholder Overview In-House Ombudsman’s Office Stakeholders’ Panel Responsible Banks Consumer Overview Guidebook – IDEC Stakeholders’ Panel agenda 21 agenda 21 2011-2013 ISE 2013-2015 DJSI Investor/Market Overview Stakeholders’ Panel Visão Brasil 2050 – CEBDS Suppliers Overview Stakeholders’ Panel BankTrack Civil Society Overview Public Policies Stakeholders’ Panel Annual Report 2012 p.14 About This Report Definition of Materiality Initially the review by the BB technical body selected 30 managers, strategic unit managers and executive managchallenges for presentation to stakeholders based on ers who also put much effort into a one-day workshop for market demands, such as the Dow Jones Sustainability analyzing the themes and the actions proposed in each of Index, the BM&FBovespa Corporate Sustainability Index them. Finally, the recommendations obtained were conand the Brazilian Consumer Protection Institute (IDEC). solidated into the proposed Agenda 21 for the period from 2013-2015 and validated by the Board of Officers. During the first engagement, employees, suppliers, individuals and companies, representatives of civil society, The enquiry resulted in 12 priority challenges as shown investors/shareholders and sustainability experts were in the chart below. Those considered priorities in the invited to debate these 30 challenges at multidisciplinary upper quadrant of the matrix are highlighted throughout roundtables. Following this meeting, at the 13th Sustainthis report, accompanied by the adjacent GRI indicators ability Forum, the Bank’s executives discussed how to and the actions contemplated for the years to come. In prioritize the challenges involving the theme of Sustainable the index the GRI indicators are linked to the principles Development in the Economic, Environmental and Social of the Global Compact. Dimensions based on the input already mentioned. The origin and structure of Agenda 21 are presented in The conclusions and highlights of this engagement were the Corporate Governance chapter (page 34). then submitted to the Institution’s executives, general Banco do Brasil Agenda 21 Challenges Matrix 1 15 29 25 22 16 5 7 9 23 20 Stakeholder Priority 21 10 8 19 17 11 18 14 12 13 27 26 2 4 24 3 28 6 30 Relevance for the Bank Key Economic Themes Environmental Themes Social Themes Annual Report 2012 p.15 About This Report Definition of Materiality Economic Dimension 1. Enhancing the sustainability governance structure 10. Improving the bank’s practices on the question of by involving senior management (Board of Directors sustainable procurement. and the Executive Board) in order to strengthen the Bank’s commitment to the theme. a. GRI Indicators: EN2 | EN30 a. GRI Indicators: 1.2 | 4.1 | 4.7 | 4.9 | 4.10 11. Improving the stakeholder engagement process (defining the department responsible, mapping critical 2. E  nhancing the Executive Board’s recognition/variable stakeholders and managing expectations). remuneration system based on socio-environmental attributes. 12. R evealing deviations from the Code of Ethics, the Standards of Behavior and the anti-corruption and 3. E  nhancing the formal performance appraisal of the anti-bribery policies. members of the Board of Directors. 13. P utting in place mechanisms to strengthen em4. E  xpanding gender diversity among the senior manageployee commitment to the Code of Ethics and the ment (Board of Directors and Executive Board). Standards of Behavior. 5. Enhancing the management of sustainability com14. Improving the monitoring of customer satisfaction pacts and commitments assumed. and making the result of these surveys public. a. GRI Indicators: 4.9 | 4.12 | 4.13 | LA3 | Environmental Dimension LA4 | LA6 | LA7 | LA9 | LA11 | LA12 | LA13 | LA14 | HR1 | HR2 | HR3 | HR4 | 15. E nhancing and systematizing the identification HR5 | HR6 | HR7 | HR8 | SO2 | SO3 | SO4 of business opportunities for developing products that meet the demands created by 6. Improving the brand management process using environmental matters (trends/new regulations on clear monitoring metrics linked to risk management the use of natural resources) and climate change and financial returns. (demands for infrastructure financing in order to adapt to climate change). 7. Enhancing economic, social and environmental risk management within the supply chain. a. GRI Indicators: EC2 | EN6 | EN26 a. GRI Indicators: HR2 | HR6 | HR7 | HR8 16. E nhancing the management of eco-efficiency indicators (reduction/compensation of emissions, energy 8. Identifying socio-environmental opportunities within consumption, paper consumption, use of renewable the supply chain that create business benefits for the energy, waste generation and water consumption). Bank (lower costs/higher revenues/risk mitigation). a. GRI Indicators: EN1 | EN2 | EN3 | EN4 | a. GRI Indicators: EC6 | EC8 | EC9 EN5 | EN8 | EN10 | EN16 | EN17 | EN18 | EN22 9. Strengthening the bank’s role as an agent for advancing sustainable practices in its supply chain. a. GRI Indicators: HR1 | HR2 | HR3 | HR4 | HR6 | HR7 | HR8 | EN29 Annual Report 2012 p.16 About This Report Definition of Materiality 17. Enhancing the Environmental Management System 25. B oosting internal education and sustainability (SGA) based on ISO 14000. awareness programs. 18. Improving climate change risk management in 26. E nhancing employees’ variable remuneration financing transactions. system, including the Executive Board, taking into account individual performance. 19. Improving climate change risk management in the Bank’s own investments and those of third parties. 27. R aising the employee satisfaction index. 20. Better socio-environmental risk management in 28. Improving Occupational Health and Safety (SSO) financing (except for climate change-related risks). management (the system, indicators, targets, risk map, transparency, training etc.). a. GRI Indicators: FS2 | FS3 | FS5 | FS9 | HR6 | HR7 | EN28 | PR4 | PR7 | PR9 | SO8 29. Maintaining and expanding the Bank’s role as a driver of sustainable development through financial inclusion 21. Better socio-environmental risk management in the and social businesses (Oriented Productive MicroBank’s own investments and those of third parties credit – MPO, the Student Financing Fund – Fies, (except for climate change-related risks). Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Lending Program – MCMV Program and the BB Accessibility Loan Proa. GRI Indicators: FS2 | FS3 | FS5 | FS9 | gram, among others), so as to integrate with programs FS11 | HR1 | HR6 | HR7 and public policies, partnerships with the private sector and BB sustainable development strategies (private Social Dimension social investment, volunteer work, digital inclusion and sustainable regional development). 22. Enhancing the relationship between Private Social Investment (ISP) and the business strategy. a. GRI Indicators: SO1 | SO5 a. GRI Indicators: SO1 | SO5 30. Improve gender representation at all hierarchical levels within the Organization. 23. Improving the Bank’s position with regard to controversial subjects and dilemmas involving loans and investments. 24. Strengthening knowledge management by minimizing the impacts arising from employee transfers and redundancies. Annual Report 2012 p.17 Corporate About This Governance Report 05 IN 2012 THE BANK’S COMMITMENT TO BEST GOVERNANCE PRACTICES WAS STRENGTHENED BY A SERIES OF ADAPTATIONS IN THE CORPORATE STRATEGY AND ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Governance at Banco do Brasil (BB) defines an extensive view of the principles and practices that contribute to 2012 Governance Highlights strengthening the transparency of its management process Banco do Brasil has adapted its corporate stratwhile enhancing its institutional value. These guidelines are egy and organizational architecture to ensure its constantly updated on account of changes in the law or in competitive position and the conditions required the Bank’s bylaws. for maintaining a relationship and results policy appropriate to its different stakeholders. The principal The strategy at BB is to adopt the best corporate goverenhancements in 2012 were: nance practices that achieve a balance between the rights of • Creation of the Associated Entities Governance shareholders, accountability to investors and society, ethics Unit (UGE), whose aim is to improve governance in dealing with different stakeholders and the sustainability of in strategic equity holdings and to obtain synergy the business supported by using monitoring tools that align gains in processes, products and services created; the manner in which executives behave with the interests of • The constitution of BB Seguridade S.A., which stakeholders, shareholders and society as a whole. will afford economies of scale as well as lower costs and expenses in the insurance, open private Since 2006 Banco do Brasil has been a member of the pensions and savings bonds segment; BM&FBovespa Novo Mercado segment, a listing of the com• Acquisition of the equity of EuroBank, whose busipanies subject to the strictest corporate governance practices. ness name was amended to read Banco do BraIt is also listed on the Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE), the sil Americas following the restructuring process; Special Tag Along Stock Index (Itag) and the Special Corpo• Specific changes to its macro structure, primarrate Governance Stock Index (IGC). In 2012, BB appeared ily in areas dedicated to the retail market; for the first time on the New York Stock Exchange Dow Jones • Creation of the Remuneration Committee at a Sustainability Index (DJSI), a fact that should further enhance meeting held on January 10, 2012, in line with the its insertion in the international scenario. provisions of CMN Resolution No. 3,921/2010; • Amendment to the bylaws regarding the composiFind out about the Governance Code on the BB Investor tion of the Board of Directors from seven memRelations site. bers to eight. This amendment seeks to implement better conditions for improved corporate governance practices, through more active participation Challenge 1. by board members in the advisory committees, To enhance the sustainability governance structure primarily the Audit Committee. by involving senior management (Board of Directors and the Executive Board) in order to strengthen the Bank’s commitment to the theme. See how BB is facing up to this challenge on page 40. Annual Report 2012 p.18 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure Organizational Structure AMONG MAJOR ADVANCES IN THE BB GRI 4.1 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE WERE The corporate governance structure at Banco do Brasil includes the Board of Directors, comprising 8 members THE CREATION OF A PERFORMANCE advised by the Audit and Remuneration Committees EVALUATION MODEL FOR STATUTORY and by the Internal Audit Department, and the Executive Board, comprising the Board of Officers (President EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND THE and 9 Vice-Presidents) and by 27 Statutory Executive REMUNERATION COMMITTEE Officers. BB also has a permanent Board of Auditors of 5 full and 5 alternate members. At all levels of the Bank decisions are taken collectively, so as to involve the officers in defining strategies and As a good corporate governance practice the Bank approving proposals for the different business areas of has instituted instruments for evaluating the perforBanco do Brasil. Thus management uses committees, mance of the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee sub-committees and strategic level commissions to and the Executive Board, enabling it to map and identify ensure speed of response and security in the decisionopportunities for improving their respective performancmaking process. The Bank’s management bodies are es. In addition to the bylaws, the Code of Corporate staffed by Brazilians whose knowledge – including of Governance and the Code of Ethics are documents probest corporate governance practices – experience, viding support for best corporate governance practices sound reputation and technical abilities commensurate at Banco do Brasil. with their positions are second to none. GRI 4.7 In 2012, Banco do Brasil created the model for the The Bank’s bylaws stipulate the segregation of functions Statutory Executive Officer Performance Appraisal and in defining the management bodies, so as to avoid any the Remuneration Committee, the body responsible for conflicts of interest. Furthermore, article 14 prevents submitting to the Board of Directors variable remuneramembers of the Board of Directors or the Executive tion policies for the Group’s managerial staff. Board from taking decisions on matters that might lead to occasional conflicts of interest. GRI 4.6 Organizational Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Board of Auditors Audit Committee Board of Directors Remuneration Committee Internal Audit Department Board of Officers Annual Report 2012 p.19 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure General Meeting It is exclusively incumbent on the General Meeting to principal initiatives during the period and the sustainability deliberate on any changes to the Bank’s capital stock, measures. Ordinary meetings take place once a month, opportunities for splits, mergers or takeovers, exchangand special meetings as and when required. In 2012, 19 es of shares or other securities and special corporate meetings were held. GRI 4.9 governance practices. A Extraordinary General Meeting amended the bylaws of It also determines the global remuneration amount of Banco do Brasil, increasing the number of Board members the members of the managerial bodies. The remunerafrom seven to eight. This amendment seeks to implement tion of the members of the Board of Directors is fixed, better conditions for improved corporate governance pracpursuant to the provisions of Law No. 9,292/96, and is tices through more active participation by board members not tied to economic, social or environmental perforin the advisory committees, primarily the Audit Committee. mance. The remuneration of the Executive Board, on The Board of Directors comprises individuals elected by the other hand, comprises a fixed portion, in addition to the General Meeting, and its eight members have a unified a variable portion tied to the Bank’s results. GRI 4.4 | 4.5 term of office of two years, including a Chairman and a Deputy Chairman, with reelection permitted. The term of In 2012, an Ordinary General Meeting took place in office runs until the investiture of the new members. April, according to the bylaws, and two Special General Meetings in September and December to deliberate Minority shareholders have the right to elect at least two on the changes to the composition of the governance directors, if they are not entitled to more under the multiple councils, the responsibilities of the President, the capital vote process. The Brazilian government will make suggesstock and the bylaws. tions to the deliberation of the General Meeting in order to fill six positions on the Board of Directors, the CEO of Further information is available on the Reference Form, the Bank; three representatives indicated by the Minister which can be accessed on the Investor Relations site of of Finance; a representative indicated by the employees Banco do Brasil. of Banco do Brasil S.A.; and a representative indicated by the Ministry of Planning, Budget and Management. Board of Directors The Chairman of the Board is chosen from among the The Board of Directors, as the Organization’s highest members indicated by the Minister of Finance, while the governance body, fulfills responsibilities of a strategic, employees’ representative is chosen by a direct vote of instructive, elective and supervisory nature, including the their peers among serving employees at an election orgaapproval of corporate policies, strategies and plans. In adnized and governed by the Bank, together with the union dition, in order to improve the performance and alignment entities representing them. of the policies of BB, the Board approves the Banco do Brasil Corporate Strategy (ECBB), which consolidates the The Board of Directors carries out an annual self-appraisal decisions for a 5-year period, signposting the actions and and evaluates the Executive Board and the committees. targets involving the Bank’s economic, social and environThe BB Ombudsman’s Department submits a semi-annual mental performance. Furthermore, the Board monitors on quantitative and qualitative report to the Board containing a quarterly basis the Bank’s performance in reaching the accusations, complaints and suggestions forwarded by targets established in the strategic documents, suggesting customers. Recommendations can be submitted directly to pertinent corrective measures, and approves the Managethe Board using the Audit Committee channel located on ment’s Report covering the business performance, the the Banco do Brasil site. GRI 4.4 | 4.10 Annual Report 2012 p.20 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure 2 3 No board members hold significant equity interests in 1 the company. Furthermore, with respect to the principle of checks and balances, the CEO of Banco do Brasil 5 6 does not act as Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the 4 Board of Directors and even in case of any impediments of the Chairman or the Vice-Chairman, the CEO of the Bank can not replace them. This body comprises the members shown in the following table. GRI 4.2 GRI 4.3 Composition of the Board of Directors 6 Nelson Henrique Barbosa Filho Chairman and representative of the Government (indicated by the Minister of Finance) 4 Adriana Queiroz de Carvalho Vice-Chairman and representative of the Government (indicated by the Minister of Finance) 5 Aldemir Bendine CEO of Banco do Brasil S.A. 1 Bernardo Gouthier Macedo Independent board member (elected by the minority shareholders) 3 Henrique Jäger Independent board member (elected by the minority shareholders) 2 Sérgio Eduardo Arbulu Mendonça Representative of the Government (indicated by the Minister of Planning, Budget and Management) Vacant Representative of the Government (indicated by the Minister of Finance) Vacant Representative of the Government (indicated by the employees of Banco do Brasil S.A.) Audit Committee As advisor to the Board of Directors, it is incumbent on the Audit Committee to evaluate the effectiveness of the Internal Auditors and the Independent Auditors, among 2 other responsibilities contemplated in specific legislation. Ordinarily it convenes twice a month before the meetings of the Board of Directors; at least once a quar3 ter, with the Board of Directors, the Board of Officers, 1 the Internal Auditors and the Independent Auditors; and on special occasions whenever it is called upon or when it deems it necessary to do so. It has four full members, elected by the Board of Directors for a one-year term of office, renewable for a maximum of five years. One full member is chosen Composition of the Audit Committee from among the board members elected by the minor1 Egídio Otmar Ames (Coordinator) ity shareholders, while three will be chosen by the full 2 Antônio Carlos Correia members from among those indicated by the board 3 Henrique Jäger members representing the Government. Vacant Annual Report 2012 p.21 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure Internal Auditors Board of Auditors Banco do Brasil has an Internal Audit Department Comprises five members and their respective subordinated to the Board of Directors and charged with alternates, elected at a General Meeting with carrying out audits where the emphasis in on risks, acta one-year term of office, with the minority ing as adviser to the Board of Directors, the Audit Comshareholders entitled to choose two of its members. mittee, the Executive Board and the subsidiaries. The The Board of Auditors is permanent in nature and head of the department is chosen from among serving meets ordinarily once a month and, on special employees, and is appointed and removed from office occasions, whenever deemed necessary. by the Board of Directors. Internal Audit Department Rudinei dos Santos 5 2 Remuneration Committee 3 The purpose of the Remuneration Committee, created in 1 4 April 2012, is to advise the Board of Directors in implementing and reviewing the remuneration policy for the management of Banco do Brasil. It comprises four full members elected by the Board of Directors, one of whom is independent. They all have a one-year term of office, renewable for a maximum period of up to ten years. Composition of the Board of Auditors 2 Paulo José dos Reis Souza 4 Marcos Machado Guimarães 1 Anelize Ruas de Almeida 2 3 Pedro Carvalho de Mello 5 Clóvis Ailton Madeira 3 4 1 Composition of the Remuneration Committee 3 Egídio Otmar Ames (Coordinator) 4 Aldemir Bendine 2 Henrique Jäger 1 Sérgio Eduardo Arbulu Mendonça Annual Report 2012 p.22 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure Board of Officers The Board of Officers is a collegiate body comprising plan and labor agreement; deciding on the Bank’s the President and the Vice-Presidents of the Orgainternal organization and management structure; and nization, and meets at least once a week. Its attribudistributing and allocating earnings in the manner tions include proposing policies and seeing to it that decided by the General Meeting or by the Board of these are carried out, the Bank’s corporate strategy, Directors, with due regard for current legislation. Its investment plan, master plan and overall budget; members are listed in the following table. approving and arranging for execution of the market BB Presidency and Vice Presidencies CEO Aldemir Bendine Vice Presidency of Retail Services Alexandre Corrêa Abreu Vice Presidency of Technology Geraldo Afonso Dezena da Silva Vice Presidency of Financial Management and Investor Relations Ivan de Souza Monteiro Vice Presidency of Agribusiness and Small Ventures Osmar Fernandes Dias Vice Presidency of Wholesale, International Business and Private Bank Paulo Rogério Caffarelli Vice Presidency of Retail Service, Distribution and Operational Services Paulo Roberto Lopes Ricci Vice Presidency of Human Resources and Sustainable Development Robson Rocha Vice Presidency of Government Affairs Vacant Vice Presidency of Internal Controls and Risk Management Walter Malieni Executive Board In charge of managing the business, the Executive Board’s attributions include complying with and imposing compliance with the bylaws, the deliberations of the General Meeting of Shareholders and the Board of Directors, as well as its collective decisions and those of the Board of Officers. It currently comprises the Board of Officers and 27 executive officers with a 3-year term of office, reelection being permitted. The CEO of the Banco do Brasil is appointed by and can be removed from office by the President of the Republic, while the Vice Presidents and Executive Officers are elected by the Board of Directors; the position of Executive Officer is restricted to serving employees. Annual Report 2012 p.23 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure Directors comprising the Executive Board of BB Micro and Small Business Directorship Adilson do Nascimento Anisio International Business and Affairs Directorship Admilson Monteiro Garcia Restructuring of Operational Assets Directorship Adriano Meira Ricci Commercial Directorship Antonio Mauricio Maurano Legal Directorship Antonio Pedro da Silva Machado Human Resources Directorship Carlos Alberto Araujo Netto Employee Relations and Sponsored Entities Directorship Carlos Eduardo Leal Neri Agribusiness Directorship Clenio Severio Teribele Consumer Lending and Finance Directorship Edmar José Casalatina Mortgage Directorship Gueitiro Matsuo Genso Marketing and Communication Directorship Hayton Jurema da Rocha Individuals Customers Directorship Hideraldo Dwight Leitão Risk Management Directorship Ives Cézar Fülber Government Affairs Directorship Janio Carlos Endo Macedo Distribution Directorship José Carlos Reis da Silva Finance Directorship José Mauricio Pereira Coelho Technology Directorship Luiz Henrique Guimarães de Freitas Credit Directorship Márcio Hamilton Ferreira Strategy and Organization Directorship Marco Antonio Ascoli Mastroeni Insurance, Pension Plans and Savings Bonds Directorship Marco Antonio da Silva Barros Consumer Lending and Finance Directorship Marcelo Augusto Dutra Labuto Security Management Directorship Marcos Ricardo Lot Internal Controls Directorship Nilson Martiniano Moreira Credit and Debt Cards Directorship Raul Francisco Moreira Business Suport and Operations Directorship Sandro José Franco Controlling Directorship Sandro Kohler Marcondes Distribution São Paulo Directorship Sérgio Peres Strategic Units Responsible for managing processes and supporting the business, the Strategic Units take part in the deliberations of the Strategic Committees and have no responsibilities enshrined in the bylaws. General Managers of the Strategic Units IT Solutions Construction Unit Anderson Freire Nobre Strategic Alliances and Acquisitions Unit Antônio Carlos Bizzo Lima IT Solutions Operations Unit Daniel Oliveira da Silva Associated Entities Governance Unit Edson Rogério da Costa Accountancy Unit Eduardo César Pasa IT Solutions Structuring Unit Gustavo de Souza Fosse Investor Relations Unit Gustavo Henrique Santos de Sousa Sustainable Development Unit Rodrigo Santos Nogueira Private Bank Unit Rogério Fernando Lot Partner Channels Unit Sidney Passeri Pension Plan Management Unit Wagner Aparecido Mardegan Executive Secretary Luiz Cláudio Ligabue Annual Report 2012 p.24 Corporate Governance Organizational Structure Executive Board until December 31, 2012 Staff until December 31, 2012 CEO Aldemir Bendine Vice Presidency of Retail Services Alexandre Corrêa Abreu Vice Presidency of Government Affairs César Augusto Rabello Borges Vice Presidency of Technology Geraldo Afonso Dezena da Silva Vice Presidency of Financial Management and Investor Relations Ivan de Souza Monteiro Vice Presidency of Agribusiness and Small Ventures Osmar Fernandes Dias Vice Presidency of Retail Service, Distribution and Operational Services Paulo Roberto Lopes Ricci Vice Presidency of Wholesale, International Business and Private Bank Paulo Rogério Caffarelli Vice Presidency of Human Resources and Sustainable Development Robson Rocha Vice Presidency for Internal Controls and Risk Management Walter Malieni Junior Micro and Small Business Directorship Adilson do Nascimento Anisio International Business and Affairs Directorship Admilson Monteiro Garcia Micro and Small Business Directorship Adriano Meira Ricci Commercial Directorship Antonio Mauricio Maurano Legal Directorship Antonio Pedro da Silva Machado Human Resources Directorship Carlos Alberto Araujo Netto Employee Relations and Sponsored Entities Directorship Carlos Eduardo Leal Neri Agribusiness Directorship Clenio Severio Teribele Mortgage Directorship Gueitiro Matsuo Genso Marketing and Communication Directorship Hayton Jurema da Rocha Individuals Customers Directorship Hideraldo Dwight Leitão Risk Management Directorship Ives Cézar Fülber Government Affairs Directorship Janio Carlos Endo Macedo Distribution Directorship José Carlos Reis da Silva Finance Directorship José Mauricio Pereira Coelho Technology Directorship Luiz Henrique Guimarães de Freitas Mortgage Directorship Marcelo Augusto Dutra Labuto Credit Directorship Márcio Hamilton Ferreira Strategy and Organization Directorship Marco Antonio Ascoli Mastroeni Mortgage Directorship Marco Antonio da Silva Barros Security Management Directorship Marcos Ricardo Lot Internal Controls Directorship Nilson Martiniano Moreira Credit and Debt Cards Directorship Raul Francisco Moreira Business Support and Operations Directorship Sandro José Franco Commercial Directorship Sandro Kohler Marcondes Distribution São Paulo Directorship Position vacant Capital Markets and Investments Directorship Position vacant For more information about the structure of Banco do Brasil and the members of the Board of Directors, the Committees and the Presidency, including their experience in socio-environmental matters, access the Reference Form available on the site www.bb.com.br/ir. Annual Report 2012 p.25 Corporate Governance Risk Management and Corporate Controls Risk Management and A SOLID STRUCTURE FOR RISK Corporate Controls MANAGEMENT, INTERNAL CONTROLS AND GRI 1.2 | 4.11 STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT OF SECURITY Risk management at Banco do Brasil extensively covers ARE CONTRIBUTING TO THE CONTINUITY credit, market, liquidity and operational risks. Management activities are carried out through specific, specialOF BANCO DO BRASIL AND THE ETHICAL ist structures in accordance with the objectives, policies, CONDUCT OF ALL ITS EMPLOYEES strategies, processes and systems described in each of those risks. The Bank also employs mechanisms to ensure adequate capital to cover other risks incurred. Principal Risks Market risk: involves the possibility of incurring losses The risk and credit policies are determined by the arising from fluctuations in market prices of the positions Board of Directors. Risk governance, however, is held by a financial institution, including risks on operacentralized with the Global Risk Committee (GRC), tions subject to variances in currency rates, interest comprising the Board of Officers, with responsibility for rates and share and commodity prices. The BB’s posisetting out the risk management strategies, the global tions are segregated into Trading Book and Non-Tradrisk exposure limits and the levels of compliance and ing Book defined by the Global Risk Committee (GRC). capital allocation, depending on the risks. The Credit The main types of limits in place for managing market Risk, Market and Liquidity Risk and Operational Risk risks are Value at Risk (VaR) and stress testing. In sub-committees speed up the management process 2012, the Bank enhanced those processes considered and support the CRG. These sub-committees comprisrelevant by reviewing control procedures and monitoring ing Statutory Executive Officers take collective deciand accompanying the global limits of the Trading and sions in line with the Institution’s guidelines and rules. Non-Trading Book, in addition to reviewing its principal Corporate Methodology Manuals. The Risk Management Board, attached to the Vice Presidency, Internal Controls and Risk Management, Credit risk: refers to the possibility of the occurrence of is responsible for managing market, liquidity, operalosses associated with non-compliance by the borrower tional and credit risk. This integration delivers synergy or counterparty of their respective financial obligations to the processes, as well as specialization, in addition within agreed terms, impairment of a loan agreement to complying with the guidelines of the Basel Comarising from the deterioration in the borrower’s risk rating, mittee on Banking Supervision. To prevent, correct or the reduction in earnings or remuneration, the advantaginhibit weaknesses that might result in risks, as well es granted in the renegotiation and the recovery costs. as reducing losses and strengthening the risk culture, It includes, among others, commitment, concentration, BB uses the Technical Risk Recommendation (RTR) counterparty, intermediary and country risks. On the stratool provided to the process or product management tegic level, Credit Risk Management involves the Credit areas in the event of any need to take steps to mitigate Risk Management Strategies and Policy, while at the losses or to ensure compliance with the responsibilities operational level it includes managerial processes, operdefined in the risk management phases. ating procedures and management systems. Under this Annual Report 2012 p.26 Corporate Governance Risk Management and Corporate Controls structure credit risk management is based on best marand the functioning of the structure. The Operational Risk ket practices, and abides by the supervisory rules and Policy approved and reviewed annually by the Board of banking regulations in order to detect, evaluate, control, Directors contains guidelines for the Bank’s departments mitigate and monitor risk exposures, while contributing to so as to ensure the effectiveness of the operational risk maintaining the Bank’s solidity and solvency and ensurmanagement model in line with that advocated in Basel II ing that the shareholders’ interests are met. Information and with the requisites of CMN Resolution No. 3,380/06. about credit risk is permanently and constantly disclosed, where the assumptions are best practices, banking As management instruments, Banco do Brasil uses legislation, users’ requirements, the Bank’s interests, global and specific limits, key risk indicators and operaconfidentiality and relevance. tional risk monitoring reported on a monthly basis to the Global Risk Committee (GRC) and the Operational Risk Credit risk is measured using delinquency rates, delays, Sub-committee (SRO). Limits are periodically reviewed the quality of the portfolio, the allowance for loan losses, in order to speed up the identification of the causes concentration and expected and unexpected losses, operating losses and to suggest mitigation actions. among others. The use of instruments to mitigate and The Bank also employs Technical Risk Recommendatransfer credit risk is written into the Credit Policy, is tions (RTR). Enhancing its management model it has present in strategic decisions and formalized in the developed a new methodology for detecting operational credit rules. Credit risk management also covers inrisks which is applied when mapping its organizational house methodologies for rating customer risk, in line processes. In regard to the non-financial companies, with the best market practices and the precepts of the a methodology has been developed for identifying and Basel Agreement. BB has also invested in information monitoring operational risks, with due regard for the technology (IT) solutions in support of the credit risk governance of those companies. In line with regulatory management process, in addition to several tools that standards, an internal model has been developed for are in the implementation phase. Parallel to the stancalculating the portion of capital allocated to operational dards for granting credit, the Institution adopts collection risks (Popr), involving the use of the following elements: and credit recovery strategies based on statistical modinternal and external data bases, indicators of the busiels that indicate the most appropriate channels and the ness environment and scenarios. most effective relationship for resolving the delinquency. Liquidity risk: arises from imbalances between tradable Operational risk: is defined as the possibility of losses assets and enforceable liabilities that might affect the occurring as a result of failures, deficiencies or shortInstitution’s payment capacity, as well as the possibility of comings in internal processes, people and systems, or not trading a position at market prices because of its subof external events over and above those arising from stantial size in relation to the volume normally traded or on legal risk. In order to optimize risk management, and account of market conditions. To that end, the different curso as to comply with the requisites of the regulatory rencies and different settlement period of the Bank’s rights body in respect of the BB’s application to use internal and obligations are taken into account. Banco do Brasil operational risk models, the Board of Officers approved maintains liquidity levels considered sufficient to cover its a new operational risk management structure involvcommitments in Brazil and abroad, thanks to its extensive ing primarily the segregation of the second tier control and diversified depositor base, the quality of its assets, the from the integrated operational risk management. The capillarity of its offshore branch network and the access it new structure comprises the Risk Management Board enjoys to the international capital market. The Institution’s (Diris) and the Security Management Board (Diges). The exposure to liquidity risk is minimal, bearing in mind its Internal Controls Board (Dicoi) is responsible for secconsiderable asset position in highly liquid government ond tier control, in addition to validating the internal risk securities. Liquidity risk management uses the following models. The Internal Audit (Audit) Department, in turn, instruments: liquidity forecasts, stress testing, liquidity risk evaluates the operational risk management processes Annual Report 2012 p.27 Corporate Governance Risk Management and Corporate Controls limits and the Liquidity Contingency Plan. In 2012, the models and methodologies were periodically reviewed, especially the enhancement of the financial group’s LiquidCHALLENGE 20. ity Contingency Plan which now has an increased scope Better socio-environmental risk management of procedures for all Group companies operating domestiin financing (except for climate change-related cally and abroad, including the segregation in several risks). See how BB is facing up to this countries where the Bank operates. In 2013, Banco do challenge on page 42. Brasil will focus on complying with the requisites of the new Central Bank regulations on the liquidity risk management structure set out in Resolution No. 4,090. CHALLENGE 21. Better socio-environmental risk management in the Strategy risk: this is defined as the possibility of losses Bank’s own investments and those of third parties arising from adverse changes in the business environ(except for climate change-related risks). See how ment or from the use of inappropriate assumptions BB is facing up to this challenge on page 42. when taking decisions. Banco do Brasil has revised the activities required for managing this risk and has initiated studies to incorporate improvements into the processes, going through the activities involving potential loss events incident by incident until it evaluates the need to allocate capital for the risk, according to the schedule established risks to which the Institution is subject, Banco do Brasil by the Brazilian Central Bank. has identified improvements to be implemented in its socio-environmental risk management. These are beReputation risk: Banco do Brasil has expanded the ing considered within the context of evaluating capital concept of image risk previously used, and now refers adequacy and planning, which adhere to the schedule to this as reputation risk, which is understood to be the established by the Brazilian Central Bank. risk arising from negative perceptions of the Institution by customers, counterparties, shareholders, investors, More information can be found in the Risk Management government entities, the community or supervisory Report available at www.bb.com.br/ir. bodies that may adversely affect the sustainability of the business. This process has also defined the manageInternal Controls rial activities required. The improvements required in The Internal Controls Board undertakes an annual asmanaging this risk, given its more extensive interpretasessment of the effectiveness of the internal controls tion, are dealt with in the context of evaluating capital surrounding important processes within Banco do Brasil adequacy and planning, which both adhere to the using its own methodology. The primary purpose of schedule established by the Brazilian Central Bank. these assessments is to provide support to the senior management of BB when issuing opinions regarding the Socio-environmental risk: involves the possibility of quality of the internal controls, especially those intended losses arising directly or indirectly from adverse social for consolidating and disclosing financial information to and environmental impacts resulting from the Bank’s the market on the Reference Form or in the Consoliadministrative or business practices or those of the dated Accounting Statements. Supplementing this entire players within it operating environment, as well as those cycle are the statements signed by the managers of BB, arising from situational aspects involving the social assuring that the information made available to the marand environmental sustainability of current means of ket is true, complete, precise and does not contain data production and consumption patterns. In reviewing the and/or statements that might induce investors in error. Annual Report 2012 p.28 Corporate Governance Risk Management and Corporate Controls In 2012, a movement began to redefine the roles of the ries to a variety of internal and external sources and units comprising the internal control system. The new the application of data filtering techniques, verifies the structure realigns the responsibilities allocated, ratifying information provided when products and services are the role of the Internal Controls Board as the second tier made available This central unit has added security of control. The most important processes applied within and speed of response to the hitherto existing prothe Bank’s units are evaluated and monitored by cedures by incorporating one of the most advanced 13 Regional Internal Control Managements. Compliance technologies available on the market. verification is based on rules and regulations and seeks to detect possible deviations so that remedial A further large project whose development began in actions can be taken. 2012 was the change in the identification of internal users for authenticating financial transactions using The outcome of these verifications is used to rate the a combination of biometric standards and encoded premises in relation to the level of compliance observed keys. In the case of training, the BB has reached an when the evaluated processes are operating, and also agreement with the Federal Police to provide techniserves as a management tool to assist in prioritizing cal intelligence training for financial institutions, so as remedial action and allocating resources in an efficient to enhance the Bank’s anti-fraud procedures. manner. In the search for continuous improvement of the compliance measuring methodologies and tools, a In 2012, investments were made to consolidate the new version of the rating model has been developed expansion of the Banco do Brasil Security Complex and is currently in the implementation phase. (CSABB) with 15 Central Units. Investments in 2013 will focus primarily on extending the role of the CenAt Banco do Brasil, responsibility for validating risk tral Security Units comprising the CSABB to a greater models rests with the Internal Controls Board, which number of branches using leading-edge technology, must prove to the Central Bank that the models used where priority will always be given to those regions are sufficient and that they reflect the Institution’s risk where the risk of criminal attacks against the Bank’s profile, based on critical analysis of the systems, data, premises is greatest. technological infrastructure and models used in risk management. The results of these validations are peAlso in 2012, the internal procedures and systems riodically discussed with managers in technical forums were adapted to the new Law No. 12,683/12 and the and subsequently submitted to the risk sub-committees rules of the supervisory authorities, such as Central of Banco do Brasil for the purpose of making any adBank Circular Letter No. 3,542, SUSEP Circular justments to these results so that they can be effectively No. 445 and CVM Instruction No. 523. The Bank supused in the management process. The implementation ports and actively participates in meetings within the of this systematic approach is contributing to amelioratNational Anti-Money Laundering System to prepare ing the risk management process of Banco do Brasil, and implement the National Anti-Corruption and Antienabling it to allocate the appropriate regulatory capital. Money Laundering Strategy (Enccla) and to formalize Technical Cooperation Agreements with institutions Strategic Security Management such as the Ministry of Justice, the Financial ActiviGRI SO3 | SO8 | FS15 ties Control Council (Coaf) and the State Prosecutor’s Office of the State of São Paulo. The BB is undertaking an extensive program of initiatives to ensure ethics and sound procedures in all Banco do Brasil provides its employees with specific its operations and among its employees. Within the training initiatives concerning anti-money launderprocess for preventing information file fraud, in 2012 ing procedures, the financing of terrorism and critical a central unit was set up which, by means of enquiaspects from the point of view of risks. The Bank Annual Report 2012 p.29 Corporate Governance Risk Management and Corporate Controls runs a program that includes classroom and distance The precepts regarding anti-corruption and anti-dislearning, as well as other events such as seminars, crimination procedures expressed in the Standards of lectures, workshops, the Anti-Money Laundering Behavior and in the Code of Ethics are disseminated Leaflet (available on the Portal of the BB Corporate using normative instructions available to all employees University) and by publishing articles on the theme on the corporate intranet – where the specific site on through the corporate communication channels. ethics and behavior can also be found. In the case of the external public the Code of Ethics is available on the Last year some 50,000 employees received 777,000 corporate portal: www.bb.com.br. In 2011, a tool was hours of classes via the intranet on anti-money used to obtain “electronic agreement” to the Code of laundering procedures and the financing of terrorism Ethics and the Standards of Behavior. By the end of the through that channel alone. Around 1,500 employees period, 106,682 employees (91% of the total) had stated took part in a 3-day in-class training course, amountbeing aware of the content of the documents. ing to 37,000 hours of classes. Thirteen exclusive workshops were also held for strategic bodies and In order to detect, analyze and notify suspicions of representatives of the BB Group, while 2,626 emmoney laundering, all Brazilian branches use a specially ployees passed the certification examination on this designed automated system. A variety of courses is also subject, which bears the Enccla seal. available, as the following table shows. GRI SO2 Anti-Money Laundering Training Courses in 2012 Number of Employees Trained Internal Certification in Internal Controls and Compliance 1,359 Anti-Money Laundering Synapse 47,628 Course about Controls 5,219 Workshop on Analyzing Indications of Money Laundering 1,569 Internal Anti-Money Laundering Certification 2,626 Hours of Training in Anti-Corruption Practices per Employee, per Employee Category Number Number of Number of Final Number of Number Percentage 2012 of Training Training Sessions Hours per Headcount Participants of Hours of Trained Sessions per Employee Employee Managerial 35,991 13,364 14,556 163,140 37.13 0.40 4.53 Technical 12,151 8,059 8,438 97,752 66.32 0.69 8.04 Operations 19,729 9,104 10,035 112,590 46.15 0.51 5.71 Others 46,311 22,047 25,374 267,060 47.61 0.55 5.77 Failure to comply with the standing orders may result In regard to corruption, the Code of Ethics provides in disciplinary sanctions. Anti-money laundering initiaguidance on repudiating crimes such as bribery, extortives are carried out by the Security Management Board, tion and corruption in all shapes and forms. The corpothe Internal Audit Department and the Employee and rate values section of the Standards of Behavior also Sponsored Entities Relations Board. Applicable sanccontains guidelines on the commitment to anti-money tions range from a statement of awareness, to summary laundering and the fight against all kinds of corruption. dismissal, depending on the gravity of the incident, the In cases of corruption confidentiality applies. During the level at which each person involved participated and the year there were no reports of court actions regarding circumstances in which the violation occurred. The senior corruption on the part of the employees and that of the executives of BB are also subject to the Federal Senior Organization. The year of 2011 saw the conclusion of Administration Code of Conduct. two administrative procedures, while in 2012 there was one, with the responsibility of those involved in incidents of this type having been identified. GRI SO4 Annual Report 2012 p.30 Corporate Governance Business Strategy Strategic Planning for FOR THE PERIOD FROM 2013-2017, BB the Period 2013-2017 WILL ALLOCATE PRIORITY TO INCREASING EFFICIENCY AND PRODUCTIVITY, SO AS Reflecting its role as an agent for development in Brazil, Banco do Brasil strives to offer customers products and services reflecting the three facets of sustainability: economic, social and environmental. TO PRODUCE SUSTAINABLE RESULTS. So not only does it remain as the leader within the THIS SECTION CONTAINS A TRANSPARENT Brazilian Banking Industry (BI), but is also pushing forward towards a more just society. Among its ACCOUNT OF THE BANK’S MAIN ADVANCES IN primary objectives for the period 2013-2017 Banco do Brasil will allocate priority to higher efficiency and TERMS OF THE OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2012 productivity, so as to generate sustainable results. Maintenance of Profitability Levels Worthy of special attention will be the BB EcoBanco do Brasil had net income of R$12.2 billion in Efficiency Program, a set of initiatives affecting the 2012, a record achievement. This performance was up Institution as a whole, whose purpose is to generate by 0.7% in relation to 2011 and represents a Return on sustainable gains in efficiency, preserve current levels (average) Equity (ROAE) of 19.8%. Furthermore, as the of return and obtain productivity gains by reviewing first Brazilian bank to reach the R$1.0 trillion mark in work processes and by investment in IT. assets, BB maintained its growth trajectory during the year and closed 2012 with assets of R$1.2 trillion, an The primary strategic initiatives for the future involve increase of 17.2% over 2011. Loan portfolio growth was operating in the real estate credit market, supporting the primary factor behind this growth. micro and small enterprises, getting involved in profitable business that creates social and environmental Rendering the Customer Base Profitable value (the highlight being Financing for PostsecondThe launch of the BOMPRATODOS Program provided ary Education Students, Oriented Productive MicroBanco do Brasil customers with a range of benefits. credit, the Family Agriculture Development Program Over 9 million of them have already availed themselves (Pronaf), the Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate of products and services with lower rates or prices, while Lending Program and sustainable regional developmore than 5 million have borrowed at lower interest rates. ment), improving relations with customers, enhancing Worthy or note is the fact that 12% of customers who information management and the search for higher took out loans and financing had no prior credit transacefficiency and productivity. tions with the BB. The highlight were the auto loans facilities, which accounted for 17%. Also in 2012, the Bank In addition to the priorities mentioned, maintaining captured an additional 1.5 million new checking account good corporate governance practices, together with customers. investments in infrastructure, technology and preparing our employees for Institution’s new challenges will Control of Costs enable the Bank to achieve its strategic objectives In line with its strategic objective, in 2012 Banco do over the next five years. Brasil launched the BB Eco-Efficiency Program whose objective is to enhance processes, leading to gains in efficiency and productivity, in addition to reducing the Accountability environmental impact of its operations. Administrative The following topics show the rendering of accounts for expenses rose by 13.9% over 2011, slightly above the the objectives presented in the 2011 Annual Report, indiestimated range (9%-12%), primarily on account of the cating the status and attainment of what was established. consolidation during 2012 of the operations involving Later it is also possible to read the rendering of accounts Banco Patagonia, the BB-Mapfre partnership and the in regard to the socio-environmental challenges established for 2012: Annual Report 2012 p.31 Corporate Governance Business Strategy coming on stream of the Banco Postal service network. relationships, financial education and advisory serAdministrative expenses were also affected by salary vices and innovative virtual self-service channels. In adjustments, a higher employee headcount during the 2012 internet banking reached the figure of 1.8 billion period, contractual adjustments already applied and the transactions by individuals, representing 19.7% of all expansion of the service network. transactions. More than 13.6 million customers are authorized to use this channel. Strengthening the Role as a Fundamental Partner in Brazil’s Sustainable Development In the business customer segment, the implementation Striving to strengthen its role as a partner in Brazil’s reof the service model in four segments led to a substansponsible growth, in 2012 BB strengthened the alignment tial improvement in business relationships, primarily with of a range of products and services with the strategy for regard to rates and terms, enabling the Bank to offer fostering sustainable development. Worthy of note are: customers more competitive conditions. During this peOriented Productive Microcredit transactions aligned with riod access was also provided to the Financial Manager the Federal Government’s Crescer (Growth) Program; fiapp for mobile devices, iPads and Blackberry smartnancing for rural activities within the scope of the Federal phones, joining the other mobile connection platforms Low Carbon Agriculture Program (ABC); the business that already exist, such as the iPod Touch, iPhone and strategy of sustainable regional development; education smartphones with the Android operating system. The finance facilities through the Student Financing Fund Financial Manager application registered 301.5 million (Fies); financing for housing units through the Minha transactions and was used by over 727,300 companies, Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Lending Program and the primarily small enterprises. presence in the Brazil Water Program. Higher Operating Efficiency Expanding Internationalization The cost/income ratio – calculated by dividing adminisAs the largest Brazilian bank with a global market prestrative expenses by operating revenues – was 43.2% in ence – 49 premises in 24 countries – BB is boosting 2012 against 42.1% the previous year. This slight deteits international expansion strategy year after year. In rioration in the ratio was the result of having absorbed the the United States, the Banco do Brasil Americas brand costs arising from using the Banco Postal network and was launched in October, referring to the operations acthe consolidation of the expenses of Banco Patagonia quired in Florida (formerly EuroBank), which creates a and the Mapfre Group. foothold from which to expand the presence of the BB in the US retail sector. In Singapore the Bank inaugurated BB Securities Asia, and now serves the principal investor markets. In Europe the Bank continues to enhance its existing governance structure, while consolidating Objectives for the implementation of the business support center in Period 2013-2017 Portugal – BB Europa Servicing Center. • Produce adequate returns for shareholders; • Increase the share of services in revenues; Better Customer Service • Expand profitable relationships; In 2012, the Bank reformulated its customer service • Grow the loan portfolio; structure by implementing the Excellence in Relation• Maintain delinquencies at current levels; ships strategy: the BOMPARATODOS Program. The • Increase customer satisfaction; Bank’s principal initiatives for its customers include • Undertake profitable business that generates loyalty programs and the expansion of customer social and environmental value; • Improve operational efficiency and productivity; • Raise employee satisfaction. Annual Report 2012 p.32 Corporate Governance Business Strategy Stronger Position in the Capital Markets The BB’s results were in line with expectations for 2012 The Institution operates in the Brazilian capital markets as can be seen in the previous table. However, because through BB-Banco de Investimento. According to the of the consolidation of operations, notably the business ranking of the Brazilian Association of Financial and with the Mapfre insurance Group, Banco Postal and BanCapital Market Entities (ANBIMA), the Bank: co Patagonia, administrative expenses rose by 13.9% over 2011. The growth in the individual loan portfolio was • Lead managed 82 fixed income securities issues totalbelow expectations on account of lower-than-expected ing R$21,279 million, taking 3rd place in the consolidatdemand in the economy and the reduction in auto loans ed origination ranking with a market share of 19.5%; transactions originated by Banco Votorantim. In the case • Lead managed 78 debenture and commercial of deposits, the diversification of the Bank’s funding base, paper issues, totaling an origination volume of with the focus on new products, notably Agribusiness LetR$20,806 million; ters of Credit (LCA), which in 12 months rose by 358.2% • Closed CRI and FIDC transactions totaling or R$26.6 billion, meant that the actual figures did not R$473.17 million in the securitization market; meet growth prospects. • Lead managed 7 public offerings totaling R$10.15 billion on the equity market. In terms of distribution, BB took 5th place in the ranking, with a market share of 9.3%; • Took part in 4 merger and acquisition transactions totaling R$2,251 million, taking 11th place in the accumulated Anbima ranking to September 30, the latest data available. 2012 Performance 2013 Guidance 2012 Perfor2012 2013 Indicators Indicators mance (%) Guidance (%) Guidance (%) Return on Adjusted Return on Adjusted 18.7 17-20 14-17 Shareholders’ Equity (ROE) (1) Shareholders’ Equity (ROE) (1) Net Interest Income (2) 12.0 10-14 Net Interest Income 7-10 Total Deposits 6.7 14-18 Commercial Funding (2) 15-19 Loan Portfolio – Brazil 23.1 17-21 Loan Portfolio Broad Concept – Brazil (3) 16-20 Individuals (3) 16.3 19-23 Individuals 18-22 Companies 29.5 18-22 Companies 16-20 Agribusiness 20.7 13-16 Agribusiness 13-17 Allowances for Loan Losses (4) 3.2 3.1-3.5 Allowances for Loan Losses (4) 3.0-3.4 Fee Income 15.5 13-18 Fee Income 10-14 Administrative Expenses 13.9 8-12 Administrative Expenses 7-10 Tax Rate 27.6 31-34 (1) The ROE forecast for 2013 is calculated using the estimated shareholders’ equity, in accordance with legislation in force and effect at December 31, 2012. (1) Adjusted net income divided by the average shareholder’s equity over the period. (2) Funding includes total deposits, LCAs, LCIs and private securities repo (2) H istorical series revised since 1Q11. Under the previous methodology the transactions. variation in the NII would have been 13.3% over the previous year. (3) The Loan Portfolio Broad Concept in Brazil includes private securities (3) Includes loans acquired with coobligation pursuant to CMN Resolution and guarantees. No. 3,533/2008. (4) Expenses with PCLD in the last 12 months/average classified loan portfolio (4) E xpenses with PCLD in the last 12 months/average classified loan for the same period. portfolio for the same period. Annual Report 2012 p.33 Corporate Governance Business Strategy The estimates for 2013 were prepared taking into Assumptions Beyond the Control of the Management account the following assumptions: • Low growth in the developed economies in 2013; • Greater resistance, but not immunity, of the BrazilAssumptions Influenced by the Management ian economy to external shocks; • Enhancing the profitability of the customer base • Political environment with no institutional rupture; as a means of boosting revenues; • Maintenance of Brazil’s sovereign rating as invest• Expanding the service network and the new ment grade; customer base while increasing the return on ex• Maintenance of the current architecture of doisting customers through the alliance with Banco mestic macroeconomic policy: floating currency Postal; rates, inflation targeting (nominal anchor) and • Maintaining the current business model withfiscal discipline, implying a gradual and consistent out taking into account new acquisitions and/or ratio of Public Sector Net Debt (PSND) to Gross strategic alliances that might be entered into to Domestic Product (GDP); explore specific segments; • Evolution of the Brazilian trade balance and its • Aligning the cost structure with the growth in busieffects on the trade finance portfolio; ness volume; • Gradual increase in the growth potential of the • Adjustments to supplier contracts and collective Brazilian economy (potential GDP); bargaining agreements in line with market practice. • Evolution of interest rates, currency rates, inflation and GDP, according to market consensus; • Progress of the regulatory framework/microeconomic agenda, with stimuli for public and private investments; • Regulatory stability, including with regard to tax rates levied on the Bank’s activities and labor and social security legislation; • Changes to the capital consumption rules and in compulsory deposit rates – macro prudential measures; • Implementation of the Basel III recommendations; • Guidelines for the 2013/2014 Crop Plan. Annual Report 2012 p.34 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility IN LINE WITH CORPORATE STRATEGY, THE Challenge 5. BANCO DO BRASIL SUSTAINABILITY PLAN To enhance the management of sustainability compacts and commitments assumed. See how BB is AGENDA 21 IS IMPROVING PROCESSES AND facing up to this challenge on page 40. PRACTICES. IN 2012 THIS PLAN WAS REVISED, AND NEW CHALLENGES WITH THEIR RESPECTIVE INITIATIVES WERE GIVEN PRIORITY Banco do Brasil embraces sustainability as the benchmark assumption for its operations, in other words, sustainability permeates the organization’s entire structure and is reflected in its values, mission, policies and corPrincipal Compacts, Commitments and Initiatives Assumed by Banco do Brasil porate strategies, and in the various voluntary commitments it has assumed. Socio-Environmental responsibility is taken into account in the decision-making process. • Corporate Charter on Human Rights and Promoting This means designing processes, products and services Decent Work, of the Ethos Institute of Business and in the light of their social and environmental impacts. Social Responsibility (2012); • Corporate Compact for Honesty and Against CorIn order to render its sustainability strategy tangible and ruption, of the Ethos Institute of Business and to comply with its mission and attain the vision of the Social Responsibility with PATRI Government Relafuture it has established the Institution has since 2005 tions and Public Policies (2012); used the Banco do Brasil Sustainability Plan – Agenda • Register of Pro-Ethics Companies of the Federal 21, a ground-breaking initiative among the Brazilian Comptroller-General’s office and the Ethos Institute business community. This document takes its inspiration of Business and Social Responsibility (2012); from the principal commitments set out by the UN Earth • World Water Council (2011); Summit, which encourages governments, companies, • Organizational Stakeholder GRI (2011); NGOs and civil society to search for solutions to socio• Women’s Empowerment Principles (2010); environmental problems. • Principles for Responsible Investment (2010); • The CEO Water Mandate (2010); It is organized along three axes – Processes and SER • EPC Platform – Businesses for Climate (2009); Management, Sustainable Businesses and Private • The Global Compact – Caring for Climate (2009); Social Investment – in which the Bank periodically • Brazilian GHG Protocol Program (2008); defines challenges and a series of initiatives for each • Sustainable Amazon Forum (2008); of them, which ensures detailing these guidelines • Gender Pro-Equity Seal (2007); until they come on stream. • Global Reporting Initiative (2006); • Compact Against Slave Labor (2005); Updating and implementing the actions contained in the • Equator Principles (2005); Agenda 21 is a systematic approach process involving • Carbon Disclosure Project (2005); all departments of the Bank, as well as representatives • Millennium Objectives (2004); of its major stakeholders, of which details can be found • Agenda 21 (2004); in the chapter About This Report (page 13). It is up to • Abrinq Foundation – Empresa Amiga da Criança the Board of Officers to approve and monitor the initia(2004) (companies that work for the benefit of chiltives taken through a semi-annual accountability prodren and adolescents); cess. These actions are also evaluated and monitored • Global Compact (2003); by the Sustainability Forum comprising 24 members of • Ibase Social Balance Sheet (1997); the Bank’s Strategic Units, in addition to the Fundação • Green Protocol (1995). Banco do Brasil (FBB). The Forum meets every quarter Annual Report 2012 p.35 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility and its purpose is to support the process of incorporating socio-environmental responsibility throughout the ing, aligning and disseminating socio-environmental entire organization in the search to produce sustainable responsibility precepts and practices within the scope results. Acknowledgement of this approach can be seen of the Banco do Brasil group. in the Banco do Brasil listing on the New York Stock Exchange Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DSJI) and, The BB Agenda 21 is the Bank’s instrument for enhancfor the eighth consecutive time, on the BM&FBovespa ing its business and processes, aligning these with Corporate Sustainability Index (ISE). best global practices and contributing to disseminatOverall Performance BB Industry Average Lowest Score Recorded Highest Score Recorded 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The directions taken in sustainability are also monitored When assessing employee performance using the using indicators that have been included in the Master model referred to as Performance Management by Plan and in the Market Plans at the strategic level, and Competencies (GDC), assessments take place in five filter down to the operational plans of the branches and different perspectives, whereby in the case of the sociagencies. Within the scope of the latter, these indicators ety perspective, employees are also assessed by their can be found in the Labor Agreement (BB and ATB synperformance in the competencies related to the socioergy), an assessment model that measures the manenvironmental theme. agement performance of the branches and agencies against established targets. The highlights in the asIn order to remain up to date and aligned with the desessments of branches and agencies are the Footprint mands of stakeholders, the BB Sustainability Plan is reEI and Social EI indicators, which involve, respectively, viewed every two years, but it can also be updated in a efficient use of resources and greater involvement by timely manner in response to social demands that arise employees in social causes and volunteer work. and which are considered priorities. The 2012 review process that resulted in the definition of 92 actions for the period 2013-2015 is described in the section About This Report (page 12). Annual Report 2012 p.36 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility Sustainability Plan Update Process Agenda 21 Continuous dialog with stakeholders and market studies and reports indicate trends in the Bank’s sustainability performance. Structured enquiries to stakeholders mean that these trends become actual demands. Demands are The results, impacts presented and and stakeholders discussed with BB perceptions of these executives in a strucactions are continually tured process based on monitored and serve meetings and workas inputs for a new shops. The corporate structured enquiry for strategy of Banco do identifying demands. Brasil provides the agenda 21 context for these discussions. The organization’s various Boards As a result, actions to be taken and Strategic Units implement the are submitted within the scope actions under the coordination of of Agenda 21. It is the responsithe Sustainable Development Unit. bility of the Board of Officers to approve them. Annual Report 2012 p.37 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility Agenda 21 Accountability Action Deadline Forwarding To define the courses on sustainability and December 2012 Action concluded. The courses on sustainability were defined: analyze the pertinence of highlighting them in socio-environmental responsibility, credit and socio-environrecruitment and commissioning processes. mental risk, sustainable regional development strategies and volunteer work to be highlighted in all the Institution’s recruitment and commissioning processes. Enhance the Bank’s Employee December 2012 Action concluded. The Echoing Best Practices competition Recognition Program. was held, with the emphasis on internal communication and socio-environmental responsibility, with the recognition awards for employees being replaced by points in the Relationship Program to be exchanged for products originating from businesses supported by the sustainable regional development strategy available in the BB Sustainability Store. Enhance/expand variable December 2012 Action concluded. A Special Remunerated Performance Proremuneration mechanisms. gram (PDG) was created, the first payment having been made in the first half of 2012. Implement the Reinsertion Program for December 2012 Action extended. The program under development in other areas employees on sick leave throughout Brazil. involved was extended. Conclusion expected for December 2013. Propose a set of actions to combat stress – December 2012 Action partially concluded. Specific funds were made available employee health and diet. for employees to hire dieticians. Internal courses were structured to encourage healthy diets and physical activity, and are expected to be implemented in 2013. Define the modus operandi for disclosing December 2012 Action concluded. Information about the number of fatal acthe fatal accident rate among the Bank’s cidents involving the Bank’s employees will be disclosed in the own employees. Annual Report. Implement the GSM System – Safety December 2012 Action excluded. A similar Integrated Enterprise Management Engineering Management and Occupational Software Solution – ERP/SAP is currently being implemented. Medicine System. Implement the targets for mapping December 2012 Action excluded. Action reviewed given proposed new initiarisks and project the goals/monitoring/impletives regarding this theme on the Agenda 21 2013-2015 – see mentation of actions for: absenteeism and actions referring to challenge 28. “work-related stress.” Control and publish the number of encounters, December 2012 Action concluded. Sixty-four meetings were held with the Bank meetings and negotiations that BB undertakes Employees Union and 5 meetings with the National Confederawith all unions affected by its operations and which tion of Financial Sector Workers (Contraf) between January and cover its geographical area of operation. April 2012. The number of meetings with unions is published in the Annual Report and every six months in June and December in the Collective Bargaining blog on the Collective Bargaining site for the internal stakeholders. Enhance the Gender Pro-Equity Program. December 2013, with partial Action concluded. The actions contemplated in the Action Plan delivery in December 2012 were implemented in accordance with the schedule defined in 2012. The report of Banco do Brasil was forwarded to the Secretariat on Policies for Women in 2013. Implement the Selective Garbage Collection December 2012 Action partially concluded. The Selective Collection Program Sub-program in Brazilian municipalities where was implemented at the branches in the States of Paraná and selective collection has been defined and impleRio Grande do Sul, as well as in the Greater Florianópolis region mented as a public policy and/or waste pickers’ and the municipality of Ribeirão Preto. Implementation at other associations/cooperatives. branches is expected in 2013. Carry out and disclose the complete inventory December 2013, with Action concluded. Inventory data have been posted to the of BB greenhouse gas emissions, according partial delivery in December GHG Protocol Program site (www.registropublicodeemissoes. to the guidelines and phases of the Brazilian 2012 (according to the annual com.br), which was once again acknowledged with the Gold GHG Protocol Program, with a view to phases of the Brazilian GHG seal by the GHG Protocol. (ISO 14064) certification. Protocol Program) Annual Report 2012 p.38 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility Action Deadline Forwarding Use the corporate systems to implement tracking December 2012 Action in progress. A project has been defined for automating and monitoring of BB’s environmental footprint the eco-efficiency indicators, which is currently on-going and exby managing the consumption of water, (normal/ pected to be concluded in 2013. The target of a 2% reduction in recycled/renewable) paper, (renewable/nonwater and energy has been set for all the Institution’s premises. renewable) energy and waste generation, in addition to setting targets for encouraging more rational use of these resources. Maximize the use of videoconferencing and December 2012 Action concluded. A new internal instruction has been created teleconferencing, as well as other distance comto replace deployments in service by other means of distance munication methods, and establish alternatives communication. Furthermore, 237 videoconferencing rooms for monitoring how they are actually used. have been installed at branches of the Bank, and equipment was acquired for monitoring the use of videoconferencing facilities and for maintaining the videoconference utilization indicator in the Labor Agreement. The indicator will continue to be assessed within the scope of the greenhouse gas emissions inventory. Maintain ISO 14001 Certification (Altino Arantes December 2012 Action partially concluded. ISO 14001 Certification has been Building) and obtain ISO 140001 Certification in maintained for the Altino Arantes Building. Steps are being one of the Headquarter Buildings in Brasília. taken to ensure certification of the Technology Complex and the Tancredo Neves Building in Brasília (DF). Establish mechanisms for monitoring/verifying December 2012 Action concluded. Internal instructions have been created, the socio-environmental requisites stipulated in adding to the purposes of control and contractual supervision contracts with suppliers. the need to enforce compliance with the socio-environmental requisites and the respective mechanisms of verification, proof and monitoring laid down in contracts. Prepare and divulge sectorial “socio-environDecember 2013, with partial Action in progress. The BB Sustainability Guidelines for Credit mental guidelines” and themes to be applied delivery in December 2012 – Civil Construction and Mining document was drawn up and when analyzing the credit of businesses that discussed at the Stakeholders’ Panel held in São Paulo (SP) in have a potential adverse impact, in accordance 2012. It is expected to be concluded in 2013. with best domestic and international practices. Structure a methodology for detecting the December 2012 Action concluded. An internal ranking methodology was esexistence of controversial and contentious mattablished for incorporating Environmental, Social and Corporate ters existing in the investment transactions of Governance (ESG) practices when evaluating and selecting BBDTVM. companies for fund management portfolios, defining the items to be analyzed and the base number of companies in order to analyze sustainability/governance/environmental aspects. Hold at least one annual event for engaging with On-going action Action concluded. On November 23, 2012, in São Paulo (SP), stakeholders, in regard to the BB’s credit policies a Stakeholders’ Panel was held to discuss the BB Sustainability and practices. Guidelines for Credit – Civil Construction and Mining, with the participation of customers, employees of different departments, specialists and representatives of civil society and the government. Structure and hold at least one annual event to On-going action Action in progress. In 2012 a Stakeholders’ Panel was held to engage with stakeholders about the BB’s products update the BB Sustainability Plan – Agenda 21, and the Panel and services – Customer Forum, involving customon Sustainability Directives for the Credit Area. Further events ers from the Wholesale, Government, Retail and are scheduled for 2013. Third-Party Asset Management areas. Develop a methodology for assessing socioDecember 2012 Action extended. The action has migrated to the new Agenda environmental risk to be applied when evaluating 21 2013-2015 – see actions regarding challenge 20. risk categories in general (operational and image risk, among others). Conclude the implementation of methodologies December 2012 Action in progress. Specialist consultants have been hired to for raising the value of the BB brand. develop an in-house methodology for the BB. This is expected to be concluded in 2013. Implement an integrated, on-going communicaDecember 2013, with partial Action concluded. The Brazil Water Program was disclosed at tion and mobilization plan for the Brazil Water delivery in December 2012 a series of events through the “Jogo Reciclando” (Playing and Program, involving BB’s major customer groups. Recycling) program, a partnership with the National Movement Of Recyclable Material Pickers, to be used as a tool for education and management within the cooperatives; on the BB stand at Rio+20; during the Beach Volleyball circuit; during the Expocatadores 2012 (Recyclable Materials Pickers Exhibition) press conference, which published the result of the survey by market research company Ibope about Conscientious Consumption and Solid Waste; by distributing freebies to BB employees and the public participation at the final phase of the BB Beach Volleyball Circuit held in Rio de Janeiro (RJ); and by planting seedlings at the Pipiripau crib, with the participation of BB volunteers, the National Water Agency (ANA) and the FBB (Banco do Brasil Foundation). Annual Report 2012 p.39 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility Action Deadline Forwarding Develop or acquire a Corporate Socio-environDecember 2012 Action in progress. The Integrated Enterprise Management mental Indicator Panel and make it available on Software Solution – ERP/SAP is currently being implemented. the intranet and the internet. The indicators are expected to be disclosed in 2013. Define and implement a systematic approach for December 2012 Action concluded. The systematic approach was defined in classifying all economic sector/activities accord2012. ing to their associated socio-environmental risk (high, medium and low). Develop solutions in products and services with On-going action Action concluded. Several solutions have been developed for socio-environmental responsibility attributes for the Retail, Wholesale and Governmental business sectors. These the Retail, Wholesale and Governmental busiare: issuance of the Corporate FCO card without issuing invoices ness sectors. on account of the transactions having been closed directly in the FCO financing account, which reduces the amount of paper printed and produces savings of an estimated 120,000 sheets of paper a year; the creation of two funds for the public offering of shares in ICO2 – BB Sustainable Carbon Shares and BB Sustainable Carbon Shares with a put option; development of the Proger Urbano RSA credit facility; remittance of electronic court orders to the Bank, waiving the need for physical documents. Implement financial education and the concept December 2012 Action in progress. Financial Education Project prepared and of usability through BB correspondents across developed by the FBB and the Banking Education Module both Brazil in telecenters/digital stations supported by finalized. The Bank expects to train 400 multiplier educators on the Banco do Brasil Foundation (FBB). the program, which will result in around 100,000 beneficiaries of the financial education program in 2013. Evaluate the analysis flow of the Diagnosis and December 2012 Action concluded. Flow evaluated. The Manual on Joining the the Business Plan of the Sustainable Regional SRD BP was prepared on November 8, 2012. Development Business Strategy. Define and implement the methodology for December 2012 Action concluded. The methodology for evaluating the quality evaluating the quality and effectiveness of the and effectiveness of the Sustainable Regional Development Business Plan of Sustainable Regional DevelopBusiness Plans (SRD BP) was defined and implemented, with ment Business Strategy. an initial 767 business plans approved. Define and implement the methodology for December 2012 Action concluded. Methodology developed. Pilot project under evaluating the quality of BB’s social investment way for 2013. (the socio-environmental reach of the projects). Carry out studies and implement the centralDecember 2012 Action concluded. BB: study undertaken and approval given ization of the Banco do Brasil digital inclusion to migrate the management of the Digital Inclusion Program initiatives at the FBB. (BBDIP) to the Foundation. FBB initiated the revitalizations of 135 digital stations. Implement the Socio-Environmental Projects of December 2013, with partial Action concluded. The following projects have been implementthe Brazil Water Program. delivery in December 2012 ed: Brazil Water Program at the Redesol Cooperatives in Belo Horizonte; Strengthening of the Solid Waste Production Chain in the municipality of Rio Branco (State of Acre); Peruaçu Project: Implementing Social Technologies on behalf of Its People and its River; and the Brazil Water Project – Capturing Rain using Social Technologies. Annual Report 2012 p.40 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility Priority Challenges and Actions for the Period 2013-2015 See how the Bank is already Challenge Actions Contemplated Deadline dealing with this Subject 1. To enhance the sustainNegotiate the institutionalization of the periodic report December Page 17 ability governance structure by to the Board of Directors about the performance of 2013 involving senior management Banco do Brasil in sustainability. (Board of Directors and the Executive Board) in order to strengthen the Bank’s commitment to the theme. 5. To enhance the manStudy the feasibility of BB participating in the initiative December Page 33 agement of sustainability to create a model for Integrated Reporting (IIRC), 2014 compacts and commitments in which socio-environmental information is taken assumed. into account in the Accounting Statements (ASs). 7. To enhance economic, To formally establish a process for identifying socio-environmental December Page 86 social and environmental risk risks within the supply chain, including the definition of critical 2014 management within the supply suppliers and correspondents, according to economic, social and chain. environmental criteria. Reassess the current questionnaire for qualifying suppliers based December on socio-environmental matters. 2013 8. Identifying socio-environTo formally establish a process for identifying socio-environmental December Page 86 mental opportunities within risks within the supply chain, including the definition of critical 2014 the supply chain that create suppliers and correspondents, according to economic, social and business benefits for the Bank environmental criteria. (lower costs/higher revenues/ risk mitigation). 9. Strengthening the bank’s Study the possibility of the BB joining the CDP December Page 86 role as an agent for advancing Supply Chain Initiative. 2013 sustainable practices in its supply chain. Develop a corporate program for sharing knowledge and December sustainable practices with suppliers. 2014 Study the possibility of including a category for recognizing December suppliers in the Brazil Values Award. 2013 10. Improving the bank’s Establish action plans with procurement channels in order to December Page 86 practices on the question of increase the percentage of certified paper produced from raw 2013 sustainable procurement. material submitted to the ECF and/or TCF process standards and define goals. Define procedures for including, whenever possible, companies December with sound socio-environmental practices in requests for prices 2013 referring to acquisitions where tenders are waived on account of the amount. Develop sustainable procurement practices pursuant On-going to Law No. 8,666/93. action Annual Report 2012 p.41 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility See how the Bank is already Challenge Actions Contemplated Deadline dealing with this Subject 15. Enhancing and systemAdjust/develop innovative products and services with the following On-going Page 61 atizing the identification of assumptions – Wholesale Business: BB Eco-efficiency, innovation action business opportunities for and creation of socio-environmental value. developing products that Examples are: credit facilities with socio-environmental attributes meet the demands created by to finance green technologies; carbon credit market; consultancy environmental matters (trends/ services; equity products with environmental features; prefixed new regulations on the use of income investments with environmental features; environmennatural resources) and climate tal and climate change criteria throughout the entire credit and change (demands for infrainvestment process. structure financing in order to adapt to climate change). Adjust/develop innovative products and services with the following On-going assumptions – Retail Business: BB Eco-efficiency, innovation, action creation of socio-environmental value. Examples are: real estate financing for the acquisition, construction/renovation of sustainable development projects; credit facilities with socio-environmental features for financing green technologies prefixed income investments with environmental features; environmental and climate change criteria throughout the entire credit and investment process. Adjust/develop innovative products and services with the following On-going assumptions – Retail Business: BB Eco-efficiency, innovation and action creation of socio-environmental value. Examples are: credit facilities with socio-environmental attributes; financing/structured transactions for the solid waste and sanitation sector; carbon credit market; consultancy services; equity products with environmental features; prefixed income investments with environmental features; environmental and climate change criteria throughout the entire credit and investment process. 16. Enhancing the manImplement the Selective Garbage Collection Sub-program in December Page 100 agement of eco-efficiency Brazilian municipalities where selective collection has been 2014 indicators (reduction/compendefined and implemented as a public policy and/or waste pickers’ sation of emissions, energy associations/cooperatives. consumption, paper consumption, use of renewable energy, Extend the reach and reliability of the Scope 3 emissions inventory December waste generation and water in accordance with the guidelines and sources established by the 2015 consumption). Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and which are compatible with the activities in which the financial system engages. Enhance the fuel consumption management system (calculation December of emissions). 2014 Study and propose ways of offsetting BB’s emissions through December investments by the FBB in environmental projects. 2013 Prepare feasibility studies for implementing the BB solid waste December disposal management system 2013 Monitor and encourage the optimization of natural resource conOn-going sumption (electricity, water, paper and toner, among others), and action make the information public. Study the feasibility of expanding the installation of alternative December technologies for generating electricity (solar panels and wind 2013 energy) when building new branches or renovating existing ones Develop or acquire a Corporate Socio-Environmental Indicator December Panel and make it available on the intranet and the internet. 2014 Annual Report 2012 p.42 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility See how the Bank is already Challenge Actions Contemplated Deadline dealing with this Subject 20. Enhance socio-environDefine the training for the team in charge of identifying, evaluatDecember Page 27 mental risk management in ing, controlling, mitigating and monitoring socio-environmental 2013 financing (except for climate risks (Financial Support category). change-related risks). Develop an assessment methodology for the categories of socioDecember environmental risk. 2013 Assess the principal socio-environmental risks involving the opDecember erations of the BB and propose the respective mitigation actions. 2014 Enhance, develop or acquire a model for identifying and evaluatDecember ing climate change-related risks and opportunities for the principal 2015 areas in which the Bank operates by: (i) evaluating greenhouse gas emission-related data on a project/asset/business/sector basis; (ii) evaluating climate risk exposure at the business/sector level (valuation, costs/future returns); (iii) monitoring and analyzing carbon credit prices; (iv) preparing climatic variation scenarios, such as rainfall and temperature, for markets, regions, sectors and businesses, with the support of financial analysis; and (v) using updated maps of natural disasters/extreme climatic events for certain regions/sectors for internal consultation. Analyze the feasibility of incorporating environmental variables December into the econometric modeling of the RTA (Farming Technical 2015 Risk Evaluation) to support the detection and assessment of socio-environmental risks in Agricultural Loans. Suggested features: (i) incorporation of environmental variables in the RTA econometric modeling; (ii) integrate the multiple source base into the analysis of financing and reliability of the RTA data; (iii) support for massified credit analysis using consultancy services for analyzing non massified (investment) analysis, including geo-referenced monitoring of deforestation areas, indigenous lands, conservation units and classification of socio-environmental risks. Register the behavior of socio-environmental risks in order to December ensure that exposure to this risk is maintained in accordance with 2015 the established tolerance level by: (i) defining and implementing models for controlling the level of socio-environmental responsibility associated with customers, projects, regions and sectors of the economy; (ii) defining and implementing systems that permit unified gathering and storage of data resulting from socio-environmental questionnaires, compliance with covenants and associated losses; and (iii) defining and implementing a system for evaluating assets loaned and assigned as guarantees. 21. Enhance socio-environAssess the need for systems, routines and procedures that enable December Page 27 mental risk management in the identification, appraisal, control and mitigation of the socio2013 the Bank’s own investments environmental risk present in the institution’s activities and financial and those of third parties transactions, in addition to monitoring the management process. (except for climate changerelated risks). Develop an assessment methodology for the categories of socioDecember environmental risk. 2013 Assess the principal socio-environmental risks involving the operaDecember tions of the BB and propose the respective mitigation actions. 2014 Register the behavior of socio-environmental risks in order to ensure that exposure to this risk is maintained in accordance with December the established tolerance level by: (i) defining and implementing 2015 models for controlling the level of socio-environmental responsibility associated with investments and equity interests, according to the region, economic sector and project; and (ii) set up a management model for analyzing the socio-environmental impacts of the businesses in which the Bank has an equity interest. Annual Report 2012 p.43 Corporate Governance Socio-Environmental Responsibility See how the Bank is already Challenge Actions Contemplated Deadline dealing with this Subject 22. Enhance the relationUse the diagnoses undertaken to implement the socio-environOn-going Page 89 ship between Private Social mental projects of the Brazil Water Program, creating synergy with action Investment and the business social technologies and businesses. strategy. Develop and implement a Private Social Investment (PSI) manage(i) and (ii): ment system that includes: (i) enhancing and monitoring donations December made (products, items of equipment, services and advertising space); 2013 (ii) monetary appreciation of the PSI actions according to the following (iii) and categories: contributions in cash, time donated, contributions in kind (iv): and administration costs; (iii) categorization o all PSI actions into three December major groups: donation to charity, community investments and busi2014 ness initiatives; (iv) demonstrating the alignment of the FBB’s actions (v): with the strategy of the instituting party, systematizing the monitoring December and reporting to the directors representing the BB on the Board of 2015 Trustees; and (v) establishing, implementing and monitoring financial impact indicators involving the PSI actions. Identify opportunities within the Private Social Investment project portDecember folio in order to create synergy with the Bank’s business strategies. 2014 Study and propose, together with the FBB, adjustments to the SoDecember cial Technology Bank in order to identify certified technologies with 2013 the thematic axes of the Bank’s social businesses (housing, entrepreneurship, higher education, accessibility and family agriculture). Develop strategies/initiatives for leveraging sales of products with On-going socio-environmental features that transfer funds to the FBB. action Undertake studies to evaluate the possibility of implementing December financial education and the concept of usability through BB cor2013 respondents throughout Brazil, in tele centers/digital stations with the support of the FBB. Reformulate the guidelines for the Student Internship Program. December 2013 29. Maintain and expand Finalize the project for replicating the SRD methodology overseas December Page 89 the Bank’s role as a driver (Bolivia, Chile and Paraguay) and use it as a feasibility bench2014 of sustainable development mark to be implemented in other countries. through financial inclusion and social businesses (Oriented Develop and approve a territorial overview methodology to enable December Productive Microcredit – MPO, the combined operations of public policies, private partnerships 2013 Student Financing Fund – and sustainable development strategies. Fies, Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Lending Program Implement the territorial overview methodology. December – MCMV Program and the 2015 BB Accessibility loan, among Implement the PLANTE Plan – Territorial Plan for Supplementary December others), so as to integrate with Actions within the Minha Casa Minha Vida (MCMV) Real Estate 2013 programs and public policies, Lending Program. partnerships with the private sector and the BB sustainDevelop a solution for providing guidance to target customers December able development strategies about social businesses, so as to support engagement in profit2013 (Private Social Investment, able businesses that add social and environmental value. volunteer work, digital inclusion and sustainable regional Develop a program for the Bank’s involvement in the National December development). Solid Waste Policy. 2013 Develop a methodology for notifying the employees about the imporDecember tance of their role and that of the BB in sustainable development. 2013 Develop a micro insurance product to be offered to target customers December with social businesses (storm damage, flooding, cell phones, unem2013 ployment etc.). Review the Volunteer Work Program in order to link it to the SD December actions being undertaken by the BB. 2014 Define the concept, for the BB, of financial inclusion and establish December indicators capable of measuring the performance of the Bank’s 2013 actions, monitoring and reporting to senior management. Define the strategy for the BB’s operations in the light of the opDecember portunities and actions in social businesses in the major sporting 2013 events (2014 World Cup/2016 Olympic Games). Annual Report 2012 p.44 Corporate Governance Intangible Assets Human Capital ADVANCES WERE MADE IN A VARIETY The policy at BB of valuing employees includes providing a variety of opportunities for development and OF AREAS IN 2012, STRENGTHENING THE ascension, in addition to in improvements in working conditions and environment. In 2012, these polices BANK’S PRINCIPAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS: also became applicable to offshore employees, followHUMAN CAPITAL, THE BRAND AND ing the drafting of global people management policies. INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY In all some 1,160,727 training events were held in 2012, equivalent to an average of 84,33 hours of training per employee. Last year the Banco do Brasil Corporate areas for the cultural arts, such as theater, cinemas, University (UniBB) celebrated its 10th year of existence, exhibitions, ideas, music and educational programs. and has been publicly recognized on more than one ocIn 2012, the CCBBs hosted 4.4 million visitors, holding casion as one of the best corporate education initiatives. 1,224 events and 4,955 shows with an annual investment of R$41 million. Over 15,000 professionals have enhanced their career through internal selection programs and the identificaAmong the initiatives of the CCBBs worthy of note are tion within the Bank of Talents and Opportunities (TAO). the CCBB Education Program that provides free activiCareer paths within BB are based on transparent crities and events for public and private school students, teria that stress training, performance and experience, educators, families, NGOs and persons with special also taking into account individual performances which needs, in addition to specific events catering for todare measured using Competence Performance Mandlers to senior citizens. In 2012, the program catered agement instruments. for 388,277 people, of whom 49,771 used the free transportation offered on a regular basis by the CCBBs, During the year the external selection model was where the priority is regions of cities with the lowest Hureviewed and new subjects included. The two external man Development Indices (IDH). selection processes held in 2012 produced 800,000 candidates. Other steps were also taken for recognizThe Banco do Brasil CCBB in Rio de Janeiro has a culing and retaining talent and promoting quality of life in tural library with over 140,000 books, a book restoration the work place, with the intention of adding sense and laboratory run by persons with disabilities, in conjuncmeaning to each employee’s work, as well as satisfaction with the Association of Parents and Friends of Pertion with working at BB. sons with Special Needs (Apae) and a video library with 4,000 items, in addition to the Banco do Brasil Museum and Historical Archives that preserve the memory of the The Brand Bank and the Cultural Centers. GRI EC8 Sport has also been a strong focal point for BB sponThe Banco do Brasil brand is one of the most wellsorship since 1991, when the Bank began sponsoring known and valuable in Brazil. Soundness, security and volleyball. Since then the net has widened and the credibility are advanced as the Bank’s strengths and Institution has become a benchmark in this field. Curimportant attributes. BB manages its brand using visual rent sponsorship agreements include confederations, identity standards on all platforms and on all communiathletes, teams and events, and in 2012 accounted for cation material in Brazil and abroad. an investment of R$82.4 million, benefiting athletes involved in volleyball and beach volleyball, sailing, indoor Investment in cultural and educational events strengthsoccer, tennis and the Sports Ambassadors. In addition en brand recognition. The Banco do Brasil Cultural to sporting competition the athletes get involved in soCenters (CCBB) located in Rio de Janeiro, Brasília and cial events such as campaigns for garnering foodstuffs, São Paulo are examples of this. The premises include sports workshops and visits to charity entities. Annual Report 2012 p.45 Corporate Governance Intangible Assets During the year social and sports workshops and projects Information Technology catered for children from public schools and social entities As a fundamental strategy for BB, information technology throughout Brazil. The Bank continued supporting the has received continuous investment, making extensive Bernardinho School of Volleyball in the Tavares Bastos progress in technology architecture and in the enhanceand Complexo do Alemão communities of Rio de Janeiro; ment and modernization of its facilities, not only from the the Leões do Vôlei Nucleus run by volleyball players Giba technical point of view, but also in terms of governance, and Emanuel in Curitiba; and the Guga Kuerten Institute management and professional training. in Florianópolis (SC) which provides volleyball and tennis classes. Here children receive instruction and monitoring, In 2012, BB made a huge effort to ensure that its where the aim is social inclusion through sport. processes reached maturity. The IT governance model implemented in 2011 provides instruments that support Thanks to the support of Banco do Brasil, in 2012 Braziland extend the strategic objectives of Banco do Brasil, ian sport took a gold medal (women’s volleyball), two silboth in terms of innovation and competitiveness, and in ver medals (men’s volleyball and men’s beach volleyball) the constant search for operational efficiency. and two bronze medals (women’s beach volleyball and sailing) at the London Olympic Games. Also in women’s The year 2012 was one of substantial achievements in volleyball Brazil took second place in the World Grand technology at BB, both in terms of maintaining the stratePrix in China. In indoor soccer the national team became gies already under way, and new departures. Among the seven-times world champions in Thailand. events with the greatest impact worthy of note are: • Digital City Datacenter: the conclusion of the joint BB-CEF project in Brasília extends the levels of excelInvestments (R$ thousand) 2010 2011 2012 lence in information technology; Culture 43,074 53,269 40,624 • Banco Postal: the 6,000-plus branches of the Post OfSport 54,421 56,100 82,445 fice joined the Banco do Brasil’s service network; • Green IT Solutions: work got under way for the ISO 14001 certification process at the Headquarters Building IV, a priority action contemplated within the Agenda 21 of Banco do Brasil; •A dvances in mobility: BB has invested in leading edge technologies, such as BB Remessa Celular (money transfers via cell phone), a Biometry, the new TAA, the Instantaneous Card Issuance Project and Digital TV. Annual Report 2012 p.46 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM 06 THE POSITIONING AND STRATEGY ADOPTED BY BB IN 2012 ONCE AGAIN REVEALED ITS PIONEERING ROLE WITHIN THE BRAZILIAN FINANCIAL INDUSTRY, ESTABLISHING A NEW LEVEL OF RELATIONSHIP WITH CUSTOMERS GRI 4.12 | 4.14 | 4.17 | EC9 | FS2 | FS3 | FS5 In order to sustain its commitment as an agent of ecogram includes a powerful, far-reaching and long-lasting nomic growth with sustainability, and in order to extend idea that keeps it at the leading edge of trends within the process of social inclusion by offering people a the financial sector and provides the basis for all BB wider range of opportunities, in April 2012 Banco do communication, from advertising to internal communiBrasil (BB) launched the BOMPRATODOS Program. cation and product launches. By adopting this strategy BB has turned its focus to a discussion that has come to the fore time and again in As a business strategy the BOMPRATODOS Program its analyses: how to offer relationship excellence. An has enabled BB to head a wide-reaching movement for idea that involves all areas of activity and possibilities reformulating the concepts of credit which, when comas a bank, and which has been a feature of the BB’s bined with lower interest rates, has provided the new mission since its foundation. strata of society with access to consumer credit. Credit at lower interest rates and financial management and In order to bring this to fruition the challenge for the education have been combined into products associInstitution was to create a strategy that monitored the ated with the BOMPRATODOS Program. Over half the Bank’s entire movement and which was strongly and business done by Banco do Brasil after launching the truly customer-facing. Relationship excellence has strategy were with customers who had never before become the main bulwark of this new position, standtaken out a personal loan or financing. This translates ing out from what the market has been doing. The next into higher revenues from a lower concentration of step was to find a concept that summarized this new business, which means less risk for the Bank. moment and transmitted it to the public in a simple manner. This led to the Banco do Brasil – Bom Pra ToIn line with these concepts, this chapter of the report dos (Banco do Brasil – Good for Everyone) program, introduces the principal results and the highlight of the based on the idea of cooperation, and boosted by the Bank’s economic and financial performance, in addiadvertising campaign “Pra ser bom para o Banco, tem tion to the initiative involving stakeholder engagement que ser bom para você” (To be good for the Bank it and environmental management within the Bank. has to be good for you). The BOMPRATODOS ProAnnual Report 2012 p.47 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Scenario HIGHER QUALITY IN GRANTING In 2012, the hallmark of the international scenario was that of high risks for global financial stability. A series of LOANS, WITH HIGHER VOLUMES AND events, such as the European economic recession, the paltry growth in the United States and the slowdown in ADEQUATE RISK LEVELS, RIGOROUS COST China, were the factors that depressed the global econMANAGEMENT AND DIVERSIFIED REVENUE omy. This environment also affected the decline in commodity prices, multiplying the adverse effects on exports SOURCES ENSURED GOOD RESULTS IN 2012 and on economic activity in the emerging nations. In spite of some progress in negotiations in Europe, doubts still persist about the solvency of several economies. BB was also to the fore in expanding the volume of Brazil was unable to completely escape the contagion of credit in the economy, essential for ensuring the conthe adverse external environment, which led the Braziltinued growth of the credit/GDP ratio, which ended the ian government to take a series of fiscal, credit and trade year at a record level of 53.5%, against 49.0% at the protection measures to encourage domestic production close of 2011. While strictly observing the principles of and consumption levels. Banco do Brasil took the lead in risk management it was possible to raise the volume of an unprecedented movement to reduce interest rates. This loans without any relevant impact on default ratios. initiative led to higher levels of confidence on the part of businessmen and consumers from mid-2012 onwards. The government also stimulated the aggregate supply in the economy by launching important programs to incentivize investment and raise Brazil’s competitive position in the medium and long term. In the labor market the strength of domestic demand, real gains in earnings, social mobility (people crossing the social class boundaries) and the creation of new formal job vacancies helped keep unemployment rates at historically low levels. GDP (% VARIATION FOR THE YEAR) TOTAL LOANS/GDP (%) 7.5 53.5 49.0 45.2 2.7 20.5 19.0 16.2 0.9 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Growth for the Year Loans/GDP Annual Report 2012 p.48 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Even under pressure, the Broad Consumer Price Index Mobile payments took on relevance with the creation of – IPCA – ended the year with a lower variation than that new alliances and the use of new technologies to optiobserved in 2011. This meant that the Central Bank had mize costs and speed up processes, while also functionmet the inflation target for the ninth consecutive year, ing as a means of financial inclusion. Lower credit costs maintaining the cycle of interest rate reductions. In Octoand higher consumption by C, D and E classes incentivber 2012, the monetary authority brought an end to the ized the bankarization process. cycle of more flexible basic interest rates, establishing the level of 7.25% per annum. Overall, the favorable scenario on the domestic labor market sparked an increase in credit on the Brazilian market, especially housing loans. Similarly, growth among micro IPCA x SELIC (%) (1) and small enterprises, as well as individual micro entrepreneurs, has provided good opportunities for expanding the 10.75 11.0 portfolio of loans to companies, with a special mention for Oriented Productive Microcredit (MPO). 6.50 7.25 5.90 5.84 Credit in Brazil is likely to continue to grow, albeit at a more moderate pace. Demand is also expected to grow for personalized service, convenience through channels and operational efficiency. 2010 2011 2012 Consolidated Performance Banco do Brasil produced net income of R$12.2 billion Broad Consumer Price Index (IPCA) in 2012, producing a Return on Equity (ROE) of 19.8%. Selic Adjusted net income (excluding one-off Items) stood (1) Data referring to the close of the respective periods. at R$11.5 billion for the year, representing an adjusted ROE of 18.7%. The accumulated result for the year was primarily driven by business growth and more extensive customer relations, which led to growth in net interest In 2012, the main challenge to the financial industry was income (NII) and a more diversified revenue base. The in adapting to the scenario of sharp declines in interBB delinquency indicator for terms exceeding 90 days est rates and lower spreads, sparking the search for declined and remained below that presented by the operational efficiency and reviews of banking product Brazilian Banking Industry. and service portfolios. Within this context, efforts were also made to enhance risk measurement models while Shareholder’s Return controlling potential delinquencies. Earnings per share at Banco do Brasil stood at R$4.30 in 2012. BB once again distributed 40% of net Income Against this backdrop the portfolio of bank funding prodto its shareholders (payout) and channeled R$4.9 billion ucts also became more sophisticated and diversified, as remuneration, of which R$1.6 billion in dividends and such as real estate funds, Real Estate Credit Bills (LCI) R$3.3 billion in Interest on Own Capital (JCP). and Agribusiness Letters of Credit (LCA). The cards segment saw the entry of new players and stiffer competition, with pre-paid cards increasing their market share. Annual Report 2012 p.49 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Earnings per Share, Dividends Net interest income, the difference between the and Interest on Own Capital Bank’s revenue and its expenses with financial intermediation, ended 2012 in R$45.7 billion up by 4.28 4.30 12.0% over the previous year. This performance was 4.9 4.9 driven by growth in the loan portfolio over the period. The performance of fee income was driven by the higher offer of credit, reformulation of the customer service struc3.1 3.3 ture, customer loyalty programs, more extensive relationships with customers and the BOMPRATODOS Program. Growth of 13.9% in administrative expenses in comparison 1.8 1.6 with 2011/2012 was affected by the incorporation of operations, especially the business with the Mapfre insurance 2011 2012 group, Banco Postal and Banco Patagonia, which had not been taken into account in the results for the entire year Dividends (R$ billion) of 2011. Stripping out these components, the increase in Interest on Own Capital (R$ billion) administrative expenses was 10.1% for the period. Earnings per Share (R$) Income Statement with Reallocations Main Lines (R$ million) 2011 2012 Variation (%) Financial Intermediation Income 102,849 104,525 1.6 Loan Operations + Leasing 65,101 69,835 7.3 Securities 30,849 27,982 (9.3) Financial Intermediation Expenses (1) (62,019) (58,796) (5.2) Net Interest Income (1) 40,830 45,729 12.0 Allowances for Loan Losses (11,827) (14,651) 23.9 Net Financial Margin 29,003 31,078 7.2 Fee Income 18,242 21,071 15.5 Income from Insurance, Pension Fund and Premium Bonds 2,265 2,349 3.7 Contribution Margin 45,429 50,315 10.8 Administrative Expenses (24,752) (28,194) 13.9 Personnel Expenses (13,943) (15,777) 13.1 Other Administrative Expenses (10,809) (12,417) 14.9 Commercial Income 20,461 21,854 6.8 Legal Claims (135) (813) 501.5 Labor Law Suits (724) (726) 0.2 Other Operating Income (687) (2,539) 269.3 Income Before Taxes 18,970 17,883 (5.7) Income and Social Contribution Taxes (5,388) (4,455) (17.3) Corporate Profit Sharing (1,737) (1,745) 0.4 Adjusted Net Income 11,751 11,528 (1.9) (1) Historical series revised since 1Q11. Under the previous methodology the variation in the NII would have been 13.3% over the previous year. Annual Report 2012 p.50 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance One-off Items Spread per Portfolio Income from one-off items was R$678 million in 2012, The following table shows the managerial spread net of taxes and minority interests. The items considered by transaction type. The spread is the result of the as one-off were: (i) expenses with court cases referring managerial financial margin divided by the respective to economic plans; (ii) tax efficiency arising from periodic average balances. reviews of how the fiscal base is dealt with; (iii) reversal of additional Allowances for Loan Losses (PCLD); and When calculating the managerial financial margin, the (iv) divestment of properties. The Secondary Public Offinancial revenues are first calculated by type of portfering of Units in the BB Progressivo II Real Estate Fund, folio. Thereafter, the opportunity costs for each facility which ended in December 2012, enabled the difference comprising the portfolios are calculated. In the case between the market value of the properties transferred to of credit intended for individuals and companies using the Fund and their book value on the Balance Sheet to free funds, the opportunity cost is the average benchbe fully recognized. mark Selic rate (TMS). In the case of the agricultural loans portfolio and other specific purpose loans, the opportunity cost is calculated according to the origin One-off Items (R$ million) 2011 2012 of the funding and the need, or not, for mandatory Adjusted Net Income 11,751 11,528 allocation of part of that funding source. (+) One-Off Items for the Period 375 678 Divestments 169 The global spread, in turn, is the application of the concept of the spread specific to the banking segEconomic Plans (103) (968) ment, calculated by the ratio of NII to average earning Tax Efficiency 386 244 assets. The global risk-adjusted spread is calculated Reversal of Additional PCLD 699 using the ratio of the net financial margin to average Sale of Properties 1,103 earning assets, in other words, it takes into account Fiscal Effects and Profit Sharing (78) (401) the allowances for loan losses. on One-Off Items Net Income 12,126 12,205 Annualized Spread (%) 2011 2012 Loan Operations 8.5 8.4 Individuals 14.4 14.6 Main Income Indicators (%) 2011 2012 Companies 5.8 5.5 Global Spread 5.4 5.1 Agribusiness 5.3 5.6 Expenses with Allowance Deposits 1.6 1.0 3.08 3.19 for Loan Losses/Portfolio (1) Term Deposits 1.7 1.0 Adjusted Cost/Income Ratio 42.9 43.2 Demand Deposits 3.2 2.4 Adjusted ROE 21.7 18.7 Savings Deposits 0.8 0.5 (1) E  xpenses with accumulated PCLD in the last 12 months/divided by the average classified loan portfolio for the same period. Others 0.9 0.7 Global Spread 5.4 5.1 Risk-Adjusted Spread 3.7 3.5 Annual Report 2012 p.51 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Assets and Main Balance Sheet Items The total assets of Banco do Brasil exceeded R$1.15 for 76.1% of total assets. In the case of liabilities, worthy trillion at the end of 2012, representing growth of 17.2% of note is the funding via deposits, which accounted for over the same period of the previous year. The principal 41.0% of total liabilities, in addition to the larger share of asset lines are credit and leasing transactions, securities Agribusiness Letters of Credit. The following table shows and short-term interbank operations, which accounted the principal balance sheet items. Main Balance Sheet Items (R$ million) 2011 2012 Variation (%) Total Assets 981,230 1,150,486 17.2 Loan Portfolio – Broad Concept (1) 465,092 580,799 24.9 Loan Portfolio Broad Concept – Brazil 430,116 534,367 24.2 Securities 168,230 184,357 9.6 Short-Term Interbank Operations 166,288 219,323 31.9 Commercial Funding (2) 450,480 515,714 14.5 Total Deposits 442,386 472,085 6.7 Demand Deposits 62,016 74,760 20.5 Savings Deposits 100,110 117,744 17.6 Interbank Deposits 14,450 16,569 14.7 Term Deposits 265,809 263,013 (1.1) Judicial Deposits 77,667 86,346 11.2 Agribusiness Letters of Credit + Mortgage Bonds 7,431 34,075 358.6 Repurchase Agreements Operations with Private Securities 664 9,554 Money Market Borrowing 195,175 225,787 15.7 Shareholders' Equity 58,416 66,070 13.1 (1) Includes private securities and guarantees. (2) Includes total deposits, Agribusiness Letters of Credit (LCA), Mortgage Bonds (LCI) and repurchase agreements operations with private securities. The funding structure of Banco do Brasil is diversified, with a lower volume of deposits and a higher volume of Agribusiness Letters of Credit (LCA) and other commercial papers, as shown in the following table. Attention should also be drawn to foreign borrowing and the issuance of Hybrid Capital plus Debt Instruments (HDCI) in Brazil in 2012. The loan portfolio remains the primary destination of funding raised, accounting for 78.1% of total funding in December 2012. Annual Report 2012 p.52 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance 2011 2012 Variation Sources and Uses (R$ million) Balance Share (%) Balance Share (%) (%) Sources 576,335 100.0 690,414 100.0 19.8 Commercial Funding 450,480 78.2 515,714 74.7 14.5 Total Deposits 442,386 76.8 472,085 68.4 6.7 Agribusiness Letters of Credit + Mortgage Bonds 7,431 1.3 34,075 4.9 358.6 Repurchase Agreement Operations with Private Securities 664 0.1 9,554 1.4 1,339.1 Domestic Onlending 50,991 8.8 63,519 9.2 24.6 Financial and Development Funds 4,002 0.7 5,089 0.7 27.1 Subordinated Debt 25,101 4.4 32,657 4.7 30.1 Other Commercial Papers (1) 8,708 1.5 9,853 1.4 13.1 Domestic Hybrid Debt Capital Instruments (HDCI) 8,215 1.2 Foreing Borrowing (2) 37,053 6.4 55,368 8.0 49.4 Uses 576,335 100.0 690,414 100.0 19.8 Avaiable Funds 52,460 9.1 70,832 10.3 35.0 Compulsory Deposits 93,660 16.3 80,098 11.6 (14.5) Net Loan Portfolio (a) + (b) (c) 430,215 74.6 539,484 78.1 25.4 Classified Loan Portfolio (a) 422,989 73.4 525,672 76.1 24.3 Private Securities (b) 26,241 4.6 35,022 5.1 33.5 Allowance for Loan Losses (c) (19,015) (3.3) (21,210) (3.1) 11.5 Indicators (%) Net Loan Portfolio/Total Deposits 97.2 114.3 Net Loan Portfolio/Funding 95.5 104.6 Net Loan Portfolio/Sources 74.6 78.1 (1) Includes letters of credit and debentures (EN 19). (2) Includes offshore loans, obligations for offshore securities, obligations for offshore on-lending, offshore subordinated debt and offshore HDCI. Foreign borrowing stood at US$45.0 billion in DecemForeign Borrowing (US$ billion) ber 2012, up by 30.1% over the figure for 2011, the highlight being offshore bond issues, including: HDCI 1.7 45.0 3.2 of US$1.0 billion in January, the subject of the Best 34.6 Financing Innovation award; senior debt in Euros and 3.2 11.6 Yens in September, which marked the return of BB to 3.1 the Japanese market. In October the Bank once again 7.3 went to the offshore market to issue ten-year bonds 17.5 11.0 totaling US$1.9 billion. 10.0 10.9 2011 2012 Repos Individuals Companies Bond Issues Interbanking Annual Report 2012 p.53 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Bis Ratio BIS Ratio (%) The BB BIS Ratio was 14.83% in December of 2012, ex13.98 14.83 ceeding the 11% minimum stipulated by the Central Bank of Brazil, indicating a R$27.9 billion excess of Referential Equity (RE). 3.45 4.28 Loan portfolio The loan portfolio – broad concept stood at R$580.8 10.55 billion in 2012, growth of 24.9% in 12 months as shown 10.53 in the following table. The domestic market share of the classified loan portfolio of Banco do Brasil stood at 20.4% in 2012, indicating an increase over the figure for 2011, Dec/11 Dec/12 of 19.2%. Tier II Tier I Loan Portfolio Classified and Broad 2011 2012 Variation Concept (R$ million) Balance Share (%) Balance Share (%) (%) Classified Loan Portfolio (a) 422,988 100.0 525,672 100.0 24.3 Brazil 390,508 92.3 480,626 91.4 23.1 Individuals 130,561 30.9 151,869 28.9 16.3 Payroll Loans 51,246 12.1 58,589 11.1 14.3 Salary Loans 15,327 3.6 17,118 3.3 11.7 Auto Loans 31,329 7.4 35,887 6.8 14.5 Mortgage 6,035 1.4 10,202 1.9 69.0 Credit Cards 13,193 3.1 15,888 3.0 20.4 Overdraft Accounts 2,554 0.6 2,459 0.5 (3.7) Others 10,877 2.6 11,725 2.2 7.8 Companies 171,289 40.5 221,774 42.2 29.5 SME 68,062 16.1 88,926 16.9 30.7 Medium and Large 103,227 24.4 132,848 25.3 28.7 Agribusiness 88,658 21.0 106,984 20.4 20.7 Individuals 57,194 13.5 74,051 14.1 29.5 Companies 31,465 7.4 32,933 6.3 4.7 Abroad 32,480 7.7 45,046 8.6 38.7 Private Securities (a) and Guarantees (b) 42,104 55,127 30.9 Loan Portfolio Broad Concept (a + b) 465,092 100.0 580,799 100.0 24.9 Individuals 130,589 28.1 152,568 26.3 16.8 Companies 210,166 45.2 273,828 47.1 30.3 Agribusiness 89,361 19.2 107,971 18.6 20.8 Abroad 34,976 7.5 46,431 8.0 32.8 Annual Report 2012 p.54 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance The broad concept portfolio of loans to individuals relation to 2011) in 2012, the highlight being on-lending ended the month of December at R$152.6 billion, an facilities from the BNDES, Pronaf (family agriculture increase of 16.8% in 12 months and accounting for program), Agricultural Investment, FCO and Proger fa26.3% of the total. Taking into account the organic loan cilities, with 73% of these funds intended for micro and portfolio alone, that is, after excluding out acquired small enterprises (SME) and rural producers. In the loan portfolios and 50% of the transactions of Banco case of funds for on-lending from the BNDES, since Votorantim, the individual loan portfolio grew by 25.9% 2008 BB has been the leading financial agent in global in 12 months. This performance benefited from the on-lending, with a market share of 28.6% in 2012. launch of the BOMPRATODOS strategy. Credit transactions with SMEs stood at R$88.9 billion There was important organic growth in the auto loans in December 2012 (+30.7% in 12 months). It should portfolio, which stood at R$11.0 billion in December 2012 be pointed out that the performance over the period (+134,9% over December 2011); the profile of these benefited from the BOMPRATODOS Program. In additransactions continues to adhere to the strict credit analytion, BB has availed itself of the Operations Guarantee sis criteria adopted by the Bank. Payroll loans totaled Fund (FGO) and the Fundo de Aval (supplementary R$58.6 billion in December 2012, growing by 14.3% over guarantee fund), or Fampe, for micro and small enthe same period of 2011. The BB’s market share in this terprises, which enables SMEs to access credit while segment stood at 31.2% in December 2012. reducing the costs for the end borrower. Thus working capital facilities for SMEs grew by R$13.2 billion in 12 Mortgage have grown consistently since operations months, to R$61.0 billion in December 2012. began in 2008. In the case of individual loans, the mortgage portfolio stood at R$10.2 billion in December Investment credit lines for SMEs ended December 2012, growth of 69.0% for the year. The market share of 2012 at R$25.9 billion, with growth of 40.9% in 12 BB amounted to 3.7% at the end of 2012, against 3.0% months. Worthy of mention is the Cartão BNDES (a at the end of 2011. The mortgage portfolio for compacredit card facility) in which BB is market leader in nies also stood out, achieving a balance of R$2.7 billion terms of amounts disbursed, the number of cards in December 2012. In all, the balance of the mortgage issued and transactions closed, which at the end of portfolio (individuals + companies) stood at R$12.9 2012 showed accumulated disbursements of R$17.9 billion in December 2012 (+68.5% in 12 months). Total billion since the program began. This amount repredisbursements were R$7.1 billion in 2012 (+43.2% over sented growth of R$7.2 billion in the last 12 months, the previous year). with 67.4% of cards issued in the market. The companies loan portfolio broad concept stood at The broad concept foreign loan portfolio stood at R$46.4 R$273.8 billion, with growth of 30.3% in the annual billion in December 2012, a balance 32.8% higher than that comparison and accounting for 47.1% of the total loan of December 2011. The balance of preand post-shipment portfolio. Taking the companies loan portfolio as a export financing (ACC/ACE) stood at R$11.2 billion in Dewhole, worthy of note is the growth in working capital cember 2012, growth of 15.8% in 12 months, guaranteeing facilities (stocks, receivables, credit cards and overBB a market share of 32.1% at the end of 2012. draft accounts), with a balance of R$153.3 billion and growth of 35.6% over December 2011. Banco do Brasil is absolute leader in agribusiness loans, with 62.5% market share. The broad concept Credit lines for manufacturing investment stood at agribusiness portfolio, including rural and agroindustrial R$87.4 billion (taking into account R$44.6 billion for loans, accounted for 18.6% of the total loan portfolio in companies and R$42.8 billion for agribusiness) in DeDecember 2012, reaching R$108.0 billion with growth of cember 2012 (+25.0% in 12 months). Credit disburse20.8% in 12 months. ments for investment rose to R$42.8 billion (+27% in Annual Report 2012 p.55 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Pronaf and Pronamp facilities stood at R$24.2 billow, with transactions more than 90 days past due lion and R$11.9 billion, respectively, with growth in representing 0.6% against 0.7% in December 2011. 12 months of 20.7% and 66.1%, respectively. These transactions were boosted by adjustments to credit The indicator that measures delays of more than 90 conditions, which expanded the target public. Agribusidays in transactions in the consolidated view of BB ness loans to individuals reached R$74.1 billion in ended December 2012 at 2.05% (1.77% when Banco December of 2012, growth of 29.5% over December Votorantim transactions are excluded), a much lower 2011, while the agribusiness portfolio of loans to comlevel than that of the Brazilian Banking Industry, which panies showed a balance of R$32.9 billion (+4,7%). was 3.64% in the same period. BB also has a better credit structure than the industry as a whole. TransacTransactions for financing the 2012/2013 crop, with tions classified at risk levels AA-C ended December risk mitigation clauses in the contracts, stood at 53.0% 2012 at 94.5% of the total portfolio, against 92.4% for of the portfolio in December 2012, or R$6.8 billion. the banking industry as a whole. The following table Delinquency ratios in the agribusiness portfolio remain shows the quality indicators of the loan portfolio. Classified Loan Portfolio Quality Indicators (%) 2011 2012 Non-Provision Loans + 15 Days/Total Portfolio 3.63 3.29 Non-Provision Loans 15-59 Days/Total Portfolio 1.14 0.91 Non-Provision Loans + 60 Days/Total Portfolio 2.49 2.38 Non-Provision Loans 15-89 Days/Total Portfolio 1.47 1.24 Non-Provision Loans + 90 Days/Total Portfolio 2.16 2.05 AA-C Risk/Total Portfolio 93.9 94.5 Allowances/Loan Portfolio 4.50 4.03 Individuals Allowance/Loan Portfolio 6.84 5.95 Companies Allowance/Loan Portfolio 3.10 3.27 Allowance/Non-Provision Loans + 60 days 180.4 169.8 Allowance/Non-Provision Loans + 90 days 207.6 196.5 Average Risk BB 4.08 3.81 Average Risk – Brazilian Banking Industry (BI) 5.67 5.52 Non-Provision Loans + 90 Days/Total Portfolio – BI 3.60 3.64 Allowance for Loan Losses over Classified Loan Portfolio (R$ million) 2011 2012 Variation (%) (A) Allowance for Loan Losses – Quarterly (2,892) (3,636) 25.7 (B) Allowance for Loan Losses – 12 Months (11,827) (14,651) 23.9 (C) Classified Loan Portfolio 422,989 525,672 24.3 (D) Average Classified Portfolio – 3 Months 412,439 508,432 23.3 (E) Average Classified Portfolio – 12 Months 383,408 459,978 20.0 Expenses over Portfolio (A/D) (%) 0.70 0.72 Expenses over Portfolio (B/E) (%) 3.08 3.19 Annual Report 2012 p.56 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM In April 2012, the BOMPRATODOS Program was The portfolio of BB showed significant growth, endlaunched, comprising a set of measures that included ing December 2012 with a balance of R$570 million, financial advisory services, lower interest rates on the an increase of 130.4% over March 2012. Auto loans principal credit lines intended for individuals and micro and transactions originated at BB branches amounted to small enterprises and improved relations with customers. R$11.0 billion in December 2012 (+138.6% in the same comparison). It should be pointed out that there were no The following charts show the evolution of the principal changes to the analysis criteria for granting loans in new products provided to individual customers within the transactions, thus ensuring the quality of the portfolio. BOMPRATODOS Program. In traditional products such Furthermore, auto loans transactions for individuals are as payroll loans and consumer loans the program enabled concentrated in A and B (Private and Estilo) customers the Bank to sustain its growth trajectory, thereby strengthwho have been account holders for more than 5 years. ening its privileged position in these segments. INSS PAYROLL LOAN (R$ million) (1) AUTO LOANS (R$ million) 3,909 4,032 4,140 11,022 3,596 3,703 9,162 6,717 4,693 4,619 Dec/11 Mar/12 Jun/12 Sept/12 Dec/12 Dec/11 Mar/12 Jun/12 Sept/12 Dec/12 (1) Does not include loans acquired. CONSUMER FINANCE (R$ million) BB CREDIÁRIO (R$ million) 16,121 17,024 17,296 17,118 570 15,327 435 325 274 247 Dec/11 Mar/12 Jun/12 Sept/12 Dec/12 Dec/11 Mar/12 Jun/12 Sept/12 Dec/12 Annual Report 2012 p.57 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance The following chart shows that the non-performing loans Growth in the balances of working capital and investfor more than 90 days in the BB auto loans portfolio is ment loans to micro and small enterprises (SMEs) can less than that of the banking system in general. When be seen in the following chart. When compared to the broken down by risk level, this portfolio shows that figures for March 2012, these transactions showed 94.4% of these transactions are concentrated between growth of 18.5% and 18.2%, respectively, boosted by levels AA and C, an improvement of 440 basis points in the BOMPRATODOS Program which added volume relation to December 2011. while improving relationships with SME customers. NPL + 90 days BB Organic X BI (%) Working Capital and Investment (R$ million) 6.00 6.00 61,028 5.70 5.30 54,639 5.00 47,867 48,162 51,513 2.21 21,898 23,378 25,883 2.08 18,364 20,137 1.36 0.93 0.92 Dec/11 Mar/12 Jun/12 Sept/12 Dec/12 Dec/11 Mar/12 Jun/12 Sept/12 Dec/12 BB Working Capital Finance BI Investment Finance AUTO LOANS PORTFOLIO BY RISK LEVEL (%) 90.0 94.4 5.6 10.0 2011 2012 D-H AA-C Annual Report 2012 p.58 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Fee Income The growth in the supply of credit, the Bank’s strong position in the retail segment driven by the reformulation of the service network structure, customer loyalty and extended customer relationships, as well as the BOMPRATODOS Program have contributed to customer base growth and a higher business volumes, which in turn has led to the diversification of fee income. This income grew by 15.5% in 2012. Fee Income (R$ million) 2011 2012 Variation (%) Fee Income 18,242 21,071 15.5 Credit/Debit Cards 3,926 4,739 20.7 Account Fees 4,077 4,356 6.9 Asset Management 3,197 3,582 12.0 Loans Operations 1,822 2,141 17.5 Collections 1,241 1,316 6.1 Billings 725 832 14.7 Interbank Fee Income 640 697 9.0 Insurance, Pension Plans and Premium Bonds 499 616 23.5 Capital Market 350 454 29.9 Others 1,764 2,338 32.5 Credit card revenues stood at R$99.4 billion in 2012, The Mais BB Correspondent Network, which includes up by 23.0% over the previous year. The highlights Banco Postal, attracted over 2.3 proposals for new openwere income on corporate credit cards and the Cartão ing of checking accounts in 2012, including 556,000 new BNDES card program, which together grew by 33.9% credit cards issued and credit disbursements of R$7.4 bilin the year. Thus the balance of the total credit card lion, making a total of 1.5 million transactions. Comparing portfolio rose by 33.5% over the previous year, reaching the production of this channel with the year 2011, there a financial volume of R$27.2 billion. was an increase of 146% in credit disbursements. Of this total, payroll loans accounted for 35%. Banco do Brasil, through BB Asset Management – BB DTVM, has been the leader in the Brazilian investAdministrative expenses ment funds industry since 1994. In December 2012, Administrative expenses grew by 13.9% between 2011 BB attained a total of R$444.0 billion in funds under and 2012, primarily on account of expenses incurred management, with a market share of 20.0%. Market during part of the year arising from: (i) the partnership share would have been 20.7% if it takes into account with the Mapfre insurance group, (ii) the acquisition of 50.0% of the balance of funds managed by BV through Banco Patagonia and (iii) the acquisition of the right to Votorantim Asset Management – VAM (R$34.0 billion in use the Banco Postal service network. December 2012). Excluding these three factors, administrative expenses Additional information about fee income, cards, income rose by 10.1% in the same comparison, resulting from from insurance and third-party funds management, the salary increases granted in September 2011, the as well as the Bank’s capital market activities can be base date, higher administrative provisions on account found in the Performance Analysis report available at of the inflation between October 2011 and September www.bb.com.br/ir. 2012, the increase in headcount during the period, adjustments to miscellaneous contracts and the expansion of the service network. Annual Report 2012 p.59 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Adjusted Administrative Expenses (R$ million) 2011 2012 Variation (%) Administrative Expenses (24,752) (28,194) 13.9 Personnel Expenses (13,943) (15,777) 13.1 Other Administrative Expenses (10,809) (12,417) 14.9 Cost/Income Ratio Comparative Analysis of the SVA The cost/income ratio, the ratio of administrative expenses GRI EC1 to operating income, ended the year at 43.2% (accumulated in 12 months). This performance can be explained by the lower amount booked in regard to the recognition of actuSVA 2011 (%) arial gains and losses from the Previ Benefits Plan I, in ad1.90 dition to factors that impacted the administrative expenses mentioned in the previous section. 28.38 38.10 Cost/income ratio (%) (1) 42.1 43.2 31.72 Personnel Remuneration of Own Capital Taxes, Fees and Contributions Remuneration of Third-Party Capital 2011 2012 SVA 2012 (%) 2.16 Accumulated Cost/Income Ratios in 12 Months (1) The cost/income ratio series was revised to reflect the adjusted net income. 27.00 40.11 30.73 Personnel Remuneration of Own Capital Taxes, Fees and Contributions Remuneration of Third-Party Capital Annual Report 2012 p.60 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance BB Consolidated Fiscal Year 2011 Fiscal Year 2012 Statement of Value Added (SVA) Balance Balance % % (R$ thousand) (R$ thousand) Revenues 114,919,185 115,121,349 Revenue from Financial Intermediation 103,329,631 103,761,871 Services and Bank Fee Income 18,241,576 21,071,165 Allowances for Loan Losses (11,975,091) (13,871,868) Other Revenues/Expenses 5,323,069 4,160,181 Expenses with Financial Intermediation (65,247,634) (62,183,187) Inputs Acquired from Third Parties (8,144,138) (9,467,355) Materials, Energy and Others (495,336) (535,432) Third-Party Services (1,294,143) (1,766,910) Communications (1,354,235) (1,410,206) Data Processing (667,731) (813,517) Transportation (857,868) (1,214,679) Surveillance and Security Services (763,813) (840,936) Financial System Services (661,529) (743,601) Advertising and Publicity (420,337) (473,791) Others (1,629,146) (1,668,283) Gross Value Added 41,527,413 43,470,807 Amortization/Depreciation Expenses (3,343,603) (3,509,170) Net Value Added Produced by the Entity 38,183,810 39,961,637 Value Added Received Via Transfers 454,879 263,603 Equity Income from Associate Companies/Subsidiaries 454,879 263,603 Total Value Added to Be Distributed 38,638,689 100.00 40,225,240 100.00 Value Added to Be Distributed 38,638,689 100.00 40,225,240 100.00 1. Personnel 14,721,248 38.10 16,134,489 40.11 Salaries and Emoluments 9,444,814 10,401,537 Employee and Management Profit Sharing 1,790,543 1,835,262 Benefits and Training Courses 2,013,294 2,255,337 Employee Dismissal Fund (Fgts) 606,662 672,519 Other Surcharges 865,935 969,834 2. Taxes, Fees and Contributions 10,963,798 28.38 10,861,235 27.00 Federal 10,033,785 9,845,064 State 2,739 788 Municipal 927,274 1,015,383 3. Remuneration of Third-Party Capital 734,522 1.90 868,618 2.16 Leases 734,522 868,618 4. Remuneration of Own Equity 12,219,121 31.62 12,360,898 30.73 Interest on Own Capital 1,804,385 1,981,700 Interest on Own Capital, Other Shareholders 1,246,923 1,372,092 Brazilian Government Dividends 1,092,745 927,779 Other Shareholder Dividends 754,880 642,377 Retained Earnings 7,227,057 7,281,172 Minority Interests in Retained Earnings 93,131 155,778 Annual Report 2012 p.61 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance The principle variations in the Statement of Value Added Analysis by Business Segment between 2012 and 2011 are: GRI FS6 | FS7 | FS11 1. Personnel: in 2012, classroom training was given to 50,850 employees. The implementation of the new BOMPRATODOS concept was preceded by distance learning initiatives, with 10,415 employees Challenge 15. receiving training in the Strategic module, 52,565 in To enhance and systematize the identification of the Business module and 61,762 in Mortgage and business opportunities for developing products Auto Loans. Together with Banco Postal (BP), 8,579 that meet the demands created by environmenmultipliers were trained, who in turn trained 12,000 tal matters (trends/new regulations on the use of employees of BP. With regard to the Minha Casa natural resources) and climate change (demands for Minha Vida Real Estate Lending Program, 5,469 infrastructure financing in order to adapt to climate employees were trained for the purpose of develchange). See how BB is facing up to this challenge oping specific competencies for real estate credit. on page 41. Some 4,100 agents were also trained to operate in Oriented Productive Microcredit, while training initiatives were also taken aimed at transforming the sales force. Training measures were also taken in terms of Operational Efficiency and Strategic Planning for 160 executives and 1,153 Divisional and Support Unit Managers, with the aim of disseminating the concepts Credit and culture of productivity and efficiency. The loan portfolio-broad concept of the BB – which takes into account guarantees and private securities – 2. Taxes, fees and contributions: fiscal benefits on stood at R$580.8 billion in December 2012, with growth Interest on Own Capital (JCP). of 24.9% in 12 months, representing a 20.4% share of the domestic credit market. 3. Remuneration of third-party capital: the month of August saw the constitution of the BB Progressivo II Real Estate Investment Fund, whose assets comprise 64 properties located throughout Brazil Loan Portfolio Broad Concept (R$ million) (1) and which belonged to Banco do Brasil. The Bank will continue using the properties, which have been 580,799 46,431 leased for an initial period of ten years. At the public 465,092 34,976 107,971 offering for the distribution of units held in November, 388,224 15,919,690 units were subscribed and paid up, 23,038 89,361 each with a value of R$100.00. 75,707 273,828 210,166 176,382 4. Remuneration of own capital: earnings per share at Banco do Brasil stood at R$4.30 in 2012. BB once 130,589 113,097 152,568 again distributed 40% of net income to its shareholders (payout) and channeled R$4.9 billion as remu2010 2011 2012 neration, of which R$1.6 billion in dividends and R$3.3 billion in Interest on Own Capital. Individuals Companies Agribusiness Offshore (1) Includes domestic and offshore loan portfolios, guarantees provided and private securities. Annual Report 2012 p.62 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Delinquencies remained under control. The indicator The awareness and training phase contemplated in the for measuring operations that are more than 90 days methodology of this business strategy includes improvpast due (the ratio of loans more than 90 days past due ing employee performance on the theme of sustainto the loan portfolio) ended the period at 2.1%. If we able development, so that are capable of undertaking compare this indicator with that of the Brazilian financial sustainable businesses. By fostering training and system, 3.6%, one can see that delinquencies at BB dissemination of these concepts, the organizational remain at low levels. The Bank also has a better credit culture of socio-environmental responsibility dovetails structure than the industry as a whole. Transactions with the bank’s strategic management and contributes classified at risk levels AA-C ended December 2012 at to improving business performance. 94.5% of the total portfolio, against 92.4% for the banking industry as a whole. Among the main manufacturing activities supported by the SRD Business Strategy in 2012, worthy of note is Social Businesses the regional approach in urban centers, where priorGRI FS4 | FS10 | EC2 ity was given to solid waste chains, taxi drivers, beach businesses, gastronomy centers, street vendors and In line with its mission of fostering Brazil’s sustainfairs, handicrafts and organic/eco-farming. In the case able development, also operates through a series of of solid waste, Banco do Brasil was present at Expoeconomically profitable social businesses intended for catadores 2012 and held workshops on financial educasolving social and environmental challenges facing tion for recyclable material cooperatives and pickers, communities. Provided on a regional basis, they play covering such themes as how the Bank works, financial an important role in fostering public policies and in the organization and banking products and services. In development of local economic potential. the case of tax drivers, 21,000 professionals benefited from 34 SRD Business Plans. In the countryside, the Some examples of the Institution’s social businesses emphasis was on the sheep and goat breeding segment are the Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Lending in which the Bank provided credit within the scope of Program (PMCMV), the Student Financing Fund (Fies), the Program for Productive, Integrated and Sustainable the National Program for the Strengthening of Family Inclusion of Sheep and Goat Breeding in the Semi-arid Farming, Oriented Productive Microcredit (MPO) and Regions – the Caatinga (or dry brushland) Biome. By the BB Accessibility Loan program described below with the end of the period the portfolio totaled R$65 million, the performance of the business segments. which benefited 28,000 producers on family-run farms under 54 SRD Business Plans. In order to enhance the understanding and engagement of its executives in this type of initiative, in 2012 SRD BENEFICIARIES the Bank held the Social Businesses Workshop to introduce the principal experiences of the Yunus Social 1,555,558 1,470,643 Business and BB’s achievements in this field. 1,167,997 The Bank also relies on the Sustainable Regional Development Business Strategy that seeks to bolster the regions where it operates by mobilizing economic, social and political agents to support manufacturing activities that are economically viable, socially just and environmentally correct, and which take into account local diversity. 2010 2011 2012 Considered to be individuals and businesses directly involved in production activity with the support of and benefiting from the actions of the Bank or the Bank’s partners in Sustainable Regional Development Business Plans. Annual Report 2012 p.63 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance SRD Investment using SRD LOAN PORTFOLIO (R$ million) non-reimbursable funds (R$ million) 21,2 14,912 19,0 20,0 12,825 8,897 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Includes the BNDES (Social Fund), Fundação Banco do Brasil and Besc Clube. Individuals Loans Growth of 16.8% in 2012 was driven by the developBB also exceeded the target set for the Minha Casa, ment of the BOMPRATODOS strategy. At the end of the Minha Vida (PMCMV) Program in 2012, with over period the broad concept personal loan portfolio showed 114,000 housing units contracted in bands 1, 2 and 3. a balance of R$152.6 billion, accounting for 26.3% of The first projects in band 1 (monthly family income of the total. up to R$1,600.00) commenced in June, and the Bank has already contracted 50,349 housing units in developPayroll loans continue to take the lion’s share of the perments located in 17 Brazilian states. sonal loan portfolio, with 38.6% of the total, which also takes into account the acquisition of the portfolios and In 2012, the Bank’s strategy for operating in Oriented the equity interest in Banco Votorantim. With the stratProductive Microcredit (MPO) was reviewed to extend egy of having a qualified customer base and focusing the program to entrepreneurs. Hand-in-hand with the on lower-risk credit lines the payroll loan portfolio grew Brazilian government’s National Micro Credit Program by 14.3% in 2012, boosting the Bank’s leadership in this (Crescer) the BB’s strategy in MPO is to increase acsegment, with a market share of 31.2%. cess to oriented credit and foster the development of small projects represented by micro companies with Mortgage loans ended 2012 with the balance of R$10.2 revenues of up to R$120,000, including individual entrebillion, up by 69.0% over the previous year. Disbursepreneurs with gross annual revenues of up to R$60,000, ments for the year stood at R$5.1 billion, 69.2% higher as well as entrepreneurs working in the informal market than in the same period of 2011. with a gross monthly income of up to R$5,000. Annual Report 2012 p.64 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance The service model includes financial advisory services and credit facilities on terms and conditions compatible with the segment. At the end of 2012, the Bank had captured 534,000 active customers (with at least one on-going credit transaction) within the MPO scope, with disbursements totaling R$730 million. Total Portfolio in Number of Transactions Products with a Socio-Environmental Bias 2012 (R$ Thousand) Closed in 2012 BB Accessibility Loans: personal loans for financing goods and services for per14,595 3,207 sons with disabilities, based on Provisional Measure No. 550 of November 17, 2011 Student Financing Fund (Fies): student loans to finance undergraduate courses 6,327,788 183,163 for students in no condition to meet the costs of their education, in line with the government’s public policy of democratizing access to quality education FAT – Funded Loans for Taxi Drivers: auto loans for individuals, where the fuel 142,272 3,184 used is from renewable resources. This facility used funds from the Workers’ Assistance Fund (FAT), leading to the creation of jobs and income Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Lending Program (1): covers financing for 809 7,785 developments that meet requisites such as inclusion of the elderly and those with special needs; environmental standards and attitudes, such as the use of equipment and solutions; compliance with recommendations when executing projects; and fostering discussions and distribution among their members of knowledge about how to reuse materials, rational use of natural resources, alternative low-cost methods for heating water/degradable construction materials/others, risks arising from the failure to preserve the environment and other pertinent matters BB Sustainable Regional Development Microcredit: a credit facility for urban 118,603 18,476 entrepreneurs who are beneficiaries of SRD Business Plans; intended to meet the financial needs of micro entrepreneurs BB Individual Entrepreneur Microcredit: credit facilities for individual customers 526,023 471,698 for working capital or investment purposes; intended to meet the financial needs of small enterprises in line with the National Program for Oriented Productive Microcredit (1) In the individual segment 7,725 transactions were closed, bringing the total portfolio to R$513,000. In the business segment 60 transactions were closed, totaling R$295,200 at the end of 2012. Companies Loans The companies loan portfolio – broad concept stood itself of the Operations Guarantee Fund (FGO) and at R$273.8 billion, with growth of 30.3% in the annual the Fundo de Aval (supplementary guarantee fund), or comparison and accounting for 47.1% of the total broad Fampe, for micro and small enterprises, which affords concept loan portfolio. Worthy of note was the growth SMEs greater access to credit while reducing the costs in working capital facilities of 39.7% year on year, on for the customer. account of the positive influence of the huge volume of transactions with companies in the corporate and large Investment credit lines for SMEs ended the year at R$25.9 corporate segments. billion, with growth of 40.9% in 12 months. Worthy of mention is the Cartão BNDES (a credit card facility) in which Banco do Brasil continued to be the principal ally of the BB is market leader in terms of amounts disbursed, the micro and small enterprise segment. The balance of number of cards issued and transactions closed, which transactions with SMEs in December 2012 was R$88.9 at the end of 2012 showed accumulated disbursements billion, an increase of 30.7% over the same period of of R$17.9 billion since the program began. This amount 2011. Once again this performance benefited from the represented growth of R$7.2 billion in the last 12 months, BOMPRATODOS Program. In addition, BB has availed with 67.4% of cards issued in the market. Annual Report 2012 p.65 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance In the case of trade finance, a segment in which BB is Disbursements of investment credit stood at R$42.8 bilmarket leader, the highlight was the growth in preand lion, 27.0% higher than in 2011, the highlights being the post-shipment export finance (ACC/ACE) transactions, on-lending of BNDES funds, the Pronaf Program, agriwhich closed the year with a balance of R$11.2 billion, business investment and the FCO and Proger Programs. representing growth of 15.8% in 12 months, ensuring BB It should be pointed out that 73.0% of these funds were of a 32.1% market share at the end of the period. intended for the SME and rural producer segments. In the case of funds for on-lending from the BNDES, since In 2012, BB strengthened its position as one of the most 2008 BB has been the leading financial agent in global important financing agents for infrastructure investment on-lending, with a market share of 28.6% in 2012. credit in Brazil. During the year large projects were approved in the fields of energy, oil, highway infrastructure and shipbuilding, totaling R$47.5 billion. Of this total R$14 billion were disbursed during the fiscal year. Total Portfolio in Number of Transactions Products with a Socio-Environmental Bias 2012 (R$ Thousand) Closed in 2012 BB Business Entrepreneur Microcredit: credit facilities for business customers for 202,938 58,403 working capital or investment purposes intended to meet the financial needs of small enterprises in line with the National Program for Oriented Productive Microcredit, directly at the location where the economic activity is carried on, in order to provide guidance and monitor the business BB Giro Rápido (easy-access working capital): pre-approved credit facility to 5,785,857 165,994 meet the working capital requirements of micro and small enterprises. The line includes two types of credit – overdrafts and a revolving fixed credit that adds social value by providing micro and small enterprises with marketing differentials. The product offers advantages, such as a simplified credit approval process, while the transactions are covered by the Operations Guarantee Fund (FGO), which facilitates access to credit Banco do Brasil Working Capital for Local Production Arrangements: working 64,712 1,439 capital facility for micro and small enterprises associated with Local Productive Arrangements (or clusters). These facilities can be taken out with the guarantee of the Operations Guarantee Fund (FGO), which facilitates access to credit for micro and small enterprises, since the presentation of guarantees represents one of the principal barriers when taking out loans; there is also the possibility of lower financial charges FAT – Funded Tourism Finance: working capital and investment facilities providing 226,039 2,072 financial support to micro and small enterprises, with the aim of expanding business opportunities while creating jobs and income on account of the 2014 FIFA World Cup and the Confederations Cup in 2013 Proger Program: financing intended for micro or small enterprises for investment 3,601,092 16,483 projects, with or without an underlying working capital loan, which promote the generation or maintenance of jobs and income in urban areas, where the aim is the sustainable development of micro and small enterprises under the Program for Generating Urban Jobs and Income – Proger Urbano Annual Report 2012 p.66 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Agribusiness GRI EC2 BB is the biggest partner of Brazilian agribusiness, with Crop finance using the Direct Planting System (SPD), a market share of 62.5% of the National Rural Credit one of the technologies comprising the voluntary comSystem (SNCR). The broad concept agribusiness portmitments Brazil assumed at COP-15, is substantial and folio produced growth of 20.8% in relation to 2011, closaccounts for 50.3% of total farm financing by BB in the ing the year with a balance of R$108.0 billion. Of this 2012/2013 crop. total R$24.2 billion refer to transactions closed under the National Program for the Strengthening of Family In the case of agribusiness credit policy BB considers, Farming, R$11.9 billion under the National Program for in addition to the risks inherent to the business, those Supporting Midsize Rural Producers (Pronamp), R$39.1 aspects involving the counterpart of socio-environmenbillion to other producers, R$26.6 billion for companies tal responsibility and the ability to generate jobs and within the agribusiness chain and R$6.3 billion for farmincome, and does not take credit risk on customers reing cooperatives. sponsible for environmental damage, those that submit their workers to degrading types of work or keep them in It is worth pointing out that when the Bank closes rural working conditions analogous to slavery and that sexucredit transactions it uses mechanisms to mitigate risks ally exploit minors, in addition to exploiting child labor. (inclement weather and prices). In December, 53.0% of In 2012, 2.9% of the most important contracts contained agricultural loans for the 2012/2013 crop were covered clauses dealing with slave or analogous labor, against by production (Farming Insurance or the Proagro Pro2.0% in 2011 and 5.3% in 2010. GRI HR7 gram) and price (options contracts) insurance. Before granting rural credit, BB demands to see the Credit support for sustainable agribusiness can be seen licensing permit for the activity, the grant of use of water in facilities such as the family agriculture-oriented proresources and, in the case of the Amazon Biome, proof grams Pronaf Agroecologia, Pronaf Eco, Pronaf Florestal that the property is environmentally regular and that it and the Low Carbon Agriculture Program (LCA Program). abides by the municipal or state Ecological and EcoThe latter encourages rural producers to use sustainable nomic (ZEE) and Agroecological (ZAE) Zoning arrangefarming techniques to reduce greenhouse gas emissions ments available. GRI FS1 | FS2 and deforestation. It was the highlight in 2012, with over 7,126 financing contracts closed, amounting to R$2.7 billion. Between July and December BB applied R$1.6 billion in the LCA Program, out of a total of R$1.5 billion for the entire crop of 2012/2013. Annual Report 2012 p.67 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Total Portfolio in Number of Transactions Products with a Socio-Environmental Bias 2012 (R$ Thousand) Closed in 2012 BB Florestal – BB FCO Rural Pronatureza – ABC (Low Carbon Agriculture): 3,126,313 9,885 this program serves to encourage projects intended for environmental protection and conservation, the recovery of areas that have suffered degradation or alteration and the development of sustainable activities. This financing facility for reducing greenhouse gas emissions in farming (LCA Program) enables organic activity to grow while providing resources for the investments required for implementing integrated systems of tillage/stockbreeding, tillage/forestry, stockbreeding/forestry or tillage/stockbreeding/forestry, among others BB Florestal – Pronaf Florestal: aims to support investments in projects that meet 11,045 642 the requirements stipulated by the Department of Family Agriculture/MDA for: agroforestry systems; environmentally sustainable extractivist exploitation; stewardship and forestry stewardship, including project implementation and maintenance costs; and enhancement of areas that already have a diversified forest cover by planting one or more species native to the biome BNDES – ABC and BB – Agribusiness Investment MCR 6-4 – Controlled – ABC (1): 2,472,771 6,703 the primary purpose of this product is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions arising from farming, reduce deforestation and encourage the recovery of degraded areas Pronaf: the National Program for the Strengthening of Family Farming aims to 25,283,567 1,757,984 professionalize producers and their families, modernize the production system and enhance the standing of rural family producers. The intention is to provide financial support for farming and non-farming activities that directly employ labor from within the rural producer’s family BB – Agribusiness Investment MCR 6-4 – Controlled and BNDES – Moderagro: 118,873 415 a fixed credit facility intended for farming investments, with funds provided by the BNDES. It fosters actions involving animal welfare and the implementation of systems for tracing animals intended for human consumption. The program supports soil recovery, in addition to fostering sectors that produce, process and store products from beekeeping, aquaculture, aviculture, chinchilla breeding, rabbit breeding, floriculture, fruit growing, horticulture, fishing, sheep and goat breeding, dairy cattle, frog breeding, silk worm breeding and pig breeding BB Farming Investment BB – Traditional Farming Investment MCR 6-4 – Non 112,450 312 Equalizable Ouro Savings Account: this program supports soil recovery by providing finance for the purchase, transportation, application and incorporation of remedial products (limestone, agricultural gypsum and remedial composts); forestation and reforestation; the creation of permanent tillage areas by financing the acquisition of inputs, services and improvements required for recovering grazing land BB Farming Investment – Traditional Farming Investment MCR 6-2: machinery, 715,899 5,495 equipment, trucks, trailers, sugarcane crops, animals, irrigation works, water tanks, soil recovery, the creation of grazing areas, construction, renovation or expansion of warehouses, silos, sheds and other items can be financed under this credit facility (1) Unified products that replace the BB florestal – BNDES Propflora/Produsa/BNDES ABC Program. Annual Report 2012 p.68 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Socio-Environmental Aspects of Credit GRI FS6 | FS9 As a signatory to the Equator Principles, Banco do Brasil impacts detected by the assessment. This material (eiadopts the performance standards of the International ther the action plan or its non-technical summary) must Finance Corporation (IFC) when analyzing risks in largebe reviewed by an independent environmental specialist scale financing, so as to ensure that these projects are and made available to the public in order to assist in the carried out in a socially responsible manner and that they due diligence of the performance indicators under the reflect sound environmental management practices. Equator Principles. The Bank requires a socio-environmental assessment to In the case of A and B categories, BB requires the boridentify relevant socio-environmental impacts and risks, rower of the loan to undertake to comply with all socioas well as mitigation and management steps for projects environmental legislation, regulations and approvals in category A – significant and potential adverse socioin Brazil; to abide by the action plan (when applicable) environmental impacts that are considered diverse, irrewhile the project is in progress, in all relevant aspects; versible or unprecedented – and category B – potentially to provide periodic reports; and to decommission the falimited adverse socio-environmental impacts in lower cilities when applicable and appropriate, in compliance number and usually location-specific, for the most part with a previously agreed plan. reversible and easily offset using mitigation measures. Assessments are undertaken on a quarterly or semiBB requires the project to abide by the IFC performance annual basis and submitted to the financial agents by instandards and the EHS (occupational health and safety) dependent socio-environmental specialists. Compliance guidelines specific to the sector, in addition to the prepawith the matters raised concerning IFC performance ration of an action plan showing the measures for prestandards is a sine qua non for releasing the tranches venting, mitigating and offsetting the socio-environmental of the financing. Project Finance Analyzed (from the perspective of the Equator Principles) in 2012 and Signed Up Number of Total Investment BB’s Participation Projects Analyzed (R$ million) (R$ million) and Signed Up Categorization of Project Finance (1) A 2 12,107 1,672 B 7 959 579 Operational Sector of Project Finance Analyzed Energy Generation 9 13,065 2,251 Location (Region) of Project Finance Analyzed Midwest 3 8,701 672 Midwest/North 1 3,770 1,200 Northeast 5 594 379 Total 9 13,065 2,251 (1) Based on the Equator Principles (A – high socio-environmental impact; B – average; C – low/minimal). Annual Report 2012 p.69 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Project Finance Analyzed (in light of the Equator Principles) in 2012 and not yet Signed Up Number of BB’s Expected Total Investment Projects Analyzed Participation (R$ million) and Not Yet Signed Up (R$ million) Categorization of Project Finance (1) C 2 1,053 420 Operational Sector of Project Finance Signed Up Real Estate Projects 2 1,053 420 Location (Region) of Project Finance Signed Up Southeast 2 1,053 420 (1) Based on the Equator Principles (A – high socio-environmental impact; B – average; C – low/minimal). BB adopts socio-environmental criteria when studying comply with federal, state and local legislation regarding credit limits for companies with annual revenues in exenvironmental preservation by adhering to the technical cess of R$50 million and investment projects equal to or and legal criteria for preserving gallery forests, slopes exceeding R$2.5 million, in addition to those applied unand hilltops, soil conservation and water used in dealing der the Equator Principles in all project finance-related with infestations, the protection of springs, fauna and transactions. Transactions leading to improvements to flora and other aspects of environmental conservation. properties located in the Amazon Biome contain a “penBank supervisors monitor the projects being financed alty clause” in the contracts that provides for suspendusing existing criteria. ing the release of pending tranches and early liquidation of the financing in the event of illegal deforestation on All loan contracts under the Proger Urban Business and the property. Proger Tourism Investment facilities carry clauses regarding environmental protection, with due regard for federal, Transactions with funding from the Midwest Constitution state and local legislation. Fund (FCO) contain a clause obligating the borrower to Percentage of Contracts with Environmental 2010 2011 2012 Conservation-related Clauses Amazon Biome 4.1 4.7 FCO 5.3 5.4 4.5 Annual Report 2012 p.70 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance When granting loans BB does not become involved • R$8.1 billion intended for financing transactions in or take risks with customers who submit workers to the farming industry referring to the 2012/2013 crop, degrading types of work or keep them in conditions under an agreement signed in September by the BB analogous to slavery. The Bank monitors on a day-toand the government granting credit under a Hybrid day basis the list published by the register of employers Capital plus Debt Instrument which qualifies as tier I contained in Administrative Ordinance No. 1,150 of and tier II capital; the Ministry of National Integration, and ensures that • R$5.21 billion in Subordinated Letters of Credit that qualchanges are made to the customer’s file as and when ify as tier II capital. When this issue is taken into account, they occur. With this impediment on their file, custhe nominal balance of subordinated debt transactions tomer’s credit limit is blocked or expires, meaning they on the domestic market totaled R$10.3 billion. cannot close transactions with the Bank. GRI HR7 On the international market the BB undertook five issues, Trade Finance of which two were supported by perpetual subordinated As the principal partner of Brazilian trade finance, bonds that qualify as tier I capital and comply with the Banco do Brasil retained its leading position in the guidelines of Basel III, a subordinated bond issue that export and import finance markets, with US$63.6 million qualifies as tier II capital and two issues of Senior Notes. and US$46.9 million and market shares of 27.1% and Taking these issues into account, the nominal value of 21.8%, respectively. Preand post-shipment transacoutstanding transactions amounts to US$12.8 billion. tions (ACC/ACE) ended the year with a market share of 32.1%. Also in 2012 BB consolidated in position as Marking its return to the Japanese market in September market leader in BNDES Exim facilities, on-lending BB raised public senior debt funding in that market (euroR$1.8 billion, with a market share of 27.9%. yen transaction) totaling JPY24.7 billion, equivalent to approximately US$317 million. Funding At the end of 2012, BB’s funding stood at R$690.4 bilBB’s largest funding transaction took place in October, lion, including domestic and international transactions. when it issued 10-year bonds totaling US$1.9 billion. Due The highlights in domestic funding were: to demand which exceeded US$11.4 billion, the rate on the transaction was one of the lowest ever obtained by a • R$34.0 billion in Agribusiness Letters of Credit; Brazilian financial institution. • R$4.0 billion in on-lending and programs and R$86.3 billion in court deposits and writs of payment; Annual Report 2012 p.71 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Management, Funding and Governmental Programs Aware of its institutional mission of carrying out its public Banco do Brasil met all its targets under the MCMV Profunctions in an efficient manner, Banco do Brasil has gram for 2012, achieving growth of 385.3% in comparison effectively contributed to implementing public programs with the previous year. and policies, true to its commitment to Brazil’s development. BB operates as financial agent in credit transactions Disbursements by Banco do Brasil for investments stood incentivized by the government and intended for financing at R$42.8 billion in 2012, up by 27% over the previous public interest actions. year, the highlight being on-lending of funds from the BNDES, the Pronaf Family Agriculture Program, Farming In this respect, worthy of note is the Student Financing Investment and the FCO and Proger programs. It should Fund (Fies), the result of a partnership between BB, the be emphasized that 73% of these funds were channeled Ministry of Education and the National Education Deto the micro, small and mid-size enterprise segment, as velopment Fund (FNDE) in which the Bank’s function is well as to rural producers. to provide services that involve closing the credit transactions, custody of the government securities and the administration, collection and levying referring to the loan Share of On-lending Facilities portfolio within the scope of the Fies Program. The service in Disbursements (%) provided by Banco do Brasil enabled the in-house portfolio to reach a balance of R$6.3 billion, growth of 276.3% over 3.1 the same period of 2011. 8.5 Another highlight is Oriented Productive Microcredit (MPO) 8.9 within the Brazilian government’s Crescer (Growth), where credit is extended to meet the financial requirements of individual entrepreneurs (IE) and small business enterprises 11.4 engaged in manufacturing activities. At the end of 2012 56.2 the MPO Program showed a balance of R$730 million in 11.9 working capital and investment credit transactions taken out by individuals and micro enterprises with annual revenues of up to R$120,000. More than 534,000 customers BNDES/Finame Program benefited throughout Brazil. Pronaf (Family Agriculture) Program FCO (Midwest Fund) Program Investments in Farming Launched in February 2012, the BB Accessibility Loan Proger Investment Finance Program Miscellaneous Investments Program is part of the actions of the National Plan for the Rights of Persons with Disabilities – Viver Sem Limite (Living without Borders). Banco do Brasil uses this facility to provide credit for the acquisition of assistive technology products for those with an income of up to 10 minimum salaries. In 2012, the Bank closed 3,200 such transactions totaling R$14.7 million. Annual Report 2012 p.72 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Cards Credit card revenues stood at R$99.4 billion in 2012, up main card, but with multiple (debit, credit and installment by 23.0% over the previous year. The highlights were plan) functions in a single piece of plastic. In 2012, BB income on corporate credit cards and the Cartão BNDES launched sector-specific cards for tourism and travel, card program, which together grew by 33.9% in the year. electronic equipment, construction material, computer Thus the balance of the total credit card portfolio rose hardware and wellness, in addition to a general purpose by 33.5% over the previous year, reaching a financial version not intended for any specific segment. volume of R$27.2 billion. Another important step by Banco do Brasil in expandWithin the BOMPRATODOS strategy the chief ing the use of the product as an instrument for financial highlight for the year involved financial education, advisory services and inclusion was the unprecedented which in the case of credit cards involved a reduction offer of pre-paid cards, a new departure appearing on of 79% in interest rates on this product while offering the Brazilian market enabling customers to better control financial advisory services to customers via text mestheir expenses within the family budget, remittance of sages to their cell phones, in order to encourage best funds to third parties and the control of expenses in overpractices in the conscientious use of credit, in addition to seas travel and other similar necessities. paying the invoice in installments via credit lines better suited to their requirements. In addition, BB has been making inroads into the micro and small enterprises segment with the Ourocard EmThe strategy also included the offer of BB Installment presarial (Corporate Ourocard), while also extending the Plan facilities using cards, with the option of consumer possibilities of drawing down the Bank’s traditional credit credit at lower interest rates and in up to 54 installments, lines using cards, such as Agribusiness, the BNDES and such as in the case of construction material. To that end FCO lines. This enables it to increasingly expand the the BB launched the Ourocard Crediário (Ourocard Inportfolio with the ELO label, a totally Brazilian label. stallment Credit) family that functions like the customer’s Number of Cards Products with a Socio-Environmental Bias Growth (%) Issued in 2012 Ourocard Empreendedor (for Entrepreneurs): specific credit card for Individual Micro 10,763 104.5 Entrepreneurs, with no annual fee, for the purpose of leveraging credit in this segment and to facilitate the bankarization process and the turnover of financial resources Ourocard Origens Reciclado (cards from recycled plastic): first Banco do Brasil card 5,846 556.9 produced from recycled plastic. With every card requested the customer donates R$5.00 to Instituto Terra, which fosters the recovery and sustainable management of the Atlantic forest; they also automatically agree to the rounding up of the invoice amount, thus contributing to planting from 1 of 400 trees required to enable 1 water sources to recover Civil Defense Payment Card (CPDC): card intended for payment of expenses involv699 7,666.7 ing rescue, assistance to victims and reestablishment of essential services, for exclusive use in emergency situations or those of public calamity and recognized by the National Department of Civil Defense Rounding up of Invoices: Ourocard customers who sign up for this service will have 27,069 47.6 the amount of their invoice rounded up to the next whole figure, and the cents corresponding to this difference will be donated to a BB partner not-for-profit institution. Donations are currently channeled exclusively to Instituto Terra which fosters reforestation of deforested areas of the Atlantic forest biome, and is currently responsible for having recovered more than 40 million m² Annual Report 2012 p.73 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Insurance, Pension Plans and Premium Bonds The alliance between Banco do Brasil and Mapfre Banco do Brasil is the market leader in asset managecreated the largest insurance group on the Brazilian ment for public employee pension funds (RPPS), with market, with approximately 5,000 employees, 25,000 a total of R$24.4 billion in assets under management in points of sale (including brokers and bank branches) December 2012, in addition to having generated fees and 25 million customers. totaling R$49.2 million in 2012. For the Banco do Brasil and Mapfre (BB and Mapfre In the open supplementary pension plan segment Group) Insurance Group the year 2012 was hallmarked Brasilprev reached the figure of R$67.6 billion in manby important steps such as the consolidation of the aged portfolios, up by 37.4% in the last 12 months, integration process, the boost to the popular insurending the year with a market share of 26.0% in funds ance segment and the preparation of strategic projects, raised. In the case of closed supplementary pension ranging from the development of new businesses, to plans BB Previdência ended 2012 with assets of R$2.2 improvements in operational efficiency. billion, 41 corporate plans, 54 sponsor plans, 2 plans instituted by class and sectorial entities with 77,000 In its first year of operations, completed in June 2012, the participants. Also worthy of note was the increase of BB and Mapfre Group recorded more than R$5 billion in R$3.3 billion in the stock of private pension funds under premiums issued. It is leader in personal insurance, with the private business model, with a current volume of a market share of 19.2% and R$2.0 billion in premiums. R$10.8 billion. In 2012, Banco do Brasil maintained its strategy of exAlso in 2012, Banco do Brasil created BB Seguridade, panding and strengthening its insurance, open pension a full subsidiary umbrella company responsible for fund and savings bonds business by launching increasconsolidating the Bank’s entire business in insurance, ingly personalized modalities for the different customer open supplementary pension plans, savings bonds and segments. In this respect it launched solutions such as similar activities, including any future growth in these BB Forestry Insurance, BB Coffee Farming Insurance activities. The constitution of the holding company and BB Protected Inventory Credit Insurance. will afford economies of scale and reductions in costs and expenses. The organization chart containing the intended corporate structure following the constitution of BB Seguridade is shown in the Results Analysis available at www.bb.com.br/ir. Annual Report 2012 p.74 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Revenue in 2012 Share of Total Portfolio Products with a Socio-Environmental Bias (R$ thousand) Revenue 2012 (%) Life Insurance Ouro Vida (life insurance): transfers to Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) 50% of its 380,526 12.9 stipulation revenues for investment in that entity’s social programs Ouro Vida Empresa (business life insurance plans): transfers to FBB 100% of its 3,485 0.1 stipulation revenues for investment in that entity’s social programs BB Seguro Vida Mulher (women’s life insurance): transfers to FBB 50% of its 200,571 6.8 stipulation revenues for investment in that entity’s social programs Property Insurance Ouro Residencial (home insurance): transfers to FBB 100% of its stipulation 89,158 17.1 revenues for investment in that entity’s social programs Ouro Máquinas (equipment insurance): transfers to FBB 100% of its stipulation 5,421 1.0 revenues for investment in that entity’s social programs Ouro Empresarial (business insurance): transfers to FBB 100% of its stipulation 112,175 21.5 revenues for investment in that entity’s social programs Savings Bonds Ourocap Estilo Prêmio (PU 36S) (premium prize draw savings bond): transfers 305,978 7.9 to FBB 0.5% of all funds raised from investors, in order to benefit water resource projects Ourocap Estilo Flex (PP 93E) (flexible prize draw savings bond): transfers to FBB 23,812 0.6 0.5% of all funds raised from investors, in order to benefit water resource projects Ourocap Estilo Prêmio Cartão 3,067 0.1 Card – PU 36G (premium bond payable via credit card): transfers to FBB 0.5% of all funds raised from investors, in order to benefit water resource projects Ourocap Multichance – PM 48 M (prize draw savings bond): transfers to FBB 0.5% 28,190 0.7 of all funds raised from investors, from the second and third monthly payments, in order to benefit youth and adult literacy projects (BB Educar Project) Ourocap 200 Anos TAA e BB (PP60D) (prize draw savings bond): transfers to 77 0.0 FBB 0.5% of all funds raised in order to benefit youth and adult literacy projects (BB Educar Project) Ourocap 200 Anos Espelho Credit Card (PP60B) (prize draw savings bond): 16 0.0 transfers to FBB 0.5% of all funds raised in order to benefit youth and adult literacy projects (BB Educar Project) Ourocap 200 anos PM – PP 60 M (prize draw savings bond): transfers to FBB 0.5% 41,954 1.1 of all funds raised from investors, from the second and third monthly payments, in order to benefit youth and adult literacy projects (BB Educar Project) Ourocap 200 anos PM – PP 60 C (prize draw savings bond): transfers to FBB 0.5% 4,789 0.1 of all funds raised from investors, from the second and third monthly payments, in order to benefit youth and adult literacy projects (BB Educar Project) Ourocap 200 Anos Card – PP 60 A (prize draw savings bond): transfers to FBB 238 0.0 0.5% of all funds raised from investors, from the second and third monthly payments, in order to benefit youth and adult literacy projects (BB Educar Project) Annual Report 2012 p.75 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Asset Management Since 1994 Banco do Brasil, through BB Gestão de (ii) BB Ações Índice de Sustentabilidade Empresarial Recursos (BB DTVM), its Asset Management company, Jovem (Corporate Sustainability Share Index Fund); has been the leader in asset management, with a mar(iii) BB Multimercado Balanceado LP Jovem (long-term ket share of 20.0%. At the end of 2012 the total stood balanced multimarket fund); (iv) BB Multimercado Globat R$444.0 billion in funds under management. Taking al Acqua LP Private (long-term global multimarket fund, into account 50% of the funds managed by Votorantim including companies that treat water in their manufacturAsset Management – VAM, BB manages R$461 billion, ing processes); (v) BB Ações Carbono Sustentabilidade equivalent to 20.7% of the market. The highlights durFIA (sustainable carbon share fund); and (vi) BB Ações ing the period were: (i) the volume of funds allocated Carbono Sustentabilidade com Opção de Venda FIA to Extramarket Funds that do not figure on the Anbima (sustainable carbon share fund with put option). ranking, amounting to R$75.4 billion; (ii) R$1.5 billion in funding raised by the Allocation Funds family in BB DTVM is a signatory to the Principles of Responsible the private segment; (iii) the launch in February of the Investment (PRI) governed by the United Nations Organipublic offering of units in its first Office Income Real zation, and is developing a methodology for including enviEstate Investment Fund for the acquisition of commerronmental, social and corporate governance matters in its cial properties belonging to Previ and the generation of investment decision-making process. Asset management monthly income for unit holders based on the rents paid at Banco do Brasil is intended for all market segments, and by lessees; and (iv) the launch in march of the first Eqsince 2006 it has received the maximum rating (MQ1) in uity Interest Investment Fund (FIP) in its portfolio, Brazil Excellence in Management Quality allocated by Moody’s. Ports and Logistics Assets (FIP Portos), which raised R$571.5 million in subscribed capital. In the private segment Banco do Brasil ended 2012 with R$66.4 billion in funds under management. In terms of In the case of funding with a social and/or environmencredit this segment posted a balance of R$6.4 billion at tal focus, the Bank’s portfolio offers the following funds: the end of December, an increase of 70.0% in 12 months. (i) BB Referenciado Social 50 (social benchmark fund); Annual Report 2012 p.76 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Net Equity 2012 Profitability Products with a Socio-Environmental Bias (R$ million) 2012 (%) BB Referenciado DI Social 50 (linked to the interbank CD rate): transfers 50% of the 50 5.3 management fee to FBB to benefit social projects BB Ações ISE Jovem FIC (tracks corporate sustainability index-linked shares): transfers 20% of the management fee to FBB for allocation to initiatives under the Brazil Water Program. The ISE portfolio comprises shares of companies with far-reaching corporate 22 18.8 responsibility proposals that take into account aspects of good governance, economic efficiency, environmental balance and social justice BB Multimercado Balanceado LP Jovem FIC (long-term fixed income/equity fund: transfers 20% of the management fee to FBB for allocation to initiatives under the Brazil 1 6.3 Water Program BB Multimercado Global Acqua LP Private FI: as the name suggests, the fund invests part of its net equity in Brazilian and global companies that include water treatment in their 24 10.1 manufacturing processes BB Ações Carbono Sustent. FIA (sustainable carbon share fund): tracks the Efficient Carbon Index (ICO2) created by the BNDES and the BM&FBovespa, comprising shares of 15 14.2 companies listed on the IBrX-50 which adopt transparent practices in regard to their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions BB Carbono Opção Venda FIA (sustainable carbon share fund with put option): tracks the Efficient Carbon Index (ICO2) created by the BNDES and the BM&FBovespa, comprising 9 14.5 shares of companies listed on the IBrX-50 which adopt transparent practices in regard to their greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Capital Markets and Treasury On the domestic capital market BB provides services for the In the private equity industry, BB-BI has been operating purchase and sale of stocks and shares through its branch since 2004 as an investor, and is currently a unit holder network, the internet (home broker) and mobile devices in 15 funds. As of 2007 it began providing economic and Turnover was R$21.3 billion in 827,000 trades, of which financial advisory services to equity investment funds, R$19.6 billion through the new home broker service. having acted as advisor to 6 investee funds. The total capital committed by BB-BI to the private equity segAccording to the Anbima ranking, in 2012 Banco do ment is R$1,528 million. Brasil, through its investment banking arm BB-Banco de Investimento (BB-BI): lead managed 82 fixed income On the international capital market, through its offshore securities issues totaling R$21,279 million, taking 3rd brokerage companies BB Securities Ltd. (London), Banco place in the consolidated origination ranking with a mardo Brasil Securities LLC (New York) and BB Securities ket share of 19.5%; (ii) lead managed 78 debenture and Asia Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) BB participated in 28 of the 68 commercial paper issues, totaling an origination volume offshore funding transactions by companies, banks and the of R$20.806; (iii) undertook 4 CRI and FIDC transactions Brazilian government, of which 26 as lead manager and two that produced a volume of R$473 million in the securitizaas co-manager. Of the total of approximately US$50.3 billion tion market; and (iv) lead managed 7 public offerings in issued by the end of the fourth quarter of 2012, BB particithe wholesale distribution segment, totaling R$10.2 billion pated in around US$29.0 billion. Furthermore, BB took part in the equity market, taking 1st place in the number of in 7 foreign issues of US$8.9 billion as co-manager. transactions and 3rd place in volume. Annual Report 2012 p.77 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance Other Products/Services with Socio-Environmental Features Number of Total Portfolio in Products with a Socio-Environmental Bias Transactions 2012 (R$ Thousand) Closed in 2012 Proesco: loan facility intended for companies to finance up to 90% of energy efficient projects that provably contribute to energy savings, increase the overall efficiency of the 276 3 energy system or foster the substitution of fossil fuels BNDES Governos: a credit line intended for the states and the Federal District for investment in public works, equipment and facilities that bring social benefits to the 3,680,929 22 population affected by these actions Caminho da Escola (school bus loans): a loan facility intended for the Federal District, states and municipalities for the acquisition of new school vehicles for the daily 156,548 454 transportation of elementary school students in the public school network, with priority for those residing in rural areas Finame PSI: a loan facility for companies of public and private law, for the acquisition and manufacture of new machinery and equipment intended to add social benefits to the 321,141 10 populations affected by their actions. It makes a social impact by improving the quality of life of the population affected by the actions of the projects and assets being financed Provias: a loan facility for municipalities to acquire machines and equipment for road works on public roads, highways and freeways, bringing social benefits to the population 198,700 321 affected by these actions Prouca: a credit facility intended for the states, the Federal District and the municipalities for the acquisition of new portable computers with pedagogical content, with the aim of furthering 42,684 10 digital inclusion in public school networks Annual Report 2012 p.78 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance GRI 4.15 | 4.16 Employees In 2012, BB reiterated its commitment to its staff by ESTABLISHING PARTNERSHIPS, GENERATING embarking on actions to disseminate the precepts of ethics, drawing up differentiated strategies for furthering SUSTAINABLE RESULTS FOR ALL PARTIES AND the well-being of its employees, strategically repositioning the Internal Ombudsman’s Department and enhancing CONTINUALLY FOSTERING SOCIAL ENGAGEMENT educational, remuneration and career policies. The Bank ARE THE FEATURES OF THE BANK’S ended the year with a staff of 114,182. GRI LA1 | LA2 RELATIONSHIP WITH ITS STAKEHOLDERS Profile of the Employees 2010 2011 2012 Per Employment Contract Employees (CLT) (1) 109,026 113,810 114,182 Statutory Executives 36 35 35 By Region North 4,320 5,163 5,184 Northeast 16,589 19,532 19,595 South 19,678 19,802 19,644 Southeast 51,095 51,574 51,594 Midwest 17,271 17,662 18,094 Offshore 73 77 71 (1) The bank does not hire temporary professionals. Turnover rate by Gender 2010 2011 2012 Employee Averages (1) Women 43,626 45,900 47,041 Men 62,873 65,519 66,955 Total – Average 106,499 111,418 113,996 Resignations during the Period (2) Women 1,716 1,436 1,450 Men 3,188 2,459 2,816 Total Resignations during the Period 4,904 3,895 4,266 Turnover Rate (3) Women 3.82 3.06 3.07 Men 4.97 3.67 4.20 Total 4.60 3.42 3.74 (1) Arithmetic average of employee numbers at the close of 2011 and 2012. (2) Base: System for Evaluating and Recording Acts of Admission and Concessions of the Federal Accounting Court (SISAC). (3) (Resignations in the period/number of employees at December 31, 2012) X 100. Annual Report 2012 p.79 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Turnover by Age 2010 2011 2012 Employee Averages (1) Up to 25 Years of Age 8,194 7,973 7,163 From 26 to 35 Years of Age 37,902 41,374 42,971 From 36 to 45 Years of Age 29,296 29,445 29,614 Over 46 Years of Age 31,107 32,628 34,249 Total – Average 106,499 111,418 113,996 Resignations during the Period (2) Up to 25 Years of Age 351 408 395 From 26 to 35 Years of Age 1,027 1,081 1,270 From 36 to 45 Years of Age 437 421 443 Over 46 Years of Age 3,089 1,985 2,158 Total Resignations during the Period 4,904 3,895 4,266 Turnover rate (3) Up to 25 Years of Age 4.30 5.24 6.04 From 26 to 35 Years of Age 2.58 2.52 2.95 From 36 to 45 Years of Age 1.49 1.42 1.49 Over 46 Years of Age 9.74 5.92 6.17 Total 4.50 3.42 3.74 (1) Arithmetic average of employee numbers at the close of 2011 and 2012. (2) Base: Federal Accounting Court System for Evaluating and Recording Acts of Admission and Concessions (SISAC). (3) (Resignations in the period/number of employees at December 31, 2012) X 100. Turnover by region 2010 2011 2012 Employee Averages (1) North 4,209 4,742 5,174 Northeast 16,491 18,061 19,564 South 19,264 19,740 19,723 Southeast 49,805 51,335 51,584 Midwest 16,658 17,467 17,878 Offshore 72 75 74 Total – Average 106,499 111,418 113,996 Resignations during the Period (2) North 188 227 243 Northeast 429 680 809 South 734 737 719 Southeast 2,786 1,483 1,678 Midwest 767 768 817 Total Resignations during the Period 4,904 3,895 4,266 Turnover rate (3) North 4.35 4.40 4.69 Northeast 2.59 3.48 4.13 South 3.73 3.72 3.66 Southeast 5.45 2.88 3.25 Midwest 4.44 4.35 4.52 Total 4.50 3.42 3.74 (1) Arithmetic average of employee numbers at the close of 2011 and 2012. (2) Base: Federal Accounting Court System for Evaluating and Recording Acts of Admission and Concessions (SISAC). (3) (Resignations in the period/number of employees at December 31, 2012) X 100. Annual Report 2012 p.80 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance The benefits package offered by Banco do Brasil to all its employees is compatible with its size, its commitment to social responsibility and the talent retention policy, which far exceeds the requirements of the legislation (see more in the box below). GRI LA3 Benefits offered by BB • Nighttime travel allowance; • Cassi – healthcare plan; tion/receipt of organs and transplants, special nursing • Food Allowances, meals, daycare center/nanny and care, death while on duty, removal by mobile ICU or air for children with disabilities; ambulance and treatment with growth hormones; • BB Dental – dental care plan; • Social assistance program – giving up smoking; • Executive Cashiers – benefit of a personal nature. • Extension to maternity leave (up to 180 days); Personal bonus for executive cashiers for a period of • Maternity Allowance; 18 months from the date on which the employee on • Transportation Vouchers; leave of absence because of Repetitive Strain Injury • Benefit of a Personal Nature (VCP) – continued pay(RSI) and work-related musculoskeletal disorders ment, of a personal nature, for a given period for the returns to work at the Bank; commission carried out by the employee when the • Absences approved; number of employees in the branch is reduced; • Compensation for robbery; • Benefit of a Personal Nature – RSI – payment, of a • Leave: adoption, maternity, to accompany a family personal nature, of benefits for cashier bonuses, codes member who is ill (LAPEF) and awards; 288 and 394, to employees who, on the eve of taking • Previ – Supplementary Pension Plan; leave of absence due to work-related accidents worked • Program for the Assistance to Victims of Robbery and as executive cashiers and were excused from work after Kidnapping (PAVAS); being diagnosed with Repetitive Strain Injury (RSI); • Social assistance programs – advances – purchase • Benefit of a Personal Nature (VCP) – work-related acof glasses and lenses, natural disasters or fires in cident – payment, of a personal nature, of the commisthe home, financial stress, funeral expenses of an sion for period of 120 days from the moment when the economic dependent, expenses not covered by Cassi, employee on leave of absence due to a work-related dental and psychotherapy treatment; accident returns to work; • Social assistance programs – allowances – acquisi• Removal benefits – intended to partially defray extion of medication abroad, assistance for the disabled, penses inherent to the process of moving out, moving medical and hospital assistance, medical and social in and deployment, among others, for employees movassistance, deployment for health treatment abroad, ing residence due to having been reassigned in the deployment for health treatment within Brazil, donainterests of their work. Annual Report 2012 p.81 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Diversity GRI LA13 | LA14 The purposes of every action for promoting and enhancThe socio-environmental responsibility action agenda ing diversity within BB include respect for human rights, of BB includes universal rights for employees and the the search for equity in internal relations and eliminating possibilities for human and professional development all existing forms of prejudice. BB provides training coursto enable them to cope with work situations. The Bank es on this theme to all its employees, in order to apprise seeks to eliminate barriers that prevent total access them of what happens today in the market and within the by employees to training initiatives and to processes Bank. It also sponsors several initiatives on this theme, involving career plans and the right to inclusion in their such as the Gender Equity Program within State-Owned work routines. Employees join the Bank after taking a Companies, the Handicapped Persons Advancement public examination, with 5% of admissions reserved for Week and Reatech – The International Rehabilitation and persons with disabilities. Accessibility Technology Fair, among others. In addition, the Bank permits the inclusion of homoaffective partners as dependents of employees associated with the healthcare (Cassi) and private pension (Previ) plans. Diversity in Governance (1) % 2010 2011 2012 By Age Group From 26 to 35 Years of Age 4 1 1 From 36 to 45 Years of Age 21 16 16 Over 45 Years of Age 31 37 44 By Gender Male 51 50 56 Female 5 4 5 By Race Caucasian 32 32 31 Asiatic 1 1 1 Brown-Skinned 4 3 3 Not Informed 19 18 25 (1) Includes members of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board, the Board of Auditors and the Audit Committee. In 2012, it also included members of the Remuneration Committee. Annual Report 2012 p.82 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Staff 2011 2012 Diversity (1) management Technical operational Others management Technical operational Others By Age Group Up to 25 Years of Age 368 121 1,192 6,106 347 108 1,144 4,939 From 26 to 35 Years of Age 10,567 4,338 8,900 19,113 11,245 4,497 9,067 18,214 From 36 to 45 Years of Age 11,278 3,465 4,852 9,960 11,444 3,490 4,922 9,817 Over 45 Years of Age 12,320 3,913 4,454 12,863 12,936 4,056 4,596 13,360 By Gender Male 22,514 7,501 10,046 26,871 23,281 7,673 10,117 25,907 Female 12,019 4,336 9,352 21,171 12,691 4,478 9,612 20,423 By Race Afro-Descendent 624 226 461 1,312 716 255 507 1,305 Afro-Descendent, 6,442 2,270 3,508 10,642 6,962 2,439 3,691 10,708 Brown-Skinned and Indians (1) Includes members of the Board of Directors, the Executive Board, the Board of Auditors and the Audit Committee. In 2012, it also included members of the Remuneration Committee. GRI LA14 2010 Percentage 2011 Percentage 2012 Percentage Average Remuneraof Remuof Remuof Remution by Gender and Male Female neration Male Female neration Male Female neration Job Category (R$) differences differences differences (1) Management 7,098.91 5,975.53 18.80 7,853.50 6,623.38 18.57 8,254.62 7,014.46 17.68 Technical 7,333.51 6,776.25 8.22 8,160.09 7,516.02 8.57 8,749.41 8,120.67 7.74 Operational 3,654.27 3,552.96 2.85 4,017.41 3,917.77 2.54 4,293.56 4,183.79 2.62 Others 2,821.35 2,523.03 11.82 3,190.78 2,829.53 12.77 2,932.70 2,781.65 5.43 (1) There are no differences in earnings between men and women holding the same position within the company. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Banco do Brasil provides institutional support for union The Bank became the first company on the American membership campaigns where the collective bargaining continent to sign up to the International Framework agreements enable meets called by union entities to be Agreement at UNI Americas, the international union held in the work place. Furthermore, it is in permanent central, in which it agrees to respect the right to negotiations and holds roundtables to debate themes freedom of association/union affiliation and collective mutually agreed between the union organization and bargaining wherever it is to be found on the American BB. All employees are covered by collective bargaining continent. There were no incidences of risk to the agreements, regardless of whether they are union rights of freedom of association and collective bargainmembers or not. GRI LA4 ing in 2012. GRI HR5 Annual Report 2012 p.83 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Health and Safety GRI LA9 The formal health and safety committee comprising management and employees helps to monitor and provide advice about occupational health and safety programs. This subject has been included in internal regulations. GRI LA6 Employee Representation on Formal 2010 2011 2012 Health and Safety Committees ECOA (1) (number of employees) 14,168 16,095 10,172 CIPA (members/total employees) 0.000481 0.00050 0.00055 GRUA (2) (members/total employees) 0.009761 0.01069 0.01240 (1) Communication and top development teams. (2) Abandonment group. The Collective Bargaining Agreements of the National In addition, the collective bargaining agreement Confederation of Financial System Employees (Concontains several clauses relating to health, safety and traf) and the National Confederation of Credit Comworking conditions. Worthy of note is the guaranteed pany Employees (Contrec) – 2012/2013 regulates rest payment, for 18 months after returning to work, of periods and work schedules for repetitive activities; cashier’s bonus to employees who occupied this posiaccess and locomotion for persons with disabilities; tion and who took leave of absence for reasons of reand special procedures regarding bank security. Also petitive strain injury; an additional salary component within the scope of its collective bargaining agreement when social security sick pay or accident sick pay the Bank makes available a Professional Rehabilitation is granted; in addition to the Sick Leave Benefit of a Program enabling the reinstatement of a professional Personal Nature whose purpose is to pay employees when the diagnosed pathology adversely affects their returning from accident or social security sick leave functions, whether work-related or not. the restated amount of the commission received on their last day at work prior to taking leave of absence, and for a 12-month period. GRI LA7 Health and Safety Indicators (1) % South Southeast Midwest North Northeast Injury Rate (IR) (2) 16.57 18.66 17.33 43.72 36.36 Absenteeism Rate (5) 3.73 3.86 4.05 5.15 5.06 Occupational Illness Rate (OIR) (3) 2.98 2.79 2.60 8.35 6.50 Days Lost Rate (DLR) (4) 81.24 104.98 162.91 340.10 427.78 Percentage of Days Lost 0.43 0.22 0.49 1.00 1.41 (1) One death was registered in 2012. (2) TL = number of injuries/hours worked X 1,000,000. (3) TDO = number of occupational illness cases/hours worked X 1,000,000. (4) TDP = number of days lost related to work/scheduled days X 100. (5) Absenteeism = total days lost/scheduled days. Annual Report 2012 p.84 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Training and Development GRI LA11 Annual indicators and targets are defined for training Banco do Brasil employees. Participation in training programs is managed using several tools, worthy of note being a special application that consolidates the track record and assessment of the participants in each training session. GRI LA10 Training courses 2010 2011 2012 Final Count 109,026 113,810 114,182 Employees Trained 45,875 45,974 112,184 Training Courses 747,912 1,030,964 1,160,727 Hours 8,592,756 11,804,434 9,629,015 Training Courses per Employee 6.86 9.06 10.17 Hours per Employee 78.81 103.72 84.33 Percentage of Those Trained 42.08 40.40 98.25 Number Number of Number Final Number of Number of Percentage 2012 of Training Training Sessions of Hours per Headcount Participants Hours of Trained Sessions per Employee Employee Management 35,991 35,678 401,469 3,454,805 99.13 11.15 95.99 Technical 12,151 11,340 63,272 585,574 93.33 5.21 48.19 Operational 19,729 18,784 199,363 1,589,100 95.21 10.11 80.55 Others 46,311 46,382 496,623 3,999,536 100.15 10.72 86.36 Total 114,182 112,184 1,160,727 9,629,015 98.25 10.17 84.33 At the Banco do Brasil Corporate University (UniBB), UniBB provides employees, and extends to the comcompetency management and continuous learning to munity, the Personal Financial Planning course, helping support the on-going employability of the employees them to understand the importance of managing their own involves corporate education programs developed infinances. This course, available at www.unibb.com.br, is ternally or contracted out in the market: undergraduate part of the Financial Education Program that seeks to fosand lato sensu postgraduate scholarships, undergraduter positive attitudes in how to deal with personal finances, ate courses (bachelor, technology or teacher training) and is aligned with the proposal of the Learning Commuand stricto sensu postgraduate scholarships (Masters nity of the Banco do Brasil Corporate University. GRI FS16 and Doctorates) are available. The purpose of these initiatives is to enhance employee qualifications and The BB’s efforts to manage abilities and continuous competencies by providing them with knowledge, skills learning provide support to the on-going employability of and attitudes required for high-level professional perforthe employees, as well as for managing the end of their mance, while also serving to widen the opportunities for careers. BB offers resignation or retirement compensatheir professional and personal development. tion for executives who resign under the Program of Alternatives for Executives in Transition. There is also an optional course for employees intending to retire, which covers the theme of “life without work.” Annual Report 2012 p.85 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Careers The BB’s policy for valuing its professionals includes contract and the correction of the incident identified. BB providing opportunities for development and career engages with companies committed to complying with progress. To that end it offers the entire staff the possitheir employee labor law and social security obligations bility of managing their own professional path and planfor the entire duration of the contracts. ning their career. One of the tools is the Professional Advancement Program within the service network, by With a view to engaging with suppliers in the constant which BB identifies employees with potential for occupysearch for better sustainability practices in its business, ing management positions within the service network the Bank has drawn closer to its supplier base. In 2012, and the regional superintendencies. suppliers were invited to take part in events such as: the Stakeholders’ Panel, the BB Panel on Sustainability BB employees are formally assessed using a PerforGuidelines for Lending to the Civil Construction and Mining mance by Competencies Management System. The Sectors and the V International Forum on Communication five-pronged analysis (financial, customers, internal and Sustainability. An internal procedure has also been processes, organizational behavior and society) is drawn up for disseminating good sustainable practices conducted by the superior, peers (colleagues) and by among BB employees and outsourced staff that provide the employees themselves (self-appraisal). In 2012, the services directly on the Bank’s premises. performance of 98.9% of the professionals was monitored using this methodology. GRI LA12 Procurement of goods and services gives priority to electronic procedures whose aim is to expand the reach Suppliers and transparency of the tendering processes. SpecificaGRI HR6 | HR7 tions for goods and services impose socio-environmental responsibility criteria, provided these do not restrict Banco do Brasil’s relationships with suppliers is based competition and comply with the legislation. Procureon respect, transparency, compliance with specifications ment processes for goods and services are published and quality control, all of which adhere to the principles of on the Bank’s web site and those of Public Transparensocio-environmental responsibility and pertinent legislacy and Public Procurement and the Official Government tion. The Bank is governed by the Law on Tenders and Journal, among others, and are subject to internal and Contracts, in addition to other related regulations, which external controls, such as the Federal Accounting Court means it is subject to inspection by entities such as the and the Comptroller-General’s Office. Federal Accounting Court (TCU) and the ComptrollerGeneral’s Office (CGU), which also ensures transparency The drafts of all BB contracts contain a clause in which in these processes. This means that the procurement suppliers warrant and commit not to employ, directly or inprocess adheres to the criteria of impartiality and transpardirectly, those under the age of 18 in nocturnal, unhealthy ency, not favoring local contractors. GRI EC6 or dangerous work. They also agree not to employ, directly or indirectly, those under the age of 16, except as apprenSustainability plays a key role in verifying compliance with tices (14 years and upwards). Socio-Environmental criteria the obligations set out in contracts, in addition to the analyalso play a role in the specifications of purchases of paper, sis of indications and accusations regarding occasional furniture and computers, among others, thus contributviolations and non-conformities, leading to the adoption ing to minimize the impacts of these activities on natural of measures for the purpose of ascertaining breach of resources. GRI HR2 Annual Report 2012 p.86 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance When contracting suppliers in the security area, formal inspected by the Federal Police Department. Non-complitraining is given in specific human rights procedures. The ance can result in the Bank being notified and fined. Secusyllabus of the Security Officer Training Course – CFV rity contracts include clauses requiring the activities be carincludes ten classroom hours on the subject of Applied ried out in accordance with current legislation. Ordinance Legislation and Human Rights. Law No. 7,102/1983 No. 387/2006 – DG/DPF Brasília (DF) requires training requires recycling every two years, and is one of the items courses to include human rights-related topics. GRI HR8 Challenge 7. Challenge 9. To enhance economic, social and environmental risks To strengthen the Bank’s role as an agent for advancing management within the supply chain. See how BB is sustainable practices in its supply chain. See how BB is facing up to this challenge on page 40. facing up to this challenge on page 40. Challenge 8. Challenge 10. To identify socio-environmental opportunities within To improve the Bank’s practices on the question the supply chain that create business benefits for the of sustainable procurement. See how BB is Bank (lower costs/higher revenues/risk mitigation). See facing up to this challenge on page 40. how BB is facing up to this challenge on page 40. Customers which reason the satisfaction attributes are specific for GRI FS13 each type of public. Banco do Brasil provides its customers with physiIn order to enhance customer service in the branches, in cal and virtual networks on which to do their business. 2012 the Institution implemented new ambience solutions These channels are planned based on specific paramintended for micro and small enterprises at the Commereters aimed at customer convenience. The BB physical cial Center Branch in the city of Campo Grande (MS). This network totals 5,362 branches and 44,393 automated model is expected to be extended to seven other Brazilian teller machines, in addition to a further 6,000 outlets of branches in the first half of 2013. Banco Postal, which became part of the Mais BB network of banking correspondents in 2012. As a result the Bank In the case of the virtual service network, several solutions is now present in 97% of all Brazilian municipalities, led to improvements in the customer experience, making covering all regions of Brazil. BB serves regions far reit more intuitive and human, while producing significant moved from the large urban centers, with low population gains in usability. Take for example “SMS Reverso” (reverse densities and economically disadvantaged, for example, text messaging), where customers receive offers via text the branches operating in slum communities such as message, followed up through a telephone call), and the Rocinha, Cidade de Deus and Complexo do Alemão, in reformulation and integration of self-service channels (selfRio de Janeiro, and Paraisópolis in São Paulo. service terminals, mobile devices and internet banking), which facilitate browsing while making it more personalized. The BB commissions an annual satisfaction survey by interviewing individual and business clients from the priThe Bank also has digital tools and platforms that make vate sector and public sector companies, so as to evalulife easier for users, such as the BB Code, the BB Token ate its products and services, personal relationships, and ICP digital certification. The functionality of BB Code, customer service channels and overall satisfaction which customers can use on cell phones, uses a QR-Code with the Bank. The satisfaction attributes are identified two-dimensional bar code and encryption techniques during the qualitative phase using personal interviews during internet transactions. Thus there is no need to type and discussion groups involving clients, managers and in the bar code, because reading the image enables the executives of the Bank. These attributes are reviewed, data on the bill to be obtained. The customer photographs on average, every three years, and a new edition is to the code and the application identifies the details on the be held in 2013. The metrics model adopted takes into payment slip. The feature also calculates any surcharges account the nature and characteristics of the clients, for in the case of past due BB bills. GRI EN26 Annual Report 2012 p.87 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance The Finance Manager tool, which uses a token, enables In 2012, BB structured itself to respond to requests for more secure financial transactions. In addition to reducinformation based on Law No. 12,527/2011 – the Law on ing the risks of fraud, the solution improves usability Access to Information and instituted the Banco do Brasil while offering the users advantages. For example, a Citizens’ Information Service. unique password can be used to access and confirm transactions, which eliminates the need to print out sevCustomer Satisfaction eral terms thus contributing to eco-efficiency. GRI EN26 The Bank is committed to the continuous improvement of its customer relationships so as to ensure their Banco do Brasil acts as the Authority of Register for satisfaction. The BB’s soundness and excellence in this ICP-Brasil, and is responsible for identifying and regisfield have been acknowledged in the Guide to Respontering users, as well as for issuing e-CPF (individual tax sible Banks (GBR), published in 2012 by the Brazilian code) and e-CNPJ (business tax code) digital certifiConsumer Protection Institute (IDEC), in which BB was cates using its Certification Entity Authority. In 2012, the only one among the six largest financial institutions Banco do Brasil made timely adaptations to the changin Brazil whose performance was rated as “good.” Banco es required by the Root Certification Entity Authority do Brasil took center stage in the Consumers block, in (ITI), in regard to the new encryption standard adopted. which all financial institutions were rated “regular” or Some 249,200 foreign exchange contracts were signed “poor” in the overall evaluation, while BB alone was rated using digital certificates, accounting for 57.5% of all con“good,” having been considered a benchmark in debt coltracts signed at Banco do Brasil, representing savings lection, where it was rated “very good.” of approximately R$1.7 million during the period. The BB commissions an annual satisfaction survey by inIn accordance with the consent decree (TAC) between the terviewing individual and business clients from the private Public Prosecutor and Banco do Brasil, the Bank’s various sector and business clients from the public sector, so as to service channels were adjusted and began offering access evaluate its products and services, personal relationships, options for those with special needs. In the case of those customer service channels and overall satisfaction with the with impaired vision, BB self-service via the internet is now Bank. The satisfaction attributes are identified during the set up to use the screen reading software most found in qualitative phase using personal interviews and discussion the market, while the browsing experience is also being groups involving clients, managers and executives of the constantly improved. Self-service terminals are equipped Bank. These attributes are reviewed, on average, every with a specific solution for these users, and almost 100% of three years, and a new edition is to be held in 2013. The the terminals have been adapted to use earphones. Once metrics model adopted takes into account the nature and the customer has been identified using their magnetic card, characteristics of the clients, for which reason the satisfacthe screen goes off and the menu becomes available as tion attributes are specific for each type of public. GRI PR5 a sound track; the customer then uses the touch-sensitive physical key pad to navigate the options. GRI FS14 In 2010 BB paid R$58,792.59 in fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations regarding the provision and use The BB Customer Service Unit provides service to those of products and services, against R$548,283.19, in 2011, with impaired hearing or speech, using the exclusive free and R$892.418,97, in 2012. This figure was calculated phone 0800 729 0088 for hearingand speech-impaired using the amount of the fines involving the Consumer users only. The services provided to those with hearing Protection Code. GRI PR9 and speech impediments involve general information about products and services. This service is available 24/7 at all BB service centers. GRI FS14 Annual Report 2012 p.88 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Civil Society Banco do Brasil’s engagement with the community is and reduction/sequester of carbon emissions) and on based on achieving social purposes that reflect governthe business aspect (return on the image, relationships ment priorities, the expectations of the communities and contribution margin from those who participate with involved and those of the other BB stakeholders and the Institution, as well as the satisfaction of the Organizathe Organization’s business objectives. For BB, social tion’s employees based on its social investment). In order investment must lead to positive and sustainable transto define this new assessment model, several referential formation of the reality of the communities through jobs, studies were undertaken involving domestic and internaincome and education, in addition to producing returns tional methodologies, benchmarking with partners and for the Institution, humanizing its image, ensuring cusvisits to consultants. tomer loyalty, diversifying its business, valuing team work and contributing to employee satisfaction. Within the scope of the branches, Banco do Brasil uses instruments that assist in monitoring compliance with the The Diretrizes de Investimento Social do Banco do Brasil dictates of corporate strategy. In this respect the Labor (Banco do Brasil Social Investment Guidelines) available Agreement (BB and ATB synergy) adds a series of initiaat www.bb.com.br/sustentabilidade define how the Bank tives that are aligned with socio-environmental responsiworks in this respect. The investment integrates into a bility principles defined by the Bank. The highlight here is regional outlook of the communities’ traditional social the social effectiveness index, whose aim is to strengthen investment initiatives (developed by the Bank and by the SER culture within BB, while expanding employee Fundação Banco do Brasil – FBB, through programs and engagement in social causes and volunteer work. This project support) as well as social businesses. These are index has led to a higher number of employees enrolled characterized as economically profitable initiatives that in volunteer activities while enhancing their training on strive to find solutions for the problems of society, repthe theme and greater participation in local committees, resenting a powerful lever for the development of Brazil which contribute to community development. (find out about the BB’s social businesses in the Analysis by Business Segment section on page 61). The results of social investment are continually assessed and presented to the public in an objective and In order to further enhance social investment and better timely manner. Donations and alliances established are evaluate its results, in 2012 Banco do Brasil instituted defined according to the Bank’s policies, and it is forbida set of indicators aligned with its corporate strategy to den to transfer funds to organizations or initiatives for enable it to monitor and enhance how its social programs party political purposes. You can find out more about the are managed, providing inputs for making better deciprograms developed and supported at www.bb.com.br/ sions, optimizing the gains in social value for its business sustentabilidade and www.fbb.org.br. and presenting tangible results to its stakeholders. These indicators will indicate how effective the programs of the Bank and those of the FBB’s are in focusing on community development (generation of income, training Annual Report 2012 p.89 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Promoting Sustainable Development In line with the Bank’s strategic objectives, involvement in communities integrates social businesses with traditional social investment practices. Private Social Investment Social Technologies Digital Inclusion Program Cataforte Solidarity Logistics Project AABB Community Program BB Volunteer Program Benefits for the Business Benefits for the Community Return on the Image Income Generation Relationship and Contribution Training Margin from the Participants with Carbon Emission the Institution Reduction/Sequester Satisfaction of the Organization’s Employees with its Social Investment Social Businesses Oriented Production Microcredit Minha Casa Minha Vida Real Estate Finance Student Financing Fund National Program for Strengthening Family Agriculture Sustainable Regional Development (SRD) Challenge 22. – MPO, the Student Financing Fund – Fies, Minha To enhance the relationship between Private Social Casa Minha Vida real estate loans and BB Accessibility Investment and the business strategy. See how BB is Loans, among others), so as to integrate with programs facing up to this challenge on page 43. and public policies, partnerships with the private sector and the BB sustainable development strategies Challenge 29. (private social investment, Volunteer Program, digital To maintain and expand the Bank’s role as a driver of inclusion and sustainable regional development). See sustainable development through financial inclusion how BB is facing up to this challenge on page 43. and social businesses (Oriented Productive Microcredit Annual Report 2012 p.90 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Volunteer Program In 2012 Banco do Brasil channeled a record volume of The second half of 2012 saw the launch of the 4th edition R$9.9 million, including funds from Fundação Banco do of the BB/FIA Volunteers Project, through which Banco Brasil – FBB (R$3,318 thousand), Instituto Cooperforte do Brasil channels funds from tax breaks to projects (a pilot partnership initiated this year to support three submitted by its volunteer employees seeking to support projects totaling R$113 thousand) and those arising from entities engaged in protecting, promoting and defending tax breaks (the Children’s and Adolescents’ Fund – FIA, the rights of children and adolescents. All projects that R$6,477 thousand), to support projects by social entities in qualified under the invitation to tender obtained support, which current and retired employees actively participate. that is 102 initiatives received R$6.5 million, an increase of 30% over the previous year. In addition to the financial funds, 2012 was also an important year for engagement and participation by the Bank’s Clean Up Brazil – Let’s Do It! employees and customers, who donated R$250,000, In 2012, Banco do Brasil continued its sponsorship of 281,000 tons of foodstuffs and 1.2 million items of clothing, the Limpa Brasil (Clean Up Brazil) – Let’s Do It! Cammedication, school material and hygiene items, among paign – this successful mobilization began in Estonia others to several entities across Brazil. GRI EC8 and currently takes place in 94 countries on all continents, making citizens aware of environmentally correct At the end of 2012, the BB Volunteer Program counted on disposal of solid waste. In addition to Banco do Brasil’s 8,800 employees. This initiative is in continuous improveobvious concern for the environment, involvement in ment process, seeking to expand its activities towards the the cause has grown with the mobilization of employees development of Brazil. Worthy of note was the 79% inacting as volunteers on the day reserved for the event. crease in the number of registered volunteers, from 4,948 With the slogan “I’m a rubbish picker,” they removed at the end of 2011, to 8,858 in December 2012. GRI SO1 solid waste encountered on previously chosen routes. In 2012, the Limpa Brasil – Let’s Do It! Movement held The first half of 2012 also saw the launch of the ninth clean-up drives in 12 Brazilian cities, with the participaedition of the BB Volunteers Project, the result of a tion of almost 3,000 BB volunteers. joint effort by Banco do Brasil, the FBB and Instituto Cooperforte in support of volunteer social actions being conducted by not-for-profit civil entities with the support of the Bank’s employee volunteers. BB is also active in the Committee of Entities Against Hunger and For Life (COEP), an extensive national social mobilization and interaction network operating in all Brazilian states, which fosters human and social development. The purpose is to mobilize organizations and individuals to interact, encouraging them to become involved in social projects and training them in best social practices and in how to disseminate knowledge and to share successful initiatives. Annual Report 2012 p.91 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance In addition to the participation of the Bank’s volunteers Transfers to the Childhood and their families, the events also attracted BB Apprenand Adolescence Fund (1) (R$ million) tices, an excellent opportunity in which young people witnessed what it means to be a citizen while adopting 11.8 sustainability as a hallmark of their future behavior. 10.0 As proof of its obvious emphasis on Brazil’s sustainable development, and in the effort to involve its employees, 6.2 customers, users and the general community in this theme the Bank used its branch network to distribute kits (comprising a folder explaining the movement, a rubbish bag and gloves) used in the Limpa Brasil campaign. Also joining the movement were the Bank’s 2010 2011 2012 partner solid waste pickers’ cooperatives, which contributed by organizing and setting up the drop-off points for (1) Pass-through funds of R$10 million comprising R$6.5 million in tax breaks and the waste collected (eco-points). R$3.5 million from the Conanda. The Childhood and Adolescence Fund As part of its support for the policies and initiatives that protect the rights of children and adolescents, and to encourage the engagement of its customers and volunteers Banco do Brasil transferred, between 2003 and 2012, R$73 million to finance action programs for protecting children and adoProgram for Inclusion and Transformation lescents, classified in the following categories: protection by donating Substituted Computers from abuse, exploitation and violence, guarantee of rights, Since 2004, BB channels its microcomputers to a variety children and adolescents in situations of social vulnerability of entities serving populations in precarious conditions, and open socio-educative services. as a way of contributing to social, environmental and cultural development, in addition to fostering digital incluThe Bank also channeled R$3.5 million to the Nasion and citizenship while ameliorating living and working tional Council for the Rights of Children and Adolescents conditions through digital inclusion. In 2012, 23,673 com(Conanda), whose aims involve the development of puters were forwarded in this manner, directly benefiting initiatives for evaluating how the council network functions over 40,000 people. Since the program began more than throughout Brazil; support for the creation of councils and 71,000 computers have been disposed of in this manner. boosting the funds for children’s rights in all municipalities, training counselors in how to deal with cases, the formulation of public policies and management of Funds for the Rights of Children and Adolescents. On top of this amount one can add donations by customers and employees to the various funds (local, state and federal), encouraged by the campaign which the Bank launched through its communication channels. Annual Report 2012 p.92 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Mitigating the Effects of Calamities The social investment of FBB is channeled to replicating Since 2008, BB has been an active participant in developsocial technologies in the creation of jobs, income and ing emergency support actions and measures for emeducation, while fostering the leading role of society, ecoployees, customers and communities affected by natural nomic solidarity with environmental care and respect for lodisasters. In addition to including this subject in its busical cultures. In 2012, R$196.1 million of its own resources ness continuity management and maintaining its critical and R$27.8 million of third-party funds were invested, processes operating, the purpose is to preserve lives and making a total of R$223.9 million in social investments. assist victims of calamities. In 2012, the Bank was present in the states affected by the floods in the north of Brazil In 2012, FBB concluded the process of revisiting the and those hit by the drought in the northeastern region. social technologies registered on the Social Technology The Bank’s principal initiatives in this respect include: Base (BTS) since 2001. This process also involved the • Employees: assistance in defraying expenses in purchasbranches of Banco do Brasil. In order to enable dissemiing or repairing essential items damaged by the catastronation of social technologies to developing countries, the phe, payment of the employee’s expenses and those of BTS is being translated to English, French and Spantheir economic dependents with accommodation, special ish. At the end of the year there were 504 active social consideration for cases of absence and holding intertechnologies on the BTS, available at www.fbb.org.br/ nal campaigns for collecting food items, furniture items, tecnologiasocial. household appliances and money; • Customers: speedier service, special conditions and Social technologies were also put on show at the 3rd measures that provide greater convenience, minimize edition of the Learning and Teaching Social Technologies impacts and ensure the return to normality of their banking competition in which approximately 5,000 teachers from operations. Providing copies of civil documentation for 1,097 public schools and 1,468 federal education insticustomers is another area where the Bank gets involved; tutes from all over Brazil enrolled. The victorious teachers • The Community: emergency steps include opening acwill go to the World Social Forum in March 2013 to be counts to receive cash donations, while branches launch held in Tunis, Tunisia. campaigns to collect donations of non-perishable food items, clothing, household appliances and housewares for Jointly with Banco do Brasil, FBB has agreed to assist the inhabitants of the locations affected by the catastrophe. in the process of universalizing water with the Brazilian government through the Water for Everyone (Água para Todos) program, which is part of the Brazil Without Fundação Banco do Brasil Poverty Plan (Plano Brasil Sem Miséria). The program’s GRI EC8 target is to build 750,000 cisterns by 2014, with FBB in charge of building 60,000 plate cisterns in the Brazilian Fundação Banco do Brasil (FBB) identifies and mobilizes semi-arid region. In 2012, 30,649 cisterns were installed various social players in the search for effective solutions in 8 states: Piauí, Ceará, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraíba, for fundamental aspects of the sustainable development Pernambuco, Alagoas, Bahia and Minas Gerais. of Brazilian communities. The Social Technology concept – referring to products, techniques or methodologies Digital Inclusion: in effect since 2004, the FBB Digital designed by interacting with the communities and that Inclusion Program consists of fostering digital inclusion result in actual social transformation solutions – are the in communities with no access to the internet, computers hallmark of its operations. This approach raises the value and IT tools, in addition to social and productive inclusion of the organized community for it to become an agent of through Meta Recycling Stations, spaces for technical solutions. The idea of development takes on new local training in reconditioning computers and electronic waste. nuances, enabling community self-management and Thanks to the Digital Stations young people and adults involvement and generating constant learning and a new can access government services and the skills that will technology culture while building processes for participathelp them find a position in the job market. ing in the creation of public policies. Annual Report 2012 p.93 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance The Bank used a workshop to present panels about the There are over 1,300 such points throughout Brazil, in Brazil Water Program and the theme of social businesses, which FBB operates in partnership with the networks in addition to formalizing its adherence to the Green of social, cultural and economic solidarity movements. Municipalities Program designed for granting loans to rural During 2012, some 33 new Digital Stations were set up, producers in Pará State. BB also organized the seminar while 500 of the existing ones are undergoing revitalizaThe Financial Sector, Farming and Natural Capital: from tion, with computers being salvaged and the visual stanRio-92 to Rio+20 and looking forward to Rio+50. Also BB dardization upgraded, jointly with BB. In 2012 alone, executives met with Muhammad Yunus, winner of the projects totaling R$5.6 million were initiated, including 2006 Nobel Peace Prize and creator of microcredit. 33 digital stations of which 20 saw the direct involvement of the AABB Comunidade (Community) Program. FBB set up a stand at the Peoples’ Summit – an area at Rio+20 that drew attention for its sociocultural diversity AABB Comunidade: the AABB Comunidade (Com– to introduce and further explore the discussion about munity) Program is a social technology in the education reapplying social technologies in the search for effective field that offers supplementary schooling for children and solutions for problems common to the population segadolescents in the public school network aged between 6 ments comprising the base of the social pyramid. and 18, and is present in every municipality with a branch of Banco do Brasil. The main objective is to contribute FBB also invited representatives of the World Business to social inclusion, eliminating dropouts while keeping Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) to parchildren and adolescents in the school through recreticipate in a guided tour of the Complexo do Alemão slum ational activities designed around the fields of health, community, where the Bank runs Sustainable Regional hygiene, sport, art and environmental education. In 2012, Development (SRD) and Oriented Productive Credit approximately 52,000 children and adolescents took part (MPO) initiatives, at the inauguration of the first plate cisin activities of the AABB Comunidade program in 400 tern in Rio de Janeiro, precisely in that neighborhood. municipalities in all regions of Brazil. At the event the Foundation also signed an Amazon More information about the Foundation can be found at Fund Financial and Technical Cooperation Agreement www.fbb.org.br. with the National Social and Economic Development Bank (BNDES) for R$100 million. Over a 5-year period BB and FBB at Rio+20 the social investment will benefit organized communities Banco do Brasil was among the principal partners of of traditional peoples, indigenous, artisan fishermen, fish Rio+20, the United Nations Conference on Sustainable breeders, extractivists, agrarian reform settlers and family Development, which took place in Rio de Janeiro befarmers undertaking economically sustainable projects. tween June 13 and 22, and served to renew the political commitment to sustainable development over decades Also during Rio+20 FBB signed a protocol of intent to to come. By participating, the bank sought to disclose implement the structure of the Recycling Complex at its sustainability actions, hand-in-hand with the BrazilJardim Gramacho, the former landfill of Rio de Janeiro. ian government and society, in addition to engaging its executives and all stakeholders. Annual Report 2012 p.94 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Participation of BB at Rio+20 in figures 76 employees working at the event 26 automated teller machines 96,800 transactions totaling R$7.3 million 37,800 foreign exchange transactions totaling R$4 million R$11 million invested 2012 Valores do Brasil Award In November 2012 in Brasília Banco do Brasil held the In the BB Volunteer Program category the projects were awards ceremony for the third edition of the Valores do selected from 211 supported by Fundação Banco do Brasil Award. The prize, created in 2008 and awarded Brasil (FBB) and by the Childhood and Adolescence every two year, rewards, encourages and divulges initiaFund (FIA) whose resources were transferred between tives with significant social and/or scientific value within 2010 and 2011. Pre-selection lay with the Bank’s units in the scope of Brazil’s development in its various aspects. each state, the phase when the projects were analyzed in terms of creativity, adherence to the principles of socioThe third edition of the Award acknowledged actual sucenvironmental responsibility, cost-benefit ratio, qualitative cessful case studies and experiences in four categories and quantitative results and the degree of involvement of (SRD, BB Families, BB Volunteer Program and the BB the Banco do Brasil employee in the project. Group and Partners), focusing on business plans for sustainable regional development and volunteer work iniTo find out more about the winning projects access tiatives of Banco do Brasil and its active or retired employwww.bb.com.br/premiovaloresdobrasil. ees, in addition to the socio-environmental projects of the Bank and its associate companies and project partners. Government GRI SO5 This time the central theme for choosing the award winners was the green and inclusive economy and the BB is the financial agent of the National Treasury, looking all-encompassing view of the economic, social and after the government’s sole account and in charge of environmental aspects of water. Twenty initiatives were transferring funds to other elements of the Federation. chosen from Brazil’s 5 regions. In line with the United With other federal entities it operates in raising fundNations initiative that elected 2012 as the International ing and programs. The Bank is also the official financial Year of Cooperatives, the Valores do Brasil Award agent of 16 states and 16 capital cities. It also provides identified 273 business plans in the sustainable regional specific solutions for all Brazilian municipalities. development category whose partner is an association or cooperative, and which has adopted the beneficial In 2012, the government sector showed considerable criteria generated and the economic, social, environprogress in terms of volume. Following the government’s mental and cultural impacts. decision to raise the limits on state indebtedness, BB showed its creativity and agility in raising funding abroad and in developing/making available credit lines for investment and debt restructuring. BB also played an active Annual Report 2012 p.95 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance role in the Conflict Resolution Projects organized by the to reach the target of zero deforestation by supporting the National Council of Justice and the Regional Appellate pursuit of sustainable production activities with low carbon Courts in an attempt to reduce litigation. emissions and a high degree of socio-environmental responsibility. On June 14, 2012, at Rio+20, Banco do Brasil Banco do Brasil is an important player in providing supadhered to the Green Municipalities Program by agreeing port to public entities and in furthering public policies to provide products, services and programs that foster capable of providing specialist service and appropriate quality of life for the population and the sustainable use of solutions. The proposed modus operandi based on five the environment, allocating priority to those municipalities axes – Local management, Socioeconomic Develthat have signed up for the program. opment, Infrastructure, Education and Transparent Management and on a global approach to customers In symphony with the National Policy on the Production underlines this position and affords the Bank competiand Use of Biodiesel, Banco do Brasil initiated negotiative advantages over its competitors. tions with the companies Biopalma da Amazônia S.A. Reflorestamento Indústria e Comércio (Vale Group) and In 2012, Banco do Brasil set in motion the National Rural Palmaplan Agroindústria Ltda. (Oleoplan Group) to finance Housing Program (PNHR). Created by the Brazilian governpalm oil (dendê) production for manufacturing oil and ment to reduce the housing deficit in the countryside, the biodiesel. The partnership initially involves planting 60,000 initiative is part of the Programa Minha Casa, Minha Vida hectares in their own lands, and around 20,000 hectares (PMCMV). In November, FBB organized a workshop on held by family farmers linked to the Biovale and Palmaplan PNHR, with the participation of managers of entities that projects in areas that have already been altered but not reapply social technologies, organizing entities already deforested, with financing of around R$80 million having involved with the program and government representatives. been provided primarily through the Pronaf Eco-Dendê (ecological palm oil family agriculture) program in one The Green Municipalities Program is a veritable compact municipality in the State of Roraima (Rorainópolis) and 10 between the government of Pará state, private and public in the State of Pará (Acará, Mojú, Abaetetuba, Tomé-Açu, entities and non-governmental organizations to foster ecoConcórdia do Pará, São Domingos do Capim, Tailândia, nomic development within that state, while also searching Aurora do Pará, Igarapé-Mirim and Bujaru). 2012 Highlights in Solutions for the Public Sector e-Tendering: the primary instrument for electronic procureBB GestãoMax Program: recently launched by the Bank ment used by states and municipalities. In 2012 this system this program enables customers to manage their cash and handled 50,200 tenders totaling R$112.9 billion. e-Tendering payments, as well as other services, in their business enviresults in savings of around 20% for the purchasing entities ronments. Users can also optimize cash management and in comparison with traditional tendering processes. the agility, efficiency and convenience of their daily transacPublic Sector Self-Service (AASP): ensures the Bank’s tions, enabling customers to improve their processes without availability to its customers, combining the convenience and having to acquire tools for this in the market. agility of the internet with the security of Banco do Brasil. Interconnection: by investing in technology solutions BB Last year saw over 300 million transactions by 21,332 users provides services whereby courts can send electronic orders of the AASP system. The Bank has provided access to the to the Bank which are automatically processed, thereby Public Sector Self-Service facility via tablets and cell phones eliminating the use of physical documents and reducing the that use the Android system. This new means of access need to physically go to the Bank. strictly adheres to the Bank’s standards of security and the uses the same authentication methods as the Public Sector Self-Service facility via internet. Annual Report 2012 p.96 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Shareholders and Investors GRI 4.6 | 4.16 | 4.17 The Bank has an Investor Relations Unit (URI) in In order to improve relationships with individual invescharge of centralizing and disclosing to the market tors, in 2012 Banco do Brasil and the Association of and stakeholders its strategies, relevant information and Capital Market Investment Analysts and Professionals the Bank’s results. (Apimec) held meetings in six Brazilian state capitals: Porto Alegre, Brasília, Belo Horizonte, Fortaleza, São In order for this relationship to be based on transparency Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. These events brought tothe Bank constantly organizes exchanges of experiences gether around 1,100 people. between analysts, rating agencies, shareholders, investors, the IR departments of other companies, the regulaPress tory bodies and capital market supervisors. Banco do Brasil deals with the press through trained spokespersons and a specialist press office team. This constant relationship takes place through particiRelationships with Brazilian and international journalists pating in and organizing encounters, conferences and looking for information about Banco do Brasil are based miscellaneous events, in addition to a communication on transparency and ethics. channel that is always open to receive request for information, with a 48-hour deadline for responding In 2012, BB took top spot among Brazilian banks in to such requests. terms of positive exposure in the press, according to an audit carried out by the company CDN. A significant part The URI is also institutionally responsible for publishing of this positive result in spontaneous media is due to the the Annual Report, the Reference Form and all other BOMPRATODOS business strategy launched in April, documents involving the disclosure of the Bank’s results, which has attracted hundreds of positive comments in such as performance analysis reports and the accounting the principal communication outlets, such as the Brazilstatements. All such documents are constantly updated ian press, radio and TV, resulting in record exposure for so as to avoid out-of-date information, while suggestions the Bank’s image in a single month. from the market are mapped and followed up on whenever possible. The Institution monitors daily press coverage about itself on a daily basis in the principal media outlets of the cenBanco do Brasil makes available an extensive range tral economies, as well as in countries which are its busiof reports and information to the Brazilian Securities ness partners. Some 25 newspapers, etc., are monitored Exchange Commission (CVM) and on the Investor every day to identify any need for timely repositioning or Relations site. In addition it also invites the market to other steps that might add value to the BB image. conferences whenever management deems it necessary to clarify specific matters affecting the Organization. In 2012, Banco do Brasil organized 104 events with investors and analysts in Brazil, 9 non-deal roadshows (relationship visits) abroad, 11 conferences in Brazil and abroad and held 8 teleconferences about its results with analysts and investors, in addition to personalized services for investors and market analysts. Annual Report 2012 p.97 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Competition External Ombudsman GRI 4.13 Banco do Brasil is constantly striving to improve its relationship with its different stakeholders. The Ombudsman As market leader, Banco do Brasil has a policy of enables the BB to strengthen its intention of adopting close relationships with Brazil’s other financial institubest market practices regarding respect for consumer tions, based on ethical and responsible values, as rights. This is because instead of substituting convenwell as courteousness. tional communication channels, the Ombudsman deals with matters forwarded by users who approached the This relationship is not confined to the exchange of inforbranches or other contact points but were not satisfied mation and relevant market experiences alone, but also, with the outcome and want their case reviewed. whenever possible, the sharing of logistics resources and technology so as to foster partnerships for launching BB considers the demands of its stakeholders that origiproducts and services. BB also actively participates in nate with the Ombudsman as priceless opportunities for miscellaneous groups that debate and propose changes enhancing its products, services, processes and chanto enhance the efficiency of the financial industry. nels. Reiterating this approach the department remains in close contact with the principal consumer rights Committed to socio-environmental responsibility initiaprotection entities and with regulatory and supervisory tives, BB has joined the competition in combating slave bodies in order to dialog or improve certain positions, and degrading labor and in identifying measures caapply shared actions, strengthening both the ombudspable of eliminating it from its business and relationship man culture and respect for consumers. chains. To do so it participates in initiatives led by the Brazilian Banks Federation (FEBRABAN) involving both Thanks to this approach, in 2012 the BB External Omthe business and socio-environmental responsibility. budsman was acknowledged as one of the best in Brazil, participating in the Brazil Ombudsman Awards, an initiaAlongside the principal banks and Brazilian companies, tive by the Brazilian Association of Ombudsmen and the BB is part of the Thematic Chambers on Energy and Brazilian Association for Business-Customer Relations Climate Change (CTClima) and on Sustainable Finance with the support of the magazine Consumidor Moderno. (CTFin) and the Brazilian Business Council for Sustainable Development (Cebds). The purpose of this In 2012, the BB Ombudsman resolved a total of 48,523 joint approach is to add principles and practices for complaints, including those received directly and those encouraging sustainable development to the business intermediated by external bodies (the Central Bank, the context, in order to harmonize the economic, social and consumer protection agencies (Procons) and others), environmental dimensions. representing an increase of 5.7% over the previous year. The BB customer base also grew by 4.6%, equivalent to 2,550,000 new customers. Complaints Resolved by 2011 2012 the Ombudsman Volume of Complaints Annual Ratio (1) Volume of Complaints Annual Ratio (1) Direct Complaints 18,850 33.66 16,475 28.14 Central Bank 15,599 27.85 18,220 31.12 Consumer Protection Agencies (Procons) 11,446 20.44 13,828 23.62 (1) Ratio: number of complaints, divided by the number of customers, multiplied by 100,000, equals the number of complaints per group of 100,000 customers. For more information access the Ombudsman’s Institutional. Annual Report 2012 p.98 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance •To increase the social support base for environmenOmbudsman’s Channels tal management and conservation, conscientious consumption and recycling of solid waste through Telephone: 0800 729 5678 in-house and external campaigns. Special number for those with impaired hearing or speech: 0800 729 0088 Website: www.bb.com.br, by inserting the number In 2012, the various activities and actions undertaken of the protocol obtained when filing the led to socio-environmental progress and solutions for complaint with the CSU the localities served. The principal results follow. Socio-Environmental Project Prong The Environment The countryside – Water and Agriculture: (i) 7 socioGRI FS5 environmental surveys carried out, with 7 cooperation agreements in river basins, with over 40 public and private The Brasil Water Program institutions involved; (ii) deployment commences of the The Brazil Water Program, a Banco do Brasil initiative Demonstrative Units, with the planting of seedlings and with the National Water Agency, Fundação Banco do soil conservation at Lençóis Paulista (SP); (iii) planting Brasil (FBB) and WWF-Brasil, aims to conserve water of 32,000 seedlings and the approval of 2 Environmental resources by jointly seeking with society solutions with Service Payment (PSA) contracts in the Pipiripau river bawater supply-related problems. sin area; and (iv) implementation of FBB social technologies, providing access to water for communities located in Transversally related to the Agenda 21, the Brazil Water the Peruaçu river basin (MG). Program takes a four-pronged approach – Socio-Environmental Projects, Risk Mitigation, Sustainable BusiUrban Environment – Sustainable Cities, Responnesses and Communication and Engagement – and sible Consumption and Recycling: (i) checking into its objectives are: consumption and waste disposal habits of the Brazilian population, by the National Opinion Poll, together •To promote awareness and behavioral changes in with the Ibope Market Research Agency, bearing in society with regard to environmental management and mind what it is willing to do, in addition to identifying the conservation and to encourage conscientious consumpdegree of awareness as to the National Policy on Solid tion and the proper treatment of solid urban waste Waste; (ii) five socio-environmental surveys carried out in the cities of Caxias do Sul (RS), Rio Branco (AC), in five cities; (iii) signing of five Protocols of Intent with Pirenópolis (GO), Natal (RN) and Belo Horizonte (MG); the local authorities of those five cities, to draw up and •To adopt sustainable farming practices, reducing their implement the 2013-2014 work plans regarding selecimpact on natural resources and biodiversity; tive garbage collection and recycling; (iv) training of lo•To improve water quality and expand natural vegetacal agents, with the emphasis on waste pickers and the tion cover through representative projects in 14 micro creation of local committees to support the actions of river basins in the Cerrado (Savannah)/Pantanal the Brazil Water Program; and (v) advisory services on (Wetlands), Atlantic forest, Amazon, Caatinga (dry drawing up projects with the aim of acquiring equipment brushland) and Pampa biomes; from the FBB for recyclable materials cooperatives – •To disseminate and replicate business models CataUnidos and RedeSol in Belo Horizonte (MG). designed for sustainable regional development while strengthening/expanding the portfolio of financial Risk Mitigation Prong: preparation of the BB Sustainproducts and services with environmental features; ability Guidelines for Lending to the Civil Construction and Mining Sectors. In November 2012, the Brazil Water Program continued Annual Report 2012 p.99 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance with the initiative for engaging stakeholders in defining Eco-Efficiency sustainability guidelines for lending, this time focusing on GRI EN18 | EN26 civil construction and mining. The Dialog Panel on Sustainability Guidelines for Lending – Civil Construction and The Bank’s miscellaneous initiatives for reducing Mining got together by customers, employees of different consumption of natural resources and proper disposal departments, sustainability specialists and representatives of waste are governed by the Eco-Efficiency Program. of civil society and government, with aim of incorporating Eco-efficiency management has been part of the BB the suggestions received through these stakeholders. business model since the 1990s, and is supported by control and monitoring tools. The previous edition in 2011 had evaluated the BB Sustainability Guidelines for Lending to the agribusiness and Within the scope of the branches, Banco do Brasil uses electrical power sectors. To consult this document access instruments that assist in monitoring compliance with www.bb.com.br/sustentabilidade. the dictates of corporate strategy. In this respect the Labor Agreement (BB and ATB synergy) adds a series Holding Engagement Panels is an on-going process of initiatives that are aligned with socio-environmental contemplated in the challenges of the Banco do Brasil responsibility principles defined by the Bank. Sustainability Plan – Agenda 21, whose purpose is to enhance the Bank’s processes and businesses in a Worthy of note is the environmental footprint eco-efficiency sustainable manner. index whose aim is to disseminate eco-efficiency among BB employees in line with the BB Eco-Efficiency strategy The realization of the workshop of Biodiversity for Banks and best corporate environmental management pracenabled the financial industry to reflect on a sustainable tices, in accordance with the assessment of the DJSI, the environmental agenda and the role of the banks. One ISE and ISO 14001, by reducing consumption of natural of the objectives of the event was to assist financial resources and undertaking selective garbage collection, institution to face up to the challenges of incorporating forwarding recyclable solid waste to recyclable material biodiversity and ecosystem services into their lending cooperatives/associations that accept such materials. decisions. The workshop content was developed by the environmental organization WWF in partnership with the Association of the Equator Principles and the Business and Biodiversity Offsets Program (BBOP). Eco-efficiency Program Initiatives Also in 2012, the Brazil Water Program organized a Energy Consumption Rationalization Program workshop on Training for Banco do Brasil Rural TechniCartridge and Toner Remanufacturing Program cal Analysts (ATRs), so as to expand their skills and Water Consumption Rationalization Program knowledge for analyzing socio-environmental criteria Printed Material Rationalization Program when assessing risks. Selective Collection Program Green Branches For more details about the Brazil Water Program go to ISO 14001 Certification www.blogaguabrasil.com.br and www.bbaguabrasil.com.br. Annual Report 2012 p.100 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Water GRI EN8 To continually improve the monitoring of internal water use Challenge 16. and the adoption of measures to reduce it, the Institution runs the Program for the Rational Use of Water (Purágua). To enhance the management of eco-efficiency Within the scope of this program, a register of branch indicators (reduction/compensation of emissions, consumption has been installed on the corporate system, energy consumption, paper consumption, use of renewable energy, waste generation while internal awareness campaigns have been carried out, and water consumption). See how BB is among other measures. The water consumed in the adminfacing up to this challenge on page 41. istration premises is provided by utility companies whose systems are also used by the Bank to dispose of effluents. The reduction in water consumption in 2012 in the strategic buildings was the result of an intense program of hydraulic system maintenance. Water Consumption in the Strategic Buildings (m3) (1) 2010 2011 2012 Head Office Building I 70,465 101,016 86,773 Head Office Building II 10,393 10,183 11,288 Head Office Building III 39,151 37,611 36,476 Head Office Building IV 37,673 40,507 45,547 CCT 14,141 37,440 25,146 Tancredo Neves Building 31,525 27,792 38,340 Total 203,348 254,549 243,570 (1) Water consumption referring to the Banco do Brasil administration buildings, all located in Brasília (DF). Energy GRI EN4 GRI EN5 Total Energy Consumption (TJoule) (1) The Banco do Brasil Electricity Conservation Program 2010 2,139 (Procen) has managed electricity consumption on its 2011 2,307 premises since 1990. By modernizing lighting and air 2012 2,830 conditioning equipment, generators and transform(1) The electricity consumption management system at Banco do Brasil is being ers, BB obtained savings of around 48 GWh/annum in enhanced, so the data may change with time. the early years of the Procen program. Thereafter the electricity consumption stabilized, and none energetic efficiency project was implemented. The increase in GRI EN3 electricity consumption in 2012 can be attributed to the organic growth of BB and the implementation of air Diesel Oil Consumption (GJoule) conditioning systems on the premises incorporated from 2010 17,221.89 Banco Nossa Caixa. 2011 15,801.54 2012 23,123.81 Annual Report 2012 p.101 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Materials GRI EN6 | EN18 Materials Consumption (tons) Banco do Brasil constantly strives to reduce its consump9,374 9,540 tion of materials by investing in technologies and demand8,737 ing miscellaneous environmental certifications on the products it acquires. The principal material consumed by the Bank is paper, and from this point of view one of the more significant initiatives to reduce consumption is to use digital technologies. The Electronic Transactions Dossier (Deoc), whose first phase is being adopted at all branches throughout Brazil, will enable the substitution of physical documents by digitalized images. This initiative not only avoids physically copying of documents, but also trans2010 2011 2012 porting them so that they are accessible to all users. Since 2011, Banco do Brasil has required environmental When acquiring microcomputers the Bank recommends certification of origin of the raw material used to make for some products compliance with the RoHS Directive the heat-sensitive paper used in manufacturing the (Restriction of Hazardous Substances Directive – Directive reels of paper used in ATMs and cash desks. This has 2002/95/EC of The European Parliament and of Council) made BB the first bank to put the Cerflor and Inmetro and that suppliers adopt a policy for recycling and disposal certification stamps on the reels used in these chanof electronic material – the WEEE Directive (Waste nels, revealing to customers and users its concern with Electrical and Electronic Equipment – Directive 2002/96/ sustainability and quality. EC). In 2012, BB modernized 25% of its total multiple function terminals at its head office, replacing these with new, The conclusion of the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) more efficient equipment. certification process at the printing units in Rio de Janeiro in 2012 ensures that all printed material produced When acquiring refrigerators, the prerequisite is that the in-house bears the FSC stamp. The same certification or product should not contain CFC and should bear the adaptation to Forestry Certification (Cerflor) and Elemental Procel A stamp or equivalent in respect of the consumption Chlorine Free (EFC) certification are required as a technilevel. When leasing vehicles for transporting employees, cal specification when purchasing furniture. these must be Brazilian made and have the flex feature (gasoline and ethanol-powered engine). To reduce paper consumption, since 2011 BB has adopted a policy of acquiring 70 grams white A4-size paper – proSelective Collection duced using technology that uses 6.67% less raw material Initiated in 2008, the Selective Collection Program con(compared to traditional 75 grams) – certified by the FSC. templates solid waste management in two phases: proper The production of 70 grams paper was discontinued in separation of waste according to its characteristics and Brazil by the sole Brazilian manufacture, in the first half the possibility of recycling and forwarding to associations of 2012, for which reason BB returned to using 75 grams or cooperatives of recyclable material collectors. from the second half of the year onward. GRI EN1 The reduction that occurred in 2012 was primarily due to having channeled around 60% of check production to outsourced companies. Regarding the consumption of A4 paper, in spite of the fact that the Organization is growing, there has been a noticeable decline in consumption. Annual Report 2012 p.102 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance In 2012 the Collective Garbage Collection Program was extended to the municipalities of Ribeirão Preto (SP) and Florianópolis (SC), as well as the State of Rio Grande do Sul. The period from 2008 to 2012 covered 595 premises. The Bank’s objective for 2013 is to extend selective collection in 22 states, involving 2,163 premises located in cities where there are cooperatives/associations of recyclable material collectors or a public selective collection service. In the case of property cleaning and conservation services the Organization requires the contracted company to engage in selective collection of waste at the premises already served by the Selective Collection Program. Also, in call notices and contracts for acquiring and installing no-breaks and no-break batteries there are clauses requiring the recycling of equipment and batteries that are substituted, in compliance with Resolution No. 401 of the National Environmental Council (Conama). GRI EN29 GRI EN2 | EN22 Waste from the Selective Collection Program Volume in Kilograms Paper 5,754,371 Plastics 120,665 Metal 69,647 Batteries and Wet Cells 6,118 Glass 3,973 Total 5,954,774 Disposal method: recyclable solid waste generated is forwarded to accredited cooperatives/associations of recyclable material collectors in compliance with Decree No. 5,940/06. In order to properly dispose of and recycle waste the Bank has a Cartridge and Toner Remanufacturing Program (Prorec) whose results can be seen in the following table. Cartridge and Toner Remanufacturing Program (Prorec) 2010 2011 2012 Total Consumed (1) 107,475 109,229 103,263 Volume Remanufactured 106,081 103,801 99,651 Percentage Remanufactured (2) 98.7 95.0 96.5 (1) Original + remanufactured toners. (2) Volume of remanufactured toners /total consumption. Annual Report 2012 p.103 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Greenhouse Gas Emission Management GRI EN6 | EN16 | EN17 | EN18 BB is founder-member of the Companies for Climate In May 2012, the Digital Image Clearing System (CDI) Program and the Brazilian GHG Protocol, both of which became officially operational. Developed in 2009 by were designed to reflect on and come up with actions the Brazilian Federation of Banks (FEBRABAN) and against climate change. It is also a member of the Clithe associate banks, the purpose of the initiative is to mate Change Theme Chamber (CTClima), an initiative digitalize all checks issued in Brazil and eliminate the coordinated by the Brazilian Business Council for Susneed to transport them in aircrafts, bullion trucks and tainable Development (CEBDS) to assist businesses in boats, resulting in lower expenditures, greater security adopting strategies for taking advantage of opportuniand rapidity for banks and customers, and the reduction ties while minimizing risks, thereby preparing them for a in natural resources used and GHGs emitted. world with restrictions on GHG emissions. The outcome expected includes the elimination of Banco do Brasil provides a service for electronic prearound 1,000 ground transportation and 50 aircraft sentation of registered bills in collection issued by finanroutes, as well as several routed plied by boats in cial institutions. Launched in 2009 as a gradual replacecertain regions of Brazil. This is expected to reduce CO2 ment for paper bills in collection, the Approved Direct atmospheric emissions by approximately 15,000 tons a Debit (DDA) system adds security and convenience, year, as approximately 37 million kilometers a year will among other advantages. BB customers can see their no longer be traveled. This expected reduction was the collection slips on the internet, ATMs, cell phone or at outcome of a route study carried out by KPMG using the the BB Service Central. GHG Protocol methodology. Since its implementation the program has added 1.2 BB is one of the main players in developing the system, million electronic drawees, with more than 159 million since besides being the Clearing Executor for the bankelectronic collection slips presented. During his period, ing industry it has also made available its entire IT strucby not having printed any slips, the BB DDA service ture to receive the files, with the main processing taking contributed to reducing the consumption of approxiplace in Brasília and the contingency process in Rio de mately 41,000 eucalyptus trees, 74.4 million liters of Janeiro, affording the process a high level of availability, water and 3.7 million kW/h of energy, in addition to not reliability and security. releasing 12,000 tons of CO2 into the environment. And in order to reduce the number of land and air deployThe system was perfected in 2012 and now also makes ments by employees in service, Banco do Brasil currently past due payment slips available, which means an has 237 audio and videoconferencing rooms allocated increase of 16% in the flow in relation to the volume regacross all Brazilian states and in some premises abroad. istered in 2011, or approximately an additional 60 million This low-cost solution is ideal for small offices and slips issued, or 11% of all bank payment slips in Brazil. reduces business travel costs while enabling the participation of employees who are at a distance. From the perspective of emissions, the item has a strong impact, as described on page 104 of the inventory. GRI EN29 Annual Report 2012 p.104 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Neutralization of Emissions For the first time ever, Banco do Brasil has acquired And as a mean of increasing the participation in the certificates for neutralizing 4,228 kilos of CO2 and Banco do Brasil National Encounter with Analysts and greenhouse gases referring to the APIMEC events held Investors, “APIMEC São Paulo”, without aggravating the in Porto Alegre, Belo Horizonte, Brasília, Fortaleza, São environmental impact, the event was broadcasted via the Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. Consideration was given to internet and smartphone. At this edition of the APIMEC the direct emissions from the consumption of fuel to meetings no banners were produced in canvas, with all produce energy and prepare food, as well as indirect local communication taking place via LCD TVs. emissions from using electricity during the events. The greenhouse gas emissions were neutralized in accordance with the practices of integrity, additionality and recommendations of ABNT Standard NBR 15948:2011. Banco do Brasil Inventory of CO2 Emissions (1) Scope Emission Source 2011 2012 Variation (%) 4,435 tCO2e 5,831 tCO2e Fleet of Own Vehicles for (Ethanol – 844,000) (Ethanol – 621,000) 31.5 Use in Branches (liters) (Gasoline – 2.45 million) (Gasoline – 2.93 million) (Diesel – 115,000) (Diesel – 89,000) Scope 1 (2) 1,102 tCO2e 1,612 tCO2e Electricity Generators 46.2 (Diesel – 439,000 liters) (Diesel – 642,000 liters) Biomass 1,757 tCO2e 1,539 tCO2e (12.4) 17,633 tCO2e 54,235 tCO2e Scope 2 (3) Electricity Acquired (kWh) 207 (697 million) (794 million) 10,664 tCO2e 7,954 tCO2e Scope 3 (4) Air Travel (25.5) (78,311 tickets) (57,810 tickets) (1) The growth in fuel consumption by the electricity generators is due to the Organization’s organic growth, which has increased the inventory base, as well as the adaptation to the systematic safety testing of equipment which is now carried out every six months in order to comply with regulatory standards; (2) The increase of 14% in electricity consumption in kWh terms can also be attributed to the organic growth of BB in 2012. The high positive variation in the volume of greenhouse gas emissions noted in scope 2 is due in the main to the higher conversion factor of the Sistema Interligado Nacional (SIN) (Brazil’s National Grid) in relation to the same period of the previous year, resulting from the constant recourse to highly pollutant, non-renewable energy from thermoelectric generators; (3) Banco do Brasil has encouraged the use of its videoconferencing rooms, of which there are 237 in operation throughout Brazil. This measure has enabled a gradual reduction in the number of air tickets and GHG emissions arising from this source. Green Branches In 2012, BB opened two eco-efficient branches in branches are the result of studies into the developSão Paulo (SP) and Messejana (CE). Designed to ment of environmental sustainability solutions and reduce environmental impacts, from construction energy efficiency, as well as instruments for taking to building maintenance (some of the differential financial and environmental education initiatives. features can be seen in the box), the eco-efficient Annual Report 2012 p.105 THE BOMPRATODOS PROGRAM Socio-Environmental Performance Eco-efficient Branch Differentials • Bioclimatic architectural design: use of passive • Maximizing natural lighting and ventilation; ambient control systems, including optimal localization • Maximization of the building’s thermal performance: of the building in relation to climate variables, shapes, green roof, internal garden, walls of soil-cement seals, protection, finishing and materials; bricks and thermal insulation; • Hybrid electricity generation system: energy from • Furniture made from certified wood; the grid and photovoltaic cells; • Preferential parking space available for low-emission • Systems for rational water use: capture of rain water vehicles, parking spaces for persons with disabilities and treatment of greywater (sullage); and bicycle parks; • Use of water-based paints; • Infrastructure for selective collection; • Air conditioning systems free of environmentally • LEED Certification – GOLD Level (Leadership in harmful gases, and re-use of thermal energy used Energy and Environmental Design), scoring system for cooling new incoming air; designed by the US Green Building Council (US• Clean building work, with control and disposal GBC): obtained in September 2012 by the São Paulo of waste for recycling; Branch (SP); certification is in progress at the Messe• Use of building materials with a lower jana Branch (CE). environmental impact; Annual Report 2012 p.106 Awards THE BOMPRATODOS and Recognitions PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance 09 THE DIFFERENTIATED PERFORMANCE OF BANCO DO BRASIL IN SEVERAL AREAS WAS ACKNOWLEDGED BY THE MARKET GRI 2.10 In acknowledgement of its performance in the various • BB’s BOMPRATODOS campaign was among the fields in which it operates, Banco do Brasil (BB) winners at the 25th edition of the Marketing Best received a series of awards and recognitions during Award, an annual event organized by publishers 2012. Those worthy of note are: Editora Referência, through the magazine Marketing and by Madia Mundo Marketing; • Listed on the 2012-2013 Dow Jones • Brasilprev Seguros e Previdência was once again Sustainability Index; acknowledged for its role in the Brazilian open private • Listed for the 8th consecutive year on the pension plan industry, having been presented with BM&FBovespa Corporate Sustainability Index; the Most Prestigious Companies in Brazil Award by • Winner in the Best Financial Company category at the the magazine Carta Capital; 5th edition of the Época Negócios 100 Award; • Banco do Brasil received a plaque in recognition of • Elected the bank that most respects its customers, its important role in disseminating and contributing to according to a survey by Shopper Experience pubBrazil’s attainment of the Millennium Goals; lished by the magazine Consumidor Moderno; • Banco do Brasil leads the global ranking as the • A survey carried out by consulting company CVA soundest bank on the planet, according to a survey by Solutions shows the Bank in 1st place in the ranking the independent US risk rating agency – Weiss Ratof institutions that please their account holders best; ings. The survey was published on the BankingMyWay •B  anco do Brasil took 1st place in the Banks site, specializing in the international banking market; category and 3rd place in the overall ranking of • Banco do Brasil was acknowledged as one Reliable Brands 2012 published by the magazine of the leading companies in the Época Green Seleções do Reader’s Digest; Company Award; • BB remains the brand with the highest recall in the • The 2012 version of the Guia dos Bancos Banks category of the Folha de São Paulo newspaper Responsáveis (GBR) (Responsible Banks Guidebook) Top of Mind Award since the 1st edition. It was also the was lauched, published by the Brazilian Consumer brand with the highest recall in the Finance category, Protection Institute (IDEC), in which BB appears as the while among financial institutions it takes 1st place only bank among its peers whose performance was when the subject is the FIFA World Cup Finals and classified as “good;” the Olympic Games; Annual Report 2012 p.107 Awards and Recognitions • Gold Stamp in the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program of Ombudsman Awards, an initiative by the Brazilian AsFundação Getulio Vargas (FGV); sociation of Ombudsmen and the Brazilian Association • Listed on the CDP Global 500 Report 2012 of the for Business-Customer Relations with the support of Carbon Disclosure Project; the magazine Consumidor Moderno; • Listed on the Newsweek Green Ranking 2012, by • Banco do Brasil was the major winner of the Intangíveis Newsweek (USA), Sustainalytics (USA) and Trucost Brasil (PIB) 2012 Award in the special Top Intangíveis (United Kingdom); Brasil category in the banking industry, also taking top • The Licitações-e (e-Tendering) portal once again spot in the overall ranking for the first time; took top prize in the VI Award during the VII Brazil• For the second consecutive year, Banco do Brasil reian Congress of On-Line Auctioneers, in the following ceived the Corporate Architecture Award, this time for the categories: Best Electronic Tender System 2011, Best design of the Style 2.0 Santa Maria Branch (RS) in the Interaction with Suppliers 2011 and Largest Number of Corporate Interior Design – Projects Completed category; Tenders Carried Out and Completed in 2011; • BB came 3rd in the Brand Finance ranking of the most • The Bank’s CEO, Aldemir Bendine, received from the valuable brands in Brazil and Latin America in 2012; governor of the State of Minas Gerais, the Medalha da • BB was considered the favorite brand of the new BrazilInconfidência, the highest award by that State, which ian middle class in a survey conducted by Data Popular; is awarded annually to personalities and entities that • BB was rated the largest bank in Latin America by the have contributed to the development of Minas Gerais; AméricaEconomía Intelligence magazine; • In the Banker’s Deals of The Year 2012 almanac, • The Banco do Brasil Corporate University (UniBB) Banco do Brasil came 1st in the most impressive fundreceived the following public acknowledgements in ing transactions for the US$1 billion subordinated debt 2012: Best Corporate Education Program in Brazil and issued abroad; National Benchmark in Learning & Performance Brazil • Banco do Brasil was chosen as the bank that provided 2012. It was also considered one of the Best Corpothe best service to its customers and to Brazil in 2011, rate Universities in Brazil by Corporate University Best receiving the Quality Banks diploma from the magain Class CUBIC Awards Brazil; zine Banco Hoje; • The 50 “Empresas do Bem” (Companies that Do • BB took 1st place in the Bloomberg equity sales rankGood) 2012 Award from the magazine IstoÉ Dinheiro. ing, one of the world’s principal providers of information to the financial market; Access and find out more about all the awards received by • BB External Ombudsman was acknowledged as one BB during the year and in different areas at www.bb.com.br. of the 10 best in Brazil, participating in the Brazil . Annual Report 2012 p.108 Ibase Social Balance Sheet + NBCT 15 GRI EC1 | EN28 | EN30 1. Calculation base 2011 (R$ thousand) 2012 (R$ thousand) Net Income (NI) 26,106,906 27,706,816 Operating Income (OI) 18,506,767 17,226,772 Gross Payroll (GP) (1) 14,912,575 16,503,443 Total Value Added (TVA) (5) 41,527,413 43,470,807 R$ thou% of % of % of R$ thou% of % of % of 2. Internal Social Indicators sand GP NI TVA sand GP NI TVA Meals 1,086,261 7.3 3.9 8.9 1,142,332 6.9 4.1 2.6 Mandatory Social Charges 2,455,755 16.5 8.9 20.1 2,872,138 17.4 10.4 6.6 Private Pension Scheme (2) 1,164,046 7.8 4.2 9.5 2,243,701 13.6 8.1 5.2 Health (2) 894,943 6.0 3.3 7.3 927,960 5.6 3.3 2.1 Occupational Health and Safety 41,858 0.3 0.2 0.3 70,249 0.4 0.3 0.2 Education (3) 27,583 0.2 0.1 0.2 18,962 0.1 0.1 0.0 Culture 2,798 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Training and Professional Development 106,276 0.7 0.4 0.9 84,573 0.5 0.3 0.2 Daycare or Daycare Allowances 74,166 0.5 0.3 0.6 87,027 0.5 0.3 0.2 Transportation 31,318 0.2 0.1 0.3 21,993 0.1 0.1 0.1 Profit Sharing 1,790,543 12.0 6.5 14.7 1,835,262 11.1 6.6 4.2 Others 148,952 1.0 0.5 1.2 436,821 2.6 1.6 1.0 PAS 1,535 0.0 0.0 0.0 272,712 1.7 1.0 0.6 Dental Plan 27,002 0.2 0.1 0.2 27,719 0.2 0.1 0.1 Apprenticeship Program 73,202 0.5 0.3 0.6 43,105 0.3 0.2 0.1 Internship Program 47,213 0.3 0.2 0.4 93,285 0.6 0.3 0.2 Total Internal Social Indicators 7,824,498 52.5 28.4 64.0 9,741,018 59.0 35.2 22.4 R$ thou% of % of % of R$ thou% of % of % of 3. External Social Indicators sand GP NI TVA sand GP NI TVA Education 27,716 0.2 0.1 0.2 28,698 0.2 0.1 0.1 Culture 53,185 0.4 0.2 0.4 41,283 0.3 0.1 0.1 Health and Sanitation 8,398 0.1 0.0 0.1 10,508 0.1 0.0 0.0 Sport 56,100 0.4 0.2 0.5 82,445 0.5 0.3 0.2 Hunger and Food Safety Campaign 8,009 0.1 0.0 0.1 130,431 0.8 0.5 0.3 Creation of Jobs and Income 64,224 0.4 0.2 0.5 166,389 1.0 0.6 0.4 Others 13,976 0.1 0.1 0.1 19,658 0.1 0.1 0.0 Digital Inclusion 262 0.0 0.0 0.0 5,905 0.0 0.0 0.0 Science and Technology 4,034 0.0 0.0 0.0 368 0.0 0.0 0.0 Transfers to Childhood and Adolescence Fund (FIA) 6,209 0.0 0.0 0.1 10,000 0.1 0.0 0.0 BB Volunteer Work Project 3,471 0.0 0.0 0.0 3,385 0.0 0.0 0.0 Total contributions to society 231,609 1.6 0.8 1.9 479,412 2.9 1.7 1.1 Taxes (excluding social charges) 2,266,700 15.2 8.2 18.6 1,850,317 11.2 6.7 4.3 Total External Social Indicators 2,498,309 16.8 9.1 20.4 2,329,729 14.1 8.4 5.4 Annual Report 2012 p.109 Ibase Social Balance Sheet + NBCT 15 R$ thou% of % of % of R$ thou% of % of % of 4. Environmental Indicators sand GP NI TVA sand GP NI TVA 4.1 – Company Operations/ 83,924 0.6 0.3 0.7 129,388 0.8 0.5 0.3 Production-Related Investments Land Expropriations 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Environmental Liabilities and Contingencies 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Technological and Industrial Development Program 63,726 0.4 0.2 0.5 112,080 0.7 0.4 0.3 Energy Conservation 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Environmental Education 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Sectorial Indicator 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Others 20,198 0.1 0.1 0.2 17,308 0.1 0.1 0.0 Building of Sustainable Branches 2,231 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Investment in the Cartridge 17,836 0.1 0.1 0.1 17,295 0.1 0.1 0.0 Remanufacturing Program Puragua Program – Rationalization 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 of Consumption and Saving Water Internal Environmental Audit 9,1 0.0 0.0 0.0 13 0.0 0.0 0.0 (GHG Protocol and ISO 14001 Certification) Internal Environmental Consultancy 122 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 4.2 – Investments in External 12,590 0.1 0.0 0.1 6,740 0.0 0.0 0.0 Programs and/or Projects Community Environmental Education Projects 2,851 0.0 0.0 0.0 0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Preservation and/or Recuperation of Degraded Areas 1,739 0.0 0.0 0.0 2,240 0.0 0.0 0.0 Others – Brazil Water Program (investments include environmental education actions in communities and 8,000 0.1 0.0 0.1 4,500 0.0 0.0 0.0 actions for preservation and/or recuperation of degraded areas, among other initiatives) Total Investments in External Programs and/or 96,514 0.6 0.4 0.8 136,128 0.8 0.5 0.3 Projects (4.1 + 4.2) Annual Report 2012 p.110 Ibase Social Balance Sheet + NBCT 15 5. Staff Indicators 2011 Units 2012 Units Number of Employees at the End of the Period 113,810 114,182 Number of Admissions during the Period 8,754 5,245 Number of Dismissals during the Period 3,895 4,266 Number of Outsourced Employees 37,272 40,360 Number of Interns 8,567 6,020 Number of Apprentices 5,551 5,146 Number of Employees over the Age of 45 33,550 34,948 Number of Employees by Age Group Up to 25 Years of Age 7,787 6,538 From 26 to 35 Years of Age 42,918 43,023 From 36 to 45 Years of Age 29,555 29,673 Over 45 Years of Age 33,550 34,948 Number of Employees by Education Level: Primary Education 532 490 Secondary/Vocational Education 30,362 28,552 Higher Education 54,821 53,223  ostgraduate Study P 28,095 31,917 (Specialization, Masters and Doctorates) Number of Women Working at the Company 46,878 47,204 P  ercentage of Managerial 34.8 41.3 Positions occupied by Women Number of Men Working at the Company 66,932 66,978 P  ercentage of Managerial 65.2 58.6 Positions occupied by Men Number of Afro-Descendants, Brown-Skinned 25,485 26,583 People or Indians Working at the Company N  umber of Afro-Descendants, Brown-Skinned 6,436 7,678 People or Indians Holding Managerial Positions Number of Handicapped Employees 893 974 of Those with Special Needs Gross Compensation (before charges) R$7,775,449,684 R$8,725,788,964 Broken Down by: Employees R$7,752,217,879 R$8,702,534,050 Managers (Board of Directors, Auditors and Officers) R$23,231,805 R$23,254,914 Difference between the Lowest Salary Paid by the Company and the Minimum Salary (national or regional) Difference between the Lowest Salary Paid R$1,138 R$1,180 by the Company and the Minimum Salary Annual Report 2012 p.111 Ibase Social Balance Sheet + NBCT 15 6. Relevant Corporate Citizenship 2011 2012 Information Ratio of the Highest to the 16.8 16.8 Lowest Salaries at the Company Total Number of Work Accidents 1,389 1,122 (x) Senior management (x) Senior management Social and Environmental Programs Developed ( ) Senior and middle management ( ) Senior and middle management by the Company Were Defined by: ( ) All employees ( ) All employees (x) Senior and middle management (x) Senior and middle management Safety and Health Standards in the Work ( ) All employees ( ) All employees Environment Were Defined by: ( ) All of the above + CIPA ( ) All of the above + CIPA Regarding Freedom of Union Association, ( ) Does not get involved ( ) Does not get involved Right to Collective Bargaining and In-House Worker ( ) Adheres to ILO norms ( ) Adheres to ILO norms Representation, the Company: (x) Encourages and adheres to the ILO (x) Encourages and adheres to the ILO ( ) Senior management ( ) Senior management The Private Pension Plan Covers: ( ) Senior and middle management ( ) Senior and middle management (x) All employees (x) All employees ( ) Senior management ( ) Senior management Profit Sharing Covers: ( ) Senior and middle management ( ) Senior and middle management (x) All employees (x) All employees When Choosing Suppliers, the Same Standards ( ) Are not taken into account ( ) Are not taken into account of Ethics and of Social and Environmental ( ) Are suggested ( ) Are suggested Responsibility Adopted by the Company: (x) Are required (x) Are required ( ) Does not get involved ( ) Does not get involved Regarding Employee Participation in Volunteer ( ) Supports it ( ) Supports it Work Programs, the Company: (x ) Organizes and encourages it (x ) Organizes and encourages it At the company: 15,811 At the company: 15,162 Total Number of Consumer At the Procon: 12,467 At the Procon: 13,828 Complaints and Criticisms (4): In court: 117,586 In court: 159,107 Percentage of Complaints and Criticisms At the company: 100% At the company: 100% Addressed or Resolved: At the Procon: 100% At the Procon: 100% Actions Taken by the Company to Remedy Transformation and Awareness Transformation and Awareness or Minimize the Causes of the Complaints: of Employees in Customer Service. of Employees in Customer Service. Total Value Added to be Distributed (in thousands of R$): 38,638,689 40,225,240 Distribution of Value Added (DVA): % of the total % of the total Government 28.4 27.0 Employees 38.1 40.1 Shareholders 12.7 12.2 Third parties 1.9 2.2 Retained 18.9 18.5 7. Other information Banco do Brasil S.A. – Brasília (DF) – CNPJ: 00.000.000/0001-91 For clarification as to the information declared: ri@bb.com.br This company does not use child or slave labor, is not involved with child or adolescent prostitution or sexual exploitation and is not involved in corruption. Our company values and respects both in-house and external diversity. The social balance sheet was assured by KPMG Auditores Independentes S.A., and the assurance report is published with the Annual Report 2012. Notes: (1) The amount refers to personnel expenses. (2) Takes into account the employer contributions for all sponsored entities, including those that were merged (BNC, BESC, BEP), in addition to the Bank’s own. (3) Expenses with regular education at all levels, education reimbursements, magazine subscriptions, library expenses (excluding staff) and other expenditures on education. (4) Takes into account the information registered with the Institution’s External Ombudsman and with the courts. (5) The amount corresponds to the Gross Value Added as shown in the Statement of Value Added. Annual report annual Report 2012 p.112 THE BOMPRATODOS Corporate Information PROGRAM Economic and Financial Performance GRI 2.4 Investor Relations Unit SBS Quadra 01, Bloco C, Lote 32 – Ed. Sede III – 7th floor Setor Bancário Sul – CEP: 70073-901 – Brasília (DF) E-mail: ir@bb.com.br Sustainable Development Unit SBS Quadra 01, Bloco A, Lote 31 – Ed. Sede I – 16th floor Setor Bancário Sul – CEP: 70073-900 – Brasília (DF) E-mail: sustentabilidade@bb.com.br Annual Report 2012 p.113 Annexes Letter of Assurance Independent Auditors’ Limited Assurance Report To by the International Federation of Accountants appliThe Board of Directors, Shareholders cable to Non-Historical Information. These standards and Management require compliance with ethical requirements, including Banco do Brasil S.A. independence ones and also that the engagement is Brasília – DF conducted in order to provide a limited assurance that the information disclosed in the Annual Report, taken as a whole, is free from material misstatement. Introduction We have been contracted with the purpose of applying limA limited assurance engagement conducted in acited assurance procedures on the sustainability information cordance with NBC TO 3000 (ISAE 3000) primarily disclosed in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil S.A. and consists of questioning to the management of Comsubsidiaries (Banco do Brasil), related to the year ended pany and other Company’s professional involved in December 31 2012. preparing the information in the Annual Report and also applying analytical procedures to obtain evidence that allows us to make a limited assurance conclusion Responsibilities of Company Managementl about the information taken as a whole. A limited asThe management of the Banco do Brasil is responsible surance engagement also requires additional procefor the preparation and adequate presentation of the dures when the independent auditor learns of issues sustainability information disclosed in the Annual Report which lead them to believe that the information in the according to the Guidelines for Sustainability Reports of Annual Report, taken as a whole, could present matethe Global Reporting Initiative – GRI (GRI-G3), the Secrial misstatement. tor Supplement “Financial Services Sector Supplement – RG Version 3.0/FSSS Final Version” and using the The selected procedures were based on our underinternal controls that it determined as necessary to enstanding of the issues related to the compilation and able preparation of such information free of any relevant presentation of the information in the Annual Report distortion, even though it was resulted by fraud or error. and other engagement circumstances and considerations about areas where material misstatement could exist. The procedures consisted of: Independent auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express a conclusion about the a. the planning of the work, considering the relevance, information in Annual Sustainability Report based on amount of quantitative and qualitative information the limited assurance engagement conducted in accorand the operational systems and internal controls that dance with Technical Notice (CT) 07/2012 approved served as a basis for preparation of the information in by the Federal Accounting Council and prepared in the Annual Report; accordance with NBC TO 3000 (Assurance Engageb. the understanding of the calculation methodology and ments Other Than Audits and Reviews), issued by the consolidation procedures used to of the indicators the Federal Accounting Council – CFC, which is the through interviews with the personnel in charge of the equivalent to international standard ISAE 3000 issued preparation of the information; Annual Report 2012 p.114 Annexes Letter of Assurance c. the application of substantive procedures to the surance procedures on the sustainability information quantitative information and enquiries about the qualidisclosed in the Annual Report of Banco do Brasil, not tative information and its relation to the indicators including its greenhouse gas emissions data, neither disclosed in the information presented in the Annual the assessment of the appropriateness of its policies, Report; and practices and sustainability performance. d. the comparison of the financial indicators with the financial statements and/or accounting records. Conclusion This limited assurance engagement included, in addiBased on the applied procedures, described in this report, tion, the adherence to the guidelines and criteria of the we have not identified any relevant information that leads structure obtained in Global Reporting Initiative – GRI us to believe that the information in the Annual Report, applicable to the presentation of the Annual Report. was not compiled, in all relevant aspects, in accordance with the Guidelines for Sustainability Reports of the Global We believe that the evidence we have obtained is Reporting Initiative – GRI (GRI-G3), the Sector Supplesufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our ment “Financial Services Sector Supplement – RG Version limited conclusion. 3.0/FSSS Final Version”, and with the records and files that served as bases for their preparation. Scope and limitations The procedures applied in a limited assurance enBrasília, May 17, 2013 gagement are substantially less extensive than those applied in an assurance engagement aiming to express KPMG Auditores Independentes an opinion about the information in the Annual Report. CRC SP-014428/O-6 F-DF Due to this, it does not ensure us that we are aware of all the issues that would be identified during an assurOriginal report in Portuguese signed by ance engagement which aim to express an opinion. If Giuseppe Masi we had conducted an engagement in order to express Contador CRC 1SP176273/O-7 an opinion, we may have identified other issues and possible misstatements which can be in the information presented in the Annual Report. Therefore, we are not expressing an opinion about this information. The nonfinancial data is subject to more inherent limitations than the financial data, due to the nature and diversity of the methods used to determine, calculate or estimate this data. Qualitative interpretations of the data’s materiality and accuracy are subjected to individual presumptions and judgments. Additionally, we did not examine data informed for prior periods or future projections and targets either. The objective of our work was to apply limited asAnnual Report 2012 p.115 Annexes GRI Letter The application level of this report is in the process of examination by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Annual Report 2012 p.116 Annexes GRI Remissive Index GRI 3.12 Profile indicators 1. Strategy and Analysis Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Statement by position holder with highest power of decision in the 1.1 organization regarding the relevance 7 to 8 of sustainability for the organization and its strategy. Management Report Description of the key impacts, risks Note 29 – Risk 1.2 7 to 9 and 25 to 29 and opportunities. Management and Regulatory Capital 2. Organizational Profile Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Management Report Note 1 – The Bank 2.1 Name of the organization. 2 and its Operations Note 5 – Information by Business Segment Management Report Note 1 – The Bank Primary brands, products 2.2 2 and its Operations and/or services. Note 5 – Information by Business Segment Management Report Operational structure of the Note 1 – The Bank organization, including the main 2.3 2 and its Operations divisions, operating units, subsidiaries Note 5 – Information and joint ventures. by Business Segment Location of organization’s 2.4 112 headquarters. Number of countries in which the Management Report organization operates and the name Note 1 – The Bank of the countries in which its main op2.5 2 and its Operations erations are located or are especially Note 5 – Information relevant for matters of sustainability by Business Segment covered by the report. Management Report Note 1 – The Bank 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2 and its Operations Note 5 – Information by Business Segment Management Report Markets served (including geographiNote 1 – The Bank 2.7 cal breakdown, industries served and 2 and its Operations types of customers/beneficiaries). Note 5 – Information by Business Segment Management Report Note 1 – The Bank 2.8 Scale of the organization. 2 and its Operations Note 5 – Information by Business Segment Significant changes during the 2.9 reporting period involving size, 2 structure or shareholder participation. Awards received in the 2.10 106 to 107 reporting period. Annual Report 2012 p.117 Annexes GRI Remissive Index 3. Disclosure Parameters Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Period covered by the report (such as 3.1 accounting/civil year) for the informa12 tion presented. Date of the most recent previous 3.2 12 report (if applicable). Reporting cycle (annual, 3.3 12 biennial, etc.) Contact point for questions 3.4 12 regarding the report or its contents. Process for defining the content of the report, including: a) determining materiality; b) prioritizing topics within 3.5 13 to 16 the report and c) identifying those stakeholders the organization expects to make use of the report. Boundary of the report (such as coun3.6 tries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased 12 premises, joint ventures, suppliers). State any specific limitations on the 3.7 12 scope or limit of the report. Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased premises, outsourced transactions and other 3.8 12 organizations that can significantly affect comparability between periods and/or organizations. Data measurement techniques and Note 3 – Presentathe bases for calculations, includtion of the Financial ing assumptions and techniques Statements 3.9 13 underlying estimations applying to Note 4 Summary of the compilation of the indicators and the Main Accounting other information in the report. Practices Explanation of the consequences of any restatement of the information provided in previous reports and the reasons for these restatements (such Note 2 – Corporate 3.10 13 as mergers and acquisitions, changes Restructurings in the reporting period or base year, in the nature of the business and methods of measurement). Significant changes in comparison with previous reporting periods in the 3.11 13 scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in the report. Table identifying the location of the 3.12 115 to 125 standard disclosures in the report. Policy and current practice with Report of the Inde3.13 regard to seeking external assurance 13 pendent Accountants for the report. Annual Report 2012 p.118 Annexes GRI Remissive Index 4. Governance, Commitments and Engagement Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the Management Report 4.1 highest governance body responsible 18 to 24 Members of the for specific tasks, such as setting Managerial Bodies strategy or organizational oversight. Indication where the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, as the case 4.2 20 may be, his functions within the management of the organization and the reasons for this arrangement). In the case of organizations with a unitary board structure, declaration of 4.3 the number of independent members 20 or non-executives of the highest governance body. Mechanisms by which shareholders Management Report and employees make recommen4.4 19 Members of the dations or provide guidance to the Managerial Bodies highest governance body. Linkage between the compensation for members of the highest governance board, senior management 4.5 and executives (including departure 19 arrangements) and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place at the highest 4.6 governance body for avoiding con18 and 96 flicts of interest. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body for 4.7 18 setting the organization’s strategy on matters involving economic, environmental and social themes. Internal statements of mission and values. Codes of conduct and inhouse principles considered relevant 4.8 3 for economic, environmental and social performance, in addition to the status of their implementation. Procedures by the highest governance body for overseeing the identification and management by the organization of the economic, environmental and social perfor4.9 19 mance, including significant risks and opportunities, as well as adherence to or compliance with internationally acceptable standards, codes of conduct and principles. Processes for appraising the highest governance body’s own 4.10 performance, primarily in regard 19 to its economic, environmental and social performance. Explanation of whether and how 4.11 the precautionary approach is 25 to 29 7 addressed by the organization. Annual Report 2012 p.119 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 4.12 principles or other initiatives 46 to 105 to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. Participation in associations (such as industry federations) and/or domestic/ international advocacy entities in which the organization: a) has a seat in groups responsible for corpo4.13 97 rate governance, b) participates in projects and committees, c) provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues and d) views membership as strategic. List of the stakeholder groups en4.14 46 to 105 gaged by the organization. Basis for identification and selection 4.15 12 to 16 and 78 to 98 of stakeholders with whom to engage. Approaches to stakeholder engage4.16 ment, including frequency of engage12 to 16 and 78 to 98 ment by type and stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement and 4.17 how the organization has responded 46 to 105 to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Economic Performance Indicators Management Approach: pages 34 to 43, 46 and 47 to 76 Aspect: Economic Performance Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Direct economic value created and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee remuneraStatement Core EC1 tion, donations and other investments 59 to 61 and 108 to 111 of Value Added in the community, retained earnings and payments to providers of capital and governments. Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Core EC2 62 to 63 and 66 to 67 organization’s business because of climate change. Cover for the organization’s Core EC3 obligations under its defined benefit Not material pension plan. Significant financial assistance Core EC4 Not material received from the government. Aspect: Market Presence Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local miniAdditional EC5 Not material mum wage at significant locations of operation. Policies, practices and proportion of Core EC6 spending on locally-based suppliers 85 at significant locations of operation. Annual Report 2012 p.120 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management Core EC7 Not material recruited from the local community at significant locations of operations. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services offered, principally for the Core EC8 44 to 45, 90 and 92 to 93 benefit of the public, by means of business engagement in kind or pro bono activities. Identification and description of Additional EC9 significant economic impacts, 46 including the extent of said impact. Environmental Performance Indicators Management Approach: pages 34 to 43, 46 and 77 to 105 Aspect: Materials Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Core EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. 101 Percentage of materials used Core EN2 102 8 and 9 that are recycled input materials. Aspect: Energy Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Direct energy consumption by priCore EN3 100 mary energy source. Indirect energy consumption by Core EN4 100 primary source. Energy saved due to conservation Additional EN5 100 8 and 9 and efficiency improvements. Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products Additional EN6 and services, and the reduction in 101 and 103 to 105 8 and 9 energy requirements resulting from these initiatives. Initiatives to reduce indirect energy Additional EN7 consumption and the reductions Not material achieved. Aspect: Water Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Core EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 100 Water sources significantly affected Additional EN9 Not material by withdrawal of water. Percentage and total volume of water Additional EN10 Water is not reused. recycled and reused. Aspect: Biodiversity Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Location and size of land owned, leased or managed within or adjacent Core EN11 to protected areas and areas with a Not material high biodiversity value outside the protected areas. Annual Report 2012 p.121 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Description of significant impacts of activities, products and services on Core EN12 biodiversity in protected areas and Not material areas with high biodiversity value outside the protected areas. Additional EN13 Protected or restored habitats. Not material Strategies, current measures Additional EN14 and future plans for managing Not material impacts on biodiversity. Number of IUCN Red List species and those on national conservation Additional EN15 lists whose habitats are affected by Not material operations, broken down by level of extinction risk. Aspect: Emissions, Effluents and Waste Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Total direct and indirect greenhouse Core EN16 103 to 105 gas emissions by weight. Other significant indirect greenhouse Core EN17 103 to 105 gas emissions by weight. Initiatives for reducing greenhouse Additional EN18 gas emissions and the reductions 99, 101 and 103 to 105 8 obtained. Emissions of ozone-depleting Core EN19 Not material substances by weight. NOx, SOx and other significant atmoCore EN20 spheric emissions by type Not material and weight. Total water discharge, by quality and Core EN21 Not material destination. Total weight of waste by type and Core EN22 102 8 disposal method. Number and total volume of Core EN23 Not material significant spillages. Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated and considered hazardous under the Additional EN24 terms of the Basel Convention – Not material Annexes I, II, III and VIII – and the percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status and biodiversity value of water bodies and Additional EN25 their attendant habitats significantly Not material affected by the reporting organization’s water discharge and runoff. Aspect: Products and Services Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Initiatives for mitigating the environmental impacts of products Core EN26 86, 87 and 99 8 and services and the extent of the reduction in these impacts. Percentage of products sold and whose packaging is recovered, Core EN27 Not material in relation to total products sold, by product category. Annual Report 2012 p.122 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Aspect: Compliance Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Banco do Brasil recorded Monetary value of significant fines no significant fines or nonNote 28 -Contingent and total number of non-monetary monetary environmental Liabilities and Legal, Core EN28 sanctions due to non-compliance with sanction in 2012. It received Tax and Social Secuenvironmental laws and regulations. six fines and non-monetary rity Obligations environmental sanctions Aspect: Transport Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials Additional EN29 102 and 103 used in the organization’s operations, in addition to transporting members of the workforce. Aspect: General Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Total environmental protection expenAdditional EN30 108 to 111 8 ditures and investments, by type. Social Performance Indicators regarding Labor Law and Decent Working Practices Management Approach: pages 31 to 43, 46 and 77 to 105 Aspect: Employment Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Total work force by employment type, Core LA1 78 to 85 employment contract and region. Total number and employee turnover Note 27 – Employee Core LA2 78 to 85 6 rate by age group, gender and region. Benefits Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not offered to part-time Additional LA3 80 employees, by significant locations of operations. Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Percentage of employees covered by Core LA4 82 4 collective bargaining agreements. Minimal notice period regarding significant operational changes, Core LA5 Not material including whether this is specified in collective bargaining agreements. Aspect: Occupational Health And Safety Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety comAdditional LA6 83 mittees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Core LA7 83 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs Core LA8 in place to assist workforce members, Not material their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Annual Report 2012 p.123 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Health and safety topics covered in Additional LA9 83 formal agreements with trade unions. Aspect: Training and Education Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Average hours of training per year per Core LA10 84 employee by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the conAdditional LA11 84 tinued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receivAdditional LA12 ing regular performance and career 85 development reviews. Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category Core LA13 81 to 82 6 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Ratio of basic salary and Core LA14 remuneration of women to men 81 to 82 6 by employee category. Human Rights Social Performance Indicators Management Approach: pages 31 to 43, 46 and 77 to 105 Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Percentage and total number of 2 significant investment agreements and contracts that include clauses All significant investment contracts located throughout Core HR1 incorporating human rights concerns, the report contain human rights-related clauses. Banco Postal, which beor that have undergone human rights came part of the Mais BB network of correspondents in 2012, can be found screening. in detail on page 2 of this report. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business Core HR2 85 1 partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concernAdditional HR3 ing aspects of human rights that are The Bank does not provide human rights training. relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Aspect: Non-discrimination Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact There were no incidents (court cases, complaints filed with the organization Total number of incidents of discrimior the competent authorities via formal process) of discrimination due to Core HR4 nation and corrective actions taken. race, color, sex, religion, political opinion, nationality or social origin involving internal or external stakeholders. Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and Core HR5 82 3 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Annual Report 2012 p.124 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Aspect: Child Labor Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Core HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures 85 to 86 5 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Aspect: Forced and Compulsory Labor Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory Core HR7 66, 70 and 85 to 86 2 and 4 labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Aspect: Security Practices Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or proceAdditional HR8 86 1 dures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Aspect: Indigenous Rights Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Total number of incidents of violations Additional HR9 involving rights of indigenous people Not material and actions taken. Society-Related Social Performance Indicators Management Approach: pages 31 to 43, 46 and 77 to 105 Aspect: Local Communities Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices for evaluCore SO1 ating and managing the impacts of 90 operations on communities, including entry, operation and exit. Aspect: Corruption Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Percentage and total number Core SO2 of business units analyzed for risks 29 10 related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained Core SO3 in the organization’s anti-corruption 28 to 30 10 policies and procedures. Actions taken in response Core SO4 29 10 to incidents of corruption. Aspect: Public Policy Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Public policy positions and Core SO5 participation in public policy 94 to 95 development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parAdditional SO6 Not material ties, politicians, and related institutions by country. Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, Additional SO7 Not material and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines Note 28 –Contingent and total number of non-monetary Liabilities and Legal Core SO8 28 to 30 sanctions for non-compliance with – Tax and Social laws and regulations. Security Obligations Annual Report 2012 p.125 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Product Responsibility-Related Performance Indicators Management Approach: pages 31 to 43, 46, 47 to 76 and 77 to 105 Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improveCore PR1 Not material ment, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health Additional PR2 Not material and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Aspect: Product and Service Labeling Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Type of product and service information required by procedures, and Core PR3 percentage of significant products Not material and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and There were no cases of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary Additional PR4 voluntary codes concerning product codes concerning product and service information and labeling. and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. Practices related to customer satisAdditional PR5 faction, including results of surveys 87 measuring customer satisfaction. Aspect: Marketing Communications Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Programs for adherence to laws, rules and voluntary codes related to marketCore PR6 Not material ing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary In 2012, BB reported 2 incidents of non-compliance with regulations and codes concerning marketing comAdditional PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertismunications, including advertising, ing, promotion, and sponsorship. promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Aspect: Compliance Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Additional PR8 Not material customer privacy and losses of customer data. Aspect: Compliance Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Monetary value of significant fines for Note 28 – Contingent noncompliance with laws and regulaLiabilities and Legal, Core PR9 87 tions concerning the provision and Tax and Social Secuuse of products and services. rity Obligations Financial Services Sector Supplement Performance Indicators Management Approach: pages 31 to 43, 46, 47 to 76 and 77 to 105 Pages in AR Pages in ASs Global Compact Policies with specific social and FS1 environmental components applied to 66 business lines. Annual Report 2012 p.126 Annexes GRI Remissive Index Processes for accessing and screening FS2 environmental and social risks in busi46 to 105 ness lines in regard to each policy. Processes for monitoring customer’s implementation of and compliance with FS3 46 to 105 environmental and social requirements included in agreements or transactions. Processes for improving staff competency for implementing environmental FS4 62 to 76 and social policies and procedures applied to business lines. Interactions with customers and other FS5 stakeholders regarding environmental 46 to 105 and social risks and opportunities. Percentage of the portfolio for business 61 to 76 FS6 lines by specific region (e.g. micro, More information at: http://www.bb.com.br/portalbb/page3,136,3595,0,0,1,8. SME and large) and by sector. bb?codigoMenu=204&codigoNoticia=11380&codigoRet=1251&bread=5. Monetary value of products and services designed to deliver a specific FS7 61 to 76 social beneﬁt for each business, broken down by purpose. Total monetary value of environmental FS8 products and services broken down by 47 to 76 business line. Coverage and frequency of audits to assess implementation of environmenFS9 68 to 76 tal and social policies and risk assessment procedures. Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with FS10 which the reporting organization has 62 to 76 interacted on environmental and social issues. Percentage of assets subject to FS11 positive and negative environmental 61 to 76 or social screening. Voting policies applied to In spite of not having an in-house policy for advising on voting, BB adheres environmental and social issues for to the principles of the Global Compact and contributes to environmental FS12 shares over which the reporting policies by exercising its right to vote in several ministries on environmental organization holds the right to vote and social issues, such as the Ministry of the Environment – MMA, shares or advises on voting. the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Supply – MAPA and others. Access points in the low-populated FS13 or economically disadvantaged 86 to 87 areas by type. Initiatives to improve access to ﬁnancial FS14 87 services for disadvantaged people. Policies for the fair design and the sale FS15 28 to 30 of ﬁnancial products and services. Initiatives to enhance ﬁnancial literacy FS16 84 by type of beneficiary. Annual Report 2012 p.127 Credits Content Coordination Investor Relations Unit (URI) Sustainable Development Unit (UDS) Creation Coordination Marketing and Communication Directorship (DIMAC) Institutional Advertising Division Content Consultants and Layout Project TheMediaGroup Illustration TheMediaGroup Photograph Iara Venanzi and Acervo Banco do Brasil
