United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (CoP) Report September 2013  Communication on Progress Report Contents 03 Statement 05 Intracom Holdings 06 The Group Companies • Intracom Telecom • Intrasoft International • Intracom Defense Electronics • Intrakat • hellas online 09 The 10 Principles of UNGC • Human Rights • Labour Rights • Environment • Anti-corruption Intracom Holdings September 2013  Communication on Progress Report Our Group is fully aligned with the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. We are committed to conducting our business in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner, safeguarding pollution prevention, providing excellent workplace conditions and being committed to the communities in which we operate. Our determination to make a positive difference in the lives of customers, communities and among our workers and partners (and, more generally, all of our stakeholders) is reflected in our support for the United Nations Global Compact and our commitment to the CSR development. Our business strategy and policies incorporate the ten principles of the UNGC. Being a good corporate citizen – and working towards sustainability goals is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels of management within our company. One of our major objectives is to disseminate the 10 principles of the Global Compact in our business ecosystem because this can make the world a better place for the generations to come. In this fourth CoP, we summarised the progress we have Socrates P. Kokkalis Chairman & CEO made against these principles during the period December Intracom Holdings 2012-September 2013. Intracom Holdings September 2013  Communication on Progress Report Intracom Holdings Activities Intracom Holdings September 2013  Communication on Progress Report Intracom Holdings Εxports to 89 countries Operates Intracom Holdings is one of the largest multinational technology groups in South East Europe. 36 years Headquartered in Athens, Greece, it has subsidiaries in 27 countries globally. It exports to 89 countries and employs around 4,700 employees. Employs 4,700 Subsidiaries in Intracom Holdings has been a member of Hellenic Network for people 27 countries Corporate Social Responsibility since 2001, actively contributing to the growth and advancement of corporate social responsibility in Greece. USA India Philippines Intracom Holdings Offices Intracom Holdings September 2013  Communication on Progress Report The Group Intracom Telecom Intracom Telecom is an international telecommunication systems vendor with strong regional presence throughout EMEA and operations in Europe, the Middle East & Africa, Russia, the CIS and Asia-Pacific. It has over 35 years experience in the telecom market and employs over 1,800 high calibre engineers and professionals (72% of employees is scientific staff). It has subsidiaries in 15 countries and exports to over 70 countries. Its core business offerings are: • Wireless Network Systems • Telco Software Solutions • ICT Services & Solutions Intrasoft International Intrasoft International is a leading European IT Solutions and Services Group with strong international presence, offering innovative and added-value solutions of the highest quality to a wide range of international and national public and private organisations. The company employs more than 1,300 highly-skilled professionals (72% of the employees is scientific staff). With headquarters in Luxembourg, Intrasoft International operates in 15 countries and exports to 70 countries. Intracom Holdings September 2013  Communication on Progress Report Companies Intracom Defense Electronics Intracom Defense Electronics is Greece’s largest manufacturer of defense electronics products, systems and applications. The company has significant international activity and is a pioneer in research and development. It employs around 400 people, 55% of which is scientific staff. Intrakat Intrakat ranks among the top construction groups in Greece and maintains extensive international presence in 7 countries. The company provides high quality services in all fields of the construction activity by combining its long-tem experience with significant specialization and know-how. The company has been involved in numerous construction, steel construction, infrastructure, telecom, environmental and renewable energy sources projects in Greece and abroad. It employs around 400 people. hellas online hellas online is one of the leading providers of fixed-line telephony services in Greece, providing a range of voice and internet access services. hol owns and operates a large core backbone network throughout continental Greece and through its points of presence (PoPs) it offers significant population coverage of the two largest cities in Greece, Athens and Thessaloniki. It employs around 750 people. Intracom Holdings September 2013  Communication on Progress Report The 10 Principles of UNGC Human Rights Intracom Holdings September 2013  Communication on Progress Report The 10 Principles of UNGC Human Rights Intracom Hodlings fully considers and respects the Also, new employees are informed about human Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the ILO’s rights corporate procedures and policies through Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights induction seminars during their first working days. at Work and the relevant national and European legislation. Since 2000, Occupational Health and Safety Measurement of Outcome (OHSAS 18001:2007) system has been established An open-door policy has been established where and maintained certification. Intracom Holdings, employees can report grievances to upper Intracom Telecom, Intrasoft International management and to the Human Resources and Intracom Defense Electronics have also Director. No report has been filed for this year. established and maintained certification for Social Furthermore, audits to suppliers regarding, among Accountability (SA 8000:2008) system. other issues, human rights, labour rights, are performed. Implementation Under the same framework, the companies of the Written corporate procedures, system manuals and group are under audit twice a year by external directives are compliant with UNGC principals and auditors (Bureau Veritas SA). requirements of OHSAS 18001 standard. The respective documents are published in our corporate portal and are available to all employees on line. Intracom Holdings September 2013 The 10 Principles of UNGC Labour Rights 11 Communication on Progress Report The 10 Principles of UNGC Labour Rights The group abides by local legislation as well as Our Group practices freedom of association and endorses the ILO’s Declaration on Fundamental recognizes the right to collective bargaining. The Principles and Rights at Work. Employees’ Union was established in 1984 and has been active ever since with around 70% of Intracom Telecom, one of the companies of employees being members. Intracom Holdings Group, has been one of the first Greek companies to be certified by SA 8000. This The “open-door” policy, according to which standard ensures the existence of a safe working employees can raise issues to upper management environment in which non-discriminatory policies any time, facilitates the direct communication are applied and equal opportunities are offered among all the hierarchy levels. to all employees irrespective of gender, age, and nationality. Furthermore, employee trade union We maintain transparency and update the rights are respected, as well as health and safety employees continuously through the corporate procedures are faithfully adhered to. portal, bulletin boards, e-mail, staff meetings and publications. The companies of the group have also been certified by ΟΗSΑS 18000 Health & Safety Hiring and promotion of employees are based standard. The application of the standard assists on meritocracy and criteria like academic the company to preserve a safe and healthy work qualifications, skills and track record. environment, through the identification of the hazards and the risks assessment. Some indicative Health & Safety actions are: Measurement of Outcome • Training of employees on health & safety issues Employees are appreciative of the harmonious • Setting in place procedures and guidance for the working environment, a proof of which is the fact production line that no serious employees’ grievances have been • Conduction evacuation-building drills filed with the HR Director during the last year. • Display escape root plans on all floors Intracom Holdings respects the non-discrimination principle and favours the diversity within Implementation teams. Equal payment is ensured for same job irrespectively from sex, race, physical ability etc. In this framework, an integrated human resources management system which includes: recruitment During the last audit on February 2013, no & succession planning system, career development incidents of discrimination were reported/found. system, performance appraisal system, rewards system, training and development system has been designed and implemented. The integrated human resources management system aligns with our principle that our employees have to be rewarded in accordance with their performance and their contribution to the achievement of company’s goals. Intracom Holdings September 2013 12 Communication on Progress Report The 10 Principles of UNGC Environment Intracom Holdings September 2013 13 Communication on Progress Report The 10 Principles of UNGC Environment Intracom Holdings Group supports the UNGC subway/bus terminals in the city to the company’s principles on environment and has been premises are used. monitoring the environmental impact of its Depending on their physical and chemical activities since 2000. properties, waste produced is collected by authorized companies and delivered to authorized facilities for provisional storage, sorting, recycling, Implementation treatment, recovery or disposal. In 2000, an Environmental Management System (EMS) was adopted aiming at controlling the In the framework of climate change awareness, environmental impact of its activities. The EMS Intracom Holdings calculates and monitors is certified in accordance with the international greenhouse gas emissions produced from standard ΙSΟ 14001 (since 2000). Its maintenance, the companies’ activities, using internationally in parallel with the commitment in environmental approved calculation standards for greenhouse gas efficiency and employees’ awareness and training, emissions such as The Greenhouse Gas Protocol are among the main priorities towards sustainable etc. development. Intracom Holdings recognises the importance of Procedures for recycling and reusing materials preserving biodiversity and its installations are far are applied at all facilities. Where applicable, from protected areas (e.g. NATURA). and based on the relevant environmental law, companies of the group participate in the nationwide Collective Alternative Management System“RECYCLING” (organized by “HE. Measurement of Outcome Intracom Holdings defines and documents R.R.CO”) for the collection, sorting and identification and evaluation methods of all recycling of used packaging materials and in the environmental aspects of its operations and their Collective System for the operation of Alternative associated impacts. Evaluation is performed Management of WEEE in Greece “APPLIANCES against predefined criteria including legislative RECYCLING S.A.” and other regulatory requirements. Emergency International trends are monitored and proactive Response Plans are designed to secure prevention measures are taken to become aligned with and mitigation of the associated environmental applicable laws and regulations. Surveys impacts. The group maintains continual concerning occupational risks and environmental improvement by setting specific environmental hazards are carried out at all facilities in order to objectives based on identified environmental assess the risks, minimize environmental impacts impacts, monitoring and documenting the and initiate preventive actions. Indicatively : achievement of these objectives. preventive maintenance on equipment and In particular, for 2012: electrical networks is performed, electrical • The tonnage of non-hazardous wastes was parameters are regulated, building service 499 and for hazardous was 191. The water equipment (e.g. air-conditioning units, lifts etc.) consumption was 47,776 m3. operates in an environmental friendly manner, • The CO2 emissions1 were 20,083 tones. video-conference equipment which reduces Under the framework of ISO 14001 certification, the number of business trips required is used, the companies of the Group are audited by integrated information systems which reduce the independent certification bodies on a regular-basis consumption of paper are used, hired coaches and are re-certified every three years. for the transportation of personnel from central 1 From: diesel oil for heating combustion, vehicle fuel combustion, purchased electricity consumed and natural gas for energy production and premises heating Intracom Holdings September 2013 The 10 Principles of UNGC Anti-corruption 15 Communication on Progress Report The 10 Principles of UNGC Anti-corruption Intracom Holdings recognizes and values integrity, excellence, innovation and customer satisfaction, Measurement of Outcome and is committed to the highest standard of ethical The disciplinary actions to employees are behaviour in all its actions and decisions. imposed by the Management of the company or by the General Manager of the Financial and The Group is listed in the Athens Stock Exchange, Administration Division, being authorized by the so the principles of Corporate Governance are Management. followed rigorously and the expectations of stakeholders are met. The penalties vary from oral warning up to dismissal depending on the severity of the The Employee Handbook (properly verified violation. by the Greek Public authorities) illustrates the policies and employees’ obligations. One of these In 2013, no disciplinary actions were imposed to obligations is that employees are not allowed to employees. accept payments, gifts, bribes offered for their In the framework of the Group’s continuing employment services or obtain privileges or other improvement concerning anti-corruption, Intracom benefits for themselves, or on their relatives’ Defense Electronics (subsidiary of Intracom account. Holdings) was the first company of the Group which adopted a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics which specifies and helps the continued Implementation implementation of the Corporate Business Disciplinary actions are enforced when an Principles by establishing certain non-negotiable employee violates provisions of Employee minimum standards of behavior in key areas. Handbook including, acceptance of payments, gifts, bribes. These actions are described in detail This Code applies to all employees, directors, in the company’s Employee Handbook. officers, and contractors of Intracom Defense Electronics and it should also be provided to Also, a complaint process, which is described in and followed by the company’s agents and the company’s Employee Handbook, is in place. representatives. The Code sets forth the standards for the way Intracom Defense Electronics conducts Employee Handbook is available to all employees business ethically around the world. These in corporate portal. Induction seminars regarding ethical business standards include dealing with company anti-corruption procedures and company’s employees, its customers, contractors, employee handbook are organised for new partners and shareholders, communities and employees at the beginning of their employment. governments. Auditing mechanisms, audit committees (permanent and ad hoc) as well as internal control procedures are in place in order to assure that risks are minimized and all activities are carried out in accordance with the corporate policy and strategy. Intracom Holdings September 2013 Intracom Holdings 19th km Markopoulou Ave., Peania Athens, GR-19002 tel.: +30-210-66 74 000 | fax: +30-210-66 74 001 www.intracom.com
