GLOBAL COMPACT ANNUAL COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – SME VERSION Company Name Futerra Sustainability Date 06th December 2013 Communications Address 3rd Floor Membership date 21 February 2007 (date 8-14 Vine Hill of first COP) EC1R 5DX Country England Number of Employees 38 Contact name David Willans Sector Consulting Contact Position Marketing Director Contact telephone no. 020 7549 4700 Brief description of nature of business Futerra is a sustainability agency, established in 2001. We work with clients to create positive change through their brands, businesses and communications. From brand to sustainability strategy, behaviour change to consumer campaigns, we create inspiring sustainable substitutes, not simply sacrifices. Together with our clients we make sustainable development so desirable it becomes normal. Futerra has worked with some of the world’s biggest brands, NGOs and governments. We are headquartered in London, with offices in New York and Stockholm. Futerra has four main practice areas:  Transformational business models.  Strategy and activation of business models with sustainability built in.  Communications campaigns.  Brand strategy and mass consumer behaviour change campaigns to deliver sustainability and business value. www.futerra.co.uk Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577 Statement of support Futerra wholeheartedly supports the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We are committed to living out the principles as a business internally as well as with our work for clients. Futerra is personally and professionally committed to sustainable development. Our business promotes ethical practices, particularly for environmental and social responsibility in business but also more generally in the interest of international justice and human rights. We therefore look forward to improving our action in these areas and further integrating the compact principles into our business. We firmly believe that belonging to the UNGC is helpful to our business and are proud to be part of such an impactful initiative. Signature Date Lucy Shea 6th December 2013 Chief Executive Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577 HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE 1 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT AND RESPECT THE PROTECTION OF INTERNATIONALLY PROCLAIMED HUMAN RIGHTS Futerra has no direct experience of human rights abuses and no specific mechanism to monitor this. Nevertheless, we are committed to respecting the human rights of our employees and suppliers. We strive to treat people with respect at all times. Avoiding discrimination, promoting tolerance and encouraging freedom of expression are particularly relevant to this. Our cleaning service ‘Ultimately Eco Cleaning’ (www.ultimatelyeco.com) only use natural products and pays a full Living Wage for London. It remains company policy to buy second hand, repurposed, recycled, long life or low energy equipment and to buy Fair Trade or from independent retailers whenever possible. We adhere to the principles of paying a living wage to all our staff and we are in the process of renewing our accreditation as a “Living Wage Employer” with the Living Wage Foundation organised by the Citizens UK (www.livingwage.org.uk). Our recent move to an open plan office has improved the working environment for our employees. By having the entire team located in the same space we’re encouraging employees to be more social and work collaboratively. It has also made our feedback mechanisms for employees more efficient and effective. Futerra permanent employees are automatically registered for annual health insurance cover (www.pruhealth.pruhealth.co.uk). This promotes wellbeing by encouraging healthy lifestyles and a healthy work-life balance through various incentives and rewards schemes. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. PRINCIPLE 2 BUSINESS SHOULD ENSURE THAT THEY ARE NOT COMPLICIT IN HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES Further to our company mission to make sustainable development so desirable it becomes normal, it is company policy to only work on projects which we believe to be contributing to that mission. Being complicit, actively or passively, with human rights abuses would undermine our mission and core business values. We remain under scrutiny from our clients and other stakeholders in this regard. We discuss potential areas of controversy internally to ensure that we do not conflict with this policy. We use guiding principles that help employees decide whether projects align with our business ethics and encourage open debate to ensure that we are true to this principle. We continue to refer to the UNGC, including the issue of human rights, in both our procurement and our environment policy, to ensure that we are not complicit in abuses of human rights. Our revised Employee Handbook, as well as our recruitment and equal opportunities policies continues to ensure that we safeguard the human rights of all who are connected with our work. Further to the policies in place, our employees also benefit from internal processes and feedback mechanisms to ensure the company supports them in their progression. These include individual line management dedicated to professional and personal development with monthly progress meetings, weekly team and management meetings, daily catch-ups and regular coaching. Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577 Futerra chooses to take on certain projects, on a pro-bono or reduced fee basis, to further support the eradication of all human rights abuses, forced and compulsory labour. We have recently produced the branding and visual identity for Fashion Revolution Day (www.fashionrevolution.org), an initiative by a global board of fashion industry leaders, campaigners, press and academics, who together are campaigning against the tragedy at Rana Plaza in Bangladesh on 24th April 2013. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. LABOUR PRINCIPLE 3 BUSINESS SHOULD UPHOLD THE FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND THE EFFECTIVE RECOGNITION OF THE RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining are fundamental rights, enshrined by law in the countries in which we operate. We are committed to fulfilling and surpassing these requirements. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation in our sphere of influence to be acting in violation of these principles, we would act immediately to remedy the situation. There are multiple formal and informal wage bargaining mechanisms including employee annual and six month reviews on performance and salary. All permanent employees are entitled to join a union at their own discretion. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. PRINCIPLE 4 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOUR Eliminating forced and compulsory labour is a vital element of equity in the context of sustainable development. We are committed to fulfilling this principle by promoting awareness of it to all in our sphere of influence. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation linked to us to be acting in violation of these principles, we would act immediately to remedy the situation. We monitor working hours electronically using a cloud based studio management system (streamtime.net) to manage our employees’ workloads throughout the year and to encourage a healthy work/life balance and promote well-being. All permanent employees are on a contract that states their terms and conditions of employment and we have an Employee Handbook that explains their benefits along with all Human Resources policies and procedures. All permanent employees are encouraged to access online and offline training in line with their personal development plans and are entitled to take up to five day’s paid leave for volunteering each year to broaden their skills and experience. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current initiatives and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577 PRINCIPLE 5 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOUR Abolishing child labour is a core part of the social element of sustainable development, which we strongly believe in. We are committed to fulfilling this principle by promoting awareness of it to all in our sphere of influence. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation linked to us to be acting in violation of this principles, we would act immediately to remedy the situation. PRINCIPLE 6 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT THE ELIMINATION OF DISCRIMINATION IN RESPECT OF EMPLOYMENT AND OCCUPATION We seek to avoid discrimination in our recruitment procedures, be it on grounds of religion, race, sex, age, sexual orientation, gender identity or any other form. All external recruiters are made aware of our recruitment policy and interview questions are set so as to comply with it. Decisions are made on the basis of ability and nothing else. This extends to decisions about status within the company, salary, bonuses and promotions. We continue to have a degree of diversity in the workforce which may not be a direct result of our policies but feel that it reflects positively on our commitment to this principle. We operate an open and transparent culture to discuss issues and have a grievance procedure in place outlined in our Employee Handbook and referenced in our employment contracts. Over the next year we’ll continue with our current policies and explore new ways to further our commitment and support of this principle. ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE 7 BUSINESS SHOULD SUPPORT A PRECAUTIONARY APPROACH TO ENVIRONMENTAL CHALLENGES Futerra has two main areas of environmental impact. These include the client projects we create and deliver and our own personal and collective environmental footprint. Our own footprint We operate an ethical purchasing policy which continues to include a strong environmental element. In practice, the leadership of Futerra seeks to promote a corporate culture which respects the environment. Futerra have recently moved into a new modern office space to help further reduce our environmental footprint. We have carried across our environmental policies and have introduced a number of new initiatives. The green refurbishment of our offices continues at a good pace and is led by our operations team who now manage the company’s environmental procedures. This includes, but is not limited to:  Saving paper As a creative company, we use large amounts of paper for brainstorms, meeting notes and printing. We buy recycled and FSC certified paper for office use and have replaced flipcharts Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577 with chalkboards, including two meeting spaces covered with “chalkboard paint”, meaning the walls can be drawn on and wiped off, with no waste paper. To further discourage wasteful printing we have also introduced printing passcodes for all employees to reinforce the need to be mindful of resource use when printing. Futerra will be monitoring employee printing levels over the next year to better understand our printing habits, so we can attempt to reduce the amount of paper we use.  Recycling We actively recycle all waste that can be, and send other items we no longer need to an ethical recycling company (thefirstmile.co.uk). This includes crockery and kitchenware, which is often passed on to homeless charities for instance. Redundant computer equipment is recycled where possible, with certified specialists (www.it-green.co.uk) who are fully WEEE compliant and certified. Futerra are committed to our recycling policies and will continue to recycle at every opportunity over the next year.  Furniture Where possible we do not purchase new furniture is. Instead it is sourced from either an office clearing company or is constructed from repurposed materials. This includes our refurbished sofas and our tables made from River Thames driftwood and old scaffolding boards. These are then refashioned by a charity that teaches disabled adults carpentry skills. Futerra will continue to look for sustainable substitutes for our office furniture needs. This leads us to trial new innovations, recently including reinforced cardboard desks at our London office which are 100% recyclable (www.fluteoffice.com).  Waste We send no waste to landfill this includes paper, cardboard, plastic and metals. Waste that is not recyclable gets sent to a local incinerator to produce energy. Futerra also composts its own food waste through an ethical recycling company (thefirstmile.co.uk).  Energy We strive to increase energy efficiency in the office. Our energy is provided through a green tariff, with energy supplier (goodenergy.co.uk). Futerra also engages all our employees on energy efficiency issues in the workspace to further reduce our impact.  Travel Besides travel associated with client work (see below) we minimise the impact of our local travel by offering employees participation in two government-subsidised schemes ‘Cycle to Work’ and the ‘Ride2Work’. The company covers all the upfront cost of a bicycle and equipment, and the employee repays through monthly salary deductions. In addition, employees are awarded an additional days Annual Leave, if they choose to slow travel to their destination. This is to discourage dependence on environmentally damaging short-haul flights. Client work We are also committed to promoting respect for the environment in our work for clients, encouraging pro-environmental behaviour through innovative communications. The impact of our client work on the environment is hard to quantify but most of our projects aim to have a direct or indirect positive impact on the environment – from internal communications campaigns to large scale national communication strategies.  Printing We’re aware that the production of printed materials for our client projects remains one of our biggest impacts. We encourage our clients to look at alternatives to printed materials by activating projects in a digital space. Where printing is unavoidable we ensure that our suppliers use FSC certified paper and use non-harmful solvents to keep our impact as low as possible (www.seacourt.net and www.print.coop). Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577  Travel Travel is an inevitable part of our business. On occasions employees do have to fly to reach international destinations. We strive to minimise this where possible by hosting conference calls via Skype and have implemented a European Slow Travel Policy to encourage train travel. Employees attend local meetings by public transport and we use a ‘green’ taxi company (glh.co.uk) that uses a fleet of hybrid and EV vehicles. We have also recently implemented a ‘No Travel Friday’ policy to remind employees to be mindful of their travel and reduce journeys where possible. Measuring our wider impact Last year, we began exploring new ways to measure the process, outcome and impact of all our communications work. Futerra believes in setting ambitious targets on progress, not only for its clients but also for our company. Measuring the wider impact of our work on sustainable development will take resources, measurement tools, and importantly time. This year we’ll be continuing this journey, looking at ways to measure this impact accurately. Next year we will report on our progress and new developments towards achieving this longer term goal. PRINCIPLE 8 BUSINESS SHOULD UNDERTAKE INITIATIVES TO PROMOTE GREATER ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY Nearly all of our projects have some element of promoting environmental responsibility. We are committed to furthering sustainable development by everything we do so environmental responsibility forms a major part of that. Our policy is to seek sustainability and we do so by promoting an understanding of the relationship between public behaviour, the environment and corporate responsibility. We publish regular pieces of thought leadership that promote pro-environmental and other sustainable behaviours within business and public spheres. This has most recently included two reports on brand led behaviour change (Planet Brands and Change-maker Cards), a report and online toolkit on business led consumer sustainable lifestyles (Value_Gap and Business Case Builder) in partnership with Business for Social Responsibility (bsr.org). Our thought leadership is central to our business, informs our client work and wins us plaudits from clients and independents alike. All our reports can be viewed at futerra.co.uk/work. The nature of our business means we often speak on public speaking platforms and at educational institutions about the importance of sustainable development and lifestyles and greater environmental responsibility. This is supported by our thought leadership and client case studies that aim to leave delegates with tips, tools and tactics to implement strategies in both their professional and personal lives. Since November 2008, we have been focusing on our own environmental footprint where our aim is to ensure that we are as sustainable as possible. This is a continuous and evolving process. Our goal is to be an environmentally positive company doing more good than bad. Futerra furthers the promotion of pro-environmental behaviour amongst its workforce. We encourage our employees to cycle into work, by offering them participation in the government-subsidised ‘Cycle to Work’ and ‘Ride2Work’ schemes. Futerra also offers a Slow Travel Policy and continues to raise employee awareness around energy use and recycling. As our new office does not have an outdoor space, we can no longer run the ‘Green Growing Club’ from the office. We do however still run a compost system with our cleaning company (thefirstmile.co.uk), and ensure that all waste that can be composted is. Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577 As an office based company we have relatively low emissions and all harmful chemicals are listed in our COSH document. The company owns no vehicles, besides a tandem bicycle and encourages the use of public transport. We actively promote and encourage employees to eat local, organic food, freshly prepared by independent retailers to reduce the consumption of packaged and high embodied energy foods whilst supporting local commerce. PRINCIPLE 9 BUSINESS SHOULD ENCOURAGE THE DEVELOPMENT AND DIFFUSION OF ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Whilst Futerra’s core business is in service provision and not in environmental technology, we do integrate the diffusion of green technical innovations wherever possible. Futerra’s role is to actively assist in embedding these innovations into clients’ mainstream corporate strategy. In our own building, we use low energy fluorescent lighting throughout and with only two printers one for general printing and one for confidential printing. The defaults are for Black & White, double sided, and eco-quality printing to reduce resource waste. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE 10 BUSINESS SHOULD WORK AGAINST CORRUPTION IN ALL ITS FORMS, INCLUDING EXTORTION AND BRIBERY Futerra is committed to the fight against corruption. We believe it is core to building a fair business environment, whereby everyone can have access to free markets. We are committed to fulfilling this principle by promoting awareness of it to all in our sphere of influence. If we were to become aware of any individual or organisation linked to us to be acting in violation of this principle, we would act immediately to remedy the situation In January 2013, a third party supplier successfully completed an internal Bribery Risk Assessment Audit for Futerra. The findings revealed Futerra is a low-risk business from a corruption perspective. The nature of our business activities and of the individuals it employs, mitigates us against being involved in incidents, that could potentially expose the business to liability under either the US or UK statutes. Futerra Sustainability Communications Ltd. 3rd Floor, 8-14 Vine Hill, EC1R 5DX. T +44 (0) 20 7549 4700 F +44 (0) 20 7608 0132 E info@futerra.co.uk www.futerra.co.uk Registered in England, No. 04709420 VAT Reg: 830 230 577
