Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 1 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 2 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Table of Content About PT. Pangansari Utama (PSU) 4 Executive Welcome 6 Living with Our Principles 10 Governance, Commitment & Engagements 18 Sustainability & Business Strategy 28 Personnel and Process Safety 46 Product Responsibility 54 Local Development 58 Working in Challenge Locations 62 Awards 64 Our Report 66 GRI Index Summary 68 3 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 3 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 About PT. Pangansari Utama (PSU) was founded in 1975. It operates as a food ­s ervice and distribution company in the Asia Pacific and provides industriPT. Pangansari Utama (PSU) al, comm­unity, institutional and in-flight catering services, food processing, s­ torage and warehousing, shipping and handling, training, retail, facility management, maintenance, and remote site support services. (2.1, 2.2) PSU organization is headed by a Chief Executive Officer (CEO) with two ­E xecutive Officers reporting to this position i.e. Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Chief O ­ perating Officer (COO). Under these two officers are the division/ Business Units (BU): Food Distribution BU, Marketing and Business ­D evelopment BU, ­C atering BU, Financial & Administration BU, and FI Project BU. It’s ­Headquarter is at the Plaza Office Tower 40th Floor, Jalan M.H. Thamrin, Kav. 2­ 8 30, ­Jakarta 10350, Indonesia. Branch and Representative Offices in ­Indonesia ­include ­B alikpapan, Medan, Pekanbaru, Makassar, Palembang, T ­ embagapura, and Batam; while the Overseas Representative Offices cover ­Singapore, Africa. In ­addition to PSU’s operation in Indonesia, it also ­provides s­ ervices to o ­ ther ­countries i.e. S­ ingapore; Vung Tau City, Vietnam ; Sana’ a Yemen, ­Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia; and Luanda, ­Angola. (2.3, 2.4, 2.5) 4 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 4 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PSU was incorporated under the laws of Indonesia , per the Deed of ­Establishment PSU primarily serves catering and housekeeping services for the oil and gas and No. 28 dated 16th of December 1975 and legalized by the Department of Law No. mining companies, hospitals, airports, international schools, and also public comY.A.5/529/3 on November 12, 1976. Further change was made on O ­ ctober 28, 2010 munity in Indonesia and overseas. per the Deed of Change No. 46 and was subsequently ­legalized by the ­Department PSU’s head office is in Jakarta with the branch ­offices spreading out from the (2.6) of Law on December 20, 2010 per their letter ­No. ­AHU-AH.01.10-32582. west to the east parts of Indonesia i.e. at ­Surabaya, T ­ imika, Balikpapan, Medan, ­Pekanbaru, Makassar, Palembang, D ­ enpasar, ­Sorong, ­Tembagapura, and Batam; As a public catering company PSU is owned directly by PT. Pangansari Utama while the overseas services include ­Singapore and Luanda, Angola. It ­operates Food Resources, Indonesia 77,50%, and the Great Wonder Investment Pte, Ltd, with it’s current work forces comprising of employees 4,500 ­employees. President Singapore of 22,50 %. The organization of PSU comprises of the following: Director and Chief Executive Officer (CEO) controls the whole o ­ peration. • President Director : Mrs. Lestari Moerdijat PSU has officially noted that there is no significant changes during the last one • Director : Mr. Bernard Lim Eng Teck year in terms of the size, structure, and ownership of PSU. (2.7, 2.8, 2.9) • Director : Mr. Ma Lim Siong • President Commissioner : Mr. F.X. Bagus Ekodanto • Commissioner : Mr. Rachmadi Heru 5 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 5 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Executive Welcome PT. PANGANSARI UTAMA (PSU) was founded in 1975, in association with Greatways Group of Companies that operated extensively throughout South East Asia. This group of Companies was involved in Restaurants, Bars, Coffee Shops, Supermarkets, Bakeries, Offshore Services, Food Supply, Industrial Catering and Remote Site Support Services. Firstly, between 1976 and 1979, PSU started to develop its Food Supply ­activities for PT. Pertamina at the Bontang LNG plant in Indonesia. In 1980, when the government issued a Presidential Decree No. 14A concerning Procurement and ­Distribution of Products PSU has further constructed a complete set of Cold ­Storage and Warehousing Facilities in Balikpapan to cope up with wide range of services to the Clients throughout East Kalimantan including Hotels, Restaurants, Commissaries and Remote Construction Sites. During 1981, PSU enlarged its scope of activities into Industrial Catering and Total Remote Site Support Services for Projects throughout Indonesia ­ranging from Aceh to Papua. Soon thereafter, In response to client needs, PSU ­further turned out leading to the construction of complete cold storage, freezer and ­warehousing facilities in Jakarta, Surabaya, and Balikpapan. Each project p ­ resented its own unique challenges and required its own tailored solution. 6 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 6 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 FOTO 7 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 7 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PSU then developed its professional expertise and modern infrastructure of of changing the mechanical systems of its laundry services which involve the use ­supply chain that ensures excellent end product quality and choice by ­applying and application of OTEK System trial phase using Ozone Technologies in 2013 highly approved technology to track, trace and coordinate the entire d ­ istributions. which result in less use of chemicals, water, and energy in the operation. The other things that is also important to be handled is the way we cooperate and PSU has rapidly become bigger and bigger ever since, and expanded its ­operations ­coordinate efforts with the society at large to seek primary methods for reducing from Eastern to Western parts of Indonesia. The rapid size and complexity of the amount of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere. PSU within the devised framework of its contractual agreements with a number of companies, variety of community including the native tribes, has compelled This decade, PSU has ultimately become a well known company from our ­stability, PSU to consider what is the impact of PSU operations to all of these s­ takeholders, financial resources, experience and support infrastructures to ­professionally o ­ perate and how to develop and maintain the sustainability of PSU among these groups. and manage any Catering, Food Supply or Camp Support Project in ­Indonesia and All of these parallel with the current governmental regulations whereby a overseas. With our professional team that includes ­personalized management ­corporation must put into practice a strong commitment to implement Corporate style and strong commitment to enable us to prosper within the Industry, we Social R ­ esponsibility (CSR) in their daily operational activities. have served every corner of the archipelago from Aceh in the west to ­Tembagapura in the east providing fully-integrated food and ­distribution ­services, facility and PSU, like all other governmental and private institutions and companies, is­ ­management services, laundry and ­housekeeping services, and other support ­currently being exposed to voluntarily contribute towards reducing the effect of ­services to construction sites, mining sites, offshore drilling platforms, factories, global warming. These include efforts to: Reduce, Reuse, Recycle of products, Use ­offices, hospitals, schools, airlines, and the armed forces. All of these were operated Less Heat and Air Conditioning, Buy only Energy-Efficient Products, Use Less in such a way to meet and s­ atisfy a growing number of our Indonesia c­ ustomers. Hot Water except by Energy Alternative, Plant a Tree or two, etc. This has also These services were recently e­xpanded to the overseas to include Singapore, inspired PSU in the last quarter or 2012 to seek better ways as to the possibility ­Mongolia, Vietnam, Yemen, and Africa. (1.1, 1.2, 2.2) 8 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 8 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Mongolia AFRICA CHINA Vietnam OCEAN Angola Sana’a Rep. Yemen Batam Medan INDIAN Pekanbaru OCEAN KALIMANTAN SUMATERA Balikpapan SULAWESI Palembang Sorong Tembagapura PAPUA Jakarta Makassar Surabaya Timika JAWA Denpasar BALI This picture shows market served and the locations of PSU Head Offices as well as the (2.4, 2.5, 2.7) Pangansari Utama (PSU) r­ ecognizes Branch Offices in Indonesia and overseas. that the United N ­ ations Global PSU has also complied to the regulations as set forth in the Ten Principles of the ­Compact is a call to companies Global Compact wherein the business should uphold the human rights, l­abor, around the world to voluntarily ­environment, and anti-corruption. Every two years the PSU Management and align their operations and strategies the Union Workers sit together discussing all important points for inclusion in the with the ten universally accepted next Collective Labor Agreement (PKB). This is the time when the work c­ onditions and employee benefits are discussed, updated, and renewed after both parties have ­principles in the areas of Human reached an agreement. (LA.4) rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-corruption, and to take actions Now PSU is the largest Caterers in Indonesia with a turnover in excess of US$ 100 in support of UN goals, including million annually. the Millennium Development Goals. 9 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 9 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Living with Our Principles VISION To be the leading Food Resources Solutions Company. (4.8) MISSION To do our best in the company’s core business by providing a totally reliable ­service in the Food Business, Manufacturing Products, Supplies Consolidation, Trading, Retailing, Camp, Contract Catering Services and other related H ­ ospitality Support Services. (4.8) 10 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 10 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 11 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 11 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 VALUES POSITIVE This represents positive atmosphere in a PSU where confidence among ­e mployees exist. All employees either bottom up or top down support each other. No one can claim to be more important than other e­ mployees b ­ ecause they are treated equally without regards to nationality, color, ­religion, ­gender, etc. As such, the management should necessarily have to look at the ­c ompany’s organizational structure, and make sure that there is a clear line of communication through all levels, which each d ­ epartment’s ­responsibilities clearly defined. An employee who understands his ­responsibilities tends work positively and be more productive. Maintaining a positive culture is critical to the success of a company. So, to make a balance, If at the first hand employees may be given ­reprimand for mistakes they generate, then at the other hand employees may be g­ iven ­rewards or compliments for the positive results or successes they just ­p erform. Positive atmosphere will allow Management to be open for constructive 12 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 12 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 criticisms or suggestions by its employees. Transparency is upheld across feel proud of it. In this regard, the employees will make every efforts that the company wide. The majority of office doors are opened consistently the client customers will also act positively toward their company. throughout much of the day. This signals to all employees that no one can give a signal not to be bothered if others want to see him for a business RESPECTFUL task that can’t be postponed. One department can easily share with other One simple way to communicate more effectively is to treat the person we are ­d epartments toward positive advantages of the company. addressing respectfully--even if we do not, really, respect him or her. E­ xhibiting disrespect is almost never helpful, as it immediately places the listeners in The stakeholders can easily justify if our corporate culture is conducive an adversarial, and probably hostile frame of mind, and encourages them to and positive. In contrast, a weak, negative or faltering corporate culture ­disregard or dispute anything that is said. This does not mean that we have to can have adverse effects on a business and its employees. All too often, agree with everyone and hide any opposition we hold to their attitudes, beliefs, ­c orporations see a decline in productivity and worker satisfaction, and fail to values, or positions. It simply means that we should state our differences in a take the necessary steps to slow and reverse the downward spiral. ­S ometimes way that does not belittle theirs. For instance, instead of saying “that is a really it is simply a matter of analyzing the current corporate culture and instilling stupid way of looking at the situation,” it is usually more helpful to say “well, positive changes. I see the situation somewhat differently.” Then we can go on to explain how we see it, without ever saying directly that they are “stupid” or even wrong, but With all these in essence, It is of utmost important for management to simply that it is possible to see things in different ways. value their resources: specifically, their employees, who can be either the ­c orporation’s greatest assets or cause its downfall. Employees that feel valued There are times that we may probably face a conflicting situation, but when in and appreciated are more productive, more efficient, and more focused on doubt, treating opponents with respect and a relatively calm demeanor is likely to their performance. Employees think positively about the company and will be helpful. Remember it is not just what we say, but how we say it. 13 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 13 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 We must also remember that all persons have rights to speak up. So we must allow and give them an ample time to speak. No matter we agree or not agree, we should listen whatever they say or explain. To acknowledge what the opponents say will, at least, give them an impression that we respect them no matter even if we do not agree with whatever they say. In short if we should have to say no, we must say no nicely without hurting them. INSPIRING Some essential elements for becoming a more effective and inspirational ­communicator in our workplace are: Be friendly • Be thoughtful • Try our best The following shows how an inspiring person would necessarily have to act or to do among other things are: Give a chance to others to express their opinion because no one is capable to know everything. 14 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 14 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Keep information simple because the more complicated that information in the Many employees are motivated to work better simply because they feel c­ omfortable context, the more likely that the information to be misunderstood, working in a particular company. They feel that their existence are also a value misinterpreted, or ignored. for the company. The working environment also contributes s­ ignificantly toward employee motivation. The study found across a broad ­spectrum of employees that Try to encourage others to moving forward towards a success, because many more money only motivated (got more ­productivity) up to a certain point. After employees are uplifted through motivations to gain a success at the end. money came working conditions and supervisory quality which also had a point of diminishing returns as they were increased. The result was a conclusion that m ­ oney, Promote dialogue among the employees because by two ways dialogue working conditions and supervision could only increase p ­ roductivity to a certain communication, we will be able to acknowledge whether all folks understand point and then more money, better working conditions and better supervision of not what is being communicated to them, especially if the dialogue ­produced proportionately less and less gain. involves the socialization of new procedures. Employees tend to leave a company if they feel hurt in the existing company or Conduct a thorough review and evaluation and give a feedback if further they feel that the other company apparently indicate to be more ­comfortable. im­provement is still needed. Therefore, all employees regardless of their level of positions should make every effort to poses mutual inspiring and motivational habits. In this ­condition, there MOTIVATED is no discrimination across organization, nor the like and dislike ­treatments is We agree with the experts that our workers are motivated when they do something to be exercised across all business units. This will put an image to the ­employees because they want to rather than have to or are forced to. Motivated w ­ orkers do that they are well protected, and no way to think about moving to the other more with less supervision and contribute more to the workplace. company. 15 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 15 8/27/13 4:25 PM Sustainability 2012 EFFICIENT Under current tight competitions, a company that is inefficient will eventually be the loser. All tenders proposals will at first be evaluated by looking into itsMonetary Components prior to the Technical Aspect. The lower price will generally win the tendering process. By theory, the economic efficiency occurs when the cost of producing a given output is as low as possible. A change that lowers the quality of the good while at the same time lowers the cost of production does not increase economic efficiency. The concept of economic efficiency is only relevant when the quality of goods being produced is unchanged. 16 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 16 8/27/13 4:25 PM To work towards efficiency, a PSU employee should be well prepared Focus all our energy on the most important activities. The quoted 80/20 prior to start working. He should know exactly what needs to be done, rule states that 80% of the value we create in a day will come from 20% what should be handled first, and how to handle unexpected situations of the activities we perform. Meaning, if we complete those 20% we will should these incur. Efficiency is not only measured in terms of value but have done much, much more than if we try to complete all the rest. How also the timeframe. The work should be better be accomplished on the to do this? We must go through all the activities we have to perform and early the better concept. This will put us into a condition to concentrate see which ones are the most important, and find proper ways to focus (4.8) on all business matters during the office hours and push our private matmore time on them. ters during the break-time. 17 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 17 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Governance, NATURE AND SCOPE PSU has established appropriate governance structure to enable all Commitment & Engagements ­shareholders to be entitled to all forms of rights and equal status. The ­c ompany’s Board of Directors (BOD) is responsible for calling meetings for shareholders, submitting the reports, and executing resolutions made ­during the shareholders meetings. Likewise, the BOD is also responsible for ­supervising the development of overall operational strategies, ­d etermining business guidelines and investment plans, and supervising and directing the management of PSU. The BOD consists of three directors, including one President Director. Two other directors represent Operation, and Finance and Administration ­respectively. With regard to the company’s governance structure, PSU selects and ­appoints directors strictly subject to the existing law and procedures that ensure skill, knowledge, and attitude despite the transparency, justice, fairness, and ­i ndependency. PSU has encouraged all employees regardless of their level of positions 18 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 18 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 to adhere to all governmental procedures and company regulations. The who performs well may become probable for getting better remunerations. company regulations were made taking into consideration all the stipulated ­governmental procedures. GOVERNANCE PSU adopts a good governance in its operational activities. We know quite The appointment of key personnel managing the work place is subject to the clearly that in doing so it requires full participation of all PSU employees as vacant slot, competency, skill, knowledge, and attitude. a key cornerstone of good governance. The Salary and Remuneration as provided by PSU has been set to be All PSU employees are treated similarly with no regards to color, religion, ­i mperatively higher than the approved government regional minimum wage citizenship, gender, etc. As such, all are equal before the law. All e­ mployees scales. On regular basis PSU negotiates a New Salary Scales with the Union should ensure that in their daily working activities, conformance to the Worker representatives. rules and regulations are the basic conditions of their existence in PSU. A ­number of government regulations as well as the company regulations and PSU strictly observes all applicable laws and regulations and ensures policy must, therefore, be enforced and not to be compromised. ­c ompliance by all employees. PSU works within a legal frameworks that ensures that the rights and Employees are given chances and opportunities to develop themselves ­obligation are enforced impartially. We have thoroughly enforced full through effective trainings, on the job and off the job. ­protection of human rights across our workplace and ensured that ­e qual treatments are in place especially when this apply native tribes or to the PSU has adopted an effective system of work performance evaluation ­m inorities. We have coordinated with the native tribes representatives on ­w herein an employee is rated by the Pay for Performance basis. The one all of our programs and activities, and have promoted a number of these na19 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 19 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 tive tribes employees to the level of management positions. PSU has also implemented a transparency elsewhere across the ­organization to ensure that information is freely available and directly accessible to those who will be affected by such decisions and their enforcement. Every two-year period, PSU Management and the Union Worker ­R epresentatives sit together for negotiation and renewal of the Collective Labor Agreement(CLA). Once the CLA is approved, a socialization of CLA is conducted throughout the employees work locations. The CLA is entered to foster a work climate based on mutual respect and trust, guide, maintain and assure the establishment of employment relationship in ­a ccordance with the Pancasila Industrial Relations. The PSU CLA stipulates e­ mployment terms and conditions, rights and duties of both parties (company and ­e mployees). The grievance procedure is covered in detail so employees can easily go through the CLA Chapters what they want to pursue in accordance with the procedures. This CLA is binding all employees, and, therefore, a disciplinary action will be imposed to an employee who violates the CLA. 20 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 20 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 A disciplinary action, however, is to be imposed, only after a consultation ­regulations, ­ordinances and policies, etc. with the Union Worker leader has been made and their concurrence have been appended. In addition to the above primary tasks, the PSU Board of Commissioners also represents the PSU for highly important matters flow to the g­ overnmental Following are the governance structure of organization at PSU, including body and officers. They should also call for the Shareholders Meeting and committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific be responsible for the resolutions issued during the Shareholders Meeting. tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight all the way down. In summary, the Board of Commissioners tasks should also include: PSU BOARD OF COMMISSIONERS (4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10) • Identifying issues and needs to strengthen out any snags which The PSU Board of Commissioners is the PSU Company Organ with the may arise and distort the operation. task of general and/or specific supervision in accordance with the existing • Determining strategies to meet goals and objectives. procedures i.e. to control and provide advices to the Board of Directors • Setting priorities and timelines for completing goals and objectives. (BOD). This board of Commissioners comprises of two (2) members: One • Accomplishing the works. is a Chairman, and other one is a Member. The Board of Commissioners • Evaluating the results. are generally elected to 2-year terms. Despite being as advisory capacity to the BOD, the board is also responsible for approving the Vision, Mission, PSU BOARD OF DIRECTORS (4.1, 4.2, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10) and Values Statements of a company. Included in their tasks are ­appointing The PSU Board of Directors represents 3 persons, a President Director with 2 the BOD members, approving the operational budgets, r­epresenting the (two) directors reporting to him. One director manages the A ­ dministration ­Shareholders in managing its property and business by adopting rules, and Finance, and the other one oversees the operations. They are a group 21 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 21 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 of individuals that are elected to operate the PSU operations with general responsibilities include but not limited to: • Establishing, reviewing, and implementing the management related policies, • Making decisions on major company issues which comprise of the hiring/firing of executives, dividend policies, compensation and benefits policy, etc. • Reviewing and approving organizational structure and controls; • Ensuring that management is qualified and competent; • Reviewing and approving business objectives, strategies and plans; • Providing for an independent assessment of, and reporting on the effectiveness of, organizational and procedural controls; • Monitoring performance against business objectives, strategies and plans; etc. • Four times a year Board of Directors evaluating company’s performance in all subjects including economic, environment and social performance. In short, the PSU Board of Director’s primary responsibility is to protect 22 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 22 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 the shareholders’ assets and ensure they receive a decent return on their should not be surprising that managers take the ­budgeting ­process very seriinvestment. ously and invest considerable energy and even e­ motion in ensuring that their interest, and those of their departments, are p ­ rotected. Because of this, the (4.3, 4.5) PSU BUDGET COMMITTEE budgeting process can easily degenerate into an ­interoffice brawl in which PSU Budget committee is a group of key management personnel who are the ultimate goal of working together toward common goals in forgotten. ­responsible for overall policy matters relating to the overall budget ­programs. This includes monitoring and coordination of budget programs across the AUDIT COMMITTEE (4.3) organization. This committee consists of the management of Finance/AcThe PSU Audit Committee’s role is critical to the governance of the organization through counting plus all other representatives from the Projects or Divisions. One its oversight of the financial reporting process. The member’s role demands significant Senior personnel from Accounting is generally assigned to chair, manage, time and attention in addressing multiple risks and critical issues. The ­committee is and coordinate the preparation, processing, summarizing, or consolidation responsible for ensuring that the financial reporting process is c­redible, controlled of the entire budget package for further submission to the Board (BOD) for and reliable, and that the company’s financial reporting is transparent, c­ onsistent and review and approval. ­accurate. PSU is currently in the process of creating this committee. The PSU Budget Committee also determines allocation of expenditures ETHICAL COMMITTEE (4.3, 4.8) throughout the company. Indeed it is not easy because they should work and This committee is very important to PSU because it assumes responsibility for ­overall to a large extent determine to which department gets more ­resources, and compliance with those standards and procedures, oversees the use of due care in which gets relatively less. Also, the budget sets the ­b enchmarks by which man­delegating discretionary responsibility, communicates the organization’s ethics and agers and their departments will be at least partially ­e valuated. T­ herefore, it compliance standards and procedures, oversees enforcement, including the a­ ssurance 23 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 23 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 ORGANIZATION CHART (2.3) 24 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 24 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 that discipline is uniformly applied, etc. PSU is not yet in a position to create this OUR ENVIRONMENT ­committee, however, the BOD has also covered this task momentarily. • Ensure that our Business Activities do not disrupt the environment where we operate CORPORATE COMMITMENTS (4.11, 4.12, 4.13) • Work toward an environmentally sustainable manner by taking into ­ The following are fundamental uncompromised commitments: consideration the efficient resource use, potential environmental hazards, regulatory compliance, and effective control to improve the ­ OUR CLIENTS environmental performances in terms of competency, authorization, • Be a caring Client as a Partner that’s why we exist and level of responsibility • Strive to exceed the level of Client satisfaction and requirement • Contribute actively toward the development of the area we operate • Transform ideas into reality and thus better fulfill the needs of the client OUR SHAREHOLDERS OUR PERSONNEL • Strive for reasonable returns of investment • Attract, retain and develop the most capable person available for • Strive for long-term contract business relationship every position and provide continuous Career advancement • Make operational decisions guided by economics without • Work toward developing an efficient, productive, dynamic and compromising integrity aggressive Organization in which Personnel can increase their skills, • Attain and work productively and profitably realize their ambitions, attain work satisfaction and reward based • Conduct economic realization to the highest achievable level upon their merits and contributions • Be a role model to be recognized throughout the Catering Industry PSU, in parts are members of cooperative Sarima, union workers, and entrefor their Character, Commitment and Competence preneurs associations (APINDO). 25 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 25 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT (4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17) 26 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 26 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 CORRUPTION ASPECTS has apparently underlined that bribery and the like that could damage company’s repuBy definition the corruption only addressed to a person who corrupts m ­ oney , facilitation is subject to immediate dismissal (refer to Attachment 1 of the Collective Labor ties, or assets belong to an institution or legal body budgeted in the government budget, Agreement). PSU ­encourages all its employees to be loyal and trustworthy. Once PSU although such approach has been condemned by general community around the world. ­tolerates such a violation, everyone will assume a tolerance for this wrongdoing. It is PSU, however, has underlined and imposed a strong disciplinary action to those being for this reason that PSU scrutinizes all business expenses thoroughly noting any abuse (GC , AC.10) involved in bribery and the like. against the company procedures. (S04) PSU employees should refrain themselves from manipulated the documents bearing PUBLIC POLICY ASPECTS economic value, money, or materials because such a violation leads to immediate disOur records indicated that No attempts was made by any employee of ­company toward missal with possibility to be processed by the Police Office as an unlawful act, criminal, lobbying or participation in the development of public policy, nor the money and inthat warrants punishment. kind contributions made to political parties, politicians, or related institutions in the pasts. (S05, S06) Corruption is by definition only apply to the governmental body or ­institution funded by the government. Bribery, however, is totally subject to immediate dismissal at PSU. (S02) ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR PSU has carefully observed it’s operation and noted that there is no legal action for antiA Senior Manager has recently been appointed to handle CSR Programs and Activities competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes up to now. which includes Anti-Corruption despite Human Rights, Labor, and Environment. (S03) (S07) COMPLIANCE PSU does not specifically mention to impose sanction for corruption, ­because corrupPSU has also found that No Monetary value of significant fines and t­ otal number of non(S08) tion is confined to abuse against the governmental body or institution. However, PSU monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and r­ egulations. 27 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 27 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Sustainability & Business Strategy OPERATIONS PERFORMANCE PSU has seen that no direct economic value generated and distributed, i­ncluding revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other ­community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments in the past. In addition to this, there have been steady increases over the years of employees annual bonuses, employees ratings, and cooperative retained earnings for the members neither the Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. (1.2, EC1, EC2) PSU has received no coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan o­ bligations nor the financial assistance received from government. (EC3, EC4) With regards to the standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation, our company has offered a salary or wage exceeds the Standard Salary issued by the Government. (EC5) Approximately 60% of foods are purchased locally to conform to the government policy and regulations. (EC6) 28 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 28 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PSU is aware to it’s commitment in the past and that the local communities were complying with all regulations and legislation concerning the environment as well given chances and opportunities to hold various managerial positions. In addition as the standards applied in Indonesia. In its operation, PSU conducts activities to this, the priority is also given to the local tribes for new entry. If the local staff taking into account energy and materials efficiency, and minimizes the adverse is not available, further effort is given to outsider. Exception to this is for the very impact of waste to the environment. top management level, to whom consideration will be based on the experiences and competency. (EC7) All rubbish, trash, or wastes either from office or workplace are classified by ­Organic, Non-Organic, Chemical etc, and put into the particular bins. PSU has sought various ways and efforts to develop the local communities by way of infrastructure investments and services primarily for public benefit through PT Pangansari Utama also conducts continuous improvement program to ­develop commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement, this includes coordination with an Environmental Management system, encourage openness and dialogue with the local fishermen and farmers under control of PSU Cooperative Institution. the surrounding community, anticipate and respond to all concerns about the Including in this program is on-the job training using experts from Jakarta, etc. ­potential impact of operational activities. Positive advantages were noted because mostly all crops and products are absorbed by PSU via it’s cooperative body. (EC8, EC9) Pangansari Utama has been given a Certificate of ISO 14001 – 2004 for compliance to the Environmental Standard. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE PT Pangansari Utama (PSU) is a company that has an environmentally sustainable Pangansari Utama together with most of the reputable companies are currently business enterprise and responsible for carrying out environmental practices in all committed to pursue sustainability and environmental resource management its activities. It has committed to preventing pollution and reducing the negative ­encompassing managing economic, social, and ecological systems within and impact on the environment in line with economic and technical conditions, and ­external to an organizational entity in order for it to sustain itself and the sys29 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 29 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 tem it exists within. In context, sustainability implies that rather than competPSU initiated programs to renewable energy based on product and services by ing for endless growth on a finite planet, development will improve quality of life having agreement with local government to provide used cooking oil as our waste ­without necessarily having to consume more resource. In order to sustainably to be a renewable bio-fuel. As for reducing indirect energy consumption, PSU promanage the state of environmental resources affected by human activities, organimoting saving energy program by replacing light bulbs to LED, placing announcezational change is needed to instill sustainability values within an organization, ment near on/off switch and water sources. (EN.5, EN.6, EN.7) in order to portray these values outwardly from all levels and to reinforce them in its ­surrounding stakeholder community. The end result should be a symbiotic PSU has built a modern central kitchen in Jakarta, and large storages/warehouses relationship between the sustaining organization and community, along with the in Balikpapan, Surabaya, Timika and Jakarta. (EN.11) environment. PSU ensured that there will be no adverse impacts on biodiversity in the protected Under existing rules and regulations, PSU should also monitor Water and Waste areas and areas containing high biodiversity value outside the protected areas or Water, Gas Emission, Hazardous Waste, Noise Impact, Wild Life Impact, Social nearby. (EN.12, EN.15) Impact, etc. These include efforts to solve the greenhouse effect, ­conservation of energy especially water, and minimizing or eliminating destructions to In its operations, PSU business units are away from the protected habitats, not ­environment. (EN14) required to replant the trees because the tasks under responsibility of the client customers, with no requirement for composing or fertilizing as well. (EN.13) PSU is currently seeking ways to use recycled materials. This requires sometime to ensure such a materials can be used for catering and housekeeping operations. PSU is currently reviewing a possibility to calculate direct and indirect effect of Plastic wraps are still used, however, in the future it is hoped that the plastic bag greenhouse and gas emissions in the near future. (EN.16, EN.17, EN.29) will only last to a maximum of 1 to 2 years. (EN14) 30 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 30 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 MATERIAL USAGE (EN.1, EN.2) 31 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 31 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 WATER USAGE (EN.8, EN.9, EN.10) 32 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 32 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 DIRECT & INDIRECT ENERGY (EN.3, EN.4) 33 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 33 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PSU has tried to equip its operation with sufficient equipment tools, etc in an ef­environmental laws and regulations. (EN28) fort to measure and control by way of type and weight of emissions, spills, wastes, water runoff, greenhouse effects and other environmental impacts. This effort rePSU carefully handles the transportations of products, goods, and materials and (EN.16, EN.18, EN.19, EN.20, EN.21, EN.22, EN.23, EN.24, quires one or two years to implement. that no significant environmental impacts to employees or community. EN.25) In recent future, PSU will be equipped with the environmental protection ­equipment to ensure adherence to environmental policy, the cost of which can’t Direct energy consumption by primary source is presently under review because be predicted at this moment. (EN 29, EN30) it involves new mechanical systems, and as well as suggestion and direction by the users clients. (EN3) CORPORATE STRATEGIC PHILOSOPHY Management has long recognized that we are in the “PEOPLE BUSINESS” and PRODUCT AND SERVICES that an Organization is only as good as the combination of its employee’s talents, PSU maintains effective control of how to handle waste in order to avoid pollution just as any good recipe, is dependent on the combination of the proper ratio of and contamination. This is clearly set for in the Operating Procedures, and Safety food ingredients. (EN26) Regulations. At Management level we are aware that: PSU by so far has received no significant reclaims for products as well as p ­ ackaging. • Our success therefore depends upon the level of Client satisfaction on our ­overall Normal breaking packages due to bad handling or rush loading/unloading were performances. To achieve this, we have to select and retain highly e­ xperienced (EN27) normally acceptable, and not claimed by the receiver. and talented personnel at all levels, provide personalized service at both C ­ ustomer and Client level while ensuring fast and efficient response to all requirements, PSU has obtained no fines charges of sanctions for noncompliance with conduct professional performance of all our duties and responsibilities, and 34 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 34 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 ­render services tailored to Client need’s and specifications. In addition to this,­­ PT ­P­angansari Utama has developed over the years a highly skilled M ­ anagement team ­specialized in Industrial Institutional Catering services, maintained a ­lowest level of Management turnover at Executive level, and highest level of Client ­retention in the Catering Industry. At Branch and/or Operational level we aim to : • Develop and maintain our business by providing a quality food service. This will only be achieved by adopting innovative marketing techniques, ensuring that fresh, attractively displayed and appetizing food is available during all service periods. We will also obviate repetition and predictability through imaginative Cycle Menus(CM’s), and a wide variety of food choices. Emphasis will be placed on the use of Seasonal and Fresh Foods where economically possible. • Provide a high level of supervision and adopt work methods, which in turn will lead to a happy and efficient Site Staff. • Engage professionally attired competent kitchen staff who are effective 35 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 35 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 36 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 36 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 and service oriented in an effort to provide and efficient and personalized service. • Ensure that all staff members wear a white uniform with RED/BLUE checked aprons which creates a bright crisp appearance behind the Service Counter. This is but one step in the process of improving morale for the benefit of the Client’s personnel, and for the company as well. • Provide for Special Functions and other Ancillary Services, to the highest quality and presentation as might be demanded by the Client, whether it is a; Board Meeting, In-House Staff Functions or VIP functions. • Monitor trends, new products and methods within the Industry, and to keep the Client informed of any changes, which may affect the Catering Operation or Cost Levels. • Arrange regular Meetings with the Client on all important matters requiring immediate solutions with regards of our Catering Operations. Noting that Client / Contractor Meetings are vitally important during the life of the Contract. Only through this meaningful avenue are we able keep the lines of communication open, to recognize any areas of difficulty, and also to receive critical appraisal of our performance. Promotional activity, customer feedback, establishing dates for special theme days, variance-reporting etc. are standard agenda items of such Meetings. 37 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 37 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 CURRENT RELEVANT FACTS ABOUT OUR COMPANY Thiess Contractors, Chevron, Vale Indonesia and others. EXPERIENCES • PSU has it’s own support infrastructure and equipment including; PT. Pangansari Utama is a well established Indonesian owned Company formed Cold Storage, Freezer, Chiller and Dry Containers, Reefer Trucks to serve Indonesia, introduce its experienced expertise serving a world class and a Personnel Training Centre. ­ catering with specializations in Commercial, Institutional, Offshore and • PSU has proved to have obtained a constantly growing reputation for ­Onshore, related catering services. In addition to Catering Services, PSU also Quality Service matched with our growth rate of fully trained dedicated operates the entire Turn-Key Camp Projects which include; Camp Design, employees’ and an efficient Managerial Staff. Modular A ­ ccommodation, Housekeeping Cleaning & Janitorial Services, • PSU comprised of a team of professional Quality Controllers (QC’s) ­Canteen & Coffee Services, Landscaping, Ground Maintenance, Pest Control, possessing solid backgrounds in food and beverage management ­Supermarkets, C ­ ommissaries, Club Facilities, Fitness Centers, and Library. technology by consistently monitoring its overall Operational Units CREDENTIALS Our stability in strength and depth performance is supported by the following credentials that: • PSU is reputed to be the longest established Catering Services Company operating under the same continuous Ownership and Management in the Services Industry. • PSU has provided and served complete set of Catering related services to various satisfied Clients such as BP Arco, Unocal, Exxon ­Mobil Oil, Total Indonesie, Freeport Indonesia, 38 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 38 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 (OU’s). • PSU currently employs around 4,500 personnel. • PSU flexibility in providing services of a diversified number of Sites ranging from 25 to 20,000 persons and even more. • PSU operational sites with scheduled operational workdays of l 7 days per week, and 365 days per year. • PSU strongly considers to be capable of operating in all sectors of the community which include: CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (CSR) Basically, CSR is the continuing commitment by business to behave ethically and contribute to economic development while improving the quality of life of the workforce and their families as well as of the local community and society at large. This embraced responsibility for the company’s actions and encourage a positive impact through its activities on the environment, consumers, employees, ­communities, stakeholders and all other members of the public sphere. PSU is aware that like it or not, under strict application of existing rules in this country vide the Law Number 40 year 2007 concerning a Corporation, each ­company doing business in the field of and/or in relation to natural resources must put into practice Environmental and Social Responsibility (CSR). It f­urther ­underlined 39 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 39 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Accommodation Camp and Catering Services Club Facilities Supermarkets or Commissaries that The Environmental and Social Responsibility contemplated above constitutes Restaurant and Bar an obligation of the Company which shall be budgeted for and ­calculated as a cost of the Company performance of which shall be with due ­attention to decency and Staff Cafeterias fairness. A sanction will be imposed to a company that fails to meet this obligation (Law 4, year 2007 Chapter V article 74). This Law has inspired PSU to be Offshore Rigs and Platforms more responsible in carrying out environmental practices in all its operational Procurement & area. PSU was committed right thereafter to preventing ­pollution and reducing Food Supplies the negative impact on the environment in line with economic and technical conditions. PSU addressed the entire operations to be ­committed to complying with Reefer Containers Procurement, leasing and repair all regulations and legislation concerning the environment as well as the standards applied in Indonesia. PSU continuously i­mproved its ­environmental programs First Aid Posts Maintenance covering Carpentry, and developed an Environmental Management s­ ystem, encouraged openness and dialogue with the surrounding ­community, and ­responded to all concerns about Plumbing, Painting, Electrical, the potential impact of o ­ perational activities. This would mean that PSU develand Refrigeration and oped, operated, and conducted all activities ­taking into account energy and material use efficiency, and minimized the a­ dverse ­environmental and safety impacts Air-conditioning Trades Cinema & of waste. Pollution is a form of waste, and a symptom of i­ nefficiency in industrial Videos Operation production. So PSU put more control in the consumption of water, no matter Hospitals & Clinics 40 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 40 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 even if the water is traditionally free or not we utilized this limited resource just on purpose. CSR is important because businesses are based on trust and foresight. E ­ stablishing and keeping trust with customers, communities and regulators isn’t simple and can be easily damaged or lost. To be successful in the long-term, companies need to think beyond what’s affecting them today to what’s going to happen tomorrow. This isn’t just about addressing changes to technology or the needs of customers, but also taking into account alterations in social, environmental and governance i­ssues. At present, PSU renders various services including Catering, ­Housekeeping, Maintenance, etc to around 50 companies throughout ­Indonesia. As part of CSR activities, once a year, PSU coordinates effort to conduct a ­Mass-Wedding for e­ mployees who lived together as husband and wife without having marital ­certificates. ­Hundreds of couples have participated in this program. PSU ­believes that there are some very positive advantages if a couple possesses a marriage ­certificate, because husband and wife are legally recognized by the government, and socially accepted by the community as well. Many rights and entitlements that are attached to the couple will be similarly given to the newly married couple after the mass marriage. In addition to this, either person is given 41 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 41 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 a right for inheritance of the wealth should one of them pass away. Of course, ­applied this directive by giving more chance to the local people to be employed by their children may then enroll their study at ease because of the legal and formal PSU, and added to employees formation across the organization. These ­indigenous identity of their parents being one of the conditions for new entrance. people working at PSU FI project comprised of mostly the 7 tribes at the vicinity areas of PSU operations at the Freeport, plus all other tribes of West Papua and PSU recognizes that in conducting its business elsewhere, the existence of ­indigenous Papua Provinces. As noted almost 25 percent of PSU ­employees at the Freeport peoples plays a vital role for sustainable development in PSU. Project represent the Local Papuan employees. They work at all business units which include Catering, Housekeeping, Laundry, Facility Management, Safety, Noted that the recognition of indigenous peoples as a major group by the UN Hospitality, Administration, and other support business units. ­Conference on Environment & Development (UNCED), popularly known as the Earth Summit, held in 1992, was a breakthrough enabling the political p ­ articipation of indigenous peoples in various processes relating to sustainable development. Many countries have also incorporated the recognition of indigenous peoples in their regulations. Indonesia has then responded to this by issuing a Special ­Autonomy Law No. 21, 2001, for Province of Papua. It was further clarified by the United Nations with regards to the native peoples that first and foremost it is necessary to acknowledge that indigenous peoples are peoples with special and ­internationally ­recognized rights as such – most importantly spelled out in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous Peoples adopted by the UN General Assembly in 2007. ­Parallel with this, PSU at the Freeport Project has also adapted, and, therefore, 42 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 42 8/27/13 4:25 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 43 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 43 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 GLOBAL CITIZEN Talking about global citizen, like it or not, all people are citizens of the globe, and PSU in not an exception, as such, PSU believes that Global Citizenship is more than the sum of its parts. It goes beyond simply knowing that we are citizens of the globe to an acknowledgement of our responsibilities both to each other and to the Earth itself. PSU agrees that Global Citizenship is also about u ­ nderstanding the need to tackle injustice and inequality, and having the desire and ability to work actively to do so. It is about valuing the Earth as precious and unique, and safeguarding the future for those coming after us. As a global Citizen we should respect and value the diversity, we should participate in making the world a more sustainable place, we do not compromise injustice, we recognize other who is ­different with us due to differences in color, culture, religions, genders, nationality, etc. 44 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 44 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 45 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 45 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Personnel and Process Safety OUR PEOPLE PSU and its employees are responsible to nurture a healthy business and work climate. The employees, like the company, reserve the right to operate safely and peacefully, unimpeded by interruptions in procedures, transgressing violations, and disturbances in safety. PSU prohibits job discrimination on the basis of race, color, religion, sex/gender, and nationality. All potential candidates are reviewed based on their competency (skill, knowledge, and attitude). Sufficient experiences in the previous companies are of positive advantages for the new entry. Certain positions, however, are reserved to the expatriate personnel to conform to the Contract Agreements with the client customers. In the future, PSU is considering about accepting limited number of disable/ handicapped candidates probably in administrative/clerical works, to conform to the government regulations. PSU also employed the local people in its employees formation. A priority for first entry level is given to the local people. Exception is given to candidate for the management level to whom consideration lies in terms of Skill, Knowledge, and Experience. 46 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 46 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 During 2012, PSU has appointed a Papuan employee to hold a managerial of Rp 750,000 for Kindergarten all the way up to Rp 4,000,000 for University level position to oversee and control the Papuan Hospitability Department. This levels. ­position has a critical role in ensuring that PSU can create a work e­ nvironment The following chart shows number of Papuan tribes working for PSU at F ­ reeport where all employees – especially Papuan employees – are treated in a fair and Project. They comprised of mostly the 7 tribes at the vicinity areas of PSU ­objective manner, and that there will be no discrimination against any individual ­operations at the Freeport, Papua. because of employee’s ethnicity, tribal origin, or similar factors. Noting that almost 25 percent of PSU employees at the Freeport Project r­ epresents Forced and compulsory labor are totally prohibited. No child labor either the Local Papuan employees. They work at all business units which include ­temporary or permanent employee is accepted to work at PSU. In addition to ­ Catering, Housekeeping, Laundry, Facility Management, Safety, Hospitality, this, there is no discrimination meaning that equal opportunity and treatment ­Administration, and other support business units. (LA.13) are rendered to all new employees. Employee are evaluated based on their Skill, Knowledge, and Attitude. The Papuan employees have also been given more priority to be trained ­On-the-job, and outside the work place. Male and female employees are not necessarily to be To improve the knowledge and productivity of employees, PSU provides sorted since PSU has given a chance for these local people on a first come first ­opportunity for advancement to employees through training programs in various serve basis. jobs across the PSU organization. The Papuan employees have been given more priority to be trained On-the-job, and outside the work place. Male and female PSU encourages employees to improve their performance to allow them to hold employees are not necessarily to be sorted since PSU has given a chance for these higher responsibilities. When there is a lack between the standard of work against local people on a first come first serve basis. Not only this, but PSU has also their competency, employees may be given chance for attending the t­raining ­provided educational assistance for employee dependents annually in the amount ­programs either on the job or off the job. Preferences are generally given to 47 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 47 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Progressing PSU TowardsEMPLOYEE Sustainability IN 2012 (LA.1, LA. 2, LA.13, EC.7) Towards Sustainability 2012 2012 PSU FI Papuan Employees by Native Tribes 2012 PSU Freeport Project Employees 2012 Total 1848 employees AMUNGME DANI DAMAL MONI MEE KAMORO OTHE PAPUANS 1416 432 7 48 171 22 12 45 125 Papuan Employees Non Papuan Employees PSU Freeport Employees by Gender 2012 160 1688 Male Employees = 1688 Female Employees = 160 48 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 48 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Aceh 116 persons Batam 23 persons Medan 2 persons 1.275 persons Pekanbaru Padang 72 persons KALIMANTAN 36 persons SUMATERA 1.884 persons Balikpapan SULAWESI Sorong Tembagapura Palembang PAPUA 52 persons 368 persons Jakarta 65 persons 99 persons Makassar Surabaya Timika JAWA Denpasar Jawa Barat 250 persons Jawa Tengah < 50 persons > 50 persons > 100 persons 12 persons BALI Total Permanent Employee = 2.714 persons Total Contract Employee = 1.540 persons PSU – Freeport Project employees 2012 • Total 1,848 Employees (LA.1) 49 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 49 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 the local tribes candidates especially for the entry level. The management l­evel is ­commensurate with the candidate profile taking into considerations their ­educational background as well as their related experiences. At least once a year, PSU coordinates effort to conduct a Mass-Wedding for ­ employees who have wives/husbands without at first possessing marital ­certificates. The benefits provided to full-time employees are slightly better than that provided to. These include certain merit increase percentages based on the Collective Labor Agreement (CLA) and or Employees Contract, etc. (LA.3), and noted that all non Staff Employees are covered by the Collective Labor Agreement. (LA.4) At least 2 to 3 months before the effective date, employees are notified as to the changes of the Collective Labor Agreement. This is formally addressed during the Socialization of CLA to all locations. (LA.5) All employees are represented during a negotiation between the Union Workers and Management including Health and Safety programs despite all other employee benefits. Employees are represented by the Union Worker Representatives. (LA.6) The Safety Reports include Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities, (LA7) while all employees and dependents 50 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 50 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 HUMAN RIGHTS (HR.1, HR.2, HR.3, HR.4, HR.5, HR.6) medical expenditures are absorbed by PSU. (LA.8) Accordingly, numerous Safety topPSU in doing business recognizes and respects the human rights. The human rights basiics are included in the work procedures and applicable to all employees. (LA.9) cally concerned with equality and fairness, freedom of choice, living a life free from fear, harassment, or discrimination, inhumane treatments, etc. All of these have made human Most trainings are currently being given by way of On the Job Training. In a­ ddition rights to be universal. to this, our client company like PT Freeport Indonesia conducts the Training to it’s employees and contractors on a free charge basis. (LA.10) Since 2007 PSU has encouraged its employees to respect and implement human rights in the operational work place. The human rights sessions were generally given to all level Employees are generally scheduled for training to fill the gap between the ­standard of employees regardless of their positions. PSU and its employees support and respect requirement against employee’s competency. (LA.11) the protection of human rights whilst ensuring that all are not complicit in human rights All employees receive regular performance and career development reviews on anabuses. nual basis. (LA.12) All employees regardless of their level of positions have attended numerous c­ lasses of the Men and women are treated equally, so there is no special report to indicate the ratio Socialization of Human Rights since 2007. Client company has allowed PSU to conduct of basic salary of men to women by employee category, or by significant ­locations of the internal Socialization of Human Rights to its e­ mployees. The Socialization of Human operation. Both male and female employees are measured by their Skill, Knowledge, Rights was given to make certain that PSU personnel were sufficiently knowledgeable in and Attitude, and the salary is given based on the applicable standard taking into Human Rights and Human Rights Violations. account the skill, knowledge, attitude, that goes with the p­ osition, and the level of experiences. (LA.14) Employees should adhere to the CLA that consist of all employment terms and conditions to be met, and right and duties of all parties involved. This include adherence to Human Rights regulations. 51 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 51 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Each employee has a right to report any violation against the Human Rights. (HR2) Subsequent to this, each supplier or contractor has it’s own mechanism to handle and process all violations against the human rights. Certain areas like PT Freeport Indonesia has adopted a regulation that it’s suppliers, contractors, and privatized companies providing products or services to them must be given a mandatory human rights induction program. (HR3) PSU FI project has sent more than 80 p ­ ercent employees to attend this mandatory sessions. No incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken whatsoever being reported ­involving PSU employees in (HR4) the past. PSU received no complaints of Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may (HR5) be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights , nor they are reported as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor (HR6) and/ or identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. (HR7) PSU itself strongly restricts child labor in its operation. PSU will consider about sending it’s security personnel to be trained in the 52 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 52 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 ­organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. (HR8) PSU received no reports of incidents/ violations involving right of indigenous people and actions taken (HR9), nor any operation sites that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments (HR10), and/or grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. (HR11) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY STANDARDS Pangansari Utama recognizes its primary responsibility in Health and Safety for the operational works, and that no work can be performed prior to observing and ensuring that the job is safe, healthy, and hygiene. This would mean that no work can be performed if a condition is unsafe. All PSU employees regardless of their positions should comply to the Health PSU internal Safety department manages the implementation, progress, control, and Safety Standards without a compromise. All business units conduct regular and evaluation of Industrial Health and Safety throughout all company premises. ­toolbox meetings discussing all facets of Industrial Health and Safety programs This department provides help to the auditors when they conduct the audit. PSU and activities. has ever marked an outstanding achievement of 30 million hours without lost time accidents. 53 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 53 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Product Responsibility PSU strongly implemented the ­procedures of Foods Handling by way of Total Quality Control as from Raw ­Materials all the way through the Finished Product. Including in the control is a Food Safety system. As such, all food-handlers are required for medical ­check-up at least every six months. Sample of cooked foods are stored in the ­refrigerators for 3 days. PSU is involved in the international food supply chain and that its consumers are becoming increasingly conscious about the quality of the food they eat. Food and vegetables produced by PSU is expected to be of high quality and free of biological, physical or chemical hazards – despite the risks involved, for example, in transporting perishable produce such as fruit and vegetables over great distances. To meet the consumers’ demand for fresh and healthy food and fulfill strict legal requirements, PSU has decided since the very first time to have its Quality Management Systems (QMS) certified in order to ensure the whole processes are both structured and regularly monitored. Of course PSU has gained benefit from possessing the certificate ISO 22000 : 2005, because since 2005, ISO 22000 was adopted to be the globally accepted certification standard for food safety. (PR1) ISO 22000 has been specifically adapted to the situation in the food industry by integrating the requirements of HACCP, an internationally recognized food safety system that identifies, prevents, eliminates or reduces to an acceptable level ­potential physical, chemical and biological hazards by preventive means rather than finished product in54 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 54 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 spections. The combination of ISO 9001, HACCP and ISO 22000 creates an effective including results of surveys measuring customer ­satisfaction. PSU has put Customer system for permanent process improvement, ­standardization and risk minimization in Satisfaction forms to be available at the Mess-halls and other food service /distribution the food industry. points at all times. (PR.4, PR.5) Despite ISO 22000 : 2005, PSU has also obtained ISO 9001: 2008 for Quality All programs related to Foods and Beverages served conform to the HACCP guide­Management System. Indeed it is not easy to get ISO 9001 Certification because PSU lines. In addition to this, PSU is also audited annually (including SAI Global Audit) as should have proved to complete firstly a complete cycle of internal audit for manageto its adherence to the procedures in place. No report is filed to indicate of incidents ment review, all weaknesses were corrected etc. In short the ISO 9001 Certificate can of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing comonly be obtained after the ISO Auditors have proved and validated the System Complimunications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. (PR.5, PR.6, PR.7) ance/Implementation, and System Effectiveness. So far, there is no indication of the existence of incidents of non-compliance with PSU received no complaints ever since as to breaches of customer privacy and losses of regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of ­products and customer data. (PR.8) services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes at PSU. By p ­ rocedures, PSU only accepts good quality of foods and vegetables at the R ­ eceiving Points. PSU will reject all No Fines, by so far were imposed to PSU for non-compliance with laws and regulations (PR.2, PR.3) foods and vegetables that are proved to be received below standard. concerning the provisions and use of product and services. (PR.9) PSU has never received any complaints pertaining to number of incidents of non-comPSU absorbs all volume of fresh foods, vegetables, and fishes from the suppliers based pliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service informaon the pre-determined volume, and/or blanket orders as per policy. (FP.1) tion and labeling, by type of outcome, nor any practices ­related to customer satisfaction, 55 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 55 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 FP.4 56 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 56 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PSU currently purchases the entire volume of products after being verified by the CoPSU only received, processed, and used the lowered saturated fats and sugars in its operative Sarima in accordance with the credible internationally recognized producproducts. The products are tested by the client public health in the labs on a regular tion/safety standard. Noted that 65 percent of local product and 35 percent overseas are basis to ensure compliance. (FP6) accounted for and confirmed to this standard. (FP.2) PSU have regular healthy food menu in services clients. The frequency of healthy food PSU has only experienced a 36 hours working time lost during 2012 following a one menu is once a week from breakfast, lunch, and dinner. For PHE Project, the healthy and a half day non-staff workers strike. (FP.3) food menu is routine in Friday with the Low Cholesterol Day menu, for Premier Oil Project, the healthy food menu is routine in Sunday by serve the BBQ menu, and for PSU’s program and practices in-kind contribution of knowledge transfer to promote Total Project, we always serve healthy food menu everyday along with normal menu as access to healthy lifestyle by sharing of health food to our client such as “How to Conan alternative choices. (FP.7) trol Cholesterol with a Good Diet”, sharing knowledge of “Penatalaksanaan Diet Gout & Penyakit Gout (Uric Acid)”, sharing knowledge of “Penatalaksanaan Diet Diabetes PSU communicates to clients about ingredients and nutritional fact by putting of nutriMelitus”, etc. Our Nutritionist that visited the PSU Project on periodic schedule contion factor in the menu plan that we submitted. (FP.8) ducts these programs. (FP.4) PSU has not put into its operations, for the time being, the business units of animal PSU is already certified by SAI Global Indonesia as our Third Party (Certification breeding and genetics, animal husbandry, animal transportation, handling, and slaughBody) for ISO 9001:2008 of Quality Management System, ISO 22000:2005 of Food ter. However, PSU has made certain visits to the locations where these products are Safety Management System and ISO 14001:2004 for Environmental Management Sysproduced to ensure compliance with the safety of product and standard quality as per tem. (FP.5) policy. (FP.9, FP.10, FP.11, FP.12, FP.13) 57 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 57 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Local Development (SO.1) Over the years, PSU Co-operative Institutions namely Sarima, has played a large role in providing institutional credit to PSU employees, absorbed large scale of fresh seafood products from local fishers, local fruits and vegetables from the ­traditional farmers as well as home-made or small industry food processed ­products such as local tempe and tofu. Under normal circumstances, 60 % of fresh fish is purchased locally from Timika and only 40 % from Surabaya/ Jakarta, while the fruits and vegetables in a proportion of 50%, 15%, and 35% respectively for Timika, Australia, and Surabaya/Jakarta. PSU through Sarima, has coordinated efforts since 1997 with the govenmental related departments to conduct various agricultural training to enable the local farmers to work more intensively in order to get more volume of the crops. Sarima as a mentor provides its members control over all the operations of the organization as it promotes a high degree of participatory involvement, making co-operatives more responsive to market & member requirements. At present, Sarima control approximately 60 local fishers and 400 local farmers. The lure that Sarima has purchased the products from the local fishers and farmers at a price higher than the products sold to the local market have triggerred them to produce more. So Sarima is the biggest customer for them. 58 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 58 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 The following charts show the percentages of Fresh Fish/Sea Foods purchases PSU in coordination with the from Timika, Surabaya, and Jakarta to be sent to PSU locations at FI project. ­Media Group has coordinated a Fresh fish / Sea foods purchased from Timika are fresh. They are soon washed, join effort by assisting t­ echnical prepacked, labeled, and put into the Refrigrators prior to be delivered to the jobsites. knowhow to the Salam Papua (SAPA) ­Newspapers Timika, and PSU has a right not to accept unfreshed products, or returns the already received providing various general helps products that are found to be below the standard requirements. ­involving initial set up of manpower ­strategy, manpower t­ raining and For the last several years, PSU Co-operative Institution namely Sarima, has played a large role in providing institutional credit to PSU employees. The operation of ­empowerment, and a ­ llowing SAPA Sarima has been expanded to include handling the large scale local purchases newspapers to share o ­ n-line news comprising of fresh fruit and vegetables of local farmers, and fresh fish/sea foods with this local newspapers. Initial of local fishermen. These fresh products are to be sent to the PSU ­work-locations training for one key personnel from ­elsewhere. As an example, under normal circumstance, 60 % of fresh fish is ­purchased directly from Timika local fishermen, and 40% from ­Surabaya/ ­Jakarta, Timika to Media Indonesia Jakarta while the fruits and vegetables are in proportion of 50 %, 35%, and 15% ­respectively has been made soon thereafter. from Timika, Australia, and Surabaya/ Jakarta. 59 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 59 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PROJECTS Local SARIMA Cooperative Body SARIMA COOPERATIVE (EC.9) Membership: PSU Permanent Employees and other selected personnel on the basis of transparency, voluntary, and democratic. Purposes: To provide welfare to employees and families, and coordinate with the local customers to attain mutual benefits in accordance with the existing procedures and regulations. Farmers/ Strategy: Fisherman Effective control of demand and suply of product, and quality as well. 60 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 60 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 FPI Unit Operation Timika 60% Jakarta/ Surabaya 40% 50% 35% Timika 15% Overseas Jakarta/Surabaya 61 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 61 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Working in Challenge Locations Hot and Cold temperatures PSU work locations range from only a few meters above sea level all the way to more than 4, 200 meters , with temperatures stretched from as hot as 35 to 37 d ­ egree ­Celsius at the Lowland to go down along way colder with fewer oxygen at the ­temperature of only around 0 degree Celsius at the Highland area of ­operation. These two ­different extreme temperatures are very challenging and warrant separate preparations by ­employees to work. Round the clock operations PSU conducts it’s operations 7 days a week, and 365 days a year. Employees are ­scheduled on a Shift basis to ensure day and night operations are not disrupted. This includes working through a midnight. Undergrounds and Surface Operations PSU Catering Staff should work and serve the client customers working at the s­urface mining operations and also the client customers who work in the u ­ nderground area. Of course, working conditions in a location like this, can be unusual and sometimes dangerous. Surface mining, however, usually is less hazardous than underground mining. In underground mining operations, unique dangers include the possibility of cave-in, landslide, mine fire, explosion, or exposure to harmful gases. In addition, dust generated by drilling in mines still places miners at risk of developing either of two serious lung diseases: pneumoconiosis, also called “black lung disease,” from coal dust, or silicosis from rock dust. These days, dust levels in mines are closely monitored and occurrences of lung diseases are rare if proper procedures are followed. U ­ nderground 62 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 62 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 miners have the option to have their lungs x-rayed on a periodic basis to monitor for the display of emotion differently. Some cultures get very e­ motional when they are the development of the disease.” ­debating an issue. They yell, they cry, they exhibit their anger, fear, frustration, and other feelings openly. Other cultures try to keep their emotions hidden, exhibiting or Land topographical condition sharing only the “rational” or factual aspects of the situation. The left and right side of the roads are very steep inviting accidents. In addition to this the landslide occurrences are frequent. As a result, carrying and d ­ elivering foodstuffs All of these have put PSU employees in a very cautious situation on how to behave and supplies through these rough roads require extra awareness. Our drivers should properly in the community of. undergo a serial of defensive driving tests prior to obtaining ­company license . Failure to comply to this will result in immediate dismissal. Working with fully installed electrical equipment (SO.9, SO.10) All equipment operated by PSU are of electrical equipment. The danger of ­injury Cross Cultures Communication through electrical shock is present whenever electrical power is used. As such, PSU In its day-today operations, PSU works with various types of people in terms of employees should ensure that all electrical equipment should be a­ dequately i­ nsulated, nationalizations, languages, religions, colors, genders, origins, native tribes, etc. As grounded, or isolated to prevent bodily contact with any source of d­ angerous p­ otentials. a result, effective communication with people of different cultures is especially Under certain conditions people can be injured severely even from relatively low voltages coupled with high current flows. The work area should be kept dry to reduce the ­challenging. Cultures provide people with ways of thinking--ways of seeing, hearing, risk of shock from touching and contacting with electrical components. and­­interpreting the world. Thus the same words can mean different things to people from different cultures, even when they talk the “same” language. When the languages Our employees should, therefore, check all equipment regularly and wear the proper are different, and translation has to be used to communicate, the potential for misunprotective equipment when working with high voltages or currents. derstandings increases. The employees are reminded regularly that If your equipment runs erratically or Each culture has its own rules about proper behavior which affect verbal and n ­ onverbal if they feel an electrical “tingle” when they touch it, stop using the tool, tag it, and communication. Whether one looks the other person in the eye-or not; whether one have it ­repaired. Whenever the risk of electrocution is high, all should wear the says what one means overtly or talks around the issue; how close the people stand to right ­protective clothing-insulated gloves, eye protection, boots, and head gear. All each other when they are talking--all of these and many more are rules of politeness ­employees are ­refrained to start working should they observe that the condition of which differ from culture to culture. In addition to this, different cultures regulate work area is not conducive and safe. 63 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 63 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Awards Pangansari Utama awarded a number of certifications from various different institutions both internal and national. (2.10) These include: 64 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 64 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 A Recognition from PTFI for PSU’s achievement i.e. a Safe Man-Hours of more than 33 Million without an accident. A Certificate of Food Safety Management system ISO 22000 per Certificate number HCV20821 – Sai Global. A Certificate of Quality Management System ISO 9001 per Certificate number QEC27096 – Sai Global. A Four-Stars system by NOSA per Certificate number A Certificate of Recognition from PTFI for Excellent Participation in Human Rights. 65 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 65 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 Our Report Reporting period for information provided: 2012. (3.1) Date of most recent previous report: December 2012. (3.2) Reporting cycle: one year. (3.3) Contact point for questions regarding the report: Winny Mambu, CSR Senior Manager .(3.4) Process for defining report content: 2-3 months. (3.5) The report is confine for PT Pangansari Utama (PSU) Indonesia and its stakeholders as well. (3.6) This is a first report; as such further constructive suggestions and criticism will contribute positively toward a better package in the future. (3.7) 66 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 66 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PSU makes every effort to maintain a report in a consistent way as not to distort the comparability from period to period. Exception to the above will surely be disclosed in the future should the change arise. (3.8) This report is prepares in such a way to include only relevant facts, actual performance and indicators and legal document sources. Best estimates are only used to prorate for round up/off the figures with no impact to the contents. Only simple mathematics are used to avoid complexity to the readers. (3.5, 3.9) The effects of any re-statements of information is not necessarily required and posted hereunder. Likewise, not significant changes from previous reporting deems required for publication in this caption as to the scope, boundary, or measurements. (3.10, 3.11, 3.12) Momentarily, PSU requires no externally assurance for this sustainability reports either the whole content or any part thereof. (3.13) 67 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 67 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 GRI Index Summary INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES Strategy and Analysis 3.13 Assurance policy 69 1.1 Executive Welcome 6-8 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 8, 21, 28 Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance Organizational Profile 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 21 2.1 Name of organization 4 4.2 Chair of the highest governance 21 2.2 Brands, products and services 4, 8, 34 4.3 Unitarian board structure 22, 23 2.3 Structure of the Organization 24 4.4 Mechanisms of recommendations 21 2.4 Headquarters location 4, 9 4.5 Compensation and performance 21, 23 2.5 Countries where company operates 4, 9 4.6. Ensure conflits of interest 21 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 5 4.7 Board qualifications 21 2.7 Markets served 5, 9 4.8 Statements of mission, values, principles 10-17, 21 2.8 Scale of Organization 5, 9, 34, 35 4.9 Procedures for overseeing performance 21, 22 2.9 Operational significant changes 5 4.10 Evaluation highest governance board 21 2.1 Awards received 60,61 Commitmens to External Initiatives Report Parameters 4.11 Approach toward company risks 25 3.1 Reporting period 68 4.12 Economic, environmental, and 3.2 Date of recent report 68 social principals 25 3.3 Reporting cycle 68 4.13 Memberships in associations 25 3.4 Company contact 68 Stakeholder Engagement Report Scope and Boundary 4.14 Stakeholders 26 3.5 Defining report content 68, 69 4.15 Identification and selection of stakeholders 26 3.6 Boundary of the report 68 4.16 Stakeholders engagement 26 3.7 Report scope boundary 68 4.17 Key topics and concerns 26 3.8 Basis of report 68, 69 3.9 Bases & Data measurement techniques 69 Economic Performance Indicators 3.10 The effect of any re-statements 69 Economic Performance 3.11 Significant changes form previous report 69 EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 28 GRI Content Index EC2 Financial implications and risks due to 3.12 Table of disclosures in the report 69 climate change 28 Assurance EC3 Benefit plan obligations 28 68 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 68 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES EC4 Financial assistance received EN14 Biodiversity preservation action 30 from government 28 EN15 Protected species 31 Market Presence Emmisions, Effluents, and Waste EC5 Minimum wage standard 28 EN16 Greenhouse gas emmisions 31, 35 EC6 Locally-based suppliers 28 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas EC7 Local hiring 29, 50 emmisions 31 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse Indirect Economic Impacts gas emmisions 35 EC8 Development and impact of EN19 Emmisions of ozone-depleting substances 35 infrastructure investments 29 EN20 NO,SO, and other significant air emmisions 35 EC9 Significant indirect economic impacts 29, 62 EN21 Water dischage by quality and destination’ 35 EN22 Waste by type and disposal method 35 Materials EN23 Significant spills 35 EN1 Materials usage 32 EN24 Hazardous and toxic waste transportation 35 EN2 Recycle materials usage 32 EN25 Biodiversity on water body 35 Energy Product and Services EN3 Direct energy consumption 34, 35 EN26 Mitigate environmental impacts 35 EN4 Indirect energy consumption 34 EN27 Packaging materials reclaimed 35 EN5 Energy saved 31 EN6 Product based energy efficient initiatives 31 Compliance EN7 Reduction of indirect energy initiatives 31 EN28 Compliance with environmental laws 35 Water Transport EN8 Water usage 33 EN29 Impacts of transportation activities 31, 35 EN9 Affected water sources 33 EN10 Volume of water recycled and reused 33 Overall EN30 Environmental protection expenditures 35 Biodiversity EN11 Operational location in/adjacent to Social Performance protected areas 31 Employment EN12 Impacts of operation on biodiversity 31 LA1 Total workforce 50, 51 EN13 Habitats protected or restored 31 LA2 Employee turnover 50 69 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 69 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 GRI Index Summary INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES LA3 Employee benefits 52 corrective action taken 54 Labor/Management Relations Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining LA4 Collective work agreement 9, 52 HR 5 Rights of association and LA5 Notice period regarding operational collective bargaining 54 changes 52 Child Labor Ocupational Health and Safety HR6 Child labor 54 LA6 Ocupational health and safety assembly 52 LA7 Rate of work accident, occupational diseases 52 Forced and Compulsory Labor LA8 Education and counseling health program 53 HR7 Significant risk for incidents of forced or LA9 Health and safety topics in collective compulsory labor 54 work agreement 53 Security Practices Training and Education HR8 HR trainings for security personnel 55 LA10 Training for employee 53 LA11 Training program for career development 53 Indigenous Rights LA12 Performance assesment and career development 53 HR9 Rights violation by indigenous people 55 Diversity and Equal Opportunity Assesment LA13 Employee diversity 49 HR10 HR reviews and impact assesments 55 Equal remuneration for Women and Men Remediation LA14 Basic salary for women and men employee 53 HR11 HR filed, addressed and resolved 55 Human Rights Society Performance Investment and Procurement Practices Local Communities HR1 HR clauses incorporating on agreement SO1 Local Communities engagement 60 63 nd contracts 53 SO9 Operations with negative impacts 65 HR2 HR clauses in joint-operation agreements 54 SO10 Negative impacts prevention 65 HR3 HR trainings for employee 54 Corruption SO2 Business units analyzed for risk Non-Discrimination related to corruption 27 HR4 Incidents of discrimination and SO3 Anti-corruption training 27 70 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 70 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES SO4 Actions taken 27 Food Processing Sector Supplement FP1 Purchased volume percentage 57 Public Policy FP2 Purchased volume verified 59 SO5 Participation in public policy 27 FP3 Lost working time percentage 59 SO6 Contributions to political parties 27 FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness 58 FP5 Internationally recognition on food safety Anti-Competitive Behaviour management system 59 SO7 Legal actions for anti-competittive behaviour 27 FP6 Sales volume of consumer products (lower saturated) 59 Compliance FP7 Sales volume of consumer products SO8 Penalty of ordinances violations 27 (increased nutritious) 59 FP8 Communication to consumers Product Responsibility Performance (on policy & practices) 59 Customer Health and Safety FP9 Animal raised percentages PR1 Life cycle in health and safety impacts 56 (animal husbandry) 59 PR2 Violation on health and safety impacts of FP10 Policies & pratices (by species & breed type) 59 products 57 FP11 Animal raised percentages (per housing type) 59 Product and Service Labeling FP12 Policies & pratices, antibiotics etc 59 PR3 Product and service information 57 FP13 Non-compliance incidents 59 PR4 Violation of product and service information 57 PR5 Practices and customer satisfaction rate 57 The 10 Principles of UN Global Compact Human Rights Marketing Communications GC HR1 Support & respect the protection of internationally PR6 Programs and tools for adherence to laws proclaimed human rights 53 55 & standards 57 GC HR2 No complicit on human rights abuse 53 55 PR7 Violation marketing communications 57 Labor Customer Privacy GC HR3 Freedom of association and right to PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of collective bargaining 53 55 customer privacy 57 GC HR4 Elimination of forced and compulsory labor 53 55 GC HR5 Abolition of child labor 53 55 Compliance GC HR6 Elimination of discrimination for PR9 Fines for non-compliance with the products employment and occupation 53 55 & services 57 71 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 71 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 GRI Index Summary INDICATOR DESCRIPTION PAGES Environmental GC EN7 Support to environmental challenge 31 GC EN8 Initiatives to environmental responsibility 33 GC EN9 Encourage the development to environmental friendly 33 Anticorruption GC AC10 Against Corruption 27 72 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 72 8/27/13 4:26 PM 73 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 73 8/27/13 4:26 PM Progressing Towards Sustainability 2012 PT. Pangansari Utama The Plaza Office Tower, 40th Floor Jl MH. Thamrin, Kav. 28-30, Jakarta 10350 Indonesia P+ 6221 2992 3060 F+6221 2992 8060 74 PTS-PSU 2012rev17 april sore rev.indd 74 8/27/13 4:26 PM
