The dor Rezi l Hote p Grou sible n Respo s es Busin t Repor 2012 Contents Message from the President & CEO....................................1 Scope and Boundaries of this Report About Rezidor.....................................................................2 Unless otherwise indicated, achievements mentioned in this report cover all hotels which are managed, leased or franchised by the Rezidor Hotel Group. Stakeholders and Policy This includes 338 properties which were in operation on 31 December 2012. The World Around Us...........................................................3 The Rezidor 2012 Responsible Business Report describes the most relevant sustainability aspects of our operations, not the full range of our actions Responsible Business and data. The data in this report refers to the year 2012 unless otherwise Organisation, Governance and Timeline.............................6 stated. Rezidor has limited the reporting boundaries to areas in which the company has full control over data collection and information quality. Down2012 Highlights..................................................................7 stream impacts are generally excluded as we do not currently have reliable tools to measure their effect. Pillar 1: Think Planet All hotels in operation as at 31 December 2012 are included in this report. Minimising our Environmental Footprint............................8 Data for new hotels that were opened during 2012 is only reported for the months they were in operation. Hotels that discontinued operations with Pillar 2: Think People Rezidor during the year are not included. Health and Safety of our Guests and Employees..............16 Financial data presented in our Responsible Business Report is derived from audited annual accounts. For all external reporting, currencies have Pillar 3: Think Together been converted to euros (EUR). Our financial reporting accounting principles and currency conversion rates are stated in Rezidor’s 2012 Annual Report. Taking care of Ethical and Social Issues............................23 The Responsible Business Report has not been independently reviewed by auditors or any other third party. Summary of Progress........................................................30 Note: On 18 January 2012, the Rezidor Hotel Group became a member of the Overview Eco-labelled Hotels...........................................32 Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. This report only describes the activities of the separate legal entity – the Rezidor Hotel Group. See www.rezidor.com for GRI Standard Disclosures Table.........................................34 more information. Global Compact Compliance.............................................37 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Message from the President & CEO Our journey on Route 2015 2012 was the first year of Rezidor’s “Route 2015”, the group’s strategic journey to increase the EBITDA margin by 6 to 8 percentage points by the year 2015. Think Planet is also one of the three 2010 – that’s 4 years in a row! Such pillars of Rezidor’s industry-leading and achievements underline and strengthen award-winning Responsible Business our commitment to Responsible Business. Programme. We strongly believe in: We will continue to do sustainable Think Planet – minimizing our environbusiness – 2013 will see a further develmental footprint; Think People – taking opment of Think Planet that will also care of the health and safety of guests and be integrated in new openings through employees; and Think Together – respectambitious characteristics, an eco-label ing social and ethical issues in the company for new properties and rapid staff engageand the communities in which we operate. ment in community projects. With our Our passion for Responsible Business is strategic partner Carlson, we will continue shared by all our 35,000+ employees. We to go global and further pursue joint all try to live Responsible Business in the Responsible Business activities across all daily operations and carry the core values continents such as our cooperation with of the company through our unique Yes I World Childhood Foundation. Thank you for your interest in Rezidor Can! service philosophy. In 2012, we celOur Responsible Business Report and our Responsible Business Programme! ebrated our most successful Responsible informs you in all detail about our Responsible Business contributes to this Business Action Month ever – strongly initiatives 2012 and our plans 2013 company-wide goal with “Think Planet”, supporting our corporate charity organi– enjoy reading it! an ambitious and engaging initiative tarzation World Childhood Foundation and geting 25% of energy savings across all other local or regional projects – and we Yours truly, hotels and offices in 5 years. Launched in increased the number of eco-labelled January 2012, Think Planet takes Rezidor hotels to 217 to further strengthen our back to its environmental leadership roots industry-leading position. and has resulted in a complete company We are proud that the US think tank focus on minimizing our energy and carEthisphere has yet again named us a one bon footprint (for a full programme overof the World’s Most Ethical Companies – Wolfgang M. Neumann view, visit www.thinkplanet.rezidor.com). an award that we received each year since President & CEO 1 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group About Rezidor The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the fastest growing hotel operators in the world with a presence in more than 70 countries and three leading hotel brands. The hotels in our portfolio are operated with Regent Hotels & Resorts to develop or by a separate operator using one of under the brands: Radisson Blu; Park Inn and operate new Regent hotels in Europe, the Rezidor brands under a franchise by Radisson; Hotel Missoni. We develop the Middle East and Africa. At the end agreement. Our Responsible Business and license Radisson Blu and Park Inn by of 2012, Rezidor had 338 hotels (circa programme is encouraged at all hotels, Radisson in Europe, the Middle East and 74,000 rooms) in operation and 100 including franchised properties, and our Africa (EMEA) under Master Franchise hotels (22,000 rooms) under developcorporate offices. Agreements with Carlson, a global, ment in 76 countries across EMEA. Since November 2006, Rezidor is listed privately owned hospitality and travel Rezidor focuses on hotel management. on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. company. The Hotel Missoni brand is Currently, all hotels in Rezidor’s portfooperated under a worldwide licensing lio are either operated by Rezidor itself agreement with the Italian fashion house under a lease or a management agreement, Missoni. Rezidor also has an agreement 25 51 3 40 7 4 13 1820 4 3 9 4 12 6 8 Hotels in operation 11 8 1 23 2 1 1 Hotels under development 1 3 24 7 6 2 4 11 Regional offices 2 21 1 1 2 11 1 4 2 2 1 1 12 2 11 45 1 2 21 1 1 3 1 3 1 9 6 1 12 6 3 5 22 1 1 1 6 1 1 1 1 1 2 1 1 1 1 2 1 6 3 2 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Responsible Business Stakeholders and Policy The World Around Us Striving to be a successful, sustainable business requires a dedicated appreciation of the environment in which we operate. Rezidor recognises we have an impact on a wide range of stakeholders, both directly and indirectly. Our Impact, Risks and Opportunities The tourism sector is uniquely posiclimate change. At Rezidor, we do this by For 2012, the World Travel & Tourism tioned in that it both contributes to setting ambitious energy saving targets Council (WTTC) estimated that the ­climate change and faces risks from the and by adhering to the UN Global Comglobal travel industry generated 260 milconsequences of climate change. These pact and Caring for Climate initiative. lion jobs and contributed 9% of the global risks are mainly linked to hotel locations, gross domestic product. For the first time an increase in severe weather patterns, Resource Use – Water Scarcity ever, the number of global travellers in a and to increasing carbon emission-related Hotels are very resource-intensive, year is expected to surpass one billion. legislative pressures and taxation. particularly in terms of energy and An industry of this size has a considerable Rezidor believes this gives us clear water use. They also impact the natural impact on social, economic and environresponsibility to take serious action on environment through waste generation. mental conditions around the world. We have identified three critical global impacts and trends that affect our business and value chain: climate change; resource use, and employment. Climate Change The United Nations Environmental Programme (UNEP) has forecast that if the tourism industry continues to operate in the way it does today, energy use and emissions will double by 2050. Water use will increase by 2.5 times current levels. Buildings are already responsible for 30% of global energy consumption, yet most are very inefficient. Energy savings of between 20 and 30% could be achieved if commercial buildings were made more energy efficient. Making investments in green technologies and the green economy will help to reduce the impact of tourism. At Rezidor we recognise that we must play our part by reducing the carbon footprint of our hotels and taking the sustainable tourism route. 3 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Stakeholders and Policy In 2006 the UN estimated that by A Global Employer in Local third year in a row. This recognition is 2050, the world’s need for drinkable water ­Communities largely due to our Code of Ethics and will double and the need for fresh water “It has been said that arguing against its company-wide implementation. for agriculture will increase by 80%. globalisation is like arguing against the At Rezidor we believe diversity is an A report by Tourism Concern, a nonlaws of gravity,” Kofi Annan, UN Secreasset. We can learn from each other as profit organisation based in the United tary General (1997–2006). a company and as individuals, develop Kingdom (UK), focussed on Water Workforces are becoming increasingly talent worldwide, and progress further Equity in Tourism and defined nine global. The hospitality industry in genas a global workforce. principles for achieving this goal. eral, and Rezidor in particular, employs Rezidor endorses the 3 principles people from very diverse ethnic and culOur Stakeholders and Our defined for the Tourism Industry: Tourism tural backgrounds. With hotels in over ­Responsible Business Policy businesses should implement their busi70 countries across EMEA, Rezidor’s Rezidor has identified eight Responsible ness responsibility to respect the right to staff represent more than 143 different Business stakeholder groups. We mainwater, Tourism businesses should adhere nationalities. tain clear commitments to each group to national regulations governing water The wide array of countries in which we (see the table below for more details). use and Tourism businesses should reduce operate and the diverse backgrounds of our The basis for identifying and selecting their water consumption. employees means that we must diligently our key Responsible Business stakeholdRezidor has recognised the urgent need check we comply with local laws. We ers relates primarily to the extent we to continuously reduce water consumption must inform our employees of their rights, influence or impact them: economically; in our operations. We integrate the latest ensure non-discrimination, and make sure socially; or environmentally. water-saving technologies in our newour staff operate to the highest ethical prinThrough our daily operations and dedibuild hotels and during major renovations. ciples wherever they are located. cated exchanges with each stakeholder In 2012 Rezidor was listed as one of the group, we continuously listen to their World’s Most Ethical Companies for the expectations for today and the future. Stakeholder Responsible Business Policy We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and social issues Employees in their work and private lives. Customers We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in Responsible Business activities at our hotels. We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, environmental and social Property Owners objectives. We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on Responsible Business Shareholders performance, related risks and opportunities. We strive to purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their lifecycle, from suppliers that Suppliers demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, Authorities human rights and the environment. Community We take an active role in the international business community, and contribute to the local communities where we operate. We do our utmost to continuously improve our performance in the areas of energy and water use, chemical and resource Environment consumption, and waste generation. Our goal is to reduce our impact on the environment and minimise our carbon footprint. 4 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Stakeholders and Policy The Responsible Business Approach Memberships a groundbreaking initiative to unite At Rezidor, Responsible Business means Together with Carlson, we are joint industry efforts and create a single considering both our shortand long-term members of the following organisations: methodology for calculating carbon interests, and integrating economic, envi• I nternational Tourism Partnership footprints and consistent metrics for ronmental and social considerations into (ITP). ITP brings together the world’s communicating emissions. Rezidor is our decision making. leading international hotel companies an active member of the working group Since we created our Responsible to provide a voice for environmental and we were proud to be part of the Business programme in 2001, Rezidor and social responsibility in the industry. methodology launch during RIO+20 in has focused its activities on three pillars: Rezidor was one of the founding memJune 2012. 1. T  hink Planet: Minimising our impact bers of ITP in 2004. Together with •S  ignatory to the Code of Conduct for on the environment Carlson we continue to play a leading the Protection of Children from Sexual 2. T hink People: Taking care of the role in the hospitality industry forum Exploitation in Travel and Tourism. health and safety of guests and on responsible business. The Code started as a project of ECPAT employees. • World Travel & Tourism Council (End Child Prostitution, Child Pornog3. Think Together: Respecting social (WTTC). An international organisaraphy and Trafficking of Children for and ethical issues in the company and tion of travel industry executives which Sexual Purposes) and is supported by the communities in which we operate. promotes global travel and tourism. the UNWTO and UNICEF. In 2004 • I TP and WTTC Joint Hotel Carbon Carlson was the first major North Measurement Initiative. ITP and American hospitality company to sign WTTC, together with all major hospithe Code. Together, we adhere to the tality companies, are collaborating on Code’s principles in all of our hotels. 5 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Responsible Business Organisation, Governance and Timeline Rezidor’s Responsible Business policy is embedded at all levels of the organisation. We combine both a top-down and bottom-up approach to ensure maximum engagement in operations and the greatest impact for the Group as a whole. CEO and Executive Responsible Business reports to the Chief Operating Officer of Rezidor. The Executive Committee Committee is frequently updated on strategies, plans and progress. Head Office Responsible Business Sets the Responsible Business strategy and follow-up, and ensures cross-departmental cooperation. Department The team works very closely with the Area Head Office teams. Regional Responsible There are a total of 23 Regional Responsible Business Coordinators who set regional targets in line Regions Business Coordinators with Group strategy. They also follow-up on progress. Area Vice Presidents are closely involved. Each hotel has a Responsible Business Coordinator and Responsible Business team. The Responsible Responsible Business Hotels Business Coordinator and the team jointly define the Responsible Business action plans in line with Coordinators both regional and Group priorities. Rezidor Responsible Business Timeline Rezidor has a unique and long history of Responsible Business. There’s no business without Responsible Business at Rezidor. 1988 2003 • Monthly TRIC=S safety and security reports •C  reation and adoption of the SAS Interna• Launch of Hotel Environment Action Month distributed to all General Managers. tional Hotels Safety and Security Standards. (now Responsible Business Action Month). • Rezidor is one of the founding members of • Radisson SAS Plaza Hotel, Oslo, is first Rezidor US State Department’s Overseas Security 1989 property to receive third-party environmental Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel Security • First environmental policy driven by SAS certification with the Nordic Swan eco-label. ­Working Group. Group. • Rezidor becomes chair of International Hotels Environment Initiative Executive Committee. 2009 1996 • Rezidor signs the United Nations Global • Launch of the Radisson SAS environmental 2004 ­Compact. programme with 24 action points. • Rezidor’s efforts are recognised with the Hos• Founding member of the International Hotels pitality Award for Environmental Protection. 2010 Environment Initiative. • Carlson Companies signs ECPAT Code of Con• Rezidor is named one of the World’s Most duct against sexual exploitation of children. Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. 2001 • F irst global responsible business action month • Launch of the Responsible Business programme 2007 with Carlson Companies. encompassing the three pillars of health and • World Childhood Foundation becomes well-being; social and ethical responsibility; ­corporate charity organisation. 2011 and environmental responsibility. • Rezidor is first international hotel group • Rezidor targets 100% eco-labelled hotels • Responsible Business Coordinators appointed to offer guests carbon offsetting. by 2015 and achieves an eco-label for 55% and trained. of hotels • First Responsible Business Training initiated 2008 • Named as one of the World’s Most Ethical with 35% of staff trained by year-end. • Launch of rezidorethics.com, an independently Companies by the Ethisphere Institute for • Monthly reporting of energy, water and waste. managed website which enables employees to the second year in a row. • Save the Children becomes corporate charity raise concerns about potential breaches of our organisation. Code of Ethics. 6 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Responsible Business Highlights 2012 was an outstanding year in Rezidor’s Responsible Business journey with successes in all three pillars of our Responsible Business programme. PILLAR 1 Think Planet – Minimising our Environmental Footprint • Think Planet energy savings initiative was launched – targeting 25% energy savings within five years. • Proportion of eco-labelled hotels in the Group reaches 65% (217 hotels). • Rezidor contributes to the launch of the ITP and WTTC’s Hotel Carbon Measurement Initiative. PILLAR 2 Think People – Health and Safety of Guests and Employees • Launch of 12 Leadership Qualities and new Performance Planning Programme. • Employee satisfaction remains high at 86.5%. • Rezidor leads Carlson’s new global safety, security and crisis council for Carlson Rezidor and the business units of other Carlson companies. PILLAR 3 Think Together – Social and Ethical Issues in the Company and the Community • For the third year in a row, Rezidor is named as one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies by the Ethisphere Institute. • 80% of Rezidor hotels participate in the Responsible Business Action Month for the community in September. Close to 475 TEUR is raised for local and international charities. • The Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group is a global leading partner of World Cleanup 2012. Over 2,000 employees from 91 Carlson Rezidor hotels worldwide participated in local cleanups. Together the teams collected close to 135,000 litres of waste in 33 countries. The following table provides an overview of our key Responsible Business performance indicators: Indicator 2012 2011 2010 Energy/m2 (kWh) Rezidor 284 289 285 Energy/occupied room (kWh) Rezidor 92 95 114 Water/Guest-night (litres) Rezidor 343 362 398 Waste/Guest-night (kg) Rezidor 1.84 1.94 1) 1.46 Medallia Guest Satisfaction Environmental Conscientiousness 8.3 8.1 8.1 Climate Analysis Employee Satisfaction score 86.5 86.7 86.7 Safety Security Self-Assessment2) 96.1 92.7 92.9 1. KPI recalculated based on revised data input. 2. Global within Carlson Rezidor. Formerly this indicator was based on the Average 3T Monitor Safety and Security Self-audit. 7 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Minimising our Environmental Footprint Rezidor focuses on minimising our environmental footprint in all stages of a hotel’s lifecycle: from build or renovation, to operation. Think Planet Energy Saving Initiative Think Planet’s four pillars are: Energy in kWh/m2 A green pioneer, Rezidor launched the 1. E  mployee awareness: Creating Think –25% hotel industry’s first Environmental Policy Planet habits in operations through back–5% in 1989. That was followed in 2001 with of-house posters, training videos and the 300 285 289 284 the first comprehensive Responsible Busispecial promotions such as the Lumiquiz. 200 ness Programme. Both clearly pledged 2. Think Planet tools: Easy to implement 217 to minimise the Rezidor Group’s energy saving tools which provide a 100 environ­mental footprint. In 2012, Reziquick return on investment. dor reconnected with our eco-friendly 3. Think Planet investments: Testing roots by launching Think Planet, Reziinnovative energy saving technologies 2010 2011 2012 2016 baseline target dor’s ambitious energy saving initiative. such as wireless boiler controls or Think Planet is designed to help us insulating window films. reduce energy consumption by 25% 4. L ED lighting retrofit: A group-wide over the next five years. It was launched decision to fit Philips LEDs and take Energy in kWh/occupied room as a company-wide project for all of our advantage of their technical guidance. 150 hotels during Rezidor’s Annual Business –25% –5% Conference in London at the end of Aiming High 100 114 January 2012. In total, 50 hotels reached or exceeded 95 92 71 Many of our hotels have already introtheir Think Planet targets in the first 50 duced progressive, environmentally year, some spectacularly! The best perfriendly measures. Think Planet will help formers have achieved savings above 25% 2010 2011 2012 2016 us spread these initiatives into all of our on both Think Planet key performance baseline target hotels. It also enables us to prioritise the indicators: kilowatt hours/m2 (kWh/m2) implementation of energy saving investand kWh/occupied room. ments which will have the biggest impact. As a Group, our overall performance Energy use per source* At the same time, we are faced with for 2012 has been reasonable. In 2012 Electricity, 55% District heating, 12% significant increases in energy costs in there was an average saving of 1.6% on District cooling, 5% many countries and government carbon kWh/m2 and 3.2% on kWh/occupied Natural gas, 23% taxation. Think Planet is both good for room compared to 2011. For both 2011 LPG, 2% our business and good for our planet. and 2012, this figure includes all hotels Heating oil, 3% in operation at year-end. * managed and leased hotels 8 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet We are very confident that the energy effect the Think Planet improvements of 16.5% per occupied room in 2012. savings will increase rapidly in 2013 can make. Some notable achievements This comes on top of a 2% saving thanks to the full effect of the investinclude: achieved in 2011. ments made in the last two quarters of • I n Germany, Switzerland and Austria • Optimal use of the building manage2012. The LED lighting retrofit will also we installed intelligent, on-demand ment system and fine-tuning the be fully implemented in 2013. kitchen ventilation in 20 hotels. This operating times of plant equipment With the support of the Area Leaderwill save 3 million kWh of energy per has saved 1 million kWh at Radisson ship, a team of Think Planet champions year and reduce carbon dioxide emisBlu Hotel Stansted Airport. Guest have been appointed. It is this very active sions by 700 tonnes. satisfaction remains at a high level. and knowledgeable network of 17 cham• T he 4,000 m 2 glass facade of the • The Radisson Blu Hotel Waterfront pions – all at general manager level or Radisson Blu Hotel Frankfurt is now Cape Town has reduced energy use above – which drives the energy action covered with an invisible reflective by an impressive 28% in kWh/m 2 and plans forward in close cooperation with foil. This helps insulate the building 17.5% in kWh/occupied room during our area technical managers. and will reduce energy use by 2012. They achieved this through tre1 million kWh per year, saving mendous employee engagement comProven Successes Lead the Way 400 tonnes of CO2. bined with a focus on preventative The biggest energy consumers in our • The Radisson Blu Royal in Brussels has maintenance and optimisation of the hotels are the systems for heating ventilainstalled frequency controllers on their building’s environmental controls. tion and air-conditioning (HVAC), lightguest and staff elevators, saving on Additional investments were made in ing, sanitary hot water and cooling in the energy and improving user comfort. speed drives for both cooling towers kitchen. Naturally the biggest savings can The hotel invested an additional EUR which help regulate chiller demand. be made by optimising the technical 240,000 to install two condensation A total of 1,396 LED bulbs were installations in these areas. While these boilers and has retrofitted 80% of its installed in all standard rooms and improvements require investments, some lights with LED bulbs. These improve95% of public areas. hotels are already seeing the important ments have resulted in energy savings gold Go for r hote l will ta ke to ac hieve gy cons umptio n. tions ou on ener tails. e ar e the ac ta rg et: -5% ee r for more de Thes in k Planet r or ch ief engin 12 Th neral ma nage the 20 your ge k ns? As Questio 2012 PLAN ACTION ENERGY HOTEL 1. 2. 3. 4. 5. spirit I Can’ tel r ‘Yes, the ho use you and become If you ve ings rachie st energy sav ployee to ove bigge ry em 2013. with the d to 2011, eve in January e comparea foldable bik will win y e energ rgy to sav ur ene Use yo 10:49 26/04/12 d 4 Residor_Poster.ind Think Planet Go for Gold, back-of-house poster Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport Radisson Blu Hotel Frankfurt 9 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Habits: Engaging Employees in meeting and event, and kitchen staff Many Rezidor hotels have taken Think Think Planet which feature our own employees Planet a step further by actively asking Lumi the firefly is the energetic Think • The Lumiquiz – by answering five for employee suggestions and making the Planet mascot who lights the vital energy energy related questions correctly, hotel targets very tangible. For example, saving spark in our staff. A firefly is the employees could win an iPad each the Park Inn Prybaltyaskaya translated ideal mascot for Think Planet: these little month big targets to small targets for its insects generate light 100% efficiently. • G o for Gold bicycle competition. 600-strong team. The hotel’s overall To create energy saving habits among Employees of the hotel which achieves energy saving target was reduced to indiour staff, the 2012 Think Planet employee the biggest energy saving will all receive vidual targets (energy saving per day and engagement programme consisted of: a folding bicycle. The first bicycles will per person). Each staff member defined • Back-of-house posters which remind be awarded to the 2012 winner at Rezitheir own personal Think Planet plan hotel staff to switch off lights and devices dor’s Annual Business Conference at which they signed, laminated and hung • Training videos for housekeeping, the end of March 2013. in their office or lockers. n iPa d 5 EN Win a ers g in r | Lo answve te Regis to sa y energ help ned to e, desig next five initiativ the aving % over very rs | ergy-s by 25 l of nature is Winne new en ption | bitious um m arve Home or ’s am co ns is litt le is Rezid eir energy the firefly. Th Planet th mi, Think reduce ascot is Lu ns. tels to ’s m questio the ho Planet own lig ht. mple Think in 5 si years. ge ne rates its kn ow ledge and gy n y clever sts yo ur ener gy bu t you ca answer Hi, m iz te Lumi qu ve ener register and you name i. onthly w to sa to estion is Lum This m e on ho e you have er to every qu the month. ow mor at t to kn particip correct answ the winner of you ge month! To the lect ly will u gave r to se Not on iPad each . If yo in or de tions estion win an choice ques ary qu iplesubsidi 5 mult in the ve to fill will ha Log in te r Regis 10 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Seeing the (LED) Light with Philips Lighting Lighting can energise you, make you feel comfortable and enables interaction with other people. Philips provides flexible lighting solutions that empower guests to personalise their space, adjust environments according to their moods or activities, and create a unique experience at the touch of a button. With our 24/7 operations, about 25% of the hotels make the switch to LED easier than lighting have also been installed in the lobby. energy our hotels consume is used for lighting. they could possibly imagine. We can enhance • The Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton achieved a 25% Reducing the energy required for lighting by the guest’s experience in the hotel and achieve energy saving by changing all 12-volt downchanging to LED options is a major step towards energy savings without compromising on the lights to LEDs. The technical team changed achieving our Think Planet goals. quality of light.” 3,834 light bulbs in the lobby, guest corridors, Rezidor selected Philips Lighting to provide Energy savings from a lighting refit are restaurants, back-of-house and guestrooms. top quality LED lamps and the technical expertise immediately effective. Here are some examples • Our hotels in the Middle East are very strong needed to ensure the perfect lighting ambiance of savings achieved at Rezidor hotels: on the LED lighting retrofit. For example, the is maintained. • The Radisson Blu Marseille has saved more than Radisson Blu Cairo Heliopolis replaced 3,680 “Philips is very excited about the partnership 15% on its energy bill since 2010. The hotel has bulbs with LED lights in 2012. All public areas with Rezidor,” explains Emile van Dijk, Key Account put a local Standard Operating Procedure in and guest corridors have been fitted with motion Sales Director for Philips International. “With our place to ensure energy checks are done at the sensors. As a result the hotel reduced electricity MASTER LED lamps portfolio we can help Rezidor end of each shift. Motion detectors and LED consumption per occupied room by 14%. 11 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet Minimising our Water and Waste In new hotels, systems to harvest rainWater in litres/guest night Footprint in Operations water or reuse grey water are integrated. +0.5% Rezidor hotels have operational proceFor example: –9% dures in place to reduce the consumption • At the Park Inn by Radisson Leuven –5% of energy and water and the generation (Belgium), toilets are flushed with rain400 396 398 of waste in our business every day. To water. This saves an estimated 608,000 350 362 343 maximise the savings, investments in litres of fresh water per year. 300 environmentally friendly technology • The Park Inn by Radisson Tete 250 are also made. (Mozambique) collects grey water to 200 irrigate the hotel’s landscaped gardens. 150 Water Inadequate access to safe drinking water Waste 100 is a major problem across many of the Solid waste is generated by many activi50 regions in which Rezidor operates. ties in our hotels including food preparaReducing water consumption in our tion, consumption of pre-packaged items, 2009 2010 2011 2012 hotels – without compromising service guest waste, and cleaning among others. quality for guests – is a key priority for Rezidor proactively seeks to reduce and Rezidor. recycle waste as much as possible and to At the end of 2012: reduce the residual waste which goes to • 78% of our guestrooms have water landfill or incineration. In our Living ­saving toilets Responsible Business course, all Rezidor • 81% of guestrooms have aerators to employees are trained on techniques to control tap and shower water flows minimise waste and on the waste hierarchy: • 8% of hotels recycle grey water Reduce, Reuse, Recycle. • 7% collect rainwater for irrigation, At the end of 2012: car washing and other needs • 92% of our hotels had a dedicated • 8% of hotels use waterless urinals. waste sorting area • 65% of hotels had waste sorting In 2012, water consumption in litres/ facilities on housekeeping trolleys guest-night (GN) was reduced by 5.2% • Our recycling rate rose from 24% for the Group as a whole. to 37%. We still see major regional differences in water use per guest-night. For example In the area of waste (both residual and our hotels and resorts in the Middle East recycled) Rezidor receives reliable data o Go wise have above average water consumption. from 143 hotels. Residual waste, expressed on water At the same time, the focus on reducing in kg/GN, decreased by 5.2% in 2012. Did you know that taking a shower water use is high. Our hotels in the Examples of waste minimisation innovaHotels you can rely on: rather than a bath saves 50 liters of Middle East are focussing on completing tions in our hotels include: water or more? the installation of flow restricting taps, • The Radisson Blu Aarhus (Denmark) Park Inn. and piloting products which avoid swiminstalled a bio-waste liquefier. The Adding Color to Lifesm ming pool evaporation and recuperate closed system ensures organic waste is Your Green Key hotel has ecoshowers installed. condensation water from air conditioning compacted and liquefied, reducing the The eco-showers help to reduce installations. volume of waste to be transported. water consumption. Across the Group, we involve guests in • The Radisson Blu Balmoral in Spa towel and sheet replacement programmes. ­( Belgium) installed Molok, a deep We have an ongoing maintenance ­collection waste tank for various waste programme to complete the installation streams. The novelty of the deep collecFor more ideas how to Think Planet, visit of water saving devices such as aerators tion system is the vertical, underground thinkplanet.rezidor.com and sensor taps. design. Only 40% of the container is 12 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet visible, while the remainder is underto 410,555 tonnes. In absolute terms our available to hotels and hotel companies of ground. This design provides more carbon footprint has decreased slightly all sizes. More information can be found on waste storage capacity in less space, and measured by guest-nights the www.internationaltourismpartnership.­org/ ­better compaction, fewer collections, decrease is a sustantial 9.4%. what-we-do/products-programmes. less odour, and less litter. The same Rezidor continues to be an active large waste collection units are used ITP and WTTC Hotel Carbon member of the HCMI working group. at Rezidor’s head office in Brussels. ­Measurement Initiative The ITP and WTTC, together with all Responsible Renovation and Carbon Emissions major hospitality companies, are collabo­Construction Guidelines Rezidor’s greenhouse gas emissions prirating on a groundbreaking initiative to Rezidor is one of the fastest growing hotel marily result from energy consumption standardise the hotel industry’s efforts to companies in the industry. On average we and mainly consist of carbon dioxide calculate and communicate their carbon open a new hotel every three weeks. emissions. Since 2006, our carbon impact. The outcome of this collaboraWhen building a new hotel or renovating emissions have been calculated. The tion is the Hotel Carbon Measurement an existing property, it is important that assessment focuses on energy related Initiative (HCMI) tool: a standard methattention is paid to resource efficiency. emissions only and contains both odology and metrics to measure a hotel’s We want to create buildings with the scope 1 and 2 emissions. carbon footprint. The tool has been lowest possible carbon footprint. At ReziIn 2012, CO2-equivalent emissions developed in accordance with the Greendor, this is done in close cooperation with from electricity, natural gas, heating house Gas (GHG) Protocol standards. property owners, builders and architects. oil, district heating and LPG gas for the The final methodology was launched For all newly built hotels and major 250 managed and leased hotels for which by all partners during the Rio+20 Earth renovations, Rezidor applies Think Rezidor has comprehensive data amounted Summit in June 2012. The tool is free and Planet principles. These are captured in Radisson Blu is the first hotel brand to offer 100% Carbon Neutral Meetings with Club Carlson. Launched as part of Experience, meetings and events at Radisson Blu hotels are 100% carbon neutral. If the meeting or event is booked by a member of Carlson Rezidor’s Loyalty programme Club Carlson, the carbon generated by the event location is automatically offset. The carbon is compensated via renewable energy projects in India (for example, installation of wind farms). Additionally, for every tonne of carbon that is offset, a tree is planted in the heavily deforested Rift ­Valley in Kenya. Offsetting happens with Carbon Neutral Ltd., a founding member of the Quality Assurance Scheme (QAS) for carbon offsetting. Club Carlson Carbon Neutral meetings has been a great success. In the last quarter of 2012, 433 tonnes of carbon dioxide were offset to compensate for emissions generated by Radisson Blu event locations. Additionally 433 trees were planted in the Rift Valley. 13 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet our Responsible Renovation and solar panels have been installed to heat Environmental Compliance Construction guidelines. The guidelines all of the sanitary water required for Rezidor checks all of our 338 hotels for cover all relevant issues relating to the the hotel (capacity 20,000 litres). That’s environmental compliance. No issues with construction site and the building itself 100% renewable energy! The hotel environmental compliance arose in 2012. including: preserves its environment by treating • Use of sustainable and renewable wastewater on site and reusing grey Eco-labels energy sources and improve the thermal water for garden irrigation. External confirmation of the environinsulation of facades to minimise heat • The Radisson Blu Resort, Gran mental performance of our hotels is loss and gain Canaria features a roof filled with 125 essential to Rezidor. Eco-labels provide • Heat recovery systems solar panels or 312 m2 of renewable an independent third-party audit of each • Rainwater recovery systems energy! A total of 250 kWh/hour of hotel’s practices and actions to protect the • Building management systems which solar energy is generated. It is used to environment. Our target is to have 100% create intelligent buildings heat a minimum of 70% of the hotel’s of our hotels eco-labelled by 2015. • Waste and recycling management hot water supply. In winter it also heats At the end of 2012, a total of 217 • 100% LED lighting for outside signage the hotel’s four swimming pools. Rezidor hotels (65%) across EMEA have on new hotels and major renovations. • The new star of Lille (France), the Park received eco-labels. That is an increase of This requirement became mandatory Inn by Radisson has been certified as a 38 properties compared to 2011 when in 2009 for Radisson Blu and in 2010 building with low energy consumption. 55% had eco-labels. A complete list of our for Park Inn by Radisson. This excellent performance is achieved eco-labelled hotels can be found at the by using materials with the highest end of this report (see page 33). Some examples: insulation values in the facade, windows In some regions and countries, all Rezidor • Rezidor’s head office in Brussels and roof. The hotel also makes maxihotels have eco-labels. This is the case in received a good rating under the mum use of natural daylight, has LED the Baltic countries; Belgium; Finland; BREEAM sustainable building system. lighting installed and solar panels on France; and the Middle East (Kuwait, • The brand-new Park Inn by Radisson the roof. The hotel’s chameleon facade Oman, Saudi Arabia, and the UAE). Tete benefits from its sunny location. also changes colour with the intensity In 2012, our 33 Radisson Blu and Park With sun 365 days a year, two banks of of the sunlight. Inn by Radisson hotels in Germany and Switzerland had the Green Key eco-label. We also introduced the Green Key in Bulgaria, Croatia, Georgia, Romania and Turkey. In Turkey, all of our managed and leased properties are certified. That brings our total number of Green Key certified rooms to close to 30,000. We also brought the Green Key to Moscow (Russia), where the Park Inn Sheremetyevo received the capital’s very first Green Key. In Egypt, the Radisson Blu Hotel Cairo Heliopolis was the first hotel in the country to achieve a Green Key. In total Rezidor counts 130 Green Key hotels. The eco-labels in use in Rezidor hotels set strict requirements on: •E  nvironmental management and monitoring • Maximum energy use per square metre • Energy efficient lighting Park Inn by Radisson Tete, Mozambique 14 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Planet • Waste sorting and recycling Local suppliers are also required to sign The indexes identify the leading companies • Controlled use of certain chemicals the Supplier Code of Conduct and 47% of in terms of sustainability and Rezidor is • Controlled use of disposable products our hotels actively check on their responsiproud to be recognised for monitoring • Communication with guests. ble business performance. 59% of our our bottom-line and the triple bottom-line hotels also return packaging to suppliers. of our environmental, social and ecoThe process of awarding or renewing an nomic performance. eco-label often leads to significant enviSocially Responsible Investors ronmental investments in the hotel. Since 2010, Rezidor has been listed on Reporting Systems the OMX GES Sustainability Nordic Rezidor collects monthly environmental Working with Suppliers Index and the OMX GES Sustainability performance data for managed and leased Rezidor works closely with our global Sweden Index. The Nordic Sustainability hotels in the Think Planet section of our suppliers to set strict environmental Index highlights the 50 best-rated compafinancial reporting system. All hotels performance criteria and minimise the nies on the Nordic exchanges, while the (leased, managed and franchised) are also social and environmental impacts of the Sweden Index comprises the 30 best-rated assessed through the annual Responsible products and services we purchase. companies on the Stockholm exchange. Business Status Report. All suppliers are required to sign the Area management and general managers Supplier Code of Conduct and have the receive monthly performance statistics opportunity to further profile their and a yearly report on their overall Responsible Business performance in Responsible Business performance. RezPIN, Rezidor’s central purchasing platform. Rezidor is the first major hotel chain to partner with Green Key (www.green-key.org). Green Key is currently the largest global eco-label for tourist accommodation. Over 2,000 hotels, hostels and campsites in 38 countries worldwide have received the label. Green Key was first launched in Denmark in 1994. In 2002 it was adopted by the Foundation for Environmental Education as its fifth international programme. “The partnership between Green Key and Rezidor Hotel Group began in 2010 and was our first with an international hotel chain,” explains Nicolas Dubrocard, Green Key’s International Coordinator. “From our perspective it was a real challenge and a wonderful opportunity to introduce Green Key on a larger scale. It was also a great way to encourage the launch of Green Key in countries such as Bahrain, Germany, Kuwait, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and the UAE. “We look forward to continuing this solid partnership and growing the number of hotels and countries with Green Keys in 2013.” 15 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Health and Safety of our Guests and Employees With operations in more than 70 countries, keeping hotel guests and staff safe in sometimes risky local situations is an essential part of our business. Rezidor believes that maintaining approcontribute to keeping their local comexpect is only achievable through the priate levels of safety and security is munities safe by engaging in safety and actions of every employee. Our employdependent on the daily actions of every security related forums and crime preees are vital for risk prevention and mitiemployee at every level of the company. vention schemes. gation and they are counted on when it This requires a dynamic programme that To evaluate and mitigate risk, Rezidor comes to incident response. can be adapted to meet changing circumworks very closely with partners such Their role in safety and security starts stances in different locations. as risk engineers at Willis (Rezidor’s with knowing they are empowered and insurance broker). The Willis Blue risk encouraged to report dangers or irreguTRIC=S – The Rezidor Formula management benchmarking programme larities, take immediate action to prevent for Safety and Security has been specifically tailored for Rezidor. injury or damage, and to follow-up and Although TRIC=S is designed as a It follows Rezidor’s Four Cornerstone ensure that dangers are removed and dynamic programme, guidelines are structure for: Guest Safety and Security; abnormalities corrected. The simple needed to ensure the safety and security Employee Safety and Security; Fire version of the Rezidor incident response of guests, employees and owners’ investSafety; and Operational Security. Willis’ programme follows three steps: ments while maintaining (or even fire risk engineers survey a percentage 1. Sound the alarm enhancing) guest and employee comfort of the portfolio annually in order to 2. Save lives and satisfaction. In 2007, Rezidor develmeasure performance against bench3. Solve the problem. oped and introduced a formula known marks. To ensure the security risks are as TRIC=S, which stands for Threat also addressed, the risk engineers are Basing our approach to all incidents on assessment + Risk evaluation and mitigaaccompanied by security professionals these three simple steps helps to ensure tion + Incident response preparedness + from Rezidor. employees can tackle issues as quickly Crisis management, communications All hotels carry out an annual operaand as close to source as possible. This and continuity = Safe, secure and selltional safety and security self-assessment limits the risk that what is a small issue able hotels. based on the same four cornerstones. now can cause a larger incident later. Accurate threat assessment does not In 2012, the self-assessment originally entail looking at a crystal ball and developed by Rezidor was upgraded and Yes I Can! – Always Care predicting the future. Our threat assessimproved and is now accessible by all Yes I Can! is the Rezidor company vision. ments are based on honest, open internal hotels around the world that are affiliated Always Care, the motto for our safety and communication, news and media moniwith the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. security programme, was inspired by this toring as well as intelligence supplied vision of taking personal responsibility by third-party business risk analysis and Safe, Secure Employees Ensure and having a true Yes I Can! attitude. alert services. Information is analysed Safe Secure Hotels Always Care means that if we care about and shared along with experience and At Rezidor we understand that maintaining people, care about property and care good practice within the Group. Rezidor the high levels of safety and security that about the world around us, we will also also encourages hotels to actively guests, employees and owners rightfully take personal responsibility for protect16 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People ing these vital elements in our lives. It prevention programmes, regional or hotel – something that we believe builds is therefore everyone’s responsibility to national hotel associations and other resilience into our company. Always Care. groups that can help them adapt their Since November 2010, Rezidor has safety and security programmes to meet assisted Carlson Companies with the Communicating at all Levels local needs and requirements. We also further development of corporate safety The goal of our Safety and Security encourage them to share information and and security processes. With a goal of programme is to meet the ongoing chalgood practices that can benefit others, aligning safety and security guidelines lenges we face. This involves monitoring help make their destination safe and their and providing a global umbrella of safety, threat developments – from pandemics business flourish. security and resilience for our brands, to crime to terrorism, both globally and At the corporate level, Rezidor is an this has led to a full exchange of informalocally – whether they are slowly buboriginal member of the US Overseas tion and the development of globally bling-up under the surface or rapidly Security Advisory Council (OSAC) Hotel accessible libraries of good practice unfolding in front of us. Corporate Security Working Group. We are also that are available to all hotels affiliated Security is responsible for collating and actively involved in other programmes with the companies, regardless of their sharing information, analysis and threat designed to make hotels and travel safer geographic location. assessments. They share this information and more secure for everyone. In 2012, further steps were taken when with all parts of the company through the Carlson established a Global Safety, monthly TRIC=S reports which are Evolving TRIC=S Security and Crisis Council. The Coundistributed to every general manager at We live in a world of real-time communicil brings together risk, security and Rezidor-affiliated hotels or via immediate cations, where responsibility for ensuring information security experts from alerts in case of an imminent threat. the safety, security and protection of Carlson Rezidor and the business units TRIC=S reports contain information infrastructure is increasingly being of other Carlson Companies. In a spirit of that comes from the two-way communishifted from government agencies to collaboration and cooperation for mutual cation between individual hotels and the the private sector. This brings a new wave benefit, this Rezidor-led Council shares corporate support offices to which they of challenges: we not only have a duty to information and best practices that can report. This sharing of information keeps care but we also have a duty to perform. be individually adopted, adapted and our programme very dynamic, allows us We are also fully aware that our actions applied to the independent businesses to learn from the experiences of others, will be visible and any incident will as they see fit. The Council is also develand helps us to continuously improve the be quickly communicated to the wider oping a system for 24/7 asset monitoring information and the good practice library world. Our TRIC=S formula was and distributing alerts from the Carlson our hotels can access. developed to meet these new demands Global Security Operations Centre. of transparency and accountability. It Cooperation at all Levels is based on providing a central hub of We advise our hotels to play an active support to decentralised, empowered role in their local community crime and trusted teams of leaders in every 17 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Taking TRIC=S to the Public TRIC=S is Rezidor’s unique approach to safety and security: Threat Assessment + Risk Mitigation + Incident response capability + Crisis management, communication and continuity = Safe, secure and sellable hotels. TRIC=S In My Hotel is an equally unique and successful tool for hotels to communicate their safety and security preparedness both internally and externally. In order to communicate their safety and secuDuring 2012, all Rezidor properties have Hotel presentations communicate a lot of inforrity preparedness both internally and externally, been encouraged to create their own TRIC=S mation simply, efficiently and safely. the Radisson Blu Hotel Johannesburg (South In my Hotel and keep it updated. TRIC=S In my TRIC=S In my Hotel was first used in JohanAfrica) developed TRIC=S In my Hotel. A simple Hotel can be shown internally to train staff. As nesburg as the introductory presentation to a presentation, TRIC=S In my Hotel starts with TRIC=S In my Hotel does not include details of delegation of very high-level security specialists a brief introduction to TRIC=S. Using simple sensitive areas in the hotel or how they are representing an extremely important potential diagrams, TRIC=S In my Hotel goes on to outline secured and accessed, it can also be shown to client. At the end of the 15-minute presentation, the safety and security features in guestrooms, external parties such as corporate clients to the head of the delegation stood up and said: back-of-house and public areas. The presentademonstrate the safety and security features “That was impressive! You just answered tion also includes details of the local emergency of each property. 99% of our questions.” The potential client has services and specialised safety and security There is an old saying that a picture paints since become a loyal guest. Their first visit alone capabilities that are available. a thousand words. Using images, TRIC=S In my generated more than EUR 200,000 in revenue. Safety and Security team, Radisson Blu Gautrain Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg 18 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Healthy and Happy Guests • Eliminate unsustainable ingredients from Creating a healthy and pleasant environBrain Food the menu (for example, bluefin tuna) ment in our hotels is one of Rezidor’s • Eliminate single portion packaging The Brain Food recipes are based on top priorities. We focus on offering both from the breakfast buffets. six principles which are good for the non-smoking and accessible rooms. participants’ health and the planet: Rezidor offers guests who stay at our Of our 74,000 hotel rooms, 87% are 1. M  ore fish, whole grains, eggs, hotels the most environmentally friendly non-smoking, whilst 54% of our hotels fruit and vegetables products. For our Anne Sémonin range are entirely smoke-free in guestrooms, 2. U  se of local and fresh ingredients of bathroom amenities at Radisson Blu where feasible public spaces and back-of-house areas. 3. P ure ingredients with minimal hotels, this commitment translates into Over 1,700 rooms (2.3%) are adapted to ­processing 100% paraben-, siliconand GMO-free the needs of disabled guests. This repre4. L  ess meat and lower fat content products, and a guarantee of no animal ­(maximum 10%) sents an increase in performance across testing. To help reduce environmental 5. N aturally sweetened food and the board. never more than 10% added sugar impact further, Anne Sémonin guest In 2010, Rezidor hotels in Denmark 6. Focus on quality and taste experiamenities are made of recyclable packagences that sharpen the senses. launched Brain Food an innovative ing including: solution for meetings. Brain Food for • Bottles made from recyclable PETG Meetings by Radisson Blu is a menu of Responsible Business practices are • Caps and soap packaging are made in recipes which are designed to ensure incorporated into our hotel restaurants recyclable PP that meeting delegates remain at their in general and in Rezidor’s restaurant • Accessories are packaged in recyclable maximum performance level throughout concepts: RBG; Fellini; and Verres en PET/PE and paper. an event. Since its introduction, the conVer. Hotel guidelines are to: cept has been launched in all Radisson • Use local and organic food wherever Healthy and Happy Staff Blu hotels as part of the Experience possible Rezidor’s philosophy has always been to Meetings by Radisson Blu. • Offer vegetarian and healthy options promote people from within the organisain each menu tion. We are committed to developing each employee to their full potential. We offer a range of tools to foster people and to ensure development from within. Our courses are focused on personal development and continuous learning. As a consequence a large majority of our general managers are developed from within the company. Rezidor’s 5-step People Development Programme Rezidor focuses on a comprehensive and ambitious 5-step people development programme. It includes basic training around the group’s unique service philosophy Yes I Can!, high level training to develop on-the-job skills, a Management Development Programme, a company owned Business School and a dedicated Mentor-Mentee Programme for future general managers. The programme includes the mandatory New Hire Orientation, on-the-job skills development, Yes I Can! and Responsible Business training. 19 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Rezidor’s Yes I Can! Ethos Fuels Peugeot and Citroën’s Podium Rezidor’s ever growing global reputation for exceptional Yes I Can! customer service has led to a ground-breaking new partnership. During 2012, Rezidor was invited to share our ethos, the driving philosophy that informs “Peugeot and Citroën are particularly unique Yes I Can! service philosophy and 100% everything we do, everywhere in the world, 24/7. impressed by our 100% Guest Satisfaction Guest Satisfaction Guarantee at Podium. Yes I Can! has played a major part in ReziGuarantee,” explains Jan Spooren, Rezidor’s Launched by the zonefranche agency, the dor’s success. And word is spreading, well Director, People Development. “Radisson Blu Podium workshops provide Peugeot and Citroën beyond the world of hospitality. Hotels and Resorts are a premium hotel business, with an opportunity to coach their European As part of the cooperation, Peugeot and not so different from a car dealership. It requires distributors and zone managers in world class, ­Citroën hosted a series of intensive Podium intense focus – every minute of the day – on flawless customer service. workshops at Radisson Blu hotels across Europe. delivering the brand promise, attention to detail, Yes I Can! – three little words that make a Experienced Rezidor managers participated as maintaining the highest standards of product and world of difference. Three little words that have guest speakers, promoting the effectiveness of service, personal relationships with guests, seralways been so much more than just a slogan our Yes I Can! values. In total, six one-day training vice with a smile, being host... the list is endless.” for all Rezidorians. Yes I Can! is our connecting sessions were organised for Peugeot and ­C itroën distributors and zone managers. Jan Spooren, Director People Development 20 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People Focus on Responsible Business participants from 270 business units. ComThe Rezidor Hotel Group supports training pared to 2011, the result is stable. This is staff transfers throughout the hotels in All Rezidor employees are trained in our exceptional given the survey was conall countries, enabling our employees to unique Living Responsible Business modducted at the time a change in CEO was grow with Rezidor and to develop themule. Heads of departments and general announced and during a process of decenselves. As much as we perceive our guests managers receive an additional Leading tralisation which started in late 2011. This to be individuals with individual needs Responsible Business course. is an outstanding result within our industry and wishes, we also perceive our employThe Living Responsible Business and other service industries worldwide. ees to be individuals with individual training programme covers the three backgrounds and cultures. Employees pillars of Rezidor’s Responsible Business Celebrating Diversity – Equal are hired for their Yes I Can! attitude and programme and illustrates how each Opportunities willingness to serve the guest. Cultural employee can live Responsible Business Taking into account all hotels, under all differences enable us as an employer, and in their everyday job and at home. In contract types, more than 35,000 employas a host, to cater to the needs of our cliaddition we focus on our Code of Ethics, ees worked under the Rezidor brands entele on an individual basis. Rezidor’s human rights and child protection. during 2012. The company counts no Equal Opportunities Policy states that no less than 143 nationalities amongst the discrimination due to age, race, religion, Employee Satisfaction workforce, 57% of which is male. gender or disability is allowed, and all our Rezidor aims to be the employer of choice A strong understanding and respect hotels have procedures in place to ensure for our people. We care for our employof cultural differences is essential to this is the case. ees, involve them in our planning and Rezidor’s success given that we employ decision-making processes and ask for people from many different nationalities Empowering Employees their feedback. Our annual Climate and operate hotels in 70 countries. DiverRezidor pays fair wages according to Analysis, a Group-wide employee satissity amongst the workforce in our hotels industry standards. Rezidor respects the faction survey (conducted by an external is as old as the hospitality industry itself. rights of employees to join trade unions if independent party) found that employee Experience across different hotels and they so choose and to bargain collectively satisfaction remained high at 86.5% in different countries is an integral part in accordance with local laws. 2012. The 2012 survey included 24,977 of any hospitality career. Pursuant to the European Union Directive on Works Councils (94/45/ EC, the Works Council Directive) Rezidor has established a European Works CounEmployees in the spotlight cil, which has been entered into by repreDuring 2012, two of our hotel engineers sentatives of our central management and were recognised by their local hospitality employees. Annual meetings are held, associations. Nicholas Fernandez of the Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City, where issues such as the company’s received the Green Hotelier of the Year finances, performance, future ventures award. Mark Duffy of the Radisson Blu and other important issues are discussed St. Helens Hotel in Dublin was named with employee representatives. Hospitality Manager of the Year 2012 – Environmental. Rezidor strives to handle all operaIndividual employees are often totally tional changes in a transparent and open engaged in Responsible Business. The execmanner, with the goal of giving our utive chef of the Radisson Blu Hotel Sligo, Joe Shannon, was involved in over 20 charemployees fair influence. When taking ity events in 2012. Thanks to the efforts of over an existing hotel, we endeavour to Joe and the team, the hotel raised close to retain the majority of the employees of EUR 15,000 for various charities. the earlier hotel brand. Nicholas Fernandez and Joe Shannon 21 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think People A Proactive Leadership Commitment Across the Group At Carlson Rezidor we have constantly remained highly committed to training and development. 2012 was no different. On taking up his Wolfgang M. Neumann explains the concept: they need to manage successful careers in appointment, our incoming President and CEO “It’s all about you! It’s all about us! As Aristotle a very successful forward-looking company. Wolfgang M. Neumann promised to continue said: ‘Excellence is never an accident. It’s is Sonja Divé-Dahl, General Manager and the legacy of supporting all Rezidorians to reach always the result of high intention, sincere effort District Director comments: “Finally! This new their full potential and assisting them to achieve and intelligent execution.’ We must all believe in systematic process and set of tools will help their personal and professional ambitions. He the astonishing possibilities together on Route us find the right fit of person and location.” fulfilled this promise with the development of 2015, and our brilliant future.” Tom Flanagan, Area Vice President for two workshops aimed all area leadership posiGoing hand-in-hand with the Pro Active Eastern Europe adds: “Rezidor is very fortunate tions and our entire general manager population. Leadership workshop was our Performance to be one of the fastest growing companies in Our Pro Active Leadership Workshop was Management Process. Created to bring a the hotel industry. But with that growth comes developed to allow our leaders to spend time valuable performance focus to the organisation, the challenge of keeping the talent pool full and with colleagues. The Workshop gave particiPerformance Management Process greatly warm. We are a much larger company today pants an invaluable opportunity to challenge increases the possibilities for individual employthan five years ago, which means we need more their way of thinking, share their experiences, ees to manage their careers and develop permanagers, with different sets of skills. It’s fanand take away a range of approaches to sonally. This dynamic new process will ensure tastic to have a more systematic approach to enhance their leadership effectiveness in that everyone trained since 2012 has a clear build our people’s careers and lead them to their practical and useful ways. The response has understanding of what they are expected to desired future.” been overwhelmingly positive. Highly interactive achieve in their role at Rezidor. One major feature of the group sessions in its approach, the programme was seen to It also enables personal objectives to be has been the commitment of everyone involved. encourage participants to question, challenge, consistent with and support the overall organiAll have been willing to make open and honest and learn from each other, and above all to sational strategy and goals through ‘clear line of contributions to the discussions, and appreciate explore how people can be their best as leaders sight’ to higher level objectives. This provides all having some personal reflection time to explore and develop active relationships. of our employees with the guidance and support their own abilities and attitudes to leadership. Pro Active leadership training Sonja Dive-Dahl, District Director Tom Flanagan, Area Vice President for Eastern Europe 22 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together Taking Care of Ethical and Social Issues in the Company and Society Rezidor Hotels have an important responsibility as corporate citizens of their local communities. They undertake this responsibility by contributing to fundraising and community actions with local non-profit organisations, schools, orphanages, homeless associations and homes for the elderly. Supporting the The World Childhood Foundation comfortable and restful stay away from World Childhood Foundation is a non-profit organisation dedicated to home. Childhood aims to help children Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group supports serving the most vulnerable children in who are abused and exploited to ensure the World Childhood Foundation the world: street children, sexually abused that they are given a safe and secure (Childhood) as our corporate charity. and exploited children, children trafficked childhood, or simply put, a home. The cooperation with this worldwide for sexual purposes and institutionalised These parallel aspirations mean that organisation, founded by HRH Queen children. The charity has a particular Rezidor’s support to Childhood is natural Silvia of Sweden, dates back to 2007 focus on helping girls and young mothers. to who we are as a company and as a and engages our hotels each year in Rezidor’s mission is to provide its corporate citizen. fundraising for Childhood. several million guests each year with a Just one example of Childhood’s 100 projects around the globe is ‘Hope and Homes for Children’ in Belarus. There are many abandoned children in Belarus. Those who grow up in large-scale institutions without their parents are some of the most vulnerable children in the world. Hope and Homes for Children endeavours to develop the support needed to move children from institutions to a family home, either with their own relatives or in foster care. The project has already managed to close three large institutions. They are also working with young mothers and parents who are thinking of giving up their babies. Hope and Homes encourages the parents to bond with the child, increasing the chances that the baby will stay with its natural family. www.childhood.org One of the children helped by a World Childhood Foundation project in Ukraine 23 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together Rezidor’s Baltic Hotels and BalticMiles Fly High to Help Kids in Need During the Responsible Business Action Month in September Rezidors’ 13 Baltic hotels joined forces with our partner BalticMiles to donate close to 5,000 items. To support Carlson Rezidor Responsible Busi“The project we implemented during Gabi Kool, Chief Executive Officer of BalticMiles. ness Action Month, Radisson Blu and Park Inn Responsible Business month was not just about “Working with the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group by Radisson hotels in the Baltics organised a collecting donations,” says Ronald Smithjes, team was a delight. This is a great example of joint charity event with the BalticMiles loyalty District Director Radisson Blu Hotels, Baltics. how a distinguished business like Radisson Blu programme. Run in cities throughout the Baltic “We also want to spread Responsible Business and Park Inn by Radisson Hotels – rich in history region, the event was designed to help people initiatives to our employees and guests and and tradition, can cooperate with their partner in need and make their lives easier. encourage them to use every opportunity to BalticMiles – already known for the innovative All hotel employees and guests and Baltictake responsibility and help people in need. We and creative use of social media in campaigns. Miles employees and clients were invited to highly value our partnership with BalticMiles in Together we created a project to be proud of!” make a charity donation of day-to-day goods this activity. We are looking forward to more The Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group is strengthsuch as clothes, kitchen appliances, and bed joint Responsible Business projects in future.” ening its commitment to uphold its three pillars linen. Donations of games, toys and books for “Looking back at BalticMiles’ activities in of Responsible Business. All Carlson Rezidor children were also encouraged. Donations were 2012, one of the success stories in which we Group hotels in the Baltic’s are open to new collected during September at all Radisson Blu take pride is certainly the social awareness camprojects and initiatives which support Responsible and Park Inn by Radisson hotels in Riga, Tallinn, paign in cooperation with the Radisson Blu and Business policy in their daily activities. Vilnius, Kaunas and Klaipeda. Park Inn by Radisson Hotels in the Baltics,” says Gabi Kool, Chief Executive Officer of BalticMiles Poster from the BalticMiles – Rezidor donation campaign 24 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together 1 3 5 2 4 6 September 2012: Rezidor’s Most Highlights of RBAM 2012 included: 4. T he Radisson Blu Port Elisabeth held ­Successful Responsible Business 1. C  arlson Rezidor organised the first a charity weekend with more than Action Month Ever Walk the World for Childhood 1,500 people participating in various In September each year – Responsible fundraising fun walk. On 29 and 30 activities. The weekend raised EUR Business Action Month (RBAM) – our September 2012, staff from 44 Rezidor 6,000 to help finance drinking water hotels give extra focus to community hotels walked almost 2,700 kilometres facilities for the 8,000 inhabitants of activities. At Rezidor, 2012 marked the (km) and climbed 25,000 stairs for the Missionvale community. ninth anniversary of RBAM, with 265 Childhood. 5. For the fifth year, our hotels in the hotels (80% of the total) participating. 2. Bracelets for Childhood. Throughout Middle East organised The Box RBAM is now a global initiative and is 2012, our hotels were encouraged to Appeal. As in previous years, the run in coordination with Carlson Rezidor sell bracelets made by non-profit hugely successful campaign ran in hotels in the Americas and Asia-Pacific. organisation Bead for Life in aid of three countries until the end of This year our hotels showed they are Childhood. Half of the donation goes October. Radisson Blu and Park Inn Hotels with a Heart. Close to 460 proto Childhood. The other half goes to by Radisson hotels distributed 13,000 jects were launched in 265 communities. the Ugandan ladies who produce the boxes filled with necessities to local conIn total EUR 473,483 was raised for bracelets to provide them with income, struction workers and people in need. Childhood and various other projects. food, medicine, school fees – and hope. 6. The Radisson Hotel, Astana raised a Many of our hotels donate volunteer 3. A ll of our Stockholm hotels collaborecord EUR 61,133 for SOS Children’s time to local charities during the year rated to launch the Swedish premiere Village in Astana, the capital of and especially in RBAM. In 2012, of ‘Not My Life’, a documentary about Kazakhstan, at a high-class charity employees from 224 hotels donated their slavery and child-trafficking in our event. Founded in 2000, SOS Children’s time and skills. In total they contributed time. HRH Princess Victoria and the Village Astana raises 80 children left the equivalent of 2,300 working days. film’s director, Robert Bilheimer, honwithout parental care. The village is As well as time, goods are also donated oured the event with their presence. the second of its type in Kazakhstan. during RBAM. Through our Middle The 200 attendees were very impressed The hotel added another EUR 60,000 Eastern campaign – The Box Appeal – by the seriousness of the issue and the through the organization of a hugely Rezidor donated over EUR 300,000 work Carlson Rezidor is doing to prosuccessful Christmas market. worth of goods. tect children. The screening also raised a wonderful amount for the World Childhood Foundation. 25 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together Rezidor Hotels sweep the Globe with World Cleanup 2012 Illegal garbage is a global issue: there are an estimated 100 million tonnes of garbage lying around the world. Waste is everywhere – in our cities, beaches, oceans and ­forests. With the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group being the official partner of World Cleanup 2012, our hotels came together to wipe their local surroundings clean. The Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group is a global the Radisson Blu Resort Tala Bay, the Radisson Pulkovskaya St Petersburg, together with leading partner of World Cleanup 2012 – Blu and Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, members of the public and World Cleanup 2,000 employees from 91 Carlson Rezidor the Radisson Royal Hotel in Dubai and the organisers, collected a massive 13,000 litres hotels worldwide participated in local cleanups Radisson Blu Cairo Heliopolis removed 6,900 of waste in a park! Three other hotels in St during the event. Worldwide, Carlson Rezidor litres of garbage from local streets. Petersburg cleaned a city garden, collecting cleanup teams collected close to 135,000 litres •S  taff from the Radisson Blu Hotel Tripoli 8,000 litres of waste. of waste in 33 countries. cleaned-up the surrounding streets after •S even of our Swiss hotels worked together to Nearly 1,300 employees from 41 Rezidor the revolution in January. clean the city of Basel, receiving cleaning tools hotels were involved in local cleanups. Together, •T  he Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing continued its from the City of Basel. the Rezidor teams collected 100,000 litres of yearly tradition of Cleaning up the Great Wall. waste, recycling as much as possible. A team from the hotel cleaned a neglected Our successful partnership with World Cleanup While there are too many examples to section of the wall. continues in 2013. This year the global action mention, some highlights include: • In Russia, our hotels were strongly committed. in 96 countries includes a cleanup of the •O  ur hotels in the Middle East held an impresOur five properties in Moscow collected Mediterranean Sea and surrounding countries. sive cleaning drive during the Rio+20 summit. 3,000 litres of rubbish in a forest in the MosTeams from the Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh, cow region. Staff at the Park Inn by Radisson World Cleanup team from the Radisson Blu Hotel Madrid Prado 26 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together The Code in short: 1. We respect the law 2. W e show respect for all persons in all situations 3. We think ethically 4. We act fairly 5. W  e do not discriminate against anyone for any reason 6. We are honest and transparent 7. We are loyal to our employer 8. W e do not exploit company resources 9. We think of safety at all times 10. We take care of the Earth. Ethical Responsibility Legal, Regulatory and Reputation Track the Bribery Act. The aim of this course In 2012 and 2013, Rezidor was yet again Record; and Internal Systems and Ethics/ is to educate individuals about the Bribery and for the fourth consecutive year named Compliance Programme. The highest Act and the consequences for Rezidor if we one of the World’s Most Ethical Compascoring companies in each industry do not apply its provisions properly. At the nies by the Ethisphere Institute, a US became the 2012 World’s Most Ethical end of the training participants undergo think tank dedicated to business ethics. Companies. For more information go an assessment using real-life cases. This is the fifth year Ethisphere has to www.ethisphere.com. The second pillar of ethics in Rezidor published the World’s Most Ethical Rezidor’s inclusion in the Ethisphere is www.rezidorethics.com, a website run (WME) rankings. Ethical companies ranking shows that we strive to act by an independent third-party organisaare identified by a committee of leading according to the highest ethical princition – Ethics Point. Employees can use attorneys, professors, government offiples and make sure that all our 35,000 this site to find information on our code cials and organisation leaders. The methodemployees do so – wherever they are. and report concerns anonymously. ology for the WME ranking covers seven At Rezidor, our corporate Code of In general, any employee with concerns distinct categories: Corporate Citizenship Ethics is shared with all employees or questions about the Code is encouraged and Responsibility; Corporate Governance; ­during their Yes I Can! trainings and to raise these directly with their supervisor. Innovation that Contributes to the Public in their WHY? information booklets. If this is not possible, the employee can Well Being; Industry Leadership; ExecuIn 2012, Rezidor rolled-out an updated report the issue on rezidorethics.com. tive Leadership and Tone from the Top; Code of Business Ethics. It now incorpoThe site and hotline are available in 11 rates specifications from the US Foreign languages. Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the Rezidor does not make any contributions Subsidies for energy saving UK Bribery Act. or give other support (direct or indirect) investments in South Africa A Bribery Act e-learning module was to political parties or individual politicians. In 2012 the Radisson Blu Hotel Sandton also developed in 2012. It is now ready The Rezidor Hotel Group receives reduced energy use by 25% by changing all for roll-out to all general managers and no direct or significant financial subsidies 12 volt down-lights to LEDs. In total the heads of department. from governmental organisations in the technical team changed 3,834 light bulbs in the lobby, guest corridors, ­restaurants, Our Bribery Act e-learning programme countries where we operate hotels. Howback-of-house and guestrooms. Through a provides participants with the opportunity ever, many of our hotels have received partnership with the local energy provider, to understand our company policies and subsidies or tax relief for their Think Eskom, half of the project was subsidised. procedures. After the training, employees Planet environmental investments. This The total investment for the hotel came to approximately EUR 40,000. know how to correctly respond to any has occurred in France, Norway, South bribery related issues in accordance with Africa and the UK. 27 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together Protecting the World’s Children Rezidor’s majority shareholder Carlson was the first hospitality group in the world to sign the ECPAT Code on preventing human and child trafficking. As part of the global Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group, Rezidor fully endorses the Code and applies its requirements and guidelines in all of our 338 properties. Hotels and hotel staff must be alert to potentially suspect situations and report them to their superiors and to local relevant organisations. In 2011, an additional Child Protection Module was integrated into our Living Responsible Business training. The module features an extract from the documentary ‘Not My Life.’ All hotel trainers were trained in the module. In 2012, 89% of our hotels have delivered the specific training module to their staff. Back-of-house communication materials constantly remind staff to be alert to this issue. Observe and Report. The ECPAT Code Suppliers of tourism services which adopt the ECPAT code commit themselves to: By abusing our children, sex tourists  stablish an ethical policy 1. E regarding the commercial sexual exploitation of children. abuse our future. 2. T rain their personnel in the country of origin and travel destinations. 3. Introduce a clause in contracts with suppliers, stating a common repudiation of the commercial sexual exploitation of children. 4. P rovide information about the commercial sexual exploitation of s or children to travellers. Report any child pornography in room  rovide information to local ‘key 5. P suspicious activity in the hotel to: persons’ at the destinations. 6. R eport annually. One of the posters creating employee awareness on Child Protection in Rezidor Hotels 28 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Think Together Two Wheels Can Make a Lot of Money – Rezidor’s UK and Ireland Hotels Raise Over EUR 33,000 in 2012 2012 was definitely the year of the bike when it came to fundraising in the UK and Ireland. It started in May when 150 team members from 31 Rezidor properties in the UK joined forces for the UK Bike Relay. The team cycled over 2,000 km to raise money for good causes. The team members from the Park Inn by RadisRubotham, Chef d’Parti at the hotel was supVarious employees who participated in the son and Radisson Blu hotels were accompanied ported by colleagues from a number of Rezidor cycling event commented: by a team from Rezidor’s head office in Brussels. properties in Ireland. “The 225 km cycle over the Pennines was Over 15 days they battled heavy rain, gale-force Rubotham completed the entire journey, a gruelling task, especially as the weather winds and some of the steepest hills imaginable which he dubbed ‘The Blu Route’, over six days. conditions weren’t on our side. But we all made to complete this epic journey from the north of Team members from the other hotels joined him it in one piece and in a great time of 15 hours!” Scotland to the south of England. on some legs of the journey. The Blu Route visited “We had a great time on the cycle challenge, In September the baton was passed over the all 13 Rezidor hotels in Ireland. managed the whole relay in one day which was Irish Sea to Cavan where a courageous employee The combined initiatives raised just over EUR awesome! The whole team is very proud and from the Radisson Blu Farnham Estate set off on 33,000 for good causes and proved to be a great tired today, sitting down is sore!!!” yebrike a gruelling 1,000 km cycle ride. Darren team-building exercise. On May 2012 Join us in a cycl e relay around the UK starting in Abe rdeen and finishing in Sou thend – via 32 Rezidor hotels along the way ! Our aim is to try and raise for various chari £30,000 ties throughou t the UK. A great incen tive to get fit challenge your and self! Each cyclist needs to be a minimum two able to comm days and 130 it to miles cycling. Register your interest by 14th – limited place March 2012 s available! By the way , you need your own to bring bike... Register by onyourbike@r email: ezidor.com Park Inn by Radisson Telford team members, ready for the Bike Relay 29 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Summary of Progress Responsible Business Indicators 2012 Result 2011 Result EMPLOYEES We educate and facilitate our employees to make a conscious decision in favour of environmental, ethical and social issues in their private and work lives.  ercentage of hotels that comply with local labour laws (working hours, freedom of association, equal, P opportunities and non-discrimination) 100% 100% Employee satisfaction: Climate Analysis score 86.5% 86.7% Percentage of hotels that have made information on rezidorethics.com available to employees 97% 97% CUSTOMERS We inform and make it easy for our guests to participate in the Responsible Business activities at our hotels. We provide a healthy environment and offer healthy, nutritious, organic and Fairtrade food and beverages . Third party eco-labels (% of all Rezidor hotels) 65% 55% Responsible Business page on hotel website (% of all Rezidor hotels) 70% 76% Provide refillable amenity dispensers in public washrooms (% of all Rezidor hotels) 94% 92% Facilities for waste sorting by guests (% of all Rezidor hotels) 39% 39% Percentage of hotel rooms that are non-smoking 87% 85% Percentage of non-smoking hotels (guest rooms and public spaces) 54% 48% PROPERTY OWNERS We work together with property owners to find innovative solutions that satisfy our economic, ­environmental and social objectives. Number of hotel owners informed about the Responsible Business programme and hotel activities 97% 94% SHAREHOLDERS We provide shareholders and investors with timely, accurate and transparent information on Responsible Business related risks and opportunities. P  ercentage of hotels informing their property owner about the Responsible Business Programme and achievements 97% 94% SUPPLIERS We purchase products that have a reduced environmental impact during their life cycle, from suppliers that demonstrate environmental and social responsibility. Percentage of hotels sharing Rezidor Supplier Code of Conduct with their suppliers 79% 75% P  ercentage of hotels which request or provide advice on how suppliers can improve their environmental, social or ethical performance 28% 38% Serve organic-certified food items (% of all Rezidor hotels) 55% 49% Serve Fairtrade-certified products 47% 52% AUTHORITIES We require our managers to abide by local and international legislation, especially regarding labour laws, health and safety, human rights and the environment. Zero breaches to Responsible Business legislation (environment, anti-bribery) 0 breaches 0 breaches 30 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Summary of Progress Responsible Business Indicators 2012 Result 2011 Result COMMUNITY We take an active role in the international Responsible Business community, and contribute to the local communities where we operate. Amount of money raised for corporate and local charities • World Childhood Foundation (in EUR ) 76,966 60,000 • Local charities (in EUR ) 396,517 315,000 Number of hotels participating in Responsible Business Action Month in September 2012 265 256 ENVIRONMENT We continuously strive to improve our performance in the areas of energy, water, chemical and resource consumption, and waste generation in order to reduce our impact on the environment without sacrificing the comfort or experience of our guests. Reduction in energy use (kWh/m2) –1.6% 1.4% Reduction in energy use (kWh/occupied room) –3.2% –16.7% CO2-equivalent emissions/guest-night (GN) –9.4% –6% Water usage (litres/GN) –5.2% –9% Residual waste to landfill or incineration (kg/GN) –5.2% NA 31 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group 217 Eco-labelled Hotels Austrian Eco-label (2) Czech Republic Radisson Blu Hotel, Frankfurt Park Inn by Radisson Uno City, Vienna Park Inn by Radisson, Ostrava Radisson Blu Hotel, Hannover Radisson Blu Hotel & Conference Centre, Salzburg Park Inn Prague Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Radisson Blu Alcron Hotel, Prague Radisson Blu Senator Hotel, Luebeck BREEAM (1) Radisson Blu Resort Schloss Fleesensee Radisson Blu Hotel, East Midlands Airport UK Egypt Radisson Blu Hotel, Rostock Radisson Blu Hotel Cairo Heliopolis Radisson Blu Schwarzer Bock Hotel, Wiesbaden Golden Leaf (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Neubrandenburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Beijing China Estonia Radisson Blu Hotel, Hamburg Airport Park Inn by Radisson Central Tallinn Green Globe (2) Radisson Blu Hotel Olumpia, Tallinn Jordan Radisson Blu Resort, El Quseir Radisson Blu Hotel, Tallinn Radisson Blu Tala Bay Resort, Aqaba Radisson Blu Hotel, Cottbus France Kuwait Green Hospitality Award, Ireland (12) Park Inn by Radisson Arcachon Hotel Missoni Kuwait Radisson Blu Hotel, Dublin Airport – Platinum Park Inn by Radisson Macon Radisson Blu Farnham Estate Hotel, Cavan – Gold Park Inn by Radisson Nancy Latvia Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Cork – Gold Park Inn by Radisson Nice Airport Radisson Blu Daugava Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Galway – Gold Park Inn by Radisson Orange Radisson Blu Elizabete Hotel, Riga Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Dublin – Gold Park Inn by Radisson Paris Charles De Gaulle Radisson Blu Hotel Latvija, Riga Radisson Blu St. Helen’s Hotel, Dublin – Gold Airport Radisson Blu Ridzene Hotel, Riga Park Inn by Radisson, Cork Airport – Silver Radisson Blu 1835 Hotel & Thalasso, Cannes Radisson Blu Hotel & Spa, Sligo – Silver Radisson Blu Ambassador Hotel, Paris Opéra Lebanon Radisson Blu Hotel, Letterkenny – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel at Disneyland® Resort Paris Radisson Blu Martinez Hotel, Beirut Radisson Blu Hotel, Limerick – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Aix-Les-Bains Park Inn by Radisson Shannon Airport – Member Radisson Blu Hotel, Biarritz Lithuania Radisson Blu Hotel, Athlone – Member Radisson Blu Hotel, Champs Elysees, Paris Park Inn by Radisson Kaunas Radisson Blu Hotel, Lyon Park Inn by Radisson Klaipeda Green Key (128) Radisson Blu Hotel, Marseille Vieux Port Park Inn by Radisson Vilnius North Austria Radisson Blu Hotel, Nice Radisson Blu Astorija Hotel, Vilnius Park Inn by Radisson, Linz Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport Radisson Blu Hotel Lietuva, Vilnius Radisson Blu Palais Hotel, Vienna Radisson Blu Hotel, Paris-Boulogne Radisson Blu Hotel, Klaipeda Radisson Blu Style Hotel, Vienna Radisson Blu Hotel, Toulouse Airport Radisson Blu Le Dokhan’s Hotel, Paris Trocadero Netherlands Bahrain Radisson Blu Le Metropolitan Hotel, Paris Eiffel Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam The Diplomat Radisson Blu Hotel Residence & Spa, Radisson Blu Resort, Arc 1950 Radisson Blu Hotel, Amsterdam Airport, Schiphol Manama Les Loges du Parc, Aix-Les-Bains Oman Belgium Georgia Park Inn by Radisson Muscat Park Inn by Radisson Brussels Midi Radisson Blu Hotel, Batumi Radisson Blu Hotel, Muscat Park Inn by Radisson Liege Airport Radisson Blu Iveria Hotel, Tblisi Park Inn by Radisson, Antwerp Poland Park Inn by Radisson, Leuven Germany Radisson Blu Sobieski Hotel, Warsaw Radisson Blu Astrid Hotel, Antwerp Country Inn & Suites Timmendorfer Strand Radisson Blu Hotel, Gdansk Radisson Blu Balmoral Hotel, Spa Park Inn by Radisson Erfurt-Apfelstaedt Radisson Blu Hotel, Krakow Radisson Blu EU Hotel, Brussels Park Inn by Radisson Frankfurt Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Szczecin Radisson Blu Hotel, Hasselt Park Inn by Radisson Luebeck Radisson Blu Hotel, Wroclaw Radisson Blu Palace Hotel, Spa Park Inn by Radisson Munich Frankfurter Ring Radisson Blu Park Lane Hotel, Antwerp Park Inn by Radisson Munich East Romania Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Brussels Park Inn by Radisson Nuernberg Radisson Blu Hotel, Bucharest Park Inn by Radisson Stuttgart Bulgaria Radisson Blu Hotel, Berlin Radisson Blu Grand Hotel, Sofia Radisson Blu Hotel, Cologne Radisson Blu Gewandhaus Hotel, Dresden Croatia Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Duesseldorf Radisson Blu Resort, Split Radisson Blu Media Harbour Hotel, Duesseldorf Radisson Blu Hotel, Karlsruhe 32 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group 217 Eco-labelled Hotels Russia The Green Tourism Business Scheme, UK (25) Finland Park Inn by Radisson Nevsky, St. Petersburg Hotel Missoni Edinburgh – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Espoo Park Inn by Radisson Pribalitiskaya, St. Petersburg Park Inn by Radisson Manchester, Victoria – Gold Radisson Blu Hotel, Oulu Park Inn by Radisson Pulkovskaya, St. Petersburg Park Inn Heathrow, London – Gold Radisson Blu Marina Palace Hotel, Turku Park Inn by Radisson Sheremetyevo Airport, Moscow Radisson Blu Hotel London Stansted Airport – Gold Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Helsinki Park Inn by Radisson Veliky Novgorod Radisson Blu Hotel, Durham – Gold Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Hotel, Kaliningrad Radisson Blu Hotel, Edinburgh – Gold Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Vaasa Radisson Royal Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Hotel, Glasgow – Gold Radisson Blu Seaside Hotel, Helsinki Radisson Sonya Hotel, St. Petersburg Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Jersey – Gold Park Inn by Radisson Belfast – Silver Norway Saudi Arabia Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham West – Silver Park Inn by Radisson Oslo Al Muna Kareem Radisson Blu Hotel, Al Madinah Park Inn by Radisson Harlow – Silver Radisson Blu Airport Hotel, Oslo Park Inn by Radisson Al Khobar Park Inn by Radisson Northampton – Silver Radisson Blu Atlantic Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Hotel, Jeddah Park Inn by Radisson Palace, Southend-on-Sea – Silver Radisson Blu Caledonien Hotel, Kristiansand Radisson Blu Hotel, Riyadh Park Inn by Radisson Peterborough – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel Norge, Bergen Radisson Blu Hotel, Yanbu Park Inn by Radisson Telford – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel Nydalen, Oslo Radisson Blu Royal Suite Hotel, Jeddah Park Inn Watford – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Ålesund Radisson Blu Hotel Manchester Airport – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Bodø Switzerland Radisson Blu Hotel, Belfast – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Tromsø Park Inn by Radisson Lully Radisson Blu Hotel, Bristol – Silver Radisson Blu Hotel, Trondheim Airport Park Inn by Radisson Zurich Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Leeds – Silver Radisson Blu Plaza Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Basel Radisson Blu Portman Hotel, London – Silver Radisson Blu Polar Hotel, Spitsbergen Radisson Blu Hotel, St. Gallen Park Inn by Radisson Bedford – Bronze Radisson Blu Royal Garden Hotel, Trondheim Radisson Blu Hotel, Lucerne Park Inn by Radisson Birmingham Walsall – Bronze Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Stavanger Radisson Blu Hotel, Zurich Airport Radisson Blu Hotel, Birmingham – Bronze Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Oslo Radisson Blu Hotel, Liverpool – Bronze Turkey Sweden Radisson Blu Hotel, Ankara Hungarian Green Hotel Award (2) Park Inn by Radisson Malmö Radisson Blu Bosphorus Hotel, Istanbul Park Inn Sarvar Park Inn by Radisson Solna Radisson Blu Conference & Airport Hotel, Istanbul Radisson Blu Béke Hotel, Budapest Park Inn by Radisson Uppsala Radisson Blu Resort & Spa, Cesme Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm Hammarby Sjöstad ISO 14001 (1) Park Inn by Radisson Stockholm-Arlanda Ukraine Germany Radisson Blu Arlandia Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Hotel, Kiev Radisson Blu Resort, Rügen Radisson Blu Hotel, Malmö Radisson Blu Royal Park Hotel, Stockholm United Arab Emirates Maltese Eco-label (1) Radisson Blu Royal Viking Hotel, Stockholm Park Inn by Radisson Abu Dhabi, Yas Island Radisson Blu Bay Point Resort, St. Julian’s Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Göteborg Radisson Blu Hotel, Abu Dhabi Yas Island Radisson Blu SkyCity Hotel, Stockholm-Arlanda Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Deira Creek Nordic Swan Eco-label (40) Radisson Blu Strand Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Downtown Denmark Radisson Blu Waterfront Hotel, Stockholm Radisson Blu Hotel, Dubai Media City Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Centre, Radisson Blu Resort, Fujairah Copenhagen Tunisian Eco-label (1) Radisson Blu Resort, Sharjah Radisson Blu H.C. Andersen Hotel, Odense Radisson Blu Resort & Thalasso, Djerba Radisson Royal Hotel, Dubai Radisson Blu Royal Hotel, Copenhagen The Radisson Blu Residence, Dubai Marina Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Aarhus Radisson Blu Scandinavia Hotel, Copenhagen Green Leaf (1) Radisson Blu Hotel, Sandton Johannesburg South-Africa 33 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group GRI Standard Disclosures Table AR = Rezidor Annual Report 2012 RBR = Rezidor Responsible Business Report 2012 INDICATOR ACCORDING TO GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (G3) Page nr. 1. Strategy and Analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO RBR 1 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities RBR 3 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation RBR 2 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services RBR 2 2.3 Operational structure of the organisation, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures RBR 2, AR 6 2.4 Location of organisation’s headquarters RBR back cover 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with major operations RBR 2 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 71 2.7 Markets served RBR 2 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation RBR 2, AR 6–11 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership AR 6–11, AR 71 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period RBR 1 3. Report Parameters Report Profile 3.1 Reporting period 3.2 Date of most recent previous report RBR, TOC page 3.3 Reporting cycle 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents RBR back cover Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content, including: • Determining materiality • Prioritising topics within the report; and RBR 3 • Identifying stakeholders the organisation expects to use the report 3.6 Boundary of the report RBR, TOC page 3.7 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations AR 6–11, AR 71 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports RBR 7 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report AR 6–11 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report RBR 35 34 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group GRI Standard Disclosures Table 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation, including committees under the highest governance body responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organisational oversight 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer AR 81–89 4.3 For organisations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation RBR 4 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 5 Performance Indicators Economic Aspect: Economic Performance EC1  Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, AR 4 donations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments RBR 26 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organisation’s activities due to climate change RBR 3 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government RBR 27 Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Core EC8  Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement RBR 24–25 Aspect: Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source RBR 8 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements RBR 8 EN6  Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives RBR 8–11 Aspect: Emissions, Effluents, and Waste EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved RBR 8–11 Aspect: Employment Aspect: Training and Education LA11 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings RBR 20–22 LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews RBR 20 Human Rights Performance Indicators Aspect: Investment and Procurement Practices HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken RBR 15, RBR 27 HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained RBR 28 35 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group GRI Standard Disclosures Table Society Performance Indicators Aspect: Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures RBR 27 SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption RBR 27 Aspect: Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying RBR 27 SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country RBR 27 Aspect: Compliance Core SO8  Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations RBR 27 Product Responsibility Performance Indicators Aspect : Product and Service Labelling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction RBR 7 36 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group Global Compact Compliance Human Rights Rezidor Systems and Processes Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Code of Business Ethics of internationally proclaimed human rights. Living & Leading Responsible Business training Employee Handbook – Why Booklet Supplier Code of Conduct Bribery Act e-learning Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit Code of Business Ethics in human rights abuses. My Rights @ Rezidor www.rezidorethics.com Policy on the Facilitation of Prostitution Supplier Code of Conduct Labour Rezidor Systems and Processes Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Human Resources Guidelines and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Employee Handbook European Workers Councils Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms Code of Business Ethics of forced and compulsory labour. Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition Code of Business Ethics of child labour. ECPAT Code of Conduct Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination Human Resources Guidelines in respect to employment and occupation. Employee Handbook Living & Leading Responsible Business training Policy on Recruitment and Selection Transfer Policy Policy on Sexual Harassment and Illicit Activities Social Networking Policy Supplier Code of Conduct Environment Rezidor Systems and Processes Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Responsible Business Policy environmental challenges. Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines Environmental reporting and targets Think Planet programme Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Global Compact Caring for Climate environmental responsibility. Responsible Business Policy Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines Think Planet tools Living & Leading Responsible Business training Rezidor List of Restricted Substances Supplier Code of Conduct Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion Responsible Construction and Renovation Guidelines of environmentally friendly technologies. Think Planet tools and guest-facing communication Club Carlson Carbon Neutral Meetings Anti Corruption Rezidor Systems and Processes Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Operational and Financial Risk Mapping including extortion and bribery. Global Information Security Policy Code of Business Ethics and anti-bribery training Internal Audit Supplier Code of Conduct 37 Responsibility Report 2012 Rezidor Hotel Group The Rezidor Hotel Group is one of the fastest growing hotel companies in the world and a member of the Carlson Rezidor Hotel Group. The group features a portfolio of more than 430 hotels in operation and under development with 95,000 rooms in 76 countries. Rezidor operates the brands Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA), along with the Club Carlson loyalty programme for frequent hotel guests. Under a worldwide licence agreement with the iconic Italian fashion house Missoni, Rezidor operates and develops the lifestyle brand Hotel Missoni. Following a Strategic Alliance Agreement with Regent Hotels & Resorts in September 2012, Rezidor also develops and operates new Regent Hotels in EMEA. In November 2006, Rezidor was listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange. Carlson, a privately held, global hospitality and travel company, based in Minneapolis (USA), is the majority shareholder. Rezidor’s long-standing, wide-ranging and award winning Responsible Business programme contributed to the group being named one of the World’s Most Ethical Companies in 2012 for the third consecutive year. The corporate office of the Rezidor Hotel Group is based in Brussels, Belgium. For more information visit www.rezidor.com If you have any comments, queries or questions, please contact: Christiane Reiter, Senior Director Corporate Communication christiane.reiter@rezidor.com Inge Huijbrechts, Vice President Responsible Business inge.huijbrechts@rezidor.com The Rezidor Hotel Group Corporate Office • Avenue du Bourget 44 • B-1130 Brussels • Belgium Tel: +32 2 702 9000 • Fax: +32 2 702 9300 We proudly support:
