General Director ’s appeal of 2011 is the result of scrap processing and raw material transportation. We expanded the plant ’s special equipment park and did much to regulate the issue of the rolling stock. In particular, agreements with such partners as OJSC “Pskovvtormet” and the limited liability company “Torgovyi Dom of BMZ” (St. Petersburg) on purchasing of more than 1000 open-top wagons for transportation of the plant ’s loads were signed. Availability of this rolling stock allows us to ensure trouble -free delivery of raw materials and shipment of finished products. One more important constituent part of providing for raw material safety of the enterprise is joining of the PA “BMZ” by SA “Belvtormet” which provided more than 40 per cent of the scrap required by the plant based on the results of 2011 and in future this figure will reach 50 per cent. Today BSW is one of the best steel making plants of the world as regards the technological level of production and we continue further Dear Friends! development. At present technical revamping of the enterprise is carried out in accordance Social report for 2011 of Byelorussian Steel with the program being Works is lying in front of you. This document means a part of the business-plan for 2011-2015. a lot for our enterprise oriented towards export One of its most important goals is growth and providing over 12 thousand people with work. of steel production capacity up to 3 mln tpy. Within It proves openness and transparency of our work this program implementation of the largest in the without which it is impossible to build successful last years investment projects directed towards relations with business partners today. growth of the production capacity, deepening of Speaking about results of 2011 I would like to the steel making stage, provision of the production underline that the year was successful for our with materials, power carriers and auxiliary media is plant. Thus, as for steel production we crossed going on a full scale. over the threshold of 2,6 mln tons which had Key projects include construction of a bar mill seemed to be inaccessible. The results of each with potential capacity of 1 mln t of rolled material production stage were good and this allowed us per year, modernization of the steel making process, to produce marketable products in the amount construction of the third lime kiln. Over EUR500 of USD 2 billion and reach 17,1 per cent of sale million will be directed towards realization of this profitability. Besides, the share of export in the program. total amount of the product sold made up 76 per Increasing the production capacity we do not cent. forget about decrease of environmental load. One of the most important achievements So as to reduce emission of harmful substances 4 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS in the air BSW will implement a project of and the concept of its social responsibility in its HIGH PRODUCTION VOLUMES, modernization of the system of gas and dust annual social report. RECOGNITION removal. Our plant will spend about AT WORLD MARKET, On January 2, 2012 an important event took place: REALIZATION EUR 22 million on ecological program till 2015. RUE “BMZ” was reorganized in an open joint-stock OF FAR-SEEING All achievements including high volumes of company “Byelorussian Steel Works”. The form of PLANS — WERE ACHIEVED OWING production, recognition on global markets and ownership was changed but our concern TO MANYimplementation of forward-looking plans are for implementation of social programs remains the THOUSANDS supported by many thousands of employees of same. EMPLOYEES OF THE ENTERPRISE. the plant. Success of the plant is provided for by I hope that you will consider BSW social report its staff that is why much attention is paid for 2011 complete and substantial. to caring for people, creation of safe and comfortable working conditions and appropriate Best regards, payment. Therefore, USD 1,2 mln were spent A.M. Saviznok, on labour safety measures in 2011. We shall continue this work in future as well. General Director During the years of its operation BSW has delivered its products to 107 countries worldwide. Every year the plant provides for 15 per cent of currency proceeds of the Republic of Belarus. Naturally, this scale of activity determines high level of responsibility to our partners, employees and the state. To a large extent this is why starting from 2008 Byelorussian Steel Works seeks to reflect comprehensively the results of its work SOCIAL REPORT 2011 5 Preface for the fourth edition OJSC “BSW” keeps the tradition of reporting efficiency of risk management and interaction with on sustainable development and confirms its readiness stakeholders. for open dialogue with the parties concerned. The plant The report does not only disclose effectiveness does not deny the obligations undertaken and follows of the plant operation aimed at gaining profit, the policy of improvement and reorganization in all introduction of new techniques and equipment, but also directions of stable development management, economic reflects the activity aimed at formation of human capital, activity, work with the staff, in the issues of social activity provision of environmental safety and creation of the enterprise in the regions and cooperation of favourable conditions for dynamic social and with suppliers and customers, in the policy of ecological economic development of the region of BSW business and industrial safety. General results reached by the plant activity. in 2011 expressively evidence that the year was successful. Materials given in the report are directed towards Within the framework of the annual report all aspects information of the society and all parties concerned: of the plant activity in the area of social responsibility the owner, investors, personnel, representatives are shown (see the content of the report). of regional, district and republican authorities, population and product consumers. OJSC “BSW” presents its fourth Corporate Social Report in G3 format of the sustainable development This report contains no considerable changes reporting manual GRI and in accordance of information given in the previous reports of the plant. with the principles of the UN Global Compact. The economic figures in the report are given The report contains data of the plant activity in 2011 in US dollars at the average annual exchange rate as well as plans, tasks and obligations of future activity. of the National Bank of the Republic of Belarus existing in 2011 which was equal to BRB 4 623,47. The strategic challenges the plant faced in 2011 to a large extent remain important in 2012 keeping The report does not include the information concerning the continuity and sustainability of BSW development. the joint-ventures and the enterprises located outside Assessment of the plant activity in 2011 is given versus the Republic of Belarus. the performance in the previous reporting period of 2010 Electronic version of 2011 report will be allocated and is based on the degree of the target achievement. on BSW corporate site: www.belsteel.com. While preparing this report we took into account For the development of a constructive dialogue with the comments of the interested parties on 1020 Social all parties concerned it is very important for the Report. plant to know the opinion about its activity in the area The report is based on documents developed by the plant of sustainable development. With this aim contact in accordance with the requirements of the law information and a feedback form was included in the of the Republic of Belarus report. and international Please, send your comments and proposals regarding standards. the form and the content of the report as well Social as question arising in connection with it to: responsibility and corporate sustainability report informs the parties concerned about strategic priorities and potential of OJSC “BSW”, Open Joint-Stock Company “Byelorussian Steel Works” about specific features (OJSC “BSW”), 37 Promyshlennaya str., Zhlobin, 247210 of management and level Gomel region, Republic of Belarus. of competence of the managers, Fax: (2334) 55426 E-mail: secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by 6 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Steelmaking: steel markets F or Byelorussian Steel Works and for the country economy in whole the year 2011 was tough. We had to surmount many barriers and At the same time there is still an imbalance between the demand and supply of steel in Europe. Thus, according to the executive director of Voestalpine complicated labyrinths but the staff managed to Mr. Wolfgang Eder, European steel capacities are overcome them and made the year 2011 resultant. 210 mln t, and demand is only 150-160 mln t. Drop of demand for steel products and following decrease of their output made a negative impact Competition of the key markets became much stronger. on prices and other economic indicators of the According to Reuters, European steel makers struggle industry. Byelorussian Steel Works integrating into to survive on the steel market and accelerate transition to more complicated types of steel products with a high the global steel market faced the same problems added value so as to survive and resist to cheap import. as the overwhelming majority of metallurgical All EC steel companies felt the consequences enterprises of other countries. of the European indebtedness crisis. Measures taken to optimize the numerical strength, Y.A. Malchanau, restructuring of enterprises, improvement Marketing director of production organization and increase of the production facility usage had a positive effect on steel making in general and Byelorussian Steel Works in particular from the point of view At the end of 2011 the Middle-East market does of working efficiency growth. not demonstrate a high level of activity. According to the forecast of MEPS, British Most of the regional rollermen having replenished consulting company, world steel melting volume in the stock of semi-finished products at the end 2012 will reach 1,625 mln tons adding 5,4% of 2011 are waiting at the beginning of 2012, as compared with the previous year. At the same time the more so because general price tendencies World Steel Association shows in its outlook that in the sector of long rolled material go down. the world annual consumption of steel products Only Saudi companies continue to buy and manage in 2012 will be 1,42 mln t, i.e. 3,6% more than last to undercut. year. Export of rebars from Russia and Black Sea This growth is conditioned by increase of steel countries was rather low during last months consumption in South-East Asia. Thus, during last of 2011 and according to the forecasts will remain years steel making and rolled material capacities the same in the first half of 2012, because a strong were intensively expanded by Turkey, Korea, Persian dollar cut the profit of exporters and many Gulf states, i.e. by large importers. New projects producers turned to their national market. have been planned or are already being implemented in India, Brazil and Iran. At the end of the year no serious activity was detected outside the Black Sea region, besides According to Reuters, European steel makers the plants could make more profitable deals struggling for survival on the steel market on the national market in view of good demand accelerate the transition to more complicated steel of the building market. products with a high added value so as to survive and withstand cheap import. Aggravation Aggravation of the political situation in Syria of competition is observed. All EC steel companies started at the end of the year facilitated further felt consequences of the European debt crisis. Many weakening of the Middle East market of long of them including Arcelor Mittal and Thyssen rolled material where there were no particular Krupp have already reduced their production. purchasing power previously. Building sector » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 7 Steelmaking: steel markets » is at rise only in Saudi Arabia where local rolled to be at the level of 10 per cent. material or supplies from other Gulf countries External demand for standard seamless pipes from are used. CIS countries continues to be weak. Export supply In the USA the demand situation is a little better from Russian producers Volzhsky Pipe Mill and than in other regions due to the rise in such Uraltrubostal remained unchanged during last industries as engineering and motor industry, oil months. At the same time export seamless pipe rates and gas industry, and power industry. of Ukrainian producers dropped little by $ 10-30 per ton. Market participants think that But volume of the rolled material delivered to the this tendency may continue till August-September American market during the last months appeared 2012 in connection with seasonal reduction to be too large. As a result, as on the end of 2011 of consuming activity on the key trade areas. In the distributors’ stocks were excessive and affected judgement of the majority of experts of the steel the apparent demand. Besides, in summer months market, the situation will be uneasy : profitability traders traditionally reduced the amount and demand will go down, and competition with of reserves and do not intend to refuse the Chinese import will be serious. Till the end of 2012 traditional practice next year. production output is supposed to drop. Having faced an insufficient demand, American steel That is why forecast of the plant’s activity in these companies had to decrease prices. Further price conditions taking into consideration the results drop is possible because the supply exceeds of the analysis of constantly changing the demand but even if producers manage to retain macroeconomic conditions has become our first price stability during the first half-year of 2012, priority so as to readjust the production in price rise is possible only after the summer drop the directions demanded by the market. forecast. This price rise can last for a short time, if the market develops similar to the last two years. All efforts of our managers and specialists were aimed at optimization of the current and Demand for imported rebars in the USA remains operational costs and it was not just a reaction lukewarm; material is imported in small shipments, to the environment but a continued corporate large consumers take a respite from excessive import strategy of the last years. existing previously. In spite of the difficulties, 2011 was a successful European steel sector growth opportunities year for BSW and its general results can be go down as steel demand of motor and power for sure considered excellent. sectors decreases and excessive capacities cause a “price war ”. UniCredit Bank, our Austrian partner, increased the amount of its credit line. It grew almost by one Further situation on the steel market will first third and it was against the background of the of all depend on the state of regional economies. economic situation in the country when amounts Continuing economic problems, concern in Europe of loans of world banks to other national and inaccessibility of bank loans are the key factors enterprises were considerably reduced. Time has of bad mood, that is why in the first half of 2012 proven our plant to be a reliable partner and BSW price drop is possible If in the above period demand trademark is he best reliability assurance drops and buyers unwillingly accept the new prices, for UniCredit Bank. further reduction of prices is possible. We achieved a breakthrough in scrap processing According to Metal Bulletin the companies should and raw material transportation: production decrease their capacities so as to change the motor transport stock increased by 4 BelAZes and tendency traced. Some plants have already done it. 5 manipulators to allow us to reduce the time Internal wire rod prices in Northern Europe of scrap unloading. It is necessary to mention dropped by € 10-20 ($ 12-25). the work with the rolling stock. In April an agreement was signed with OJSC “Pskovvtormet ” Vallourec, a French producer of seamless steel according to which our supplier purchased more pipes, decreased the forecast of product sale than 500 open-top wagons for BSW goods in 2012 in connection with the reduced demand transportation. Consist of Torgovyi Dom of BSW of the oil and gas sector. According to the (St. Petersburg) increased by 500 pieces and 200 company report, sale growth rate in 2012 will of them will be supplied to BSW in January 2012. be only 5%, whereas previously its growth planned 8 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Creation of a group of traffic logistics was an important step in organization of work. It helped us to adjust cooperation with the owners of the rolling stock and the rail way administration and arrange logistics chains of delivery of raw materials to BSW and shipment of exported products within a short period of time. Based on the results of 2011 the staff of rolling mill 320 strengthened its positions and proved that the level of 1 mln tons of rolled products is not a record but a norm. August became the best month of the year for it: over 95 thousand tons of rolled material were manufactured. Pipe mill has considerably increased its production as well: in 2011 it produced almost 120 thousand tons of products. March, May, and October were tons per month. If all work required will be carried IMPLEMENTATION the months when steelmakers demonstrated very out in due time, then by the end of 2013 BSW will OF OXYGEN high results. The shops producing steel cord TECHNOLOGIES WILL increase the amount of molten steel produced. achieved a record production (almost 9 thousand ALLOW IMPROVE At the same time one more project is being ENERGY EFFICIENCY thons) in March. As for steel wire and fiber implemented: modernization of dedusting unit No.1 AND MATERIALS production, the plant showed its best results in CONSUMPTION OF and No. 3. We have no right to increase the output September when it manufactured 21 thousand tons. STEEL-MELTING of steel melting production without implementation PROCESS. The analysis showed that the main condition for of this project. retaining the production output achieved and BSW development plan for the period till 2016 its further growth in the conditions of a severe includes a number of projects directed towards competition on the global market is a more active growth of the finished product output. They implementation of measures aimed at the increase of include building of a new secondary metallurgy the technical level of production and quality department, increase of the capacity of CCM No.2 of the products manufactured and exported. (up to 1,2 mln tpy), construction of a new bar mill The last should ensure growth of efficiency of and the third pipe finishing line. At the same time, we the use of material, fuel and human resources will work on commissioning of new productions: which is very actual for the national metallurgy. we plant to establish a joint-venture to provide Initial capacity of the steel making production was BSW with the required amount of technical gases; 700 thousand tons and 2,6 mln tons produced organize output of hot-rolled OCTG seamless in 2011 are considered as an extreme limit. But it is pipes against API 5CT standard and thus increase not so: the plant is constantly developing and in sales proceeds of the pipe mill by USD 40 866,7 2016 BSW should reach 3 mln ton production. For thousand. that we planned to implement a number The above and other projecs of no less importance of important investment projects. First of all are to be implemented by the team of Byelorussian we have to create an infrastructure required for Steel Works within the nearest five years, so it the production growth: to build the third lime kiln is too early to say about the limit of BSW with a daily output of 400 tons. The construction production growth. is planned to be completed in 2013. A scrap yard capacity development plan was worked out The plant supports the principles of social and approved. Its first stage including building responsibility and continues to solve social issues of additional places for loading of charging without reduction of its business activity and buckets will be implemented in 2012. taking into consideration the possibilities available. It is necessary to point out the forthcoming intensification of steel melting in EAF1. Introduction of oxygen methods will improve power efficiency and material capacity of melting and allow us to produce additional 12 thousand SOCIAL REPORT 2011 9 Participation of the scientific potential of the republic in the development of the metallurgical facility S teel making is one of the key production links of any state with a developed industry. This branch plays an important role in the development of the national • development of technologies and equipment for casting to produce quality ingots and billets of special cast iron, steels and alloys; economy of the Republic of Belarus in whole. Within a rather short period of time Byelorussian Steel Works – • establishment of powerand resource-saving processes one of the largest advanced metallurgical enterprise was and methods in steel making, powder metallurgy established in our republic and took the leading position to decrease fuel consumption and scale formation; in the industrial complex and economy of the Belarus and became the largest supplier of science– • development of methods of metal forming and heatintensive and competitive steel products of high quality : treatment, principles of designing of up-t-date heating wire rod, reinforcing bars, tire cord, etc. produced on equipment and proposals for reduction of power the basis of power-saving, advanced and innovative consumption and payback period. production processes in conformity with the global criteria of technical novelty. Steel production are to So as to consolidate its position on the market a certain degree available practically in all large and withstand a strong competition, it is not enough industrial enterprises of Belarus: OJSC “Minsk for an industrial enterprise to have good production Automotive Plant”, OJSC “Belarusian Automotive output figures. Its is necessary to produce goods Plant», PA “Minsk Tractor Plant”, OJSC “Minsk characterized by high quality and optimal prime cost Heating Facilities Plant”, OJSC “Gomel “Tsentrolit” Besides, one shall not forget about positive fulfillment Foundry“, OJSC “Mogilyov Metallurgical Plant” of the requests of customers and filling of yet free which use steel making, casting, powder and allied market niches with new types of products. Achievement production technology on a small or a large scale. In of all components of success is simply not possible general, Belarusian enterprises have over 300 shops without scientific and research support. and departments of casting, metallurgical and heattreatment productions. Strategy of further development Scientific activity carried out at the plant is mainly of technological processes of steel making, casting, concentrated around the Research centre. It consists of rolling and heat-treatment production demands the 4 laboratories: steel melting, rolling, steel cord and wire necessity of obtaining of quality steel grades and alloys and research laboratory providing the work performed and creation of science -intensive steel products on with metallographic tests. BSW Research Centre activity this basis. It includes design, technical revamping and can be divided in 4 important directions: approval of modernization of casting, metallurgical and heatnew materials and products; mastering of new types treatment equipment: steel melting furnaces, secondary of products, work with scientific and educational metallurgy units, continuous casting machines, rolling establishments, and improvement of mills, heating and heat-treatment furnaces, drawing the existing production methods. and other equipment. Power-effective methods are required. In 2011 the Research Centre tested 65 types of raw materials and auxiliary materials. This approach allows So as to solve these matters, in 2005 A State Programme us to choose suppliers which offers meet the requirements of Applied Scientific Researches named “Creation of the technology used at most. Thanks to the work done of highly efficient technological processes and equipment by the Research Centre BSW developed and mastered the for the development of the metallurgical complex of technology of automotive steel production. the Republic of Belarus” was worked out. The programme It allowed the enterprise to access new promising was approved by the decision of the Council markets: the product has already been approved and of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus, and the decision is shipped to HAMMERWERK FRIDINGEN (Germany) of the Presidium of National Academy of Science delivering its component parts to Volkswagen plants. of Belarus. Aim of the programme is to improve quality, competitiveness and export potential of the steel industry A good example of cooperation with scientific and through improvement of the existing and development research establishments of our country is the work of new technological processes of casting and being carried out by BSW specialists together with the metallurgy including powder metallurgy and attracting department of material science in engineering of BNTU. scientific potential of the country. Hence, the key tasks Thus, within the programme of import replacement OJSC of the programme concerning BSW consisted in: “Legmash” organized the production of piercing plugs to be used to pierce billets in pipe production. 10 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS So as to produce plugs with high capability RUE BMZ clearly realizes the importance of the plant Research Centre and BNTU were involved the innovative activity being the main instrument in the improvement of their production technology. of the technological development and always pays Based on the results of the investigations university undiverted attention to it. 8 candidates of science, specialists suggested a number of technical 15 undergraduates, 25 bachelors work at the plant. solutions to improve the quality and operational The plan has established good partnership relations characteristics of the plugs produced. On the basis with Belarusian National Technical University, of their recommendations optimal steel grades Gomel State technical University named after P.O. and production technology to ensure the required Sukhoi, Physicotechnological Institute of durability were chosen. In 2011 promising results the NAS of Belarus, subdivisions NAS of Belarus. were achieved in one of the directions: the required A project of establishment of our own pipe school characteristics were obtained and production time aimed at developing and strengthening of a new for was reduced. If this work is successfully completed, the Republic of Belarus industry – production of self cost of the pipe piercing process will be hot-rolled seamless pipes is at the stage considerably reduced. of implementation.. Active work is carried out in steel melting to Based on the analysis of certain examples one may improve durability of refractory materials and conclude that leading positions may be provided articles. Every year we spend about USD 40 million only by advanced equipment and technology to purchase these goods. That is why our long-term in conjunction with progressive ideas and task is increase of durability of the electric-arc developments. Belarusian metallurgical school furnace lining from 400 to 1000 heats. should develop because our future belongs to it. Leading positions can be ensured only due to utilization of state-of-the-art equipment and modern techniques along with advanced ideas and developments. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 11 Steel making of Belarus «There are not so many companies in the world and moreover in Europe Aims and tasks of the which produce such a vast range of reformation of the branch steel as Byelorussian Steel Works. That M is why for us, equipment producers, partnership with BSW is very important ”. Renato Pezzano, ain forces of ferrous metallurgy are reoriented Danieli Vice-president for from the growth of volume of metallurgical raw work with key customers materials processing to the expansion of the depth of their processing and improvement of the technological effectiveness (improvement of product quality and mastering of new types of products). In the nearest five years the first priority directions of the development T will be: increase of production of highly technological products with a large degree of processing, improvement he steel making complex includes 8 enterprises the key of the structure of manufacturing and selling of quality products of which are certified in many countries of steel grades, rolled materials, hardware products, the world and produced in accordance with international development of power-saving methods, modernization standards. Enterprises of the branch produce steel of production, as well as erection and commissioning welding round and shaped pipes, steel billet, rolled of new production facilities. sections, different types of wire, steel cord, bolts, screws, Metallurgy is one of basic branches of industry of the nuts, nails, molding materials, heating equipment. Republic of Belarus and the level of its development OJSC “BSW” is the largest enterprise not only in should correspond to the strategic tasks of providing Belarus but in Europe as well and is a head metallurgical Belarusian economy with quality products and stable enterprise of the republic. It has been among the reputable position on the external markets. steel producers for two decades. Design, erection and Main tasks to be solved by any steel making enterprise equipping of the plant with the advanced equipment are: and state -of-the -art technology with subsequent commissioning of the production facilities – market-adequate growth of production; in the guarantee operation period was carried out under – strengthening of the position on the existing marketing the contract with European companies on a turn-key outlets and new market penetration; basis. Advanced world experience and state -of-the -art technologies attracted for the erection and further – high value-added product sale increase. operation of the plant allowed creation of a unique Consequently, the worked out strategy of the branch industrial facility in the Republic of Belarus. development should strengthen the existing competitive advantages and create new ones. 12 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS It is necessary to consider the following main directions of further development of the metallurgical branch “We know the managers of the plant very well: they are trustworthy and reliable people. You worked of the republic: out investment projects. BSW aspires to produce more and we hope that we can assist you with this”. – further development of the existing rolled section production at RUE “BMZ” and a complete refusal Rudolph Kirchmeier, from production and selling of such type of product Director of FIS Finance&Investment ServiesGesmbh as marketable semi-finished products (cast billet and bloom) which constitute 25% in the existing shipment structure of RUE “BMZ” in the medium-term perspective; – expansion of the pipe mill by organizing a finishing line for OCTG pipes at RUE “BMZ”; product with a high added value, creation of new – erection and development of a new independent sheet facilities to allow eventual reduction production facility ; of the finished product prime cost. So as to fulfil – solving a problem of providing the steel industry the tasks set forth, modernization of the existing main of the republic with raw materials. and auxiliary production facilities is foreseen, as well as building and putting into operation of a number of new facilities. Development strategy On the basis of the target mentioned, the plant S determined the following direction of development: – increase of the technical and economic level o far the strategy of steel plants development was of production due to reconstruction, modernization, focused on increasing volumes of steel melting. and erection of new facilities; But high rate of the Chinese metallurgy development, growth of competition on all traditional export markets – expansion of high added-value products manufacturing; lead to high risks related to this extensive way – improvement of export deliveries structure in the of development. direction of increasing the portion of downstream Main task of RUE “BMZ” development program products, development of import-replacing production; for 2011-2015 is arrangement of technical and – further decrease of the specific consumption of raw technological measures to remove the imbalance materials, fuel, power, and human resources for steel of the production capacities and creation of conditions manufacturing; METALLURGY for steel melting and casting growth to the level of 3 IS ONE OF THE BASIC million tons per year (at present it is 2,6 mln t). Besides, – improvement of the environmental characteristics BRANCHES OF INDUSTRY the main task of mastering new capacities is complete of the existing production (introduction processing of cast billet into a finished marketable of environmentally safe methods, decrease » IN THE REPUBLIC OF BELARUS SOCIAL REPORT 2011 13 Steel making of Belarus » of waste yield and specific emission of harmful 2. In the medium-term outlook: growth of steel yield, substances in the air and water basin, growth erection of new production facilities and mastering of the volumes and effectiveness of industrial waste of new productions. processing); 3. In the long-term outlook: solving – improvement of the standard of living of the personnel. of raw material problems, development of iron ore deposits, production of sponge iron with the use Prerequisites required for the fulfillment of the chosen of ecologically clean technologies of the direct strategy : reduction of iron. – provision with raw material resources. Availability Realization of the strategy will help to fulfil the tasks of raw material sources is a powerful lever of product determined by the Program of development prime cost control; of the industrial complex of the Republic of Belarus – unified steel products marketable on export markets for 1998–2015 and The national strategy of stable which is the basis of the production program; social and economic development of the Republic of Belarus for the period till 2020 where provision – growing competition and increasing costs demand of a steady high growth rate on the basis the necessity of a fast introduction of resource -saving of modernization, improvement of the sector and power-saving methods and equipment, optimization and technological structure of production of the cost composition (reduction of raw material and improvement of the competitiveness of the and power expenses, growth of the amortized manufactured products were determined as the main aim deductions). Alternative: gradual loss of its development. Advance development of scienceof competitiveness on the external and consequently intensive export-oriented productions is foreseen with on the internal market; the state support of the enterprises which are very – efficient management; important for the state and strengthening of responsibility for their efficient use. – stable economic position of the enterprises allowing to increase the level of borrowings for trouble -free As for ferrous metallurgy, its main attempts will implementation of large -scale projects. be reoriented from the increase of volumes of metallurgical raw materials processing «In 2012 BSW plans to start the to the increase of the depth of its processing and increase erection of a number of objects, of the technological effectiveness of production and our bank is going to assist the (improvement of product quality and mastering enterprise in their implementation». of new types of products). In the nearest five years firstRudolph Kirchmeier, priority directions of development will be growth Director of FIS of production of high-technological downstream Finance&Investment products, improvement of the structure ServiesGesmbh of production and selling of quality steel grades, rolled material, hardware products, development of powersaving methods, production modernization, and erection and commissioning of new production facilities. Analysis of the existing situation and prospects of development of the national steel industry make it possible to focus on the following three problems: 1. In the near-term outlook: retention of export markets and dominance on the domestic market, retention of a rather high level of profitability of the metallurgical industry. Our aim is: retention and gradual growth of the production volume on the existing basis, gradual increase of deliveries to the domestic market In compliance with the growth of consumption, successful competition with CIS producers, further modernization of equipment 14 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities Dates and events ion-exchange plant at wire shop No.1. of sustainable development July 13, 2007 – commissioning of the pipe mill March 19, 1982 – signing of the plant in the presence of the President of the Republic development CONTRACT. of Belarus A.G. Lukashenko. October 15, 1984 – start of the operation January 17, 2008 opening ceremony of the of the production facilities of the melt shop and Olympic reserve centre: a skating rink and a melting and casting of the first heat swimming pool including water attractions, saunas, a solarium, a cafe and other objects. The ceremony November 4, 1984 – start of the operation was attended by the Chairman of the regional of the production facilities of the rolling mill and executive committee A.S. Yakobson, the Chairman of rolling of the first lot of rolled section in mill Zhlobin district executive committee L.N. Apanasyuk, 320/150. the general director of RUE “BMZ” N.V. Andrianov November 21, 1987 – start of the operation of : and the director of building company No. 27 A.M. Ryabkov. the secondary metallurgy facilities (ladle-furnace, ladle and circulation degassers) and CCM No.3 at March 6, 2008 – 62nd Meeting of the Board of the melt shop; manufacturers and exporters of ferrous metals of CIS countries was held at RUE “BMZ”. Members large-section rolling mill 850 of the rolling of the Board discussed ferrous metal market plant; opportunities, evaluated the outlooks for its production facilities of wire shop No. 1 and development and worked out a forecast production of the first lot of Belarusian tire cord. of the average level of export prices for main types of ferrous metals. November 5,1990 – commissioning of EAF-3. June 18, 2008 – A Belarusian metallurgical March 1, 1991 – start of operation of the Forum “Integration of science, production production facilities of wire shop No.2, lime kiln and education in the development of metallurgy No.2, EAF-3 and ladle degasser at the melt shop. in the Republic of Belarus till 2020” was held August 1, 1996 – opening of the Metallurgical at RUE “BMZ” premises. This event helped to technical school. determine a concept for further development of the steel making industry of RB for the nearest September 15, 2000 – commissioning of a future. new complex of wire mill 150 in the presence of the President of the Republic of Belarus A. G. June 30, 2008 – modernization of the sulfuric Lukashenko. acid regeneration station of the chemical plant of wire shop No. 2. November 30, 2000 – start of operation of the production facilities of wire shop No.3. August 8, 2008 – modernization of the gas– cleaning system of EAF–2. May 19, 2002 – start of operation of the production facilities of the 2nd stage of the oxygen December 2008 – achievement of the full capacity station. of the pipe production. May 24, 2005 – beginning of erection of the pipe March 2009 modernization of the finishing line facility. of section mill 320. February 24, 2006 – commissioning of a new July 9, 2009 – presentation of a new type of BMZ brass-plating line No. 6 after modernization at wire product – steel fiber. shop No.2. October 9, 2009 – the plant was the first in October 2006 – realization of the «Dnepr» the country to submit its Corporate Social Report project: installation of new six-block and ten-block for hearing by the public and participants of drawing machines at wire shop No. 3. the UN Global Compact. December 28, 2006 – commissioning of a new bead December 6, 2009 – completion of a large wire bronzing line No.2 at wire shop No. 1. investment project: reconstruction of continuous December 30, 2006 – commissioning of a new casting machine No.3. » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 15 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities » December 14, 2009 – approval of Mr. Anatoly of steel cord was produced at SWS-2. Savenok’s appointment as general director of RUE December 2010 – a million ton threshold was “BMZ” by the vice-president of the International exceeded by SWS-2. This is the yield of the shop Union of Metallurgists. in the period of 1991 2010 inclusive. 2009 – the plant expanded distribution of export December 2010 – the staff of rolling mill 320 deliveries to more than 17 countries in spite of produced a millionth ton of reinforcing material the crisis. in 2010. February 2010 – Mandrel and disk saw February 2011 – February 1 – March 7: 80 preparation department started to work at the pipe specialists from Slovak Republic were trained mill. The department is fitted with the equipment at the rolling mill and the melt shop within unique for our country. the framework of the international cooperation March 2010 – technology of shaped (square) wire of workers of steel industry. production for pressure hoses was mastered February 2011 – two universal fiber rewinding at SWS-2. units produced by GCR Eurodraw (Italy) were April 2010 – Start of production of pipes from commissioned at SWSthermal pickling round billet diameter 200 mm cast in CCM-3. and galvanizing department. March 29, 2010– a contract for the erection March 2011 – March 17: the 1st International of the third lime -kiln was signed with TECHCOM supplier conference took place and gathered (Germany). about 90 representatives of different companies cooperating with BSW in the area of deliveries June 2010 – realization of one of 11 projects for of raw material, auxiliary materials and equipment. the expansion of the rough-intermediate drawing department of SWS-1. Two new rough drawing March 2011 – March 23: start of production machines were installed. of rebar No.14 with a 4-strand slitting process in rolling mill 320. Rollers required a little more July 2010 – in the result of BMZ negotiations than one month to start commercial production with Тесhcom a contract for the delivery of of this material. the equipment for the new lime -kiln was signed with Maerz (Austria). March 2011 – March 24: IX sitting of the members of the Quality Leaders Club of Central July 2010– International scientific and technical and Eastern Europe (CEE) at the plant. conference “Metal-2010” worked at BMZ; it united Representatives of more than 10 enterprises 80 plant workers and 45 representatives of of different countries took part in the event. the enterprises and educational institutions of Belarus, Russia, Ukraine, Lithuania April 2011 – the 1st considerable milestone and Kazakhstan. in the history of the pipe mill: 250 tons of product had been produced till April 6, 2011. August 2010 – mastering of the technology for flat wire production for pressure hoses. April 2011 – a machine for flame processing of steel was installed at the mechanical repair shop. September 2010 – A contract for modernization The new equipment produced by AKYAPAK (Turkey) of gas recovery and cleaning system of EAF No.1 opens new possibilities for restoration and No.3 was signed with Water Group. The project and production of large parts by the maintenance was developed based on the conditions of the steelstaff. making furnaces of BMZ. April 2011 – April 21: 10-millionth ton of billet October 2010 – Team No. 4 of rolling mill 150 set was cast at electric melt shop No. 2 since up a record: 1200 tons of wire rod were produced the start-up of the CCM. during a shift. Previous maximum production reached 1070 ton level. June 2011 – the pant purchased the Agrotekhservice site (11 ha) at the auction November 2010 – 20 years ago first steel was to expand its scrap yard. The site will give the produced in EAF-3. Now it produces 12 heats per possibility to increase the storing area for winter shift, not 4 as before. scrap stock. November 2010 – a jubilee 500th thousand ton 16 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS June 2011 – June 20: 35-millionth ton of steel was December 2011 – electric melt shop No. 1 produced at the plant. performed first casting of square billet 140х140 mm in CCM No.2 after its reconstruction. July 2011 – July 7: a ceremonial opening of the 11th International scientific and technical December 2011 – December 20 a constituent conference of young workers “Metal 2011” meeting of Byelorussian Steel Works, DUFERCO at Zhlobin Metallurgical Technical School. S.A. (Switzerland), Pisec Group GmbH (Austria) representatives from Russia, the Ukraine, Latvia, to establish BMZ TUBULARS, a limited liability Great Britain and Austria took part joint venture for OCTG pipe finishing. in the conference. July 2011 – new equipment for air drying produced by Atlas Copco (Belgium) was commissioned Strategy and mission at the compressor station of repair shops. August 2011 – August 18, 2011 the Ministry of Industry signed an order regarding inclusion of SA “Belvtormet ” uniting six regional enterprises busy with stocking and processing of ferrous scrap S ince its start-up in 1984 the plant has successfully fulfilled its infrastructural function being an integral part of a complicated system of social and economic relations i and UE “Beltsvetmet” with a daughter company n the region where it carries out its business “Tsvetmet” (Zhodino) in the PA “BMZ”. During last activity. RUE “BMZ” is reckoned among the largest three years Belvtormet was joined by three more companies of the republic from the viewpoint enterprises: OJSC “Tekhnopribor (Mogilyov), OJSC of the volume of the product sold and the scale “Polesjeelektromash” (Luninets), OJSC “Kbrinski of purchasing activity : it is the biggest employer Tool Factory “Sitomo”. and tax-payer August 2011 – August 26, 2011 SWS-3 reached BMZ makes a significant contribution to the production of 1 mln t. the development of the economy of the Republic August 2011 – August 31, 2011 a contract of Belarus. In 2011, similar to the previous periods, for building of a new 700 thou. t bar mill the plant traditionally invested its profit to support with the perspective to produce 1 mln tpy was signed and develop a steady production activity, to with Danieli (Italy). the rational use of resources, creation of new work places and payment of salaries and wages to September 2011 – September 22, 2011 melt shop the personnel. The created cost was also distributed No. 2 produced 10 000 000 t of steel since for payment of the republican and regional taxes, start up. financing of the programs of social and economic October 2011 – October 20, 2011 the 1st scientific partnership, and charity projects in the region and practical seminar “Principal directions of its presence. Timely deductions to the budgets of innovative and technological development of all levels are considered by the plant of the Production Association “Byelorussian Steel as a part of its social responsibility and basis Works” participated by rectors of the leading for the development of social projects (see section higher educational institutions of Gomel region «Economy»). According to the data of 2011, was held at the plant. the plant ’s share in the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Republic of Belarus was 3,5%, export October 2011 – staff of EMS No.1 and No.2 set share out of the total volume of the country a record in production of concast billet: 229 673 was 4,6%. tons. The plant steadily adheres to the chosen course November 2011 – November 28, 2011 of improvement and reforms in all directions: a conference of the employees took a decision about management of sustainable development, economic reorganization of the republican unitary enterprise activity, work with the personnel, social activity in an open joint-stock company. of the enterprise in the region, and interaction December 2011 – rolling mill 850 rolled with suppliers and customers, environmental and 9 millionth ton of cast billet. industrial safety policy. December 2011 – December 8 rolling mill In 2011 we continued formation of a new top320 crossed the level of 1 million tons. management team and improvement » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 17 of the management structure of Byelorussian Steel Works. Being oriented towards effectiveness, the top management attaches great importance to implementation of the principles and practices of sustainable development on the plant scale. Strategic task of BMZ is to occupy leading positions among metallurgical enterprises of the world in the area of sustainable development. Aspects of personnel support, environment interrelations with the region are closely connected with the production and economic priorities RUE “BMZ” top management undertook obligations, determined the common corporate policy and set common targets for the plant. The top management analyses the fulfillment of the targets every six months and every year and makes adjustments, if required Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian S 18 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS prevention of occupational illnesses and accidents relations. Trust of interested parties is one of the in the production; key values of our plant. • prevention of environment pollution, Every year RUE “BMZ” top management injuries and personnel health impairment during establishes targets on the basis of predictive the production activity ; figures determined by the Ministry of Industry of the RB, the policy, target-oriented orders • activity in the area of quality, social and results of management analysis. Based on responsibility, information protection, finance, these targets, policy, targetoriented orders power saving in conformity with the requirements managers of the subdivisions set targets for their of the international standards, the existing law subdivisions. The plant targets and other requirements; and goals of the subdivisions are brought • activity in the area of labour protection to the notice of all workers of the subdivision. and industrial safety, environment protection Top management, leaders of the structural in accordance with the requirements of subdivisions analyze fulfillment of the targets the international standards, the existing law, every half-year, every year, and adjust them, if and other requirements concerning environmental required. Effectiveness of fulfillment of the goals Стратегическая цель aspects of the activity, products, and services, is checked during internal audits and management БМЗ – занимать лидирующие danger in the area of professional health, analysis. This procedure is regulated by STP позиции среди and labour safety ; 840-KSM-4.2. металлургических предприятий мира • regular monitoring of the production Analysis of target fulfillment by RUE “BMZ” for в области and management processes; 2011 as compared with the same period of 2010 устойчивого is given in Annex 1. развития. • improvement of product quality, provision of labour safety and health protection, protection of environment, power saving including suppliers, subcontractors and RUE “BMZ” customers; • taskoriented professional training of the personnel, creation of optimal conditions for highquality labour, reveal of personal abilities and initiative of every worker and their interest in providing a high level of product quality, rational use of raw materials, auxiliary materials and power resources; • improvement of production culture and provision of personal moral and material responsibility for labour quality. The plant management is interested in the fulfillment of the Corporate Policy and continuously creates all conditions required for providing an adequate standard of life of the staff and their confidence in the morrow. The plant management and the staff carry out their activity in accordance with the Code of Business Ethics and acquaint their business partners with it. RUE “BMZ” Code of Business Ethics is worked out with consideration of key values, such as truthfulness, straightforwardness, and respect for interests; and their fulfillment leads to mutual confidence, openness and transparency of SOCIAL REPORT 2011 19 Характеристика ключевых воздействий, рисков и возможностей Strategy and targets improvement are included in annual goaloriented orders of sustainable development of the general director indicating time of performance T and responsible person(s): he plant management provides the development No.1 «Improvement of business activity and and implementation of technical, production, investment programs»; and investment programs aimed at product quality improvement and which directly contribute to sustainable No. 2 «Measures for quality and commodity development of the plant in accordance with its policy. competitiveness improvement» A number of measures aimed at provision of high consumer properties of the produce, is included in an No. 3 «Measures for provision of safe labour annual business-plan, the development procedure of conditions»; which is regulated by STP 840-SMK-4.1.2. No.5 «Personnel development»; For the improvement of product quality and provision of its competitiveness, increase of the technical production level a long-term plan of introduction of No.6 «Advanced technologies, mastering of new advance methods and new types of products for 2006types of products, rationalization and invention activity»; 2010 is worked out at the plant; plans of scientific research No. 7 «Measures of environmental protection»; and pilot design (technological) work are approved and fulfilled on contractual basis by own force. No.8 «Measures for production costs decrease». Key measures for quality and production effectiveness 20 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Targets of the plant for medium-term development outlook Achievement of the following level of the key targets of the social and economic development of the plant is planned for 2012 Production, finance, and economy: – industrial products (in comparable prices) as compared with the level of 2011, minimum, % 102 – sales profitability, minimum, % 12,3 – specific weight of innovative products shipped in total amount of product shipped, minimum, % 20,5 – material consumption level decrease, % -2,0 – power saving indicator, % -5,0 – reduction of production cost level, % 0,1 – product export as compared with the level of 2011, minimum, % 111,2 – balance of foreign trade, minimum, USD thou 697 640,0 – relation of product export and volume industrial production, minimum % 82,7 Quality: – level of rejects due to the production shops, maximum, % Order No.2 – level of non-conforming products, maximum, % Order No.2 – level of expenses due to defects per BRB1000 of the commercial output, max., % 3,47 – evaluation of the customer satisfaction, minimum, % 90,1 – amount of claimed product in comparison with 2011, % to be decreased by 10 Environment: – amount of stored production wastes in comparison with the level of 2011, % to be decreased by 5 Labour protection and industrial safety: – on-the-job injury rate should not exceed the level of 2011 – improvement of labour conditions and provision of its safety for workers of the shops, people 700 Social responsibility: – training of managers and specialists, people. 1517 – professional training if workers, people 3102 – general satisfaction of the personnel, minimum, % 72,0 – темп роста заработной платы, не менее, % 175,0 – текучесть кадров, не более, % 3,5 SOCIAL REPORT 2011 21 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities Chronology of new product • steel wavy fiber acc. to the requirements of types mastering TU 14-1-5564-2008. 2009: RUE “BMZ” is one of a few enterprises of the • super high-tensile steel cord construction Republic of Belarus which increases the volume 7х(3+9х0.245)+0.20 НТ and ultra high-tensile of industrial production every year investing construction 1+5х0,185UT; considerable amounts in reconstruction, modernization, and technical revamping. Starting • quality carbon steel pipes of different sizes. with the plant commissioning in 1984, molten steel 2010: output grew from the estimated 700 thousand tpy by more than 3 times. • die -rolled welding rebar No. 10-32 class А500C in bars; Besides, increment of the output in natural terms takes place together with the growth of the • quality carbon steel pipes of different percentage of the new types of products in the sizes; total output. Close cooperation with the national • die -rolled welding rebar No. 10-32 class science in the first place with the establishments of B500NC; the NAS of Belarus and educational establishments allows mastering of new types of quality steel • hot-rolled section of bearing steel grade products every year. ШХ15СГ Ø 160; The following products can be singled out among • ultra high-tensile steel cord construction the most important types of products mastered by 4+3х0,35 UT; the plant during last 5 years: • steel cord construction 3х5х0,245; • galvanized steel wire for single -wire cores 2006: Ø 1,85; 2,10; 2,65; 3,05 mm; • high-tensile steel cord 2+2х0,26 НT and • galvanized steel wire for single -wire cores super high-tensile steel cord 4+3х0,41 ST; Ø 2,0 mm; • reinforcing wire of 3-side die-rolled • microfiber. section with mechanical descaling acc. to DIN 488 2011: Ø 5-12 мм; • carbon quality shaped billet Ø 200mm; • round section steel, quality carbon and alloyed Ø160 mm. • carbon coils of improved quality steel grade SAE 1010 Ø 18,5mm; 2007: • rebars No.10-28 class U500-2, carbon • quality carbon steel pipes; general-quality steel; • hose wire Л 0.33UHT (3050 – 3350 N/ • high-tensile tire cord 3+8 х 0,35HT; mm2). • reinforcing wire of 3-sided die -rolled 2008 : profile B500A Ø 6,0; 8,0; 10,0; 12,0mm acc. to • reinforcing steel grades At800, A500С, DIN 488; U500, S500, RB500W, etc. reinforcing steel • reinforcing general quality carbon steel grades (5-piece slitting rolling); bars Ø10-40mm, В500В grade; • reinforcing steel grades Аt880, А500С, • tire cord (3+9) х0,22RT AS50491; U500, S500, RB500W, etc. die-rolled section No.10 produced with 5 –piece slitting rolling; • microfiber of steel wire size 0,30/6mm; 0,35/13mm; • bare pipe, quality carbon steel (6 dimension types and steel grades); • anchor fiber of steel wire size0,5/30mm; • different constructions of super high• reinforcing wire of 3-sided die -rolled tensile and high-tensile steel cord; profile В500K; ВSt500KR (A); В500NA; 22 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS ВSt500M Ø 6,0; 8,0; 10,0; 12,0mm; turn it allowed us to increase the capacity of rolling mill 150 and weight of a coil from 1,4 to 1,83 tons. • carbon quality steel pipes; • alloy steel pipes; – purchasing of Hetran machine for machining of PQF mandrels of the pipe mill. This project helped to reduce • nail wire. mandrel purchasing costs. Stages of production volume increase C “BSW is a successful company with a large technical potential and excellent references worldwide. onsiderable positive changes have taken shape Such enterprise can be trusted any, even the most in the world steel industry and in its outlook complicated equipment. for further development. A large failure in the process And we are sure that just here our equipment will be used with the biggest success”. of technical re equipment of steel industry took place in 2008-2009 due to the world economic and finance Renato Pezzano, crisis. Outcomes of its negative impact on decrease of Danieli Vice -presiden for cooperation the global market of steel consumption lead to with key customers a sharp drop of the volumes of steel production almost in all regions of the world and in countries producing rolled steel. In its turn, sharp drop of production volumes told on the profitability and effectiveness – replacement of high-voltage110kV and 330kV of the enterprises and their ability to invest in technical transformers at the electric sub -stations “Sal”, revamping and production modernization. “Prokat ”, “Cord”. Implementation of this project helped us to meet the requirements of “The rules of electric In spite of that in 2011 enterprises of the ferrous metal power use” regarding the technical facilities included industry paid more attention to the issues in the automatic commercial accounting of power. of reconstruction and technical revamping. Investment programs of the enterprises were directed towards A considerable portion of financial resources was used growth of steel production so as to increase to provide for the existing production. During 2011 or maintain the market share by way of commissioning electrohydraulic grabs were purchased for of new facilities, expansion and improvement of the scrap yard, machines for steel ladle lining breaking the product range. for electric melt shop No. 2, rolling accessories for the pipe mill, pointing and welding machines for tire Considering the trends of an impetuous growth of steel cord production, front bucket loader fro demand in 2011 the plant management and technical the refractory wastes processing shop, a sorting specialists planned and implemented a number device for slag processing, excavator-manipulator for of measures aimed first of all at increasing unloading scrap fro railway wagons, a locomotive of the production output. TGM-4 series and railway wagons. It gave us the possibility to keep the high level of the technical They included: process and provided for fulfillment of the production indicators. – arrangement of an additional site for scrap storing near the 80the railway of the scrap yard. This project Earnest of success of any modern enterprise aspiring helped us to increase scrap storing volume and to occupy a leading position on foreign markets turnover; is continuous renovation. Of course, reconstruction, modernization, commissioning of new production – reconstruction of the packing area of rolling mill 320 facilities is a rather expensive and important thing, but finishing line. In the result, volume of finished product it is the only correct way of development. output grew due to increase of the productivity of this area. Finished product packing requirements During last five years the enterprise directed over USD of customers were met; 543,7 mln , to technical revamping, including USD 91,3 mln in 2011. In general, the metallurgical complex is a – modernization of rolling mill 150 to produce rolled successful segment of the economy in terms of investing. billet cross-section 140х140mm. The project gave us But in spite of the fact that national enterprises are the possibility to transfer from previously processed able to implement large investment projects, the main billet 125x125 mm to billet section 140x140 mm. In its task of the state is assist these investment processes » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 23 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities » of the industry, create additional possibilities approved by the general director of the plant for its participants, and undertake solving of and the Ministry of Industry of the Republic the tasks which cannot be resolved by of Belarus. the enterprises themselves and which give The business-plan includes: a considerable multiplicative effect. – complex, balanced development of the production facilities; – provision of industrial, fire, and environmental Methods safety, and labour protection; – introduction of progressive powerand resource of investment projects development saving methods; D uring the last decade the metallurgical industry had to survive several ups and downs accompanied by a considerable fluctuation – renovation of the existing production facilities; – improvement of the competitiveness on the steel markets. of prices on the global markets. Demand First of all, during the nearest five years it for certain products was marked with volatility. is supposed to implement projects ensuring steelNaturally, Byelorussian Steel Works which making and rolling production as well as projects exports about 80% of its output also felt related with elimination of bottle -necks the cyclic drops of the world economy. of the production process and solving The conclusions made at the plant based on of ecological tasks. the analysis of the steel market development in ХХI century come to the fact that only those BSW will solve its tasks mainly for account who offer good quality products at a moderate of its own assets and by attraction of foreign price are able to survive the tough competition. bank loans and establishment of joint-ventures with foreign investors. I t is supposed to use The main precondition for solving this task is Austrian, German, Italian capital as well an active technical revamping of production, as financial resources of some other countries. expansion of the output range and development of new markets. As for the distribution of BSW The main aim of RUE “BMZ” investments deliveries it was expanded by approximately is development of high-tech productions, a large 20 countries during last two years. At present degree of raw material processing, replacement the enterprise is carrying out a large -scale of the outdated equipment, and introduction modernization of the main production and of new advanced technologies meeting the world auxiliary departments. Planned investment level of development of the steel industry. expenses for implementation of the investment A distinctive feature of the investment projects projects including building of new facilities in is their direction towards stepwise fulfillment the period of 2010 2015 will make up over USD of a complex, large -scale renovation 860 million. (BRB 4 trillion.) Till 2015 the plant and modernization of all production stages. They which is now considered the best in East Europe foresee introduction of technologies shall become one of the most advanced in and equipment considering the latest technical the world. and production achievements of the steel industry and will be carried out with the help In 2009 the management of the plant initiated of leading Austrian, Italian, German, preparation of the technical revamping program and American companies. Besides, a transition aimed at expansion of metallurgical stages, to the production of principally new types refusal from selling of semi-finished products of products with new consumer properties with low added value. Technical concept corresponding to the European and American of this program is the basis of the business-plan standards and best world analogues is provided. «Innovative development of Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian Steel Works» for 2010 – Implementation of the business-plan will lead RUE 2015» which determines further development “BMZ” to new front-line positions, will allow of the main business with consideration of all introduction of most advanced steel production aspects of responsibility. This business-plan is method, thus, will create the preconditions for 24 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Existing and planned high-rate development of the economy and social of the economy and social sphere annual output of main area of the region. of the territory of its production activity. technological units of metallurgical industry Fulfilling the arrangements of the investment based on complex Influence of the plant on the social program and making investments, RUE “BMZ” modernization results. not only increases the capacity of the production and economic development of the region objects, but also fulfils one of the main tasks of its business activity in the area of social responsibility, namely it creates F favourable conditions for the development or the provision of a balanced development of of the economy and social sphere of the territory the region and uniform improvement of its production activity. of the living standards, not only the authorities One of the first-priority directions of influence should make attempts, but business should also within the framework of social responsibility is display initiative able to exert a considerable improvement of human potential which includes not influence on the social and economic situation only provision of favourable conditions in the territory of its business activity. RUE “BMZ” for realization of each man’s capabilities, is one of those enterprises of the Republic improvement of living conditions of the population, of Belarus which demonstrate a system approach and quality of social environment, but improvement to solving this important issue. of competitiveness of the human capital. Fulfilling the arrangements of the investment Providing social guarantees, implementing program and making investments, RUE “BMZ” not programs in the area of the environmental safety only increases the capacity of the production of the production facilities, labour protection, objects, but also fulfils one of the main tasks and prevention of production injuries, and sport in the area of social responsibility, namely it creates favourable conditions for the development development, RUE “BMZ” contributes to regulation of the population size and creation of conditions » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 25 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities » for its growth. The plant ensures employment of the citizens of the region which is a first-priority of about 30% of the employable population direction of the activity of the plant ’s Palace involved in the economy of Zhlobin area. Every of Culture «Metallurg» and the sport facility second citizen is connected with the activity of the plant. of the plant in some way. Actual number Active participation of the plant in international of RUE “BMZ” staff is 12 376 people. exhibitions and forums, effective promotion Being the largest employer in the region, the plant of its products on the world markets, creation exerts a direct influence on the labour-market of the image of a reliable business partner has development. While implementing the investment a positive influence on the development program, the enterprise creates additional work of the region. This direction supposes expansion places for the inhabitants of the region. RUE “BMZ” of the possibilities of realization of competitive provides adequate salary and social guarantees advantages on markets and strengthening for its staff, thus assisting the formation of external economic positions of the plant of a higher living standards and social stability and the country in general, formation of stable in the civil society. diversified relations with our international partners to provide a steady development of the economy “Implementation of the project in a long-term outlook. regarding building of a new smallsection rolling mill will create about 800 new work places. And not Developing non-financial reporting in accordance only due to internal redistribution with the international standards, interacting of resources at RUE “BMZ”. We have already started to recruit with organizations regarding issues of social additional groups for Zhlobin responsibility, participating and winning metallurgical technical school” in republican and international contests, RUE A.M. Saviznok, “BMZ” actively facilitates the formation RUE “BMZ” of a favourable image of the Republic of Belarus General Director Targets and objectives of investment projects The planned system of the region staff potential To solve the tasks of the production output growth development supposes not only continuous up to the level of 3 million tons, and to eliminate professional training of its employees during their the “bottlenecks” in the existing steel production labour activity, but also: flow of RUE “BMZ” in 2011 – 2015, technical – fulfillment of the training program of the young strategy of the plant supposes implementation citizens who want to join the plant or any other of the projects in the following directions: enterprise of the region by evening studies 1. Formation of the required infrastructure at the corporate training centre; and increase of metallurgical stage productivity – training of the graduates of Belarusian schools to reach the finished product production level at Zhlobin Metallurgical College leading its of 3 mln tpy: educational activity on the basis of the total • Construction of lime kiln No.3 with financing by Byelorussian Steel Works; the capacity of 400 tons per day. It is planned – cooperation with educational establishments to expand the capacity of ferroalloys store, of the country which allows increase of the level reconstruct the transportation systems of training of future specialists with consideration for material delivery to the melt shop. of own requirements and due to organization • Extension of the scrap preparation of practical training of students on workplaces department It is planned to increase the number equipped with advanced technologies of slag discharge points and the capacity of its and equipment; cooling. – bringing up of the coming generation carried out • Building of an air separation unit by the teachers’ team of an extensive network with the capacity of approximately 10 000 m3/h of the pre -school establishments; of oxygen. It is supposed to organize a separate – formation of a healthy way of living legal entity – a joint-venture with RUE “BMZ” and development of creative potential share of 51% for implementation of the project. 26 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Providing of the plant with the products of air • Erection of a light section wire mill with the separation will be carried out on a long-term basis. capacity of 700 thousand tons per year and the possibility to increase annual production output • Intensification of steel melting in EAF-1 with to 1 million tons. Tasks of the project implementation: the use of oxygen technologies. In addition to productivity growth up to 1 mln tpy, the project ­ Complete processing of cast bloom and billet is assumed to decrease the specific consumption residues, abandonment of semi-finished product sale. of electric power and electrodes. Increase of RUE “BMZ” proceeds by USD 140 million per year after the project implementation due to production • Increase of secondary metallurgy productivity. of products with a high added valueостью. The project is supposed to unite the frames of the buildings of melt shop No.1 and No.2 so as organize ­ Provision of RUE “BMZ” steel cord and wire a secondary metallurgy and ladle department in the new production and RUE “Rechitsa Hardware Plant ” with bay. 2 ladle-furnaces and an RH vacuum degasser will wire rod and consequently, creation of conditions for be installed. their further development. • Complex reconstruction of continuous casting ­ Production of rounds with small diameter machines No. 1 and No. 2. The first stage: CCM-2 for the enterprises of the Republic of Belarus and West modernization to increase its productivity up to 1.2 mln Europe. tpy. In the result of the modernization we will get • Mastering of the production of additional the possibility to cast quality billet 125×125 and assortment of rounds in rolling mill 850. 140×140 mm which will be processed in a new light-section mill. Based on the results of CCM-2 • Growth of the production output of OCTG modernization, a corresponding technical concept will pipes: be formed and CCM-1 modernization project will ­ Increase of the volumes of cast billet Ø200 mm be carried out. produced in CCM-3. • Modernization of rolling mill 320 including ­ Realization of measures of pipe mill equipment reconstruction of the production process control system improvement aimed at optimization of the flow diagram and main drive speed regulation system; reconstruction and observation of international standards in pipe of the finishing area packing line. Transition to the usage production. of cast billet 140×140 mm in rolling mill 150. ­ Erection of the 3rd inspection line. • Organization of a joint-venture for processing steelmaking slag. • Building of a shop to produce steel cord in the amount of 20 000 tpy. The project will be implemented 2. Provision of a raw materials base of the enterprise: together with the erection of the light-section mill. Aim • Development of a scrap procurement network of the project is to receive an extra cost by processing the of the «BMZ Trading Firm» Limited (Saint Petersburg) high-carbon wire rod to be produced in the new mill. We by a centralized provision of scrap deliveries from assume that this production will be organized in the form Russian sites in railway wagons (including own of a joint-venture. and rented wagons), and by way of organizing of. • Organization of the production of stabilized • increase of scrap deliveries from Baltic states. rebars and pre -stressed cables in SWS-3 of RUE “BMZ”. Organization of a firm for scrap collection and • Organization of saw wire production processing in Lithuania on the basis of BMZ Trading Firm department. Baltija Limited. • Organization of the production of wheel axes • entering into long-term agreements (contracts) for wheel sets of the rolling stock at JSC «Mogilev for the delivery of raw material resources and hotMetallurgical Plant». Production of axes in the amount briquetted iron (HBI) in particular, of approximately 20 000 pieces per year by forging, from UC «Metalloinvest» (Russian Federation). thermal and mechanical processing of bloom 300×400 • Detailed market study and organization mm produced in melt shop No.2 of RUE “BMZ”. of scrap delivery from Poland and Germany. 3. Construction of new facilities and mastering of highRisk management added value products manufacturing: High level of influence on sustainable development is exerted by a potential jeopardy. Its detection, analysis, systematization, » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 27 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities » and management is a part of the plant ’s activity aimed – monitoring of rates and quotas limitations for key at achieving progress in the area of sustainable and prospective sales markets; development. The top management forms the plant ’s – cooperation with state authorities in the development strategy and acts on the basis of the analysis of external of a balanced policy of RUE “BMZ” and its support. environment risks and risks related with the plant ’s activity. Management of financial and non-financial Introduction of a system of corporate standards, risks allows decrease of potential loss and provision regulations, rules, procedures and unified approaches of additional guarantees for achieving the strategic to their implementation became an important decision goals. Sustainable development of the plant is exposed of risk management.. to the following risks: Providing transparency and accessibility of risk – decrease of steel demand and prices; information, RUE “BMZ” operatively determines the reaction strategy, develops actions of risk – growth of prices on raw materials markets; management and monitors their implementation – dependence on raw material base; effectiveness. – changes of political and economic conditions of the RB; – changes of law of the RB; – growth of power, gas, and railway transport rates of the natural monopolies; – fluctuation of foreign currency and interest rates; – breakdown in the production; – accidents; – personnel. Measures of risk management are integrated in the system of corporate management of the plant. RUE “BMZ” takes a set of measures to decrease risks: – implementation of the system of calculation of expenditures at the place of origin; – improvement of material support; – development of the system of internal audit and control; – reduction of production costs; – improvement of the system of environment management; – expansion of the product range; – product quality improvement; – development of the merchandize network; – re-orientation of the production towards the types of products which are more in demand; – development and introduction of new methods and products; – monitoring of the market of raw materials resources; – development of long-term contractual relations with suppliers and customers; 28 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS SOCIAL REPORT 2011 29 Description of the plant General information R epublican Unitary Enterprise “Byelorussian Steel Works” is a state-owned enterprise that is located in the center of Europe, namely in Zhlobin, Gomel region, 220 km from the capital of the Republic of Belarus – the city of Minsk. The total area of RUE “BMZ” industrial site is 249.06 ha. RUE “BMZ” is subordinated to the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus. Legal address (postal address) of the enterprise, head office address: 37 Promyshlennaya st., Zhlobin, Gomel region, 247210, Republic of Belarus. Not only is RUE “BMZ” the largest enterprise in the Republic of Belarus, but also in Europe. It is the base enterprise for the metallurgy industry of the republic. During the last two decades it has been among reputable steel products manufacturers. Design, construction and fitting of the works with newest equipment and advanced technology with further putting production capacities for guarantee maintenance were based on the European firms contracting principles involving hand-over of industrial facilities and technologies on the turnkey basis. Use of advanced world experience and newest technologies during the works construction and further development allowed us to create a unique industrial complex in the Republic of Belarus 30 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Description of the major structural divisions T he enterprise structure includes two main productions: metallurgical (steel-making and rolling) and hardware production as well as infrastructure plants and departments for the works activity management. The steel-making production includes: a scrap yard, two melt shops, and a technological motor transport shop. The rolling production is represented by a rolling plant having three rolling mills producing various sections and a pipe mill. The hardware production consists of three wire shops, powder metallurgy and drawing die shop, a tare and die shop. The works infrastructure is represented by the plants for repairing metallurgical, power, electric and mechanical equipment, plants supplying production with media and electric power, transportation shop and other subdivisions. The product catalog of the plant includes such components as concast and hot-rolled billet; rolled section and shapes, concrete reinforcing bar; pipe billet, wire rod, steel cord, hotdeformed seamless pipes; steel anchoring and wavy fiber and microfiber, multipurpose steel wire. Republican Unitary Enterprise “Byelorussian Steel Works” is a high-technology metallurgical complex with a complete metallurgical cycle. The overall production takes place on a single production site in the Republic of Belarus that allows to save the size and manufacture low-expenses products. Vast choice of the productive capacities allows to organize a flexible production flow taking into account market conditions and to maintain stable long-term sales quantities. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 31 Description of the plant Organizational management structure The organizational structure is based on the hierarchical principle. The enterprise is headed by the Director General that acts in conformity with the republican legislation and the Articles of the enterprise, sets objectives and policies, distributes responsibility and authority to the subdivision managers. As of December 31, 2011 the total number of employees was 12376 peoples. General Director’s GENERAL General assistant for FER & sales Director’s assistant Office work DIRECTOR Director Deputy GD Production Chief Chief Deputy GD for technical Deputy GD Deputy GD Deputy GD Deputy GD Chief – Head of MDpt. for technology Director specialists specialist developmentchief engineer for hardware for FER and sales for economics for the personnel accountant & quality of the rolling of the steel production & finance production making Управление Struct. Производ. Struct. Chief Struct. Struct. Shops Shops Shops Shops A, R&C маркетинга divisions. управление divisions specialists divisions divisions for econ. issues Board Deputy CE Chief Chief Chief Deputy CE Deputy for LP, CED Head for hardware electrical mechanical power AB prod. IS &, EP for of TB engineer engineer engineer reconstruction Organizational Struct. Struct. Struct. Struct. Struct. structure of divisions divisions divisions divisions divisions ESB RUE «BSW» was established based on D&RB TB Shops Shops Shops Shops Shops S&SB hierarchical principle. Competitive advantages In the existing business situation it was necessary to continue strongly to adhere to the policy of costs of RUE «BMZ» reduction and improvement of the efficiency of work B of marketing and sales services adopted by the plant at the period of recession. These services had to react asic competitive advantages are: to the changed market conditions and change their – strong position on global steel markets; approaches to product sales. Nevertheless, due to a vast diversification of the enterprise in terms of products – favourable geographic location of the plant; as well as in terms of regions, we manage to retain very – professionalism of the personnel; good positions on many markets. It concerns most of all the pipe mill products: we increased our volumes – high competitiveness of the products; on the markets of Europe and North America. – up-to-date investment program; Continuous monitoring of the sales market allowed – high level of reputation among customers due selling of RUE «BMZ» products at rather high and competitive prices taking into consideration regions to product quality. and receiving countries at the same time supporting its presence on the most significant market outlets. Starting with the middle of 2010 continuous monitoring of raw Approaches ensuring stable development materials markets has been carried out. This helps us to procure quality materials at optimal prices. Analysis 2011 was rather complicated. Its start was difficult. There of steel consuming branches of industry including were serious drops of markets in different regions. 32 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS engineering, construction, and tire industry allows with delivery conditions and payment terms equal to offers determination and setting of optimal prices, RUE «BMZ» of the main competitors that allow delayed payments after production output, and product sale with a rather precise delivery. degree of reliability. For the delivery of goods to customers RUE “BMZ: uses different types of transportation: motor and mixed transportation (containers), railway and hold Transport-logistics scheme transportation. Motor and mixed (container) transportation are used of RUE «BMZ» steel export to deliver products to our customers in the USA and Europe. Motor transportation is used to deliver loads Joint-venture established with participation to Lithuanian ports. Then the goods are transported of RUE “BMZ” capital carry out logistics which includes in containers by sea. We use our own transport and attract insurance of export and import, organization and external carriers. Transportation is based on annual fulfillment of export transportation from RUE «BMZ» transportation and forwarding service contracts. to clients, organization and fulfillment of import Many years of experience in different regions of the world and return tare from customers to RUE «BMZ», customs allowed the enterprise to obtain the reputation of a reliable clearance of exported and imported goods and returned partner making deliveries of high-tech products. tare, organization and servicing of buffer and consignment At the same time high international authority stores, temporary stores, coordination of deliveries between and cooperation with international finance institutions the buyer and the seller, delivery settlement control ensured wide perspectives for getting advantageous credit Transportation of goods is carried out on the basis lines from first-class European banks. of annual agreements for transport and forwarding Belonging of products delivered to different countries services signed either by negotiations between of five continents of the earth to RUE “BMZ”, its high the joint-ventures and RUE «BMZ» quality is confirmed by RUE “BMZ” trade mark registered with a freight carrier or by agreement and approval in 61 countries worldwide. In 2012 we plan to register our RUE «BSW» uses of transportation rate from RUE «BMZ» side. different type trade mark in Afghanistan, the Lebanon, and Mexico. In the of transport to Main condition of RUE «BMZ» presence nearest future the plant plans to get registering documents deliver its goods on the external market is provision of end users for 15 countries more. Efforts of the plant management to customers. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 33 and the staff aimed at improvement of its product SEA (0,69%). Besides, the key export regions competitiveness and creation of a positive image were Europe, Russian Federation, M iddle East of the plant are awarded with prizes of republican and Africa getting 92,4% of the total amount contests in the nominations: of exported steel. – «Best building product of the year 2011»; During 12 months of 2011 export share in the – Best goods of the Republic of Belarus of 2011 on total shipped amount of steel made up 76,0%, the markets of the Russian Federation”. export growth rate was 125,8%. BMZ was awarded the title of «The best supplier European market of 2010» among more than 1000 suppliers of Eaton corporation for high quality of the products Growth of steel deliveries on the European manufactured, delivery logistics and operative market during 12 months of 2011 as compared reaction to customer’s requests. with 12 months of 2010 was 139,5%. In 2011 All RUE «BMZ»: activity perfectly fits into the BMZ steel was delivered to 28 EC countries. corporate policy of the enterprise: production of a Most of the volumes were delivered to Latvia, advanced technology products with a higher added Germany, Lithuania, Poland, Italy, Slovakia, value meeting the requirements of national and Czech Republic and Austria (74,1% foreign customers, increase of the plant profitability of the European export). with a rational use of resources, protection of the environment and provision of a high living standard Russian Federation of the plant staff. Results of 2011 are a clear proof that this is not just a declaration. Growth of deliveries on the Russian market during 12 months of 2011 as compared with 12 months of 2010 was 149,1%. Most Perspective directions of the volume of sales activity A nalysis of steel consuming industries operation allows us to suppose that in prospects for sales of products of BMZ range for engineering industry are moderate positive 2012 and in general look like more dynamic and stable: blooms, round bars, seamless pipes (of engineering range) will be in active demand. As compared with the previous year growth of steel demand is forecast in 2012. The biggest growth rate is supposed in building and engineering industry. Tire market is also restoring. Its growth rate in 2012 will be comparable to 2011. It is planned to reorganize and improve the operation of our own commodity distribution network in 2012 to diversify steel sales and improve the efficiency of sales. During 12 months of 2011 the volume of RUE “BMZ” steel sales for export made up 125,8% as compared with similar period of the previous year. During January-December 2011 RUE “BMZ” delivered steel to the following regions: Europe (48% export share), Russian Federation (28,1%), Middle East and Africa (16,6%), CIS countries (3,4%), America (3,5%), 34 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Product description Regions of delivery Cast billet Europe, Middle East and Africa, CIS Bloom Europe, CIS, Middle East and Africa Rolled billet Europe, Middle East and Africa Rolled bars Europe, CIS, Middle East and Africa, SEA Seamless pipes Europe, Middle East and Africa, America, SEA, CIS Tire cord Europe, Страны NAFTA, Russian Federation, Ukraine, Republic of Belarus Hose wire Europe, Middle East and Africa, CIS, USA Table. Distribution Bead wire Europe, CIS and structure Steel wire Europe, CIS of RUE “BMZ” Fiber Europe, CIS sales in 2011. South and North America Growth of to America was 137,4% compared with As on 01.01.2011 RUE “BMZ” interests outside the similar period of the previous year. Main export the Republic of Belarus are represented by 7 jointvolumes to America (65,4%) consisted of seamless ventures in Germany, Austria, China, Lithuania pipes. In 2011 the plant made successful deliveries and the Russian Federation which sell more than half to Venezuela, the USA, Mexico and Ecuador (last of the products manufactured. For diversification deliveries to Ecuador were in 2009, they were resumed of steel sales and provision of a required level of sales in 2011). in 2011-2015 we plant to improve the work of our own commodity distribution network and withdraw South-East Asia from work with traders. In 2011 BMZ exported seamless pipes to Vietnam, India, 1. JSC «BELASTAHL Außenhandel GmbH», Berlin, and China. New markets were developed as well: Taiwan Germany, established in 1994. It sells tire cord, bronze and Indonesia. Pipe products in the amount plated bead wire, hotdeformed seamless pipes of USD 0,3 mln were delivered to theses countries in the north-west European region which makes up 3,4% of the Asian export. 2. JSC «BELMET Handelgesellschaft m.b.H.», Linz, Increase of deliveries to SEA during 12 months Austria, established in 1996. It sells tire cord, bead of 2011 as compared with the similar period wire, hose wire, and hotdeformed seamless pipes of 2010 was 93,0%. in the southeast region of Europe. Main direction of RUE «BMZ» promotion strategy 3. JSC «BEL–KAP–STEEL, LLC», Miami, USA, on the external markets is retention and active growth established in 1998. I t sells tire cord in the USA of its presence on the existing sales markets and search and reinforcing bars for construction, wire rod, of new, economically effective regions accompanied cast billet, and hotdeformed seamless pipes in North by increase of sales through its own commodity and South America, Scandinavia, and the Netherlands, distribution network . Italy, Poland, Great Britain, Slovakia, and Turkey. » Europe CIS Middle East and Africa South-East Asia Аmerica 51 52,1 43,2 31,6 31,2 28,8 23,9 12,6 12,6 Diagram: 3,2 3,8 3,2 0,9 1 0,9 Distribution of steel deliveries by regions, % 2010 2011 2012 (forecast) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 35 Description of the plant Major trading representative of RUE «BMZ» » 4. JSC «BELMET (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd.», Shanghai, China, established in 2004. It delivers So as to increase the share of steel exports of the plant through the commodity distribution network, we first technological and raw materials. of all pay attention to the extension of the number of joint-ventures, distributors, and improvement 5. UAB «Prekybos Namai BMZ-Baltija», Shaulai, of the efficiency of their activity. Lithuania, established in 2008. It sells rebars for construction, steel wire, and hotdeformed Tasks set forth for the joint-ventures regarding seamless pipe in the Baltic countries. the promotion of high-tech products of RUE «BMZ» and expansion of the sales markets, are successfully 6. JSC «Torgovyi Dom BMZ», St. Petersburg, Russian fulfilled. Optimization of the money flow Federation, established in 2003. It was organized so by the joint-ventures helps to improve the reliability as to ensure raw material safety for Byelorussian Steel of money proceeds from our customers Works: deliveries of scrap and materials. and to considerably reduce the period for sold product payment. 7. JSC «Torgovyi Dom BMZ» Moscow, RF, established in 2007. It was organized so as to sell finished products Thus, having analyzed the basic sales markets of BMZ, (rebars for construction, steel wire, and hot-deformed we may say that the plant has strong positions seamless pipes) of RUE “BMZ” in the Russian Federation. and big prospects 36 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS World market trends and starting with the middle of 2011, volumes of floating assets injection into the key branches of economy will Short-term outlook start to go down. It is determined by limited possibilities of the budget (high social obligations remain weak points The outlined prospects of the metallurgical sector of CIS economies which is especially clearly seen against development in a short-term outlook can develop the background of the decreased post-crisis tax proceeds). in the way which foresees stagnation of the world Long-lasting saturation of the market economy and retention of the existing level of consumer with liquidity together with decrease of borrowed fund activity and regional steel trade; the market is supported cost can provoke strengthening of inflation processes by the economic growth in China and the developing with simultaneous back-off of the demand. countries. Developing countries act as growth drivers; It is necessary to point out that for the industrial economy of the developed countries is a constraint. production (for example, for the participants At that, starting with 2011 recovery of the key countries of the program of autoutilization) decrease of the state of the world is more and more slowing down in the result subventions would most likely turn into the decrease of the discount rate level growth of the demand and corresponding drop of production figures. In the environment of withdrawal of the anti-crisis economic incentives (credit policy, real estate market conditions have become tougher this year; a transition to s floating yuan rate has taken place), signs of slowing Long-term outlook down of the business activity indices have appeared: industrial output growth rate decreased, building activity During 3-5 years recovery of the world steel market in the USA reduced. There is no doubt that the growing is supposed and consequently, improvement of steel budget deficiency in the USA remains one of the most consumption, recovery of such industries as engineering, serious threats to the world stability, at the same time construction, motor industry, oil production, and oil during the last half-year a number of macroeconomic processing. In the long-term outlook RUE “BMZ” plans figures demonstrate a slight strengthening of the market to recover its customers on traditional markets (Europe, situation in the result of the measures undertaken by CIS) completely, retain its customers on the developing the government. Unemployment growth and slowing market outlets (Middle East), and get new customers both down of the growth rate of the income of the population on the existing and new markets. In particular, the plant will follow the announced cutoff of the budget actively develops new products and studies sales markets deficiency in the EC countries. Consequently, there are no for these products which will help to get new customers. preconditions for consumption growth and for the recovery of the pre-crisis level in this region European and CIS countries are traditionally considered in the nearest future. In the situation of strengthening to be key sales markets for RUE “BMZ” products. Global of the protectionist mood, European interest to imported macroeconomic situation points out the tendency goods will continue to fall. of return of the main consumers of RUE “BMZ” steel from East and West Europe and CIS (Russia, Ukraine) Price change dynamics will be characterized by a shorter to the market. As a result in 2012 distribution of deliveries wave cycle, but the amplitude of its fluctuation from will be changed: drop of shipments to the countries the average level will rise. Among other reasons with a low price situation (Middle East and Africa) of the cyclic recurrence character change we may point is expected. out universal decrease of the level of the inventory (in this situation prices will quickly react to the emerging From the geographical point of view, considering demand) and transition to quarterly raw material transport logistics and RUE “BMZ” product deliveries agreements. European and CIS countries will be most interesting in 2012. Stagnation (rather absence of signs of deterioration) of the world economy will render support to the raw material and power price level which means a relative stability of the budget filling for CIS countries. Even slow recovery of the population’s incomes will help to expand the domestic demand. Implementation of the anti-crisis programs of the government became an urge for the customer demand activation, SOCIAL REPORT 2011 37 Date and events of 2011 January – January 20-21: the first group of volunteers-consultants for prevention of HIV in the area of labour was trained at BMZ by representatives of Global Business Coalition (GBC) against HIV/ AIDS, tuberculosis and malaria with the support of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent organizations within the framework of implementation of the program of Belarusian Red Cross “Health @ work”. January 26: a continuous “direct line” of the general director was opened. Any person can apply to top managers by e -mail or phone and make a proposal for improvement of the operation of the plant and its subdivisions. February – From February 1 till March 7 training of 80 specialists from Slovak Republic was organized at the rolling mill and melt shops within the framework of the international cooperation of steel industry workers. February 17: a trial production of rebar No. 14 with a 4-strand slitting took place in rolling mill 320. Two universal wire rewinding units produced by GCR Eurodraw (Italy) and to be used for fiber production were commissioned at thermal/galvanizing department of SWS-1 March – March 17: the 1st International conference of suppliers participated by approximately 90 representatives ch 38 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS August 26, 2011: level of 1 mln tons of products was First casting of square billet section 140x140 mm in coped with at SWS-3. CCM-2 of melt shop No. 1 after modernization of the CCM. August 31, 2011: a contract on building of a new section rolling mill with the capacity of 700 thousand December 20: Meeting of the founders of BMZ tons (in future – 1 mln t) was signed with Danieli (Italy). TUBULARS, limited liability company for finishing of OCTG pipes: Byelorussian Steel Works, Duferco SA and September – for the first time Byelorussian Steel Works Pisec Group GmbH. was visited by a delegation of Bridgestone – largest in Japan and second in the world tire producer. An December 28, 2011: 1st issue of “Korporativnaya agreement on a long-term, mutually advantageous Sreda”, appendix to the newspaper “Metallurg” informing cooperation was reached during the visit. about the life of enterprises included in the production association “Byelorussian Steel Works”. September 22, 2011: 10 000 000 tons of steel produced in melt shop No. 2 since its start-up. General information about achievements September 23: 15 years since Zhlobin metallurgical and awards technical school was opened. October – October 14: public hearing of the Corporate – Winner of the Competition for the RB Government social report at BMZ. Award for Quality Achievements (2001, 2004, 2007); October 20, 2011: the 1st scientifica-practical seminar “Main directions of innovative technological development – Winner of the Competition for the RB Ministry of of the production association “Byelorussian Steel Works” Industry Award for Quality Achievements (2001, 2004, was held at BMZ with participation of rectors of 2007, 2011); leading educational establishments of Gomel region. October 30, 2011: 11th anniversary of SWS-3. – Winner of the competition “Best Products of the Labour collectives of melt shops No. 1 and No.2 set a Republic of Belarus” in the nomination “Technical record: 229 673 tons of concast billet. Industrial Products” (2002-2011); November – November 5, 2011: 27 year since commissioning of the rolling mill. – Winner of the competition “Best Products of the Republic of Belarus on the Russian Federation Market” November 16, 2011: a visit of the minister of trade in the nomination “Technical Industrial Products” of the Republic of Belarus V.S. Chekanov so as to get (2001, 2003-2011); acquainted with the organization of public catering at Byelorussian Steel Works. – Winner of The Badge of Honor Award November 21, 2011: 24 years from the start-up of “Commonwealth Star ” in the nomination SWS-1. “Best CIS Company ” (2006); November 23, 2011: Byelorussian Steel Works presented biathlon equipment and uniforms in the – Winner of the 3rd International Quality Tournament amount of 100 million Belarusian roubles to the state among CEE countries, holder of EFQM certificate establishment “Zhlobin District Youth Sport School”. “5 Star Excellence Acknowledgment in Europe” (2007); November 28, 2011: participants of the plant conference took a decision to reorganize the republican – Winner of the Competition for CIS Award for unitary enterprise in an open joint-stock company. Production and Services Quality Achievements December – rolling mill 850 produced 9-millionth ton (2006/2007); of cast billet. December 8rolling mill 320 produced 1-millionth ton – Winner of the republican competition “Best of material. Exporter-2007” in the nomination “Machine Building, Metallurgy and Metal Finishing”; December 9: a delegation of representatives of the Russian information agency ITPR-TASS visited Byelorussian Steel Works. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 39 Description of the plant – Winner of the republican competition “Best Quality best organization of labour protection work in 2010 Manager ” (2008-2009); the following organizations were announced the best: – Winner of the 4th International Quality Tournament trade and service area: Metallurgtorg; among CEE countries (2008); education: Zhlobin Metallurgical Technical School; – “5 Star Excellence Acknowledgment in Europe” by the European Fund for Quality Management public health: medical centre of RUE BMZ. (EFQM) – (2009); culture: Palace of Culture of Metallurgists; – Winner of the national competition «Brand of the year – 2009» in the nominations: – Gomel regional Employers’ Union thanked officially General Director of RUE “BMZ” Anatoli Savianok – “Socially Responsible Brand» in the categories for a considerable contribution in provision of effective “Best employer ” and “Active Social Position”; activity of the Employers’ Union and improvement of the system of social partnership; – “Professional nomination, goods and services В2В”» in the category “Brand-export”; – the staff of the enterprise received a letter of gratitude of the Gomel regional executive committee for active – Winner of the competition “Best Construction Product foreign economic policy in 2010 г; of the Year ” (2010, 2011). – BMZ trade union organization became the winner – Certificate of the 8th republican ecological forum of the republican contest “Best primary trade union “For a considerable contribution to the development and organization of Belarusian trade union of industrial introduction of advanced technologies in the area of workers for the period of 2010-2011; wastes handling”; – Educational institution “Gomel State University named – Winner of the 4th republican tourist rally of young after Frantsisk Skorina sent a letter of gratitude people organized by the Belarusian Trade Union of to BMZ to thank its staff for gratuitous assistance Industrial Workers; in the form of measuring instruments, units and auxiliary equipment presented to renew material base of optics department; – Winner of the contest “Best exporter2011” of the RB in the nomination “Metallurgy ”; – according to the results of the regional contest of professional skills “Gomel masters -2011” milling – Winner of the contest “Best exporter2011” in Gomel machine operator of the mechanical equipment region in the nomination “Metallurgy ”; department of SWS-2 V.V. Novikov was awarded the title of “Gomel master-2011”; – “Brand of the year-2010” and honorary diploma in the category “Active social position”; – Among more than 1000 suppliers European headquarters of Eaton Hydraulics Corp. (Switzerland) – Since 2008 BMZ is a member of the Quality Leaders’ awarded the title of “The best suplier-2010” Club of Central and Eat European countries (CEE in the hydraulic sector to Byelorussian Steel Works QLC); and its joint-ventures Belmet (Austria) and BKS (USA); – Since 2011 BMZ is a member of European Fund of – Gomel regional branch of the public association Quality Management (EFQM); “Belarusian Peace Fund” awarded the staff of Byelorussian Steel Works and its general director Anatoli Savianok Анатолия with an Honorary Diploma – Based on the results of the district contest for the 40 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS for active participation in the activity of the Peace Fund, – the plant’s team became a prize winner of the district fruitful educational work, propaganda of peace basketball contest; and friendship between nations; – folk choir “Krynitsa” of the Palace of Culture – Byelorussian Steel Works is recognized as the winner of Metallurgists was awarded II degree diploma of the 8th International contest of powereffective of the regional contest of choirs; and resource -saving technologies and equipment; – Deputy minister of education of the Republic – Byelorussian Steel Works was awarded a special prize of Belarus sent a letter of gratitude to the general of the Department of energy efficiency of Gosstandart director of Byelorussian Steel Works thanking for of the Republic of Belarus “For removal of barriers preservation and development of a network in improvement of power efficiency of the enterprises of pre -school educational establishments, creation of of the state sector of Belarus”; conditions for good work of teachers and stay of children; – June 10” the staff of Byelorussian Steel Works was handed a letter of gratitude of the Chairman – director of the territorial centre of social service of Gomel regional executive committee for high level of citizens of Zhlobin district sent a letter of gratitude of organization of information work in 2010; to the general director of Byelorussian Steel Works thanking for cooperation and assistance rendered in organization and holding of the 9th regional – June 14: in the IXth open international workers’ festival integration art festival of children and young people “Balkans and Peace” volley-ball players of the plant with specific features of development “Do Good”; (members of the national team of the federation of Trade Unions of Belarus) won the third place; – December 22: team of Byelorussian Steel Works won the 1st place in the sport contest among the enterprises – June 18: team of Byelorussian Steel Works won of Zhlobin district; the Ist place in IVth summer branch-wise sport contest; – A. A. Peratsiahina was awarded an Honorary Diploma – according to the results of 2010 the Board of OJSC of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus “SB “Belarusbank” recognized Byelorussian Steel Works for the efforts to create a quality management system as its laureate in the nomination “For expansion based on international standards; of the international forms of settlement ”; – based on the results of 2011 the team of Byelorussian – General Director of Byelorussian Steel Works Steel Works won the 1st place in the regional roundAnatoly Savianok became a laureate of the XVIth the -year sport contest among enterprises republican contest “Man of business”; and organizations having more than 500 employees. – plant’s team became a silver prize winner of the district football contest; – for achievements in the area of product and service quality Byelorussian Steel Works became a laureate of the contest for CIS award in 2011 in the category “production of industrial products” (among enterprises having over 250 employees); – September 3, 2011: for the first time in its history the hockey club “Metallurg” won the Cup of Belarus; SOCIAL REPORT 2011 41 42 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties Corporate management carries out its activity adhering to the following C approaches in corporate management: orporate management of RUE “BMZ” is the total – compliance with legislation and statutory norms of processes providing for control and supervision of the Republic of Belarus as well as with the of the plant’s activities, including relations between the international legal acts validated in the RB; owner, the management and employees established for the purposes of achieving the enterprise’s strategic aims. – improvement of management quality; RUE “BMZ” considers corporate management to be means for enhancing efficiency of the plant’s – involving of all units and participants of business activities and for raising its reputation. Corporate policy processes; of RUE “BMZ” is based on constant updating of the enterprise’s management system as its efficiency – improvement of the system of effectiveness evaluation; is a significant factor of the plant’s being attractive for investments. – provision of effective distribution of profit; RUE “BMZ” is subordinated to the Ministry of Industry – updating the technological level of the production of RB (Minprom). Minprom is a republican organ of state processes; administration and is subordinated to the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Belarus. – expanding production facilities with minimization of energy and raw material consumption levels; Minprom pursues scientific, technical, and economic policies directed towards creation of conditions for – disclosure of complete and reliable information efficient work of its subordinate organizations. Minprom on the plant’s performance; works out forecasts of production and technical, financial and economic development – making the plant attractive for investment; of the corresponding branches of industry ; develops and ensures implementation of investment programs – enhancing of responsibilities; aimed at acceleration of scientific and technical progress, growth of product competitiveness, decrease – keeping up an open dialogue with interested parties; of its materials and power consumption; provides pursue of the scientific and technical policy directed towards – providing of the best possible output/expenditures ratio; extension of the range of products manufactured, improvement of their quality ; organizes and controls – ensuring a reasonable balance between the plant’s and work to provide rational use of raw materials, materials, public interests. fuel and power resources, accessories, involvement of secondary material resources and local types To provide for trust and mutual understanding among of raw materials in the economic turnover; carries all interested parties the plant follows the below out general management of state organizations principles of the Code of Ethics: according to the established procedure providing their effective operation together with the managers of these –transparency – prompt provision of reliable information; organizations; coordinates foreign economic activity of state organizations and economic associations within – accountability; its competence, helps them to establish foreign economic relations, develop progressive forms of integration, – justice – equal attitude; organizes cooperation with the corresponding organs of state administration of CIS countries; within its – responsibility – recognition of the rights and obligation competence it organizes and coordinates work of state organizations and economic associations in the area In its activities, the plant aspires to ensure compliance of technical regulation and standardization, with international standards of business activities. certification and product quality, etc. RUE “BMZ” has adopted and introduced into active use internal documents providing for fulfillment Improved effectiveness in the field of sustainable of obligations concerning compliance with the corporate development is ensured by an efficient corporate management system. The enterprise’s top management management principles. These documents are available » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 43 Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties » to general public on the plant’s web-site: To ensure awareness of the top management of economic www.belsteel.com . efficiency, performance in the fields of environmental protection, occupational safety, production quality Our mission, as we see it, is to ensure sustainable control and to provide for interaction with employees development that would account for long-term and operational decision-making the plant arranges economic interests, contribute to social peace, monthly meetings of management executives and heads and provide for safety and well-being of the plant’s of structural divisions. employees and citizens in the region of BMZ production activities, environment and human rights protection. Based on the global experience in the field of corporate management, the plant introduced and is now To achieve high indicators of long-term social implementing the Corporate Management System, which and economic efficiency BMZ strives for maintaining is in compliance with requirements of ISO 9001, ISO of a reasonable balance of interests of all parties 14001, OHSAS 18001 and SA 8000. concerned by distribution of responsibilities and involvement of employees in accordance with Compliance of the plant’s activities to ISO 9001, the enterprise’s organizational structure (see section 7), ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 international standards the Articles of association (as approved by the Ministry is validated by international audit companies, such of Industry of the Republic of Belarus), Provisions on as TÜV Rheinland» (Germany), BUREAU VERITAS Structural Divisions of the plant and other normative CERTIFICATION (France) and others. BMZ activities acts. confirming its adherence to the principles of UN Global Compact are represented in this report. Strategic and operational management of the plant’s activity is carried out by RUE “BMZ” general director To provide for continuous evaluation of applicability, Anatoly Savianok. adequacy, and efficiency of the system and updating of documentation the top management should carry out Leadership of the Director General and down an analysis of the plant’s CMS performance. to the heads of divisions is based on the following: The performance analysis is carried out once a year and once a half-year based on the requirements – taking decisions within one’s competence; identified in the Enterprise Standard STP 840-KSM-5.6 “Management analysis. Self-assessment of the corporate –establishing policies and specifying objectives management system” The results of the analysis to be recorded in the respective documentation, such are presented as a Report on CMS Performance as business plan of RUE “BMZ”, Corporate Policy, Target and a Report on CMS Self-assessment. Based Indices of RUE “BMZ” , Objectives of Divisions. on the analysis results, corrective measures and preventive actions to avoid unwanted events –identifying resources (labour, infrastructure are identified so as to improve efficiency of the CMS. and production environment) as required for planning The procedure for identifying the above actions shall and carrying out activities to achieve the tasks set forth; be governed by STP 840-KSM-8.5 “Continuous improvement. Data analysis. Preventive and corrective –determining processes of the corporate management actions”. system and providing for their efficient functioning. The corporate management system existing Qualifications, competence and activities of the plant’s at the plant comprises documentation regulating top management are evaluated by the plant’s owner — processes, distribution of rights and obligations within the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus. the staff, interaction of executers with all interested Fringe benefits are paid out to the top management parties, responsibilities and powers of employees. CMS depending on the plant’s performance and compliance processes were determined with the use of IDEFO method, with the indices of social and economic development which ensures their proper sequence and interaction: established for the plant. А11 Marketing; Internal control system for supervision of financial and economic activities of RUE “BMZ” comprises А12 Management analysis; the Audit Department and the internal auditing service. 44 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS А21 Human resources management; Based on the comprehensive social and psychological climate study carried out by the plant’s social service, А22 Maintenance and repairs; the participating employees rated top management А23 Infrastructure and production environment efficiency quite high (the satisfaction index management; was 0,72 against 0,74 in 2010. A slight decrease of the index is conditioned by crisis effects in the global А31 Interaction with customers (contract analysis); economy affecting the opinion of the plant staff. А32 Design and development: • А32/1 Design and development of new types of products, new methods; Communication • А32/2 Equipment design and development; Approaches in the field of communication formation А33 Procurement; А34 Production planning and preproduction activities; Corporate management is maintained by ensuring А35 Manufacture and supplies of concast billet; high levels of employees’ awareness. Organization of А36 Manufacture and supplies of rolled sections; communication rests on the following principles: А37 Manufacture and supplies of pipes; good timing and regularity; А38 Manufacture and supplies of steel cord, wire and reliability and comprehensiveness; fiber; free accessibility; А41 Internal audits; feedback; А42 Process flow and production monitoring. operational flexibility and availability. Self-assessment in terms of corporate management High level of information work provides for: system efficiency for the year 2011 was carried out based on EFQM Excellence Model with the use setting goals and assigning tasks, ensuring employees’ of the following evaluation criteria: awareness of the performance results achieved; 1. Criteria characteristic of the organization capabilities: feedback; management’s leadership; identifying actions for further improvement; organization’s policy and strategy; discussions of focal issues; human resources; making proposals. partnership and resources available; Information exchange is ensured by: processes; meetings according to the schedules established in conformity with local regulations; 2. Criteria characteristic of the organization’s performance: materials of the corporate newspaper “Metallurg”; external customers; weekly receptions on personal issues arranged by the top management and heads of divisions; internal customers; meetings and gatherings with participation of the top benefits for the society; management and the plant’s employees in accordance with basic performance indicators. approved information activities schedules; According to the self-assessment, the total enterprise negotiations and consultations; rate for the year 2011 amounted to 75,09% against discussions and “round tables”; 81,6% for the same period of the previous year, which corresponds to the “acceptable” rating. Based on sociological polls; the self-assessment results, corrective actions were correspondence; determined to improve the situation. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 45 Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties providing information to put on the stands located in special attention is given to feedback. Being an essential various structural divisions, representing performance of element of the enterprise’s policy, the feedback provides the division and the plant in whole as well as dynamics of an enhanced mutual trust, consolidates and unites their activities;data transfer within the local interested parties based on common public objectives, computer network; values and interests. use of “Info-BMZ” informational system covering over Feedback channels comprise both traditional forms 3000 computerized work stations; of communication with employees (conferences, informative meetings with participation of the plant’s top use of electronic displays with creeping lines. management and public authorities, meetings of working Exchange of information and consultations on issues employees, press conferences, “free microphone” events, related to quality control, occupational safety and etc.) and polls, interviews, “Direct Lines”, when every single environment protection, industrial safety and sanitation, employee could ask the management a question data security, energy and material resources saving, and would be given an irrefragable answer to it. involving representatives of various management levels, To ensure timely response of the management in connection employees and other interested parties, are aimed at the with any issue, comment and proposal raised or made following: by the plant’s employees, an automated “Signal” system was introduced which is active 24 hours a day. Every understanding of one’s role and responsibility; person who has anything to say could make a phone call improving awareness; and state their request, make a comment, a proposal, and those will be considered within 15 days engaging in efficiency improvement activities; and the response is communicated either directly illustrating management’s obligations; to the requesting person or through the plant’s local newspaper “Metallurg. saving of energy and material resources; ensuring proper interaction of all management levels; One more tool of feedback (or it’s better to say bidirectional communication) between the plant arranging reporting activities; in the person of its management of different levels operational decision-making on current issues. and the staff is the plant’s web-site «Info-BMZ» with elements of a corporate social network. This tool Approach implementation creates multiple and frequently new relations between T the staff and different working groups of the plant. These relations help to spread corporate knowledge he plant’s management is developing internal and experience according to the method of «cross communications, using them as one of its major tools pollination» and create quite real commercial advantages. to encourage social partnership, maintain favorable social Use of new platforms of social software within climate among working employees and to ensure efficient the plant allowed the corporate information activity information exchange between the enterprise’s management factor users not only to increase use of the information, and its employees. Acting in accordance with the principles but have a possibility to comment, get the feedback, create of the UN Global Compact, RUE “BMZ” provides free an educational social network where specialists discuss access to any data, which is limited only by legislation important issues, council, and train recruits, create requirements. For the purposes of efficient performance, documents, and suggest ideas. 785 630 509 514 380 298 Диаграмма: 55 38 44 52 72 72 39 22 8 16 10 Активность 0 персонала. Обратная связь 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Прямая линия Сигнал Обращения персонала 46 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Owing to the activity of the staff, the so called During the year, research fields in terms of plant’s employees’ information resource (content) is formed on the corporate opinions were identified as follows: general social and web-site which is the basic element of the corporate social psychological climate within the enterprise; work of the network and of the knowledge management system. plant’s canteens, satisfaction of the staff with attitudes of employees towards the conditions, nature and scope of The site represents over 24 000 materials of technical, works, their satisfaction with normative, and housekeeping information. the working environment, as well as evaluation of On the average,3 515 people visit the system every day. the level of readiness to maintain order and cleanness «Info-BMZ» is a platform for carrying out on-line social of workplaces, provision of the production with a polls among the plant’s employees which considerably trained management reserve, attitude of young specialists enhance the efficiency of the information acquisition towards their working activity at the enterprise, towards and its results output. implementation of the plant’s youth program, towards their personal development and professional growth The enterprise’s development level includes not only perspectives; promotion opportunities, employees’ career analysis of its financial, economic and production aspirations, satisfaction with the wage system and reward indices, but also the outcome of social studies, which schemes existing at the plant. The research activities also make it possible to obtain a realistic picture of the social covered issues, such as satisfaction of BMZ employees with and psychological climate and working environments healthcare services provided by the plant and are part and parcel of self-consistent internal and the quality of the latter, and provided recommendations communications. Knowledge of the psychological on some improvements to be made background existing within the enterprise is of essential in connection with healthcare activities, etc significance when it comes to the need for no-conflict An important role in the internal and external upgrading activities. communication system is attributed to the corporate newspaper “Metallurg.” Its main tasks include ensuring a comprehensive representation of events and activities within Internal communication structure the enterprise and consolidation of the staff working at RUE “BMZ” for the purpose of achieving objectives set for R the plant. Events and activities on both the in-plant and regional scales are represented egular enquiries conducted in plant’s divisions make in such columns as “Firsthand”, “Providing for production”, it possible to obtain data on social well-being “People we are proud of ”, “In public organization”, “Best of its employees, levels of satisfaction with the working in profession”, “Our perspective”, “Attention to people”, environment and utilities within the frames of “The plant youth”, “International Cooperation, “Labour the production process as well as information on protection”, “In the country” and others. The fist issue the social and psychological climate. Results of the above of “Metallurg” was published in 1985 with circulation of enquiries are taken into consideration when developing 2000 copies. At present, its printing office increased the social programmes, projects and identifying actions circulation to over 9 500 copies, which means that almost to improve employees’ working environment every single family of specialists employed at RUE “BMZ” is and living conditions and when taking managerial decisions able to get its own copy of the newspaper. The distribution concerning both employees’ interests area for the newspaper covers not only the plant’s and interests of the enterprise in whole production region, but also Rogachyov and Svetlogorsk districts. Among its readers one can mention the plant’s Диаграмма: 0,61 0,61 0,65 0,68 0,71 0,68 0,62 0,63 0,65 0,69 0,67 0,65 0,66 0,68 0,61 0,69 0,67 0,67 0,87 0,85 0,86 0,88 0,86 0,85 Удовлетворённость условиями санитарно-гигиенические условия техническая оснащенность уровень механизации труда график и режим работы труда 2007г 2008г. 2009г. 2010 2011 2012г.(целевой показатель) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 47 Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties CMS analysis Top management In-plant orders (instructions) IID Days for reception Conferences, meetings CMS orders on personal issues (instructions) Intercom telephony QMD Informative meetings DEP&OC Unified information day OSD, ISD “Metallurg” newspaper Heads of divisions “Direct line” Info-BMZ web-site E-mail Internet Information stands Схема: Структура “Signal” and “Attention: people!” systems внутренних коммуникаций РУП «БМЗ» в Divisions’ employees 2011 году. old-timers. For their benefit, the plant’s trade union • “About activity of the primary organization committee takes out, at its own cost, an annual subscription of the republican public association “Belaya Rus”; for the newspaper. News about events at RUE “BMZ” and about its market December 28, 2011 “Metallurg” was issued with the topic standing were highlighted real-time on the plant’s webpages “Corporate environment” describing the life site, in district, regional and republican periodicals, such of the enterprises included in the production association as “Novyi Den”, “Gomelskaya Pravda”, “Znamia Yunosti”, “Byelorussian Steel Works”. They are issued every month. “Respublika”, etc. The editorial staff includes a TV-news team. Every week, Communication functions are also maintained by local town TV channel “Nyuans” broadcasts “BMZ News” the plant’s museum, active since 1999, which is intended program. Some stories about Byelorussian Steel Works are for preservation of the enterprise’s historical and cultural also shown in “Region” TV program broadcast across the heritage and is actively engaged in vocational guidance whole Gomel region. activities, bringing up of the younger generation to stay loyal to the plant and passing on labour traditions In 2011 three newsletters were prepared and issued: of RUE “BMZ” to young specialists. • “Women Union: deeds and plans”; The museum has exhibits highlighting the plant’s history • “Realization of the state youth policy and narrating about people who used to work here and at Byelorussian Steel Works”; contributed to its development at various times as well 48 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS as about those who are still working for the labour glory support of the employees are worked out on the basis of the plant. The stories are illustrated by numerous of assessment of its indices and analysis of the state documents and photos scattered at stands. Much of this activity. Every year plant’s sociological service of the museum space is dedicated to awards, which carries out a complex study of the psychological the plant was honored with throughout the years atmosphere in the working teams of the divisions. More of its production and social activities than 1400 of participants of this study organized in 2011 highly estimated the level of awareness of the personnel In the museum, one can learn about all stages of BMZ (satisfaction index equaled to 0,76 against 0,73 in 2010). and region’s development. There are numerous biographical resources telling about famous people of the plant, specimen Based on the results of the district contest for the products, prizes and gifts. best organization of the information work in labour collectives Chairman of Zhlobin district executive Today the museum is a historical and cultural centre; committee L.N. Apanasyuk handed a diploma to the research and outreach activities carried out by the museum Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian Steel are also constantly improving. Major activities include Works» owing to high level of information support of the excursions, exhibitions and shows of films about the plant’s staff and inhabitants of the region in 2011. history. In 2011 more than 2500 people and 80 delegations visited the museum including gusts from Latvia, Russia, Ukraine and Japan. «…Minprom and Byelorussian Steel Works have the most close relations with the republican scientifica & technical library. By the way, in 2010 A key role both in human resources and internal scientific and technical library of BMZ won the first place in the Second communications development belongs to the plant’s republican contest of scientific and technical libraries of the country…» information and training centre – the scientific and technical library. R.N. Sukhorukova, director of the republican scientific and technical library The library is mainly intended for support of the enterprise’s research activities and providing the plant’s innovative activities with appropriate information resources, ensuring access of the plant’s employees to all kinds of information of public significance (legal, cultural), rendering information services to the plant’s employees, representatives of various communities and discussion groups. The scientific Participation in external initiatives and technical library of RUE “BMZ” has a reading and an Internet hall. The library stock comprises 37 768 issues. RUE «BMZ» has its representatives in various nationalscale organizations, including all levels of legislative So as to acquaint the employees with new arrivals bodies, which makes it possible for the plant to take part i the plant’s library organizes exhibitions, viewings, n lawmaking, influence the decisions related to «engineering hours». For quick information retrieval the regional economic development, establish open an electronic library “ELBI” is used which helps to any relationships with authorities, thus providing for a steady employee having access to the internal site “infoBMZ” to reduction of the risks associated with its activities. address to the data base covering over 80 thousand articles of 36 topic sections of different national and Economic, environmental and social charters joined by international magazines. Method of network technologies the plant are listed in section 8 of this report. is also used: a list of new technical books is not only To provide for interaction with international professional published in community and proper representation of its interest, the the newspaper “Metallurg” and on “infoBMZ’, but is plant became a member of the following associations: e-mailed to the heads of the structural subdivisions and leading specialists of the plant. In 2011 a program of the –Byelorussian Association of Foundries and Steel Works; automatic of informational support of the plant’s library International Union of Steelmakers; was introduced. The library has close relations with the regional and republican scientific&technical libraries. International Union of Rollermen; From the very beginning of its activity the plant pays great –Quality Leaders Club of Central and Eastern European attention to the issues of communication development countries. and growth of the level of the staff awareness. Membership in the above organizations makes it possible Arrangements aimed at improvement of the informational for the plant to ensure a more efficient representation » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 49 Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties » of its interests on the global scale and to develop customers and suppliers; its business activities based on the global trends and strategic tasks. educational establishments BMZ deems it especially important to keep up an open positive dialogue with interested parties and, in its relations Interaction with the interested parties with those, it is guided by the principles of the Code I of Ethics. nterested parties are establishments and individuals Awareness of interested parties’ opinions and due account substantially influenced by the plant’s activities, whose for those contribute greatly to the plant’s stability. actions could produce a certain effect on the plant’s ability Striving for a more informed decision-making, RUE«BMZ» to ensure efficient implementation of its strategies receives feedback from its employees, the government, public and to achieve objectives set. authorities, public organizations, and communities. In 2011 BMZ corporate social responsibility is a systematic function the plant’s information services conducted a number within the complex scheme of social and economic relations, of social studies involving the plant’s employees and people which is effectively incorporated in the plant’s everyday living in the region of the plant’s production activities. activities and is performed by ensuring interaction Within the frames of public hearings arranged with an extensive number of interested parties. for the purposes of social reporting, there was a poll By providing for an efficient model of interaction conducted with participation of a large number with interested parties it is possible to ensure successful of interested parties (public authorities, suppliers implementation of plans, strategies and to achieve and customers, supervision agencies, public organizations any objectives set. BMZ forms processes of interaction and representatives of communities). with interested parties according to the stages listed below: To provide for awareness of public opinions shared by people setting a strategic interaction task; living in the region of the plant’s direct influence in connection with the plant’s production identifying interaction parties; and social activities, its Corporate policy, ways it affects the surrounding communities and for a more efficient setting objectives and limits of interaction; interaction with interested parties, annual social study is conducted under the title “External influence exerted designing of processes and involving in interaction; by the enterprise on general public; town-scale image of the enterprise.” In 2011 representatives of public analyzing and planning; communities rated actions taken by the plant in social responsibility field quite high. The study results show that evolving competence to encourage interaction; the enterprise enjoys favorable and respectful attitudes in terms of its activities; it has succeeded in forming a high evaluating results, corrective actions and reporting; prestige value of being employed by the enterprise and a scaled-up social status of BMZ employees as viewed ensuring awareness of interaction parties. by other people living in the region. One of the indicators of a significance of the enterprise is growth of the number When identifying major interested parties, the plant of those who managed to visit the plant Besides, accounted for their ability to influence the activities the responses of the participants of the poll show that of RUE “BMZ.” The plant is engaged in interaction the most attractive factor of working at BMZ is a high with an extensive number of interested parties. Among salary, professional growth perspective and a social package. those, the parties listed below are considered to be of major significance: July 2, 2011 for the first time during the 27-year history public authorities; BMZ organized an open day: anyone who wished to visit the plant go an opportunity get acquainted with the history plant’s employees; and the production of the flagship Belarusian metallurgy. the trade union; One more major event of 2011 in terms of establishing interaction with interested parties was preparation people living in the region of BMZ production activities; and public discussion of the Corporate social report 50 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS External communication structure. for the year 2010. This event involved representatives Social safety and discipline of public authorities, local communities, the owner, T suppliers and customers, public organizations and mass media. o ensure economic safety and prevent corrupt The preparatory work in connection with the above report practices, the plant carries out its production and was an opportunity for the plant to check economic activities based on principles of responsibility and its system of interaction with stakeholders, made transparency. it possible to reveal its weaknesses and strengths and to identify perspectives for its further development. In accordance with the recognized international principles The report was presented to all interested parties of unhindered economic activities established by the UN of actual or prospective influence on BMZ activities Global Compact, RUE «BMZ» considers fair competition or development, which was an important step towards a prerequisite to provide for exercising of the right to enhanced information transparency. The Russian version entrepreneurial freedom. No legal sanctions have ever of the report was also made available on the corporate been imposed on the enterprise in connection with actions site (www.belsteel.com) and its English variant – violating the fair competition principle. on the UN Global Compact site. Public discussions In 2011 the plant continued to implement Directive No. 1 on the reported data arranged as public consultations dd. 11.03.2004 On Measures to Enhance Public Safety and provided for a proper feedback and awareness Discipline. It was not once that issues of labour of interested parties’ opinions related to the plant’s and administrative discipline and occupational safety were activities, its strategic intents and its social responsibility raised at administrative meetings, regular conferences system. and head of divisions made reports in connection therewith. Outcome of interaction with interested parties, key topics In 2011, the total number of such issues considered and concerns together with respective response by various amounted to 12. In pursuance of Directive No. 1, indices of organizations can be found in sections 9.3, 9.4 and 9.5. labour and administrative discipline and occupational safety were included into the list of criteria used for evaluation of the management efficiency. Violation of the above criteria is strictly punished, up to early termination of labour contracts SOCIAL REPORT 2011 51 Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties «It is an open day today. The aim of this A complex of measures are taken to prevent corruption event is show the citizens of Zhlobin and delinquency in all divisions: a closer control area what Byelorussian Steel Works is. For the youngsters it is a good of consumption of inventory holdings is kept, unplanned possibility to see where their parents random stock-taking of assets is carried out, information and grandparents work. We hope that you will better understand what of the organs of domestic affairs regarding financial the background of BMZ brand is”. investigations as well as facts of corruption crimes committed by the plant’s employees submitted by the public A.M. Savianok, General Director of Republican Unitary Enterprise prosecutor’s office is studied. “Byelorussian Steel Works” Implementation of the Program is monitored by the committee for prevention of corrupt practices, which held 4 meetings in 2011. » Guided by the Directive on Measures to Enhance Public Open dialogue, transparency, partnership and mutual Safety and Discipline, the law of the Republic of Belarus consideration of interests of all concerned parties made on Corrupt Practices Counteractions and in support of the it possible to prevent corrupt practices in the immediate principles of the UN Global Compact, the plant formed a business environment and inside the enterprise proper department intended for prevention of corrupt practices in the year 2011. No fines or sanctions were imposed and abuse, risk optimization in connection on the plant in connection with violation of laws with the selection of suppliers and customers of goods or statutory requirements in 2011. under severe competition observed at the trading markets, Ensuring fulfillment of the assumed obligations and preservation of the state-owned property managed to the investors, its employees, business partners, by the enterprise and the society in general, the plant strictly adheres The existing economic safety department excludes any to applicable legislation, civil regulations, business possibility of malpractice including corruption as regards Code of Ethics and pursues the principles of efficient new recruits and people working at RUE «BMZ» management, information transparency, financial discipline, More than 90% the safety department employees have legitimacy and ethicality. special higher education. During 2011 over 50% of the employees of the economic safety department were trained in policies and procedures related with human rights. Corruption counteraction program was elaborated and is functioning at BMZ. According to this program, continuous monitoring of the results of financial and business activity of the enterprise is fulfilled, local normative acts regulating the procedure of preparation tender documents and selection of suppliers are updated. So as to minimize business risks and fulfil control functions related with economic safety a pre-contractual inspection of legitimacy of potential contractors and agreements studied by the structural subdivisions of the plant “It is necessary to exclude formalism from the work aimed against corruption; it is important to ensure systemacy, purposefulness and reliable coordination of anticorruption measures». V.A. Prima, Deputy Minister of Industry of the Republic of Belarus 52 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Effectiveness indices in the field of social responsibility Corporate social responsibility T he plant regards corporate social responsibility as the total of obligations and decisions taken with participation of interested parties, which are aimed at implementation of internal and external programmes “Social policy is a priority of our enterprise. The policy of the existing management is directed towards creation of favourable social and personal conditions directly to contribute to the plant ’s development and scale its at work places and at their homes”. status up. A.M. Savianok, General Director of Republican Unitary Social responsibility covers a wide range of actions Enterprise “Byelorussian Steel Works” taken by the plant in the economic, social and ecological fields and provides for a responsible business conduct, which ensures its sustainable compliance with legislation and statutory norms development with due account for expectations of the Republic of Belarus; of all interested parties. The plant considers introduction of corporate responsibility principles into enhancement of business processes efficiency its business practice to be an essential prerequisite and investment attractiveness of the plant; for efficient management. Decisions concerned with social responsibility can be made at each enhancement of the plant's reputation and confidence of the management levels. Production and economic in it; decisions are taken in the context of social and ecological consequences both for the plant ensuring ecological as well as occupational and the other interested parties. and health safety in regions of active production; Corporate social responsibility is one of the most minimizing financial and non-financial risks, enhancing important principles RUE “BMZ” relies on in its competitiveness of the plant ’s production; activities. Measures taken by the plant in this field are of regular character and are intended for establishing implementation of social and charity initiatives; a safe and efficient working environment, ensuring professional development of its employees, providing providing for positive cooperation with all interested support for sports and culture facilities, environmental parties (stakeholders); protection and regional development. availability of information, open dialogues In the field of social responsibility, plant's activities are and transparency. based on the following approaches: Actions which RUE “BMZ” undertakes in the economic, ecological and social fields as well as interaction with internal and external interested parties and measures taken to ensure their awareness of the plant ’s performance are the key fields of corporate social responsibility implementation. Corporate social responsibility concepts for economic, ecological and social activities are governed by the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, branch and corporate regulations, international standards ISO 9000, ISO 14000, OHSAS 18000, SA 8000 series and stipulate the need for evaluation and analysis of the plant ’s effectiveness SOCIAL REPORT 2011 53 Economic activity T he plant’s strategic objective in its economic activities Financial-economic activity I is to provide for as much stability and efficiency of development as possible and to achieve high financial results, at the same time ensuring a reasonable balance n 2011 healthy proportions of the plant development of interests of all parties concerned and satisfying social were settled: profit growth rate exceeded the proceeds and economic needs of civil and business communities growth rate and costs growth rate, thus Byelorussian in the regions of its active production. Steel Works increased its potential and reached a new qualitative level of development. The plant believes social responsibility to be an integral part of its business strategy and corporate ethics, The plant developed a comprehensive program of measures with the latter based on the principles of decency, justice aimed at stabilization and development of the production. and honesty implemented in relations with its partners Strict control of fulfillment of the program on all and competitors. levels gave positive results. In general, in 2011 saving in the amount of USD49,9 mln was received It was due In its economic activity, RUE “BMZ” relies on the RB to production capacity increase and improvement of the legislation, stability and production development factors, technological processes as well as due to fulfillment of economic feasibility as well as its responsibilities assumed power-saving measures and decrease of total production before the owner, investors, employees and business costs and general economic costs. partners, local communities and other interested parties. To obtain a substantiated expert opinion concerning the Economic development of the plant is understood representation of the results of financial accountability, as ensuring increased profitability by ramping up an international independent auditing company carries out manufacture of high-technology products as required audits at RUE “BMZ” in accordance with the requirements by the strategy and enhanced production efficiency. of the International finance reporting standards (IFRS). In its economic activity, the plant implements approaches Top management is informed about production and as follows: financial-economic activity by means of monthly summary reviews, economic councils, and analytical reporting compliance with the legislation and statutory norms of the Republic of Belarus; For the purposes of communication development and expanding opportunities of interaction with the interested involvement of all production segments and business parties, employees’ professional advancement and exchange process participants; of experience, RUE “BMZ” arranges annual international scientific conference “Metal.” Apart from participants from complete and reliable disclosure of the plant’s the CIS countries, the “Economics and Finance” section performance information; of the conference includes specialists from the plant’s financial, economic and marketing departments. During enhanced responsibility; the conference, its participants make reports on current issues and exchange their experience in implementation of ensuring the best possible expenditure/economic strategic objectives and introduction of recent engineering performance ratio; solutions in the field of stable production development and corporate social responsibility. maintaining the plant’s interests in reasonable balance with those of the community. An overall increase in production rates, operational Economical effectiveness intensity and production quality, technical sophistication S of the production processes, and speed up decision-making set up enhanced requirements regarding the employees irrespective of their departments. The plant’s commercial tabilization of the global economy in 2011, increase team is composed of skilled, highly qualified specialists of business activity on the international markets and having a higher education. They are regularly trained purposeful activity of the enterprise aimed at production in policies and procedures connected with the issues of process optimization, saving of resources, revision of sales production efficiency and business processes effectiveness. strategy had a positive effect on the balance 54 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS of the resultant performance. Besides steel price growth In 2011 RUE “BMZ” sponsored its daughter company rate in 2011 left behind product unit cost growth rate. RDUAE «Paporotnoe», RAUCE «Metallurgstroi», Belarusian Technical University, SUA “Academy of post In 2011 proceeds growth was mainly effected by graduate education” and other organizations of the devaluation of the national currency, as volume of Republic of Belarus in the amount of USD 6,1 million. product sales in the accounting period grew by 79 918 Besides, financial assistance in the amount of USD 9,6 tons and this made conditional growth of proceeds by million was rendered for sport development (hockey 29,9 %. and volley-ball clubs, UE “Belarusian biathlon club”. In 2011 the enterprise effected all required payments to its In 2011 net profit was the utmost as compared with the employees in the amount of USD 12,0 million including previous year. The plant policy was directed towards payments for labour products, as well as compensation, effective use of all production resources, decrease of motivational and social ones in the amount of 7,0 USD costs and growth of profitability which in general helped million. to increase the source of own assets. 17% Economic effect is expressed in growth of proceeds На финансирование капитальных вложений due to higher prices by changing the structure of Спонсорская,благотворитель ная помощь production towards growth of downstream products and 25% improvement of the product quality and the enterprise Налоги из прибыли и иные decreased costs and time of reconstruction, decrease обязательные платежи 41% accounts payable and indebtedness to banks without На пополнение собственных оборотных средств attraction of extra loan facilities thus it did not distract circulating assets from its current activity. 17% На социальную сферу и нужды коллектива Main indicators P Использование прибыли за 2010 год roduction rate growth in comparable prices based on 2011 operation results was 105,3%. Marketable 6% 18% product sales proceeds made up USD 2052,0 million which is 36,7% higher than in 2010. 28% Self cost of the products, works and services sold grew by 19,6% and equaled to USD 1 685,2 million. This is connected with the growth of steel product output in established prices. 41% Profit 7% Sales proceeds in 2011 made up USD 367,1 million, which is 4 times more than the level of 2010. Cost-efficiency of Использование sold products equaled to 21,8%, which is 15,3% higher прибыли за 2011 год than the level of 2010. 2027 2040 Net profit of RUE “BMZ” in 2011 was USD 179,0 million which is 9 times higher than the level of the net profit in 1418 1567 2010. Net returns on sales grew from 1,3% in 2010 to 8,7 1126 % in 2011. Profit allocation for 2010 and 2011 is given in the diagrams. 2007 2007 2009 2010 2011 SOCIAL REPORT 2011 55 Economic activity «According to mutual agreement solutions in the production activities ensure enhanced Byelorussian Steel Works transferred BRB 3 billion to the district budget efficiency and sustainability of the implemented projects ahead of schedule which made it against probable contingencies, while availability of possible to effect timely payments for annual holiday campaign of the invested funds makes it possible to minimize any financial teachers of the town and villages» risks. A.I. Makeev, Head of the finance department of To mitigate and account for probable risk effects in Zhlobin district executive committee business-plans, the plant carries out multivariant calculations to identify projects’ financial performance and efficiency indices against various variable factors (capital input amounts, selling price for products, manufacturing costs, debt-to-equity ratios). Results of the cost efficiency evaluation given in the Payment to the owner project were calculated for the basic pricing conditions, I effective at the time of business plan validation. However, as projects proceed to subsequent stages of n compliance with the existing law the enterprise implementation, these pricing conditions could be changing transferred a part of its profit (dividends) in the amount due to global economic changes. Based on the above, it of USD 7,0 million to the state budget. was important and essential to carry out a reliability (sensitivity) analysis, providing for evaluation of possible Taxes and compulsory payments effects on project efficiency due to variations of external factors and identification of acceptable and critical RUE “BMZ” is a responsible taxpayer and provides for scopes of changes. consolidation of the state’s financial foundation by regular tax payments made into budgets of various levels. When carrying out the sensitivity analysis, possible Timely and correct tax payment by the plant in favour of changes in the following factors of major influence on the state determine economic stability in the region of its economic indices were considered: active production activity and in particular opportunities of infrastructure development by regional and local – selling price as a factor which is most susceptible to authorities. Tax payments influence the economy of the changes due to metal market variations; region significantly because RUE “BMZ” tax payments are a key source of the local budget formation: portion of the – production costs, which depend on prices for melting plant makes up 36,0% of all revenues and RUE “BMZ” stock, energy resources and other materials and services share of the regional budget is 60,5% essential for the production processes; The total share of taxes and profit-based levies in 2011 – investment amounts which largely depend on was 44,9%, and, as compared with 2010 the above share contractual prices for equipment; increased by 0,7 per cent. – debt-to-equity ratio. Enterprise’s risks The sensitivity analysis included evaluations concerned Investment risks with the ways in which the above factors influence the two major efficiency indices – simple pay-back period and Any project implementation is associated with certain internal rate of return. organizational, technological and financial risks However, investment projects launched by RUE “BMZ” are implemented at an operating enterprise which has Branch risks sufficient experience in use of the process equipment and construction of new production facilities. That’s why Metallurgic industry is distinguished by its susceptibility organizational, technical and technological risks are to cyclic variations of prices for raw materials and of little significance in this case. High qualifications steel. Demand for steel is determined by country-specific of the enterprise’s employees, application of modern levels of economic development and consumption by technological, organizational and administrative major steel-consuming industries. Variations in prices 56 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS for raw materials are of significant influence on the «During my visit I got evidence that RUE “BMZ” financial-economic state of Belarusian metallurgy as assets are directed to the right channel. We most of raw materials consumed by steel works are saw the results of these investments with our own eyes. I am sure that our cooperation imported. Recently, steel pricing trends have been rather will certainly continue if future» unfavorable. That’s why potential metallurgy-inherent risks due to cyclic price reductions are still present. At Rudolf Kirchmeier, the same time, world’s market prices for primary raw General Director of FIS Finanse&Investment Servies GesmbH materials and consumables used by the plant, namely for scrap metal, cast iron and ferroalloys, are exhibiting a growth trend. Reduction of prices for metal products with simultaneous increase in prices for raw materials significantly affects the enterprise’s operational activities and its financial performance rather limited alternative opportunities for steel raw Along with the price variations, metallurgy, on a global material supplies. Lately, metallurgic enterprises are scale, faces risks of excessive production capacities. more and more actively engaging in modernization of the Currently, a bunch of new large enterprises appeared equipment installed at the enterprises of their scrap metal all around the world, while a great number of leading suppliers and in activities in connection with take -over of producers have plans for a substantial expansion of their the most efficient scrap producing companies production capacities, particularly, those associated with manufacture of reinforcing bars. With a view to So, it is possible to minimize the above risks by developing advances in steel production technologies and transition a scrap-producing network of one’s own. Branch risk from blast-furnace and open-hearth furnace melting of management should be based on establishing longcast irons and steels to electric furnace melting, giving term and mutually beneficial relations with major steels of enhanced quality, scrap metal acquires still suppliers and optimization of procurement and resource more significance. Alongside with that, resource-saving management processes. technologies introduced at industrial enterprises result in relatively reduced scrap production rates in developed The fact that metal production is partly intended for countries with simultaneous growth of demand for in-country supplies, where prices are regulated by the unused metal. Consequently, Europe is experiencing state, accounts for respective risks, which, just like at an unsatisfied demand for metallurgic raw materials, foreign markets, are associated with possible negative such as scrap metal. The planned metallurgic industry effects due to price variations. And this could produce a expansion (increases in melting capacities at the already certain effect on the enterprise’s activities. However, with existing plants, construction of new enterprises equipped a view to gradual transition to the market-controlled with electric furnaces), first of all, in the European part price setting observed in the republic, it is possible to of the Russian Federation, aggravate the situation even consider this risk as negligible. more and could result in total termination of scrap metal supplies from the Russian Federation. Besides, supplies of this kind of raw materials in most countries are either substantially monopolized (in Belarus, for Country and regional risks instance, these activities are represented by a single enterprise – Belvtormet) or under a stringent state Production and business activities of RUE “BMZ” are control (licensing of activities, setting export quotas, largely dependant on cooperation with Russia. Such close export duties levied). As a result, consumers are rather interaction with a single independent region presents dependant on a limited group of scrap suppliers and (or) certain risks associated with differences in legislation and bound by certain geographical limits of scrap-supplying regulatory framework, which could affect sustainable regions. development of the enterprise. The perspectives of a common customs space and further economic integration By consolidating, manufacturers of metal products will make it possible in time to consider such risks as provide for a reduction of risks associated with market negligible. environments, however, for Belarusian enterprises the said risks still present a certain hazard. Concentration Besides, geographical position of the Republic of Belarus of mining companies and take -over of scrap-producing will contribute to minimization of regional economic enterprises by metallurgic companies can result in an risks and possible effects on the enterprise’s activities additional increase in prices for raw materials with » resulting from them. Priorities will include flexible supply SOCIAL REPORT 2011 57 Economic activity We have been cooperating with RUE “BMZ” for more protection, industrial and fire safety and environmental than 10 years and I would like to underline that protection. during this period both parties haven’t breached their Ecological requirements include compulsory payments obligations a single time. Their obligations have been always fulfilled precisely and in due time. That is why for air and land pollution and installation we are proud to say about these partnership relations and modernization of special pollution-control equipment. on the global market”. Should any critical concentrations set for industrial wastes be exceeded, the enterprise will have to pay fines. Rudolf Kirchmeier, General Director of FIS Finanse&Investment Servies Possible reinforcement of environmental regulations GesmbH and lowering of critical pollutant concentrations could result in increased amounts of obligatory payments and fines stipulated for violations of law. » geography, ensuring prompt response to the environment’s challenges and protection against possible regional crises. Winter supplies of major raw materials can be affected by weather conditions. To minimize risks associated with interrupted raw materials supplies, it is essential to provide for availability of “winter buffer” reserves of such raw materials Legal risks Notwithstanding the state-implemented policy aimed at reduction of tax burden assumed by economic entities of the Republic of Belarus, legal provisions on taxes and duties are constantly changing. Every year, an entirely new package of tax regulations comes into force and the previous regulations are amended. At that, the amendments are partly for the benefit of taxpayers and partly – to their disadvantage. Similar situation is observed in the field of tax administration. However, taken the state’s aspiration to ensure a sustainable growth of production rates and the stable political situation, a significant increase in the enterprise’s total tax burden in the near future is highly improbable. Also, one could consider as negligible those risks which are associated with changes in the regulatory framework as related to customs control. But there are certain risks associated with customs regulations and duties in those countries of the enterprise’s exports. Industrial safety, labour protection and ecological risks We are aware that metallurgy is a potential hazard to the environment and people, as such production activities involve high-temperature processes, invasive chemicals, volatile by-product emissions and require special arrangements in connection with disposal of solid and liquid industrial waste. Due to the above, metallurgic enterprises have to provide for strict compliance with rather stringent regulations with regard to labour 58 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 Economic activity »D ecember 20, 2011 an agreement on establishment For further promotion of the plant steel onto global of BMZ –TUBULARS, a joint-venture for OCTG pipes markets, acquaintance of potential buyers with new types finishing was signed by BMZ, Duferco S.A. and Piseс of products of our enterprise, it actively participates Group GmbH. This project will allow the plant in advertising and exhibition activity, takes part in to further process pipe products and master the international and national specialized exhibitions and production of a high-tech product of a principally new fairs where talks are held with the largest traders of quality. It will give us the possibility to expand the steel market , with new partners in product supplies our sales markets, receive additional proceeds by selling and questions related with the possibility to produce pipe products with a bigger added value and in general new products, make changes in the production process to increase the pipe mill output. of some types of products for a certain customer are considered. Beside trade firms and joint-ventures BMZ steel products were delivered under agreements with end users via such large transnational corporations as: STEMCOR, Duferco, Dr. Karl J. Pisec, Arkas Trading Medium-term targets of the plant I Limited, BGH Edelstahl Freital GmbH, F.J. ELSNER TRADING GmbH, ISSA TRADING COMPANY Demco Steel Industries S.A.L.(Demirdjian Bros), JSC LIEPAJAS n accordance with the investment program for 2012 METALURGS, RMZ Vertriebsgesellschaft m.b.H., IRON and the business-plan for the development BRIDGE OY., which have their own diversified network of the plant for 2012 the total amount of capital of steel warehouses in different countries investment (investments in the capital assets) in 2012 will of the world. Beside deliveries of BMZ products make up USD 94,1 million, including investments a significant advantage of partnership relations is at the expense of : the possibility to attract these corporations own sources – USD 40,2 million; as guarantors of loans granted by foreign banks. innovation fund – USD 14,9 million; To a considerable degree successful promotion of our goods onto new markets was supported by BMZ image as bank loans – USD 50,9 million. an enterprise selling only high quality products. Taking into consideration the investments planned, Steel quality won a worldwide recognition. This is production output growth in comparable prices in 2012 г a great success of the employees of the enterprise. Steel will be at the level of 102,0 per cent. Rates of other main products, namely reinforcing bars, are one of the best indices of social and economic development are planned to in the world. Tire cord is our special pride. This type of be as follows: produce is known by all tire producing companies of the sales profitability, minimum – 12,3% world such as Continental, Michelin, Pirelli, Goodyear, Dunlop, Nokian, etc. The plant established excellent specific weight of the innovative product shipped in the relations with enterprises in Belarus and CIS countries. total amount – 20,5% Rolled sections became permanent materials used by engineering and construction enterprises of Moscow, Decrease of the material Smolensk, Bryansk and other regions of the Russian consumption level – minus» 2,0 % Federation. Tire plants of Yaroslavl, Nizhnekamsk, Omsk, Voronezh, Kirov, and the Ukraine are included in the Power saving performance – minus 5,0% list of BMZ regular customers. Since 1998 RUE “BMZ” has been one of the leading suppliers of hose wire on the Decrease of the production costs level – minus 0,1% European market. Export of products as compared with the level of 2011, minimum – 111,2% As a producer of ferrous metals BMZ occupies a niche Balance of the global steel consumption equal to sixteenth of foreign trade, minimum – USD 697 hundredth per cent which makes up 280 kg per one citizen 640,0 thousand of the Republic of Belarus per year; while 210 kg of the global steel consumption fall on one inhabitant of the Ratio of the product export to the production output, Earth. minimum – 82,7% 60 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Ecological activity SOCIAL REPORT 2011 61 Ecological activity Ecological policy Main principles and approaches T he plant realizes that its production activities are associated with certain environmental hazards L ong-term strategic objectives determined by the plant for ecological and environmental activities include: and takes its best efforts so as to mitigate negative • minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s vital influences on people’s health. RUE “BMZ” takes certain activities; steps to reduce environmental impacts and mitigate global climate change risks. These steps are a part • minimizing the plant’s impact on flora and fauna; of strategy intended to provide for a sustainable dynamics of the plant’s development. The enterprise is engaged • efficient use of natural resources; in a large-scale equipment and process modernization, paying particular attention to the enhanced ecological • efficient use of energy resources; requirements, which enables the plant to reduce pollutant air emissions and waste quantities generated. • air basin protection; Byelorussian Steel Works is a state-owned enterprise, • water basin protection; which relies on one of the priority state policy strands in its activities – that of ecological safety. Implementation • industrial waste utilization; of the state policy is ensured by an efficient Environmental Management System (the EMS). The EMS is a part • training; of the unified enterprise management system, which is responsible for working out a systematic approach • improvement of the personnel’s ecological culture to environmental protection within entire production and development of ecological consciousness; activities of the plant and is integrated into quality management, labour safety and social responsibility • development and implementation of resource-saving, processes. The EMS is a tool, enabling the enterprise low-waste and environmentally safe technologies; to ensure regular monitoring and minimize ecological impacts associated with production activities in the region • monitoring of emissions, hazardous wastes of its location. and qualification testing of work places; Within the frames of the current Environmental • compliance with ecological standards and requirements Management System, the enterprise identified a number in design and production, construction, reconstruction of ecological factors of environmental influence and process facilities expansion; and evaluated them by their significance. To minimize environmental impacts connected with the production • incident alertness. activities of RUE “BMZ”, the enterprise annually introduces new environmental protection measures aimed In its ecological activities, the plant relies at reducing development pressures on the environment on the following: Efficiency of the ecological management system adopted compliance with the legislation and statutory norms by RUE “BMZ” is ensured with the assistance and under of the Republic of Belarus; guidance of the top management. Official managerial views on ecological and environmental issues are presented involvement of all business process segments in the enterprise’s Corporate Policy and other regulatory and participants; documentation of the corporate management system. EMS upgrading; BMZ intends to increase the share of products complying with the quality management system standards, provide its minimizing impacts in connection with expanding production with ecological quality and safety data and production activities; appropriate marking. complete and reliable disclosures of the plant’s performance information; 62 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Map of Zhlobin area Gomel region responsibility enhancement; Implementation of ecological strategy providing for optimal expenditure/performance ratios; Minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s vital activities maintaining reasonable balance between the plant’s interests and those of the community. In its production activities, RUE “BMZ” accounts for its environmental impact and strives for minimization The EMS system adopted by RUE «BMZ» was certified of its consequences as stipulated by international legal for compliance with requirements of ISО 14001:2004, provisions on ecology and the environmental legislation STB ISO 14001-2005 standards and covers activities, of the Republic of Belarus.For the purposes of minimizing such as production of rolled sections and structural its impact on the region's population, the plant was shapes, wire rod, seamless pipes, steel cord, wire and steel located in the south-eastern part of the city with due fiber, which is the evidence of the systematic approach account for wind rose diagram. The established sanitary implemented to reduce ecological risk probability, zone has the radius of 1000 m and its area together with minimize ecological payments, represent RUE «BMZ» the adjacent industrial site makes up 674.1 ha. At that, as an ecologically responsible enterprise and improve 55% of the areas between the enterprise’s territorial interaction with the interested parties on issues of borders and those of the sanitary zone are taken up ensuring compliance with ecological norms and by cultivated coniferous and hardwood forests requirements. and scrub vegetation. The nearest settlement (the village of Solonoye) is 1.75 km away from the enterprise’s Except the currently effective approved medium-term territorial borders. Residential houses and living quarters ecological programmes, the plant provides for annual of Zhlobin are 3-3.5 km away from the plant. development and approval by respective supervision The industrial site is located on plain surface lands, authorities of ecological control programmes and neutral in terms of smoke contents and spread of smoke environmental protection plans, which, among other jets towards residential areas. Every year, the plant things, envisage regular ecological monitoring and carries out certain actions to ensure air and water basin control activities in accordance with the Instruction on protection and reduction of land-buried industrial wastes. Environmental Control of Production. Use of natural resources and environmental protection at the enterprise are managed by administrative control actions and economic methods. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 63 Ecological activity Minimizing the plant's impact on flora and fauna – Meadow vegetation of the terraces above the flood plain. In the structure of the lignose of the lands of the forest resources of the region conifers occupy around 70%, Ruderal vegetation near the area of ash and slag softwood – 27%, hardwood – 3 %. Dominating position storage, concrete scrap storage, open pit, and other belongs to the plantations of natural origin – 56,3 %. affected habitats formed in the result of the human Main forest-forming breed in the region is a pine-tree activity. It is necessary to point out sagebrush (68,5% forest-covered lands). As for the age structure, (Artemisiavulgaris), white clover (Trifoliumrepens), and medium-aged timber-stand prevail (49,2%). Young couch-grass (Elytrigiarepens) among the ruderal types. growth make up 34,4 per cent. – Fauna Resources of grassland plantations are rather big. The region belongs to Polesko-Berezinsky region rich of Description of the fauna of the territory concerned is meadows, and a part of which is represented by a low given based on literary data. wavy plain formed by a system of flat terraces located above the flood plain of the Berezina river and the According to the literary data insects are represented by Dnieper river. Cenosis is formed by sharp sedge which is a typical faunistic composition. often combined with manna grass (9,8 %), more seldom with mire blobs (4,8 %). Sometimes it forms clear tangle Amphibia on the territory under study are met everywhere of a monodominant type. in plentiful and are represented by three types: a brown frog (Ranatemporaria), a green toad (Bufoviridis) and a Mire vegetation can be met in low parts of the relief, common toad (Bufobufo). on the lands with a constant excessive humidification. Miscellaneous herbs mainly of the mesohydrophytic row (types: Calliergongiganteum, Drepanocladusintermedius, Drepanocladusvernicosus, Aulacomniumpalustre) predominate in the grass stand. The following types of vegetation dominate in the radius of approximately 2km from the plant ’s site: Silva of the territory concerned: lignose of both natural and cultural origin including forests of the lands belonging to the state forest resources, protection wood plantations along the railroad bed and motorroads. Woodlands belong to the subzone of conifer lichen low bush forests. On the forest-covered territory located to the north-east of the plant, such tree breeds as a Scotch pine (Pinus sylvestris), a common birch (Betula verrucosa) grow. The Scotch pines (Pinus sylvestris) and the black alders (Alnus glutinosa) grow in the northwest area and the Scotch pines (Pinus sylvestris) – in the south-west. – Segetal vegetation is developed on the agricultural lands, sowed hayfields to the south-east and to the east of the plant, in Solonoe area, and to the south-west of the plant between the woodland and the Dobysna river. – Residential vegetation is developed in human settlements, and in the areas with the apartment blocks and utility constructions. 64 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Sand lizards (Lacertaagilis) predominate among the species. A brown hare (Lepuseuropaeus), a common reptiles. fox (Vulpesvulpes), and a wild hog (Susscrofa) are met here. Species composition of the theriofauna is represented by a four-toed hedgehog a (Erinaceusconcolor), a pigmy Special protected natural territories of Zhlobin shrew (Sorexminutus), common shrew (Sorexaraneus), district are represented by a hydrological and a root vole (Microtusoeconomus), a common vole landscape preserves of local significance (Table (Microtusarvalis), and a campagnol (Apodemusagrarius). 4), and by natural monuments of local and republican significance. Avifauna of the surroundings of the territory under study is characterized by a small variety of There are no special protected natural territories species diversity. Main biotypes used by birds are open within the sanitary zone of the plant. The existing agricultural lands. Background types on agricultural ones are located approximately at the distance of lands are: a field lark (Alauda arvensis), a whinchat 12 km and more from the RUE «BMZ» site. (Saxicola rubetra), a whitethroat (Sylvia communis), a yellowhammer (Emberiza citrinella). On swampy territories one can run across a a common heron (Ardea cinerea). During spring migration few migrating types of birds cross the territory in transit. Autumn migration is less pronounced; birds do not form large clusters. Variety of mammals on this territory is not large and is not characterized by habitation of rear and protected SOCIAL REPORT 2011 65 Ecological activity Total area, Organization carrying from RUE Distance “BMZ”, km Name location operative administration Zhlobin and Rechitsa 2635 ha: Landscape reserve of republican District Executive 2060 – Zhlobin distric significance «Smychok» Committees within their 32 575– Rechitsa district authority Zhlobin and Svetlogorsk Landscape reserve of republican 17560 ha: 20 District Executive significance 7793 – Zhlobin district Committees within their «Vydritsa» 9767–Svetlogorsk district authority Krasnoberezhsky 55 ha, northern part of Radusha, Hydrological reserve of local agricultural enterprise 22 Zhlobin district and borders with significance «Dubovka» Volshedubsky canal 33 ha, located in the north-east part of Luvirnyansky forestry Hydrological reserve of local Zhlobin forestry enterprise along MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 12 significance «Aleksandrovsky the motor road Gomel-Zhlobin, Mokh»» 0,5 kilometers from Aleksandrovka settlement Hydrological reserve of local 31 ha, north-west part of Kosakovsky Kosakovsky agricultural 17 significance «Mokh» agricultural cooperative cooperative Hydrological reserve of local 100 ha,north-west part of significance «Roveki» Dvorishchanskoe forestry of the MFE MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 29 «Zhlobin Forestry» 223 ha, consists of two sectors and Hydrological reserve of local located in the north-west part MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 22 significance «Kanavnoye» of priberezinskoe forestry of the MFE and DUE «Yaznach» «Zhlobin Forestry» and AEB «Vperyod» Hydrological reserve of local 97 ha, southern part os Streshin significance «Orli» forestry of theMFE «Zhlobin Forestry» MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 34 Hydrological reserve of 54 ha,north-west part of local significance «Rugorova Dvorishchanskoye forestry of the MFE MFE «Zhlobin Forestry» 35 Table: Reserves Polyana» «Zhlobin Forestry» in Zhlobin district There are no hunting grounds in Zhlobin Forestry. site amounts to 51.5 ha. The plant’s premises proper are a sort of a green park. Within the framework of the program aimed at preservation At present, green spaces and lawns take up about 21% of natural resources of the country and upgrading the of the plant’s sites used for sporadic buildings. territory of the plant’s activity specialists of the plant grew For the most part, green spaces within the industrial and planted a lot of plants and fulfilled a large -scale site are represented by conifers and hardwood trees. amount of works to improve land during 2011: Besides, the plant’s premises include some flower beds. Total green space area within the industrial 66 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Item Work description Unit Quantity 1 Seeding, growing of seedlings, compiling of flower compositions and flower planting to improve the territory : annual pc. 78 000 biennial and perennial 5460 bulbous, rhizomatous and tuberous 1800 2 Growing of planting stock at nursery gardens for improvement of the plant territory: trees pc. 120 bushes pc. 200 3 Tree seedlings planted out on the plant's territory and at the headquarters pc. conifer seedlings pc. 21 hardwood seedlings pc. 22 4 Repair of lawns on the plant’s territory with all types of auxiliary work: current hа 0,65 overhaul hа 0,35 5 Arrangement of landscape flower compositions pc. 5 6 Flower seeds harvesting kg 3,73 Таble: Works to 7 Preparation of soil component mixtures for flower seedlings growing м3 6 improve land Total amount spent for upgrading the territory in 2011 equals to USD 32,65 thousand. Program fulfillment progress was regularly reported in the corporate newspaper “Metallurg” and regional mass media. To encourage and expand land improvement and amenity planting activities, to motivate the plant ’s employees, both morally and materially, to implement the Land Improvement Programme, to involve the personnel in activities connected with aesthetic improvement of the plant ’s appearance and that of the pre school establishments run by the plant, the enterprise arranged a land improvement competition among the plant's shops with bi-annually cast-ups. The competition involves more than 75% of the employees. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 67 Ecological activity Efficient use of natural resources Efficient use of energy resources Production of RUE “BMZ” is a complete metallurgic RUE “BMZ” adopts managerial and investment decisions cycle with annual outputs amounting to over 2 mln tons on the basis of multi-variant scenarios of development of liquid steel. taking into consideration environmental priorities providing for power saving, efficient use of natural Major raw materials used for steel production and power resources. in 2009-2011 were as lfollows In accordance with the Programme of the corporate Material Unit (т) management system development, RUE “BMZ” introduced 2009 2010 2011 the section “Power consumption control system” (PCCS) developed in conformity with the requirements 2 672 2 917 692 3 000 465 of the national (STB 1777-2010) and European Metal charge 873,5 (EN 160001) standards in 2010. The base for the development of the system approach is arranged Ferroalloys 30 573,4 36 374 38 072 on a clear documenting and control of interrelated processes significantly influencing the effectiveness 5078,5 5830 5133 of power consumption, in particular: Electrodes – motivation of the personnel; Slag-forming, deoxidizing and 133 769,4 161 391 171 276 – precise determination of key roles of the staff purifying mixtures in the management system; Carbonizers 27 699 31 217 34 335 –distribution of responsibility and authority starting with the top level; Heat insulating 2489,9 2204 2067 materials – maintaining of a corresponding level and competence of the staff ; Refractory 27 617,3 31 080 32 466 materials – provision of the staff awareness of the benefits including financial ones, which one can get if he/she BMZ used raw materials which were obtained from improves effectiveness of power consumption; recycled or reclaimed wastes. Share of recycled materials in the total amount of raw materials in 2009– effective information exchange; 2011 was as follows: – maximum complete inventory of factors influencing Quantity( %) power consumption; Material 2009 2010 2011 – determination of areas of priority significant for power consumption management; Ferrous scrap 90,1 95,9 95,7 – planning of activity aimed at improvement of power consumption efficiency. Refractory scrap 20,0 18,8 17,4 In accordance with the national strategy of energy Electrodes 0,4 0,02 0,2 saving and energy security, the plant developed an Energy Saving Action Plan, setting energy policy Lime stone and lime 0,8 0,7 0,7 priorities wastes and approaches. The Plan comprises: actions providing for a comprehensive energy saving system; 68 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS arrangements for employees’ training, So as to increase involvement of the staff retraining and advanced training on issues of energy in the processes of power and resource saving, RUE saving and efficient use of resources; “BMZ developed and uses the following: upgrading the system of equipment and production – Regulations of «RUE “BMZ” staff processes evaluation and analysis; competition for best ideas aimed at increase of power effectiveness of the production; implementing energy-saving procedures; – Regulations of «Competition for best introduction of modern advanced technologies; structural division of the plant form the viewpoint of power saving»; efficient use of existing power facilities; Regulations of «Awarding of the employees introduction of new scientific achievements to provide for power saving»; for efficient energy use. – active on-line «Power saving proposals» window Traditional energy-saving measures include: in the Info-BMZ information system. initiatives related with introduction of power29 projects were implemented in 2011. The following saving products and methods, use of renewable power projects can be attributed to the most important ones: sources, decrease of requirements in the result of the initiatives fulfilled; 1. Introduction of a round billet Ø200mm production in CCM-3 to be used for hot-rolled seamless saving of power due to conservation and pipe production excluding rerolling of blooms increase of consumption effectiveness; 300х400 mm in round Ø160mm in mill 850; use of thermal secondary power resources; 2. Introduction of a slag level control system at EAF -2.; initiatives aimed at decrease of indirect use, saving, etc. 3. Modernization of fine drawing machines with installation of FRD; 4. Installation of a power-saving compressed air Due to the introduction of an automatic system drying unit at the compressor station of RSB; of technical recording (ASTR), real-time monitoring of fuel and power resources (FPR) is carried out 5. Installation of an interim accumulating bunker with daily summing-up and corrective actions fulfillment. at EAF-2.; This form of control allows the plant to control power intensity effectively and carry out system specification 6. Introduction of a centralized control of technical actions. Actually, an innovative intellectual of the compressor facilities (1 stage). system is created. It uses ACS of PP, SAP R/3 and the plant ’s computer network. A number of measures Power saving based on the project implemented equals were taken to transform information technologies to 557 402GJ. from a tool to an actual scientific and technical resource to decrease expenses and as a result Use of secondary thermal resources in 2011 made up to collect extra gains. In 2011 the plant managed 20,6% in the balance of the boiler-furnace fuel. to preserve positive dynamics of reducing of FER specific consumption by the main power-consuming productions. Saving of FPR not only reduces financial load of the enterprise, but decreases negative impact of the Total amount of power resources saved in 2011 equaled enterprise’s activity on the natural environment. to 696 905 GJ (263 589 JJ in 2010). SOCIAL REPORT 2011 69 Ecological activity твердые вещества; остальные Unit ( т.у.т) 10% серы диоксид; 6% вещества; 1% Source азота диоксид; 13% 2010 2011 Natural gas 154 982 157 915 Table: Direct use of power from the primary sources in 2010-2011 оксид углерода; 70% Quantity Source Unit. Diagram: 2010 2011 Percentage of pollutants in gross emissions for 2011 MWt/h 1 923 799 1 976 566 Electric power (GJ) 6 925 676,4 7 115 637,6 Thermal energy GCal 238 247 231 443 Air basin protection S Table: Intermediate energy quantities obtained and consumed from non-renewable power sources in 2010-2011 ources of major negative environmental impacts at RUE “BMZ” are air emissions of pollutants. The enterprise operates 645 sources with permitted gross emissions of 6663,28 tpy. To minimize negative impacts, major emission sources with largest contributions Quantity are equipped with gas treatment plants, with their total Power resource Unit. number amounting to 117 pieces. 2010 2011 MWt/h 27 096 136 165 Vehicles owned by RUE “BMZ” include 124 units using Electric power various types of fuel out of which 76 vehicles run (GJ) 97 545,6 490 194 on diesel fuel,, 43 – on gasoline and 5 – on liquefied gas. Thou. m3 4 949,344 6 189 Natural gas Railroad transport includes 6 locomotives running GJ 166 043,1 206 710,7 on diesel fuel. Railway transportation is only within the enterprise’s Таble: premises; automotive vehicles are used for transportation Energy saved due to measures on consumption rates reduction and efficiency enhancement taken in 2010-2011 within the borders of the enterprise’s sanitary zone. In 2011 the plant was awarded the winner’s diploma of the 8th International contest of power-effective and resource -saving methods and equipment for a high level of the work presented for the contest, its actual implementation and a considerable economic effect; the department of power effectiveness of GOSSTANDART of the RB together with the project organizers awarded a special prize to RUE “BMZ” for removal of hindrances in improvement of power efficiency of the enterprises of the state sector of Belarus». 70 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Actual emissions, [t/year] Specific pollutant generation rates, Substance [kg/t of melted steel] 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Carbon monoxide 3239,167 3901,726 3755,731 1,37 1,4 1,4 Nitrogen dioxide 613,965 724,298 701,962 0,26 0,28 0,26 Sulfur dioxide 347,760 343,774 349,134 0,14 0,13 0,13 Solids 535,997 584,939 681,822 0,22 0,22 0,25 Total pollutants 4768,144 5589.168 5518,331 2,02 2,10 2,07 Transport vehicles run on AI 92, AI 95, N 80 lead-free gasoline, liquefied gas and diesel fuel with 0.005 per cent sulfur content Substance Unit 2009 2010 2011 Carbon monoxide т 524,544 488,848 542,833 Nitrogen dioxide т 121,822 113,388 131,195 Sulfur dioxide т 66,478 61,854 72,413 Hydrocarbons т 201,820 187,92 214,589 Soot т 49,629 46,176 54,130 Table. Benzpyrene т 0,00108 0,001 0,001 Air emissions of pollutants from mobile sources Total т 964,29408 898,187 1015,161 in 2010-2011 When analyzing air emissions of pollutants, it should be noted that gross air emission rates of pollutants from stationary sources dropped a little in 2011 as compared with the previous year 2010 (by 1,3% or 71 t). Emissions of pollutants from mobile sources grew by 11,5%, which is explained by the increase freight traffic within the plant’s industrial area. Being a major greenhouse gases emitter, the plant is constantly monitoring their air emission rates. In pursuance of the Montreal Protocol on Substances that Deplete the Ozone Layer,the plant continues its work aimed at stepwise decrease of use of substances listed in Annex C of the Protocol by 2020. The planned reduction results are expected to be achieved by 2020. RUE “BMZ” provides for compliance with the state requirements on reduction of consumption rates of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). ODS quantities used within the enterprise are constantly decreased. The ozone-depleting substances at RUE “BMZ” are handled as established in the license for the activities associated with the use of natural resources and environmental impacts, and, precisely, in the part where rules for handling of ozonedepleting substances are set out. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 71 Ecological activity Residuals in the ODS Collected for Reclaimed (recycled), beginning Purchased, kg reclamation, kg кg of the year, kg 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 R-22 0 95,2 42,5 272,0 0 108,8 52,7 52,7 83,0 95,2 42,5 68,3 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 R-12 R22-53% R-401А R153-13% 67,6 55,0 55,0 0 0 0 0 0 55,0 55,0 55,0 0 R12434% R-114В2 1117,1 709,1 686,1 0 0 0 23,0 23,0 612 709,1 686,1 74,1 Table. Data on ODS handling activities in 2009-2011 Year Description of ODS Fulfillment; results, reduction methods reason for non-fulfillment Consumption of R-22 decreased by 76.7% , 62 kg replaced by ozone-safe R407С Transfer of refrigeration 2009 equipment to alternative cold R-12 withdrawn from use, available in a filled state in some equipment, carriers 21,3 kg replaced by ozone-safe R-134А; replaced 9,6 kg of R-401А replaced by ozone-safe R-134А рConsumption of R-22 reduced by 93.0% , Transfer of refrigeration 441,64 kg replaced by ozone-safe R407С, R404А. 2010 equipment to alternative cold R-12 withdrawn from use, available in a filled state in some equipment, carriers 10,4 kgг replaced by ozone-safe R134А; R-401A 11 kg replaced by ozone-safe R134А Reduction of ODS in the Refrige232 kg ration equipment capacity transferred to use of ozone-safe operating equipment due to usage coolants instead of R22, of ozone -safe coolants, R12 -4,5 Instead of R12 – refrigeration equipment capacity 55 kg kg, R22-82 kg 2011 Decrease of ODS stock, R124 Residual amount of R124 as on 01.01.12 is -12 kg 0,0 kg (in the content of multicomponent coolant R401A), Stock of R124 decreased by 18,7 kg Table. Data on introduction of measures aimed at reduction of ODS use in 2009-2011 72 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The Republic of Belarus, being a participating party River water Drinking water 1% under the United Nations Framework Convention 0% on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol, provides Rainwater for fulfillment of its obligations stipulated by the above 0% international agreements. Actions implemented by the Byelorussian Steel Works to introduce energysaving technologies and materials and enhance efficiency of the production processes result in reduced air emissions of greenhouse gases. Circulating water 99% Decrease of harmful emissions into the air is ensured Diagram. due to implementation of investment projects directed Water consumption towards modernization and technical revamping, structure of the plant introduction of highly effective state -of-the -art equipment and methods. To reduce consumption of water drawn off from the Dnieper, the enterprise uses rainwater collected and RUE “BMZ” following the existing law and norms of the treated at special areas. international environmental law including international agreements and contracts ratified Description 2009 2010 2011 by the Republic of Belarus carries out continuous monitoring of the environmental condition in the territory of its production activity the main aim Process water, of which is protection of the health of the people living in this area and the plant employees. 944, 793 1 207,398 1730, 405 [thou. m3/year] Water basin protection З авод, осуществляя свою деятельность в сфере экологии, обеспечивает экономное расходование энергии и воды для собственных нужд, и, насколько возможно, сокращает их потребление. Drinking water consumption, [thou. m3/year] 657,0 717,0 692,0 Забор воды для технических нужд осуществляется Circulating water, из реки Днепр, которая является одной из главных рек на территории Республики Беларусь. Ее длина от истока 234 272 286 041, до устья составляет 1182 километра. Объем годового 791,569 625,884 191 [thou. m3/year] стока р. Днепр составляет 1 261 440 000 м3. Годовой объем забора воды РУП «БМЗ» составляет 0,12% речного стока. На предприятии реализована оборотная система водоснабжения основных потребителей — Rainwater use, технологического оборудования. Вода из поверхностных источников (река Днепр) 535,119 607,003 711,786 [thou. m3/year] используется для возмещения безвозвратных потерь в системах охлаждения оборудования. На хозяйственно-питьевые нужды используется питьевая вода из артезианских скважин. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 73 Ecological activity «The plant started to implement 65% the project of modernization of the dedusting units of EAF No.1 and No.3. We have no right to continue to increase the output 25% of the melt shops without realization of the project » 4% 6% A.M. Savianok, RUE “BMZ” General Director off-loaded; recycled; disposed; stored Diagram: Utilization of industrial wastes in 2011 Measures taken by the enterprise in 2011 to provide for efficient use of water resources resulted as follows: • increase of reclaimed water consumption – 13,415 thou. m3/ Off-loaded, t 674 998 year or 5%; • increase of rainwater consumption – 104,783 thou. m3/year Recycled, t 43 716 or 17%; • decrease of the use of water of drinking quality 25 thou. m3/ Disposed, t 60 311 year or 3,5%. Process effluents generated by the plant are discharged into Stored, t 260 584 treatment facilities located at the plant’s treatment divisions and returned into the production for further recycling. The plant’s utility fluids are drained off into the treatment During 2011 there were registered no spillages of chemicals, facilities maintained by the town of Zhlobin. Pollutant oils and fuels which could have an adverse effect contents (hard metals, oil products, salt content) in on the environment and present a potential hazard to the soil, the discharged fluids were within the established limit water, air, biodiversity and human health. concentrations. There are no water bodies significantly affected by the Production activities of RUE “BMZ” are associated production activities of RUE “BMZ.”. with generation of the following wastes, corresponding to wastes groups as set out in Basel Convention: Utilization of industrial wastes C Y1 Medical wastes resulting from patients’ care provided by hospitals, health centers and clinics; urrent technologies of metal production are inevitably associated with generation of various wastes which belong Y8 Waste mineral oils unsuitable for designated use; to different hazard classes. This is a major aspect contributing to environmental pollution. The plant provides for strict Y9 Waste oil (water) and hydrocarbon (water) based mixtures compliance with all requirements associated emulsions; with wastes utilization and disposal and seeks to limit pollutant discharges, ensure re -use of natural resources Y16 Wastes associated with the production, recovery and wastes reclamation. Depending on the hazard class and application of photo chemicals and consumables used of wastes and their physical properties, the enterprise defined for film development; stringent requirements on each of the industrial wastes utilization stages (generation, collection, transportation, Y17 Wastes generated from metal and plastic surface storage, handling and neutralization), minimizing possible machining; environmental impacts. Y31 Lead, lead compounds; Y34 Acid solutions and solid acids; Y36 Asbestos (powder and fibre). 74 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The listed wastes are utilized by the plant as stipulated by and in the whole region. The plant’s employees arrange the environmental legislation of the Republic lectures for youth and training activities on ecological of Belarus. Wastes of these groups were neither exported requirements and aspects for subcontracted personnel, nor imported. carrying out works on the enterprise’s premises. Within the framework of its production activities, To improve the communications system, expand RUE “BMZ” offers and implements initiatives intended opportunities of interaction among interested parties, for mitigation of its environmental impacts and damage ensure employees’ individual development and exchange of effects. Also, as the major raw material used for the experience, plant’s production is metal scrap, the enterprise is capable RUE «BMZ» annually holds international scientific to dispose of its production after it is no longer in active and «Metal» technical conference. Besides, participants use. from CIS countries the «Energy Industry and Ecology» section comprises specialists of the plant. During the Training conference, its participants present their reports on T topics of current interest and exchange their experience with regard to implementation o provide for an enhanced efficiency of its ecological of strategic objectives and introduction of recent activities the enterprise arranges training courses developments in the steadily expanding production areas on issues of environmental protection at all administrative and in the field levels. Employees’ vocational training is continuous of corporate social responsibility. and is effectively integrated into the daily labour activities throughout their career. It is aimed at gradual broadening Information about ecological activities of RUE «BMZ» and enhancing of professional knowledge and competence and those concerned with improvement of the in environmental and industrial sanitation issues. To ensure environmental management system is regularly published efficient environmental management in connection in the corporate and regional mass media and the with the production activities, the plant identified, republican «Casting and Metallurgy» and «Steel» trade documented and familiarized its employees with their journal. duties, responsibilities and powers. Training, retraining and advanced training activities arranged for managers, technicians and operational personnel on issues of ecological safety and environmental protection are as established in the annual vocational training plans and programs. To ensure compliance with the legal and other ecological requirements, the enterprise provided free access to the current legal reference system “Consultant Plus: Belarus Network” and information search systems, such as “Stroidocument” and “Standard for each of its employee.” For general data on the training activities see the “Social responsibility” section”. Improvement of ecological culture Maintaining its of the personnel productive activity RUE «BSW» suggests BMZ uses its employees’ knowledge and experience in and realizes initiatives in order ecological safety and healthcare issues to provide for to soften influence security of its products for and welfare of people living in the vicinity of the plant the environment SOCIAL REPORT 2011 75 Ecological activity »T o evaluate environmental impacts, the enterprise holds public Development and implementation hearings, inviting representatives of supervision authorities, general public and the plant’s employees to participate in them. of resource -saving, low-waste and The plant takes part in environmental actions and has initiated environmentally safe technologies such actions itself several times. The plant takes actual steps so as to provide for environmental To provide for a systemic approach to improvement of protection and by implementing environmentally safe employees' ecological culture the plant worked out and technologies as well. To mitigate environmental impacts implemented: RUE “BMZ” annually introduces new environmental actions. Under the ecological program for 2011 the plant provided – Provisions on tear tags and prevention of violations for the following: with regard to environmental protection and occupational sanitary, which are introduced to enhance preventive work on • installation of an automatic control system of air emissions precautionary, recommendatory and control functions for of pollutants from EAF No.2 of EMS-1. the purposes of environmental protection. Activities to prevent environmental law infringements are carried out with the use • start up of a complex modernization of the dedusting unit of notice tear tags; EAF No.1 of EMS-1. – Provisions on encouraging environmental activities. This • reconstruction of the drain water station V = 16 000 m3. regulatory document was introduced to motivate the plant’s employees to abide by the environmental requirements set •purchasing of new equipment for ODS handling and instruout in the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, the plant’s ments for ODS leak control, etc. ecological standards and other regulations and was intended for enhancement of violators’ responsibility and encouragement of the plant’s employees, engineers and technicians to provide for compliance with regulatory requirements. Total, BRB mln (at own costs) Current environmental expenses 2009 2010 2011 Total 42 730,8 58 909,1 111 995,5 including:: 13 864,8 20 103,3 37 630,1 protection and efficient use of water resources air basin protection, ozone layer 22 132,6 31 283,7 57 824,7 and climate preservation protection of the environment from pollution with industrial wastes 5 927,5 6 717,1 14 765,1 ecological cer tification , ecological rating, ecological audits, 214,8 131,6 398,8 ecological insurance, ecological Таble. standardization Current expenses 76 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Total, rouble mln Availability as of the end of the reporting year Item Overhaul repairs expenses in terms in terms of of replacement costs depreciated costs Fixed assets intended for environmental protection, total, 1817,6 197 673,3 79 153,2 including: including: collection, transportation, sewage treatment, circulating 1 723,1 70 845,8 28 711,0 and recycling water supply systems treatment, neutralization and disposal of air emitted 94,5 101 620,9 38 291,2 pollutants collection, classification (sorting), allocation, disposal Таble: 24 058,5 11 900,2 Expenses for and (or) utilization of industrial wastes overhaul repairs of fixed assets intended for all kinds of monitoring, environmental analytical environmental control, control of ozone depleting substances, air emitted 1148,1 250,8 protection and their incurrence as pollutants, sewage discharges and land pollution of the end of the 2011reporting year Expenses for environmental protection and monitoring Ecological payments Annually, the plant assigns considerable funds to nature protection activities. The funds are used for repairs, reconstruction and modernization of the end-of-pipe facilities. payment, BRB mln Description 2009 2010 2011 Drinking and service water 93,227 119,949 196,962 consumption Sewage discharges 0 0 0 Air emissions from stationary 2130,243 1933,592 2659,542 and mobile sources Waste disposal 4366,308 5438,1 7932,914 Waste storage 2612,844 3340,8 2861,2 Packing materials production 73,201 124,375 0 and import Таble: Claims 25,553 35,712 39,171 Ecological payments in 2009-2011 TOTAL: 9301,376 10 992,528 13 689,789 SOCIAL REPORT 2011 77 Ecological activity In its activities, RUE “BMZ” places special emphasis on the interaction with the interested parties – both with supervision authorities and communities, consumers, suppliers and contractors. Information exchange is as per diagram included in the section “Management, responsibilities and interaction with the interested parties.” Medium-term targets of the plant B esides production facilities expansion, the plant also plans to modernize its equipment to enhance ecological safety and mitigate negative environmental impacts. Investment projects to be implemented by RUE “BMZ” include not only new production facilities but also introduction of the world’s best practices in the field of ecological safety. Within the framework of the investment program, the plant also identified a number of actions aimed at improvement of ecological situation and mitigation of negative environmental impacts associated with BMZ production activities. Major actions aimed at mitigation of negative environmental impacts include: reconstruction of the dust and gas treatment plants for electric arc furnaces; introduction of the second stage of the automatic air emissions control – increase of facilities for cleaning and recycling of rainwater and meltwater. construction of a line for metal scrap sorting. – installation of additional facilities for steel-making slag processing. For 2012 there are plans to achieve the next level of the plant’s targets of the social and economic development (in the ecological field): – amount of production wastes stored in the environment as compared with the level of 2011 to be reduced by 5% 78 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 Social activity A s far as the social sphere is concerned, the strategic target of the works is the improvement of the corporate social responsibility system with the basic principles of : observing social equality and Preserving life, health and human rights the works considers of higher priority than economic results of productive activity. responsibility, nondiscrimination, ensuring safe working conditions, sustaining employees’ health, creating Employees’ loyalty and satisfaction is the crucial factor positive social-psychological climate in the working that influences the business stability. The personnel team alongside with keeping reasonable balance of the relations priorities are improving employees’ social works economical interests and social interests of the well-being, building up clear communication channels, civil society including that of RUE “Byelorussian Steel enhancing the degree of personnel awareness Works” employees.. and the most important thing – creating a strong corporate culture. The works deems social responsibility an integral part of the business conduct strategy and its corporate ethics It is essential for the works employees to feel members of based on the principles of decency and justice, honesty one family, realize their belonging to one in dealing with all partners and competitors. of the largest enterprises of the republic. In 2006–2009 the works commenced implementing the element of the single integrated corporate culture. Two of them In its social activity RUE “BMZ” is guided by the are the Corporate Policy and Code of Ethics. Their legislation of the Republic of Belarus, parameters of major values – respect and collaboration, efficiency stability and result, leadership and dynamic development, initiative and production development, economic expediency and responsibility – are formulated on the basis as well as its responsibility to the owner, investors, of the concerned parties’, primarily employees’, opinions. employees and business partners, local communities and other parties concerned. Labor relations and adequate labor Carrying out its social activity the works adheres to the following approachesconformity with the legislation and legal norms of the Republic of Belarus; Personnel management policy involving all the units and business processes participants; A dhering to the principles laid in the foundation of the UN Global Compact, RUE “BMZ” sees its employees as the prime value and builds up the relationships with them on the basis of social partnership, opening of full and precise information regarding solidarity in purpose and respect for the mutual the results of the social activity ; interests. enhancing responsibility related to the assumed Long-term strategic targets of RUE “BMZ” corporate obligations and their fulfillment; policy for personnel management stipulate the following: ensuring the optimum ratio of the social activity expenses and the labour results achieved; – formation of the labor relations regulation system and development of social partnership based on the balance of interests of the works and its employees; sustaining reasonable balance of the plant’s interests and the community including the employees. – improving employees motivation systems, ensuring the competitive level of the employees’ compensation package 80 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS connected with the labor efficiency increase, collective and individual results of working activity ; The implemented RUE “BMZ” Personnel Management Policy based on the principle of partnership relations – personnel development (selection, recruitment, of an individual and organization aimed at forming evaluation, training, promotion) to supply the works integrated corporate surroundings, preserving work subdivisions with the employees having the required places, sustaining decent salary level, optimum professional and qualification characteristics; redistribution of labor recourses contributing to enhancing the investment attractiveness and dynamic development of the enterprise. The plant’s employees – enhancement of the labor safety level, improving social are the main element of success in reaching our goals, and living conditions on the production site and offering that’s why we put particular emphasis on solving staff supplementary health improvement opportunities for the issues. employees and their family members; High efficiency of “Personnel Management” process was confirmed by the successful results of certification – development of corporate culture, ensuring social audits of the Management System held in 2011 to prove stability and favorable moral and psychological climate its conformity with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, in the working teams; СТБ ISO 9001-2009, ISO 14001:2004, STB ISO 140012005, OHSAS 18001:2007, STB 18001-2009, ISO/TS 16949:2009, ISO/TS 29001 carried out by auditors from – development of corporate social programs. Gosstandart RB, “Bureau Veritas Certification ” (Great Britain), “CARES” (Great Britain), “TÜV International” (Czech Republic), API (American Petroleum Institute). Anatoly Savianok, General Director of RUE “BMZ” received a note of thanks from Gomel regional union of employers for his personal significant contribution Description of the personnel for provision of effective activity of the employers’ union and improvement of the system of social partnership. RUE “BMZ” is the largest employer in its productive activity region and is aware of its economic and social Main principles and approaches obligation to the society influencing it by creating high level of social security and favorable working conditions for its employees, realization of efficient social Policy of RUE “BMZ” in the personnel management sphere and ecological programs, projects and activities in the area is formed and realized on the system basis according of personnel management. 95% of the employees to the labor legislation of the Republic of Belarus. and 99,5% of the managers are from local population Alongside with development and continuous improvement The segment of the works employees in the region the works links its success to the well-consolidated economically active population makes about 30 per cent. and active team of professionals. One of the main targets of RUE “BMZ” is creating a “prime choice company” based RUE “BMZ” is responsible in its approach to solving on honesty, dedication, creative approach, optimism employment issues, collaborates with state institutions, and self-improvement of each employee Building up employees unions and other organizations in the sphere RUE “BMZ” management system presupposes involving of regulating labor and related relations. Contributing of the staff into decision-making process, business to disclosure of professional and personal capabilities processes optimization, improvement of production and of its employees, RUE “BMZ” creates the conditions social activity of the company. Hence, each person feels for their professional and career progress. own contribution into the common target achievement. Total amount of personnel as of 31.12.2011 was 12376 Working with a numerous number of employees people and decreased by 87 people as compared in ever-changing production conditions, development to the corresponding period of the last year. of a competent and efficient personnel management system is very important. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 81 Social activity Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number 12 891 12 409 12 445 12 132 12 463 12 376 Decrease of the number of the employees was due to termination of the employees’ contracts based on mutual agreement of the parties and in connection with retirement as a result personnel structure suffered small towards decrease of the number of the following categories of employees: Category 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Откл. Total number, people 12 409 12 445 12 132 12 463 12 376 -87 Managers, people 1 153 (9,3%) 1127 (9,1%) 1126 (9,3%) 1159 (9,3%) 1190 (9,6%) +31 Specialists, people 1784 (14,4%) 1773 (14,2%) 1717 (14,2%) 1793 (14,4%) 1791 (14,5%) -2 Executives, people 167 (1,3%) 167 (1,3%) 164 (1,4%) 167 (1,3%) 158 (1,3%) -9 Workers, people 9305 (75,0%) 9378 (75,4%) 9125 (75,2%) 9 344 (75,0%) 9 327 (74,6%) -107 Byelorussian Steel Works has a well-balanced age composition of the employees. The main contingent is composed Managers; 9,3% of workers aged 39,6 to 41,8 having the required knowledge and professional skills. Executives & Specialists; Gender composition of the workers hasn’t considerably changed 15,7% as compared with 2010. As of 31.12.2011 RUE “BMZ” employed: Workers 75% 68,6 % men; 31,4 % women. Prevalence of male employees is due to the serious hazard level at the production sites, specific labor conditions in metallurgical industry. Manpower turnover in 2011 was 2,7%. Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Manpower 1,49 1,87 1,92 1,63 2,4 2,7 turnover, % More than half of the works employees have higher and specialized secondary education. In the reference year the amount of the employees with higher education increased by 94 persons as compared with 2010. The number of the employees with specialized secondary education increased by 66 people. There is a tendency towards decrease of the share of the employees with secondary education. Category 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 people % people % % people % people % people % people Higher education 2796 21,7 2905 23,5 24,2 3045 24,2 3016 24,2 3045 25,3 3139 Specialized secondary 3576 27,7 3284 26,4 26,1 3156 26,1 3243 26,1 3156 26,0 3222 education Secondary technical 6521 50,6 6220 50,1 49,7 5931 49,7 6186 49,7 5931 47,7 5907 education Candidates of Science 8 9 9 9 8 9 Postgraduates 8 4 5 6 6 7 Undergraduates 5 8 14 15 18 (incl. 8 16 (incl. 4 being being trained) trained) 82 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The image of a strong and continuously working entersuccessfully and efficiently. The founding principles prise makes RUE “BMZ” attractive for potential workers in the area of the personnel efficiency management and solves the issue of the prospective human resource are objectivity and openness. provision. In order to improve the base required for the personnel In 2011 the plant recruited 518 people from the residents evaluation since 2008 local regulations have been of the region taking into consideration the level of comdeveloped and are operating; they regulate petence so as to satisfy the need in personnel. the procedure of assessment and certification of the plant ’s management and specialists. The enterprise puts great emphasis on recruitment The assessment procedure is based on the constructive and adaptation of young specialists. Taking account dialogue between a worker and a manager. of the production output growth rate the plant placed 113 young specialists in job in 2011. It is planned In 2011 2559 managers and specialists of the works to increase considerably the number of graduates from were assessed according to the fulfillment of the set higher educational establishments applying for work targets and 557 employees were certified for compliance and their recruiting in 2012. with the position occupied on the basis of the “360 degrees method”. Year 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of young 121 107 188 85 111 113 “I would like to point out a high professional level of BMZ employees at all levels starting specialists with production subdivisions and finishing with marketing and commercial services”. Organization of a methodical work with young V.N. Kushnaryov, specialists is one of the priority directions of the Executive director of JV BEL –CAPenterprise personnel policy. Availability of constantly STEEL, USA (promotion of BMZ developing the potential of the personnel represented products on far foreign markets) by young specialists is the most important condition of the management succession, enhancement of management efficiency, ensuring stable socialeconomic development of the works. One of the most significant events within the System of work with young In its practical activity BMZ recognizes inviolability specialists is a scientific and technical conference. Since of human rights and takes all the required measures 2010 the conference is held according to the double to assure and protect them. Guided by the approaches stage scheme: of the UN Global Compact in the human rights sphere, RUE “BMZ” seeks to prevent possible conflicts – the first stage (corporative) – for determining of interests of the employees, managers and the plant winners among the plant ’s employees in eleven subject itself. Principles of non-admission of conflicts sessions; of interests and their settlement are given in the plant ’s Code of Ethics. Preventing conflicts of interests – the second stage (international) – for winners RUE “BMZ” seeks enhancement of the efficiency of the first stage and employees of educational of its activity, creation of the atmosphere of trust establishments, representatives of the organizations and openness in the relationships with the persons and enterprises of the Republic of Belarus and other concerned, enhancing business image and reputation countries. More than 120 young specialists became of the works. The working tools for preventing possible participants of the 11th international conference conflicts are: direct telephone line with the works “Metal—2011” organized on the base of RUE “BMZ”. top management and representatives of the state authorities, “Signal” hotline and others, the work The policy of RUE “BMZ” concerning personnel of which is performed on confidential basis. In order is aimed at discovering the individual potential of each to ensure the feedback the works appointed responsible employee and its development in coordination with persons, who review the employees’ appeals concerning the strategic goals. The existing evaluation system various issues including the safety and labor allows the plant to determine compliance of each protection issues, environment and professional ethics. employee with the position occupied and create Transparency and openness of BMZ becomes one conditions for carryingout employment duties more of the leading management principles that allows » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 83 Social activity » the plant to create confidential relations with all their qualification degree. Realizing the approaches the parties concerned including its employees. in social sphere, the works places special emphasis on Within the framework of the personnel motivation the internal human recourses potential during selection program the sociological service of the plant carried out and appointment of managers and specialists. a study of the social and psychological climate among the employees which was participated by more than 10% In order to implement the long-term strategy of the staff (1426 people). of the enterprise’s development, RUE “BMZ” formed a multi-level personnel reserve of the management. «Communicating with specialists of different companies of the world I would like to say The reserve is meant for meeting the requirement that BMZ specialists positively differ from in management employees having a range of basic the point of view of education and their attitude to their work. That is why administrative competence. In order to develop it is rather easy for us to cooperate the competence necessary for a manager and create with them in this respect». a real perspective for professional and career promotion V.N. Kushnaryov, of the workers, staged training of human resources was Executive director of JV BEL –CAPorganized according to the existing System. The training STEEL, USA (promotion of BMZ programs stipulate education of the reserve from products on far foreign markets) the level of a foreman to the top-manager level considering the specific character of the work fulfilled (“Young Manager School” and “Management School”). The programs and trainings for developing corporate Complex index of satisfaction in 2011 remained and manager competence were aimed at the personnel at the level of 2010 and equaled to 0,72. This value reserve as a priority category of human resources. characterizes positivity and steadiness of the social Specialists of the leading educational establishments and psychological climate in the personnel team. of the Republic of Belarus are engaged in the training The staff is satisfied with its work and with the plant process under the concluded bilateral contracts. in general. So as to maintain the high level For the accounting period over 90% of management of satisfaction of the staff, a corresponding program appointments from among the employees included into was worked out. the works Personnel Register and certified after passing the training took place. Besides, we started to implement the project of annual training of one RUE “BMZ” specialist at Stemcor UK Limited, one of the largest steel Professional and career development trading companies which has offices in many countries R of the world with the headquarters located in London. Aim of the project is training in management ealization of the personnel policy based and business as well as western model of business process on the principles of equality, justice and award management. This type of training will help the trainee depending on personal skills and irrespective of origin, to see and to feel with his/her own hands all aspects age, gender, race, nationality and religion of an employee of activity of the global company and to apply them is performed in conformity with the requirements of in actual activity of BMZ. the active legislation of the Republic of Belarus, universally acknowledged norms and principles Fulfilling the personnel potential development of the international law including the UN Global programs and enhancing the efficiency of the structural Compact and the Convention of the International Labor subdivisions activity, RUE “BMZ” annually organizes Organization. rotation of specialists. The staff rotation is used as a method of decreasing labor monotony and routine, RUE “BMZ” ensures equal possibilities for all employees and enrichment the work activity content due to realize their potential in the process of their working to a greater variety of the functions and as one activity, fair and unbiased assessment of the work results, of the labor motivation factors. Besides, the rotation selection of the personnel during recruitment and career contributes to acquiring a more diverse practical promotion according to the professional skills experience required for being promoted to one or another and knowledge. management position. The works scale allows the employees to realize their In 2011 temporary appointments took place in order professional ambitions, gain new experience and enhance to increase the specialists’ qualification, determination 84 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS of their potential abilities for putting into the personnel By carrying out the efficient operation of the continuous reserve as well as for the purpose of promoting careers professional education system the Training Center solves of the young workers having higher education: the following objectives in the personnel management system: Factor 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 – providing the subdivisions of the plant with Number professional staff of the required qualification level; of the rotation program 4 34 27 56 103 participants Rotation results: – providing the personnel support of innovative Promotion to processes; a specialist 1 17 10 20 29 position Appointment – retaining and development of the professional to a manager 3 4 2 11 position potential and staff competitive ability ; Qualification 3 14 13 34 63 enhancement – providing the subdivisions with the management staff reserve with a developed corporate and management During the annual integrated study of the social-psycompetence; chological climate in the teams of structural subdivisions held by the sociological service of the works the respondents give an average estimate regarding the – organizing training of the specialists, management staff promotion and career opportunities (the satisfaction and their reserve; index made up 0,67 against 0,64 in 2010). Training and education – creating the system of tutorship and transfer of T knowledge; he works sees its personnel as its major asset and takes the corresponding measures regarding – improvement of the forms and methods of training, its retaining and development creating conditions introduction of advanced educational methods for professional growth and education. RUE “BMZ” (development of the remoter electronic system of module gives all its employees the right for professional training “LearnBMZ” with the subsequent allocation on education on different stages of labor activity the internal plant’s site); orientating at long-term relations with еру personnel and considers the education to be an investment into the human capital assets. – creating the personnel reserve of the required qualification with regard to nonprofessional In present conditions of severe competition RUE “BMZ” occupations from among the region residents; aims at searching for current sales markets, technologies of the future, cost-saving reserves and other optimization possibilities. – organization of experience and knowledge exchange in the course of rendering of educational services The personnel quality became a determining factor to organizations and enterprises of our republic, of the works competitive ability. Ensuring personnel neighbouring and far foreign countries. quality is one of the priority targets of the corporate Social Responsibility Policy. It is impossible without the developed internal training system. Guided In order to solve the above tasks the Training Center i by the labor and education legislation, the professional s equipped with the newest training aids. Everything education system is controlled by the corporate Training is arranged in such a way that the trainings Center. are maximally efficient. Availability of the training aids and multimedia applications developed by the teachers and masters of the Training Center based » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 85 Social activity » on the technologies and equipment implemented A differential approach to the education programs at the enterprise facilitates learning the material. formation is applied depending on a worker ’s The education process applies both traditional forms qualification level. Programs of continuous professional and modern education technologies. training stipulate studying the issues of special technologies, civil, political, economic, social The main form of the education process organization and cultural human rights, requirements of environment is dual that means a well-balanced combination of protection systems, quality management, labor acquiring theoretical knowledge and practical skills. and industrial safety, energy saving issues. A particular attention is paid to the modular education technology that lays stress both on acquiring particular Continuous education is ensured by rational combination knowledge and developing the personnel’s ability of professional education in educational establishments, for self-education and self-improvement. systematic self-education as well as studying in the Training Center and on working places. In 2011 Education and development of the personnel is carried5668 employees of the works, or 45,8% of the total out in conformity with the current and perspective personnel amount, took varied types of education, which demands of the plant. is 4,5% less than in 2010. % of the total number of this Number of people trained, people % of the total number trained category Category of the trained changes changes changes employees 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 2009 2010 2011 Managers 1139 1133 1299 +166 17,3 18 22,9 +4,9 101,2 97,8 109,1 +11,3 Specialists 1434 953 516 -437 21,8 15,2 9,1 -6,1 83,5 53 28,8 -24,2 Office workers 5 24 -24 0,08 0,4 -0,4 3,0 14,8 -14,8 Workers 4015 4163 3853 -310 60,9 66,4 68 +1,6 44 44,5 41,3 -3,2 Total 6593 6273 5668 -605 100 100 100 0 54,3 50,3 45,8 -4,5 Таble. Education of personal. 86 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Decrease of investments in professional training is conditioned by a considerable growth of USD/BRB exchange rate in 2011. Managers; 1299; 23% Yet, fulfillments of targets in 2011 was reached due to decrease of the volume of expensive training on external sites and a more complete use the pant ’s Specialists & internal potential for organization of the production office workers; training. Workers; 516; 9% 3853; 68% RUE “BMZ” continues active development of international cooperation in the area of preparation and enhancement of qualification of its employees. In connection with its large investment program the enterprise expands training of the employees able to operate modern world-level equipment. Education The plant is always ready for the dialog with and training in educational centers and enterprises the parties concerned regarding issues of improvement of Austria, Italy, Germany, China, USA, and other of professionalism, scholarship and employees’ competence countries to adopt best practices was organized. development. In recent years each employee took one type of education. In 2011 international cooperation started a new round of development. RUE “BMZ” exchanged the accumulated Average number of education hours per one employee experience and knowledge in the area of steel making in 2011 was 40,7 hours. processes employees training with specialists working Year 2009 2010 2011 at similar enterprises in neighbouring and far foreign Average number of hours 38 40,5 40,7 countries. In 2011 153 specialists of Metallurgical Plant “Dneprostal” (Ukraine), 77 specialists from OJSC ”Liepajas Metallurgs” (Latvia) were trained at RUE “BMZ”. We continue our cooperation with ССМ metallurgical plant (Slovakia): During one moth Year 2009 2010 2011 80 Slovak specialists studied characteristic features of the production processes of electric steel melting under the supervision of the plant staff. Investments, US 283,3 145,0 105,6 dollars thou In the area of professional training RUE “BMZ” forms up long-term relations with a number of leading educational establishments having recommended » Managers Specialists & office workers Workers 4015 4163 4015 3574 1762 1378 1439 1439 1139 1133 977 1139 Diagramm. Number 2008 2009 2010 2011 of people trained SOCIAL REPORT 2011 87 Social activity »I themselves in rendering of educational services: nstitute of qualification upgrading and retraining for basic production subdivisions from among the best representatives of the region young generation, according to new directions of development of who passed competitive selection according technology and economics of Belarusian National to the educational programs coordinated with the technical University “, “State institute of qualification works. upgrading and retraining of managers and industrial specialists “Industry Staff ”, federal educational At all times corporate social development and social establishment of higher professional training investments remain sources of enhancing the works “National research technological university “MISiS competitive abilities. Possessing modern educational (SRTU “MISiS”) Moscow, Academy of post-graduate base and highlyqualified specialists, RUE “BMZ” makes education, Moscow chemical institute named after its contribution to the development of community D.I. Mendeleev, Centre of innovation management of helping in training of qualified workers for the Belarusian state university, ”Republican higher school industrial enterprises of the town, the region, and the institution”. An agreement is reached to arrange country. training of masters and postgraduates in seamless pipe Formation of the reputation of the most appealing production at Gomel state technical university named employer is an essential condition for involvement in the works operation creative, active and technically competent personnel. By rendering assistance to «Your enterprise makes a considerable contribution in development and improvement of the activity of pre-school education which experience the younger generation in receiving modern education was many times represented at regional and national events» and strengthening the material and technical V.V. Yanzhik, foundation of the region educational establishments Deputy minister of education the works creates own promising personnel reserve. For of the Republic of Belarus these purposes the corresponding means were directed to pre -school educational institutions, schools, creativity centers for the kids and the boarding-school. Special emphasis is placed on the work regarding pupils after P.O. Sukhoi. and students vocational guidance that is carriedout on a regular basis with direct participation of RUE Alongside with solving the issues regarding “BMZ” employees. Within this course a range of the the personnel qualification improvement, the following programs is implemented: collaboration with higher educational establishments is aimed at reaching long-term strategic objectives of the – pupils participation in “Open Day ” feast at basic works. This cooperation is beneficial both educational establishments; for educational establishments and RUE “BMZ”. The works offers students the opportunity to – excursions to the works’ museum; undertake manufacturing practice at the enterprise. – organizing youth competitions, cultural events During engaging students of schools and specialized the manufacturing practice the students educational establishments. are guided by experienced workers and specialists. Detailed acquaintance with production takes place on RUE “BMZ” ensure the right of the employees tor a working place. A student can feel being of the education and deems intellectual potential working team, try his skills and adopt the mentors’ and professionalism of its employees an essential factor experience, thus RUE “BMZ” openly demonstrates required for own development. According to the data its potential employees the possibility of acquiring available as of 31.12.2011 8 employees took extrainteresting work and personal realization. mural courses in higher educational establishments on a contractual basis; 2 people were trained at MA Solving medium-term strategic goals in the sphere courses, 6 people at post-graduate courses. About four of preparation of highly-professional personnel hundred workers were educated independently. is connected with the State Educational Establishment “Zhlobin Metallurgical College”, which conducts its According to the results of an integrated study activity at the expense of RUE “BMZ” investments. of the social and psychological climate For organizing the college activity in 2011 the works in the subdivisions, satisfaction with the perspective spent USD 908,7 thou. of the consumption means. of qualification enhancement, professional The college conducts preparation of technologists and educational level obtained was assessed 88 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS as satisfactory (the satisfaction index made up 0,70 against 0,69 in 2010). Salary accounting is made according to the legislation existing in the Republic of Belarus. The enterprise realizes the following principle: the accrued salary of a worker, who fully completed the labor hours and Motivation system working norms, cannot be lower than the established amount of the minimal salary in the Republic of Belarus Мaterial stimulation that made up USD 201,1 in 2011. RUE “BMZ” acknowledges the right of the employees RUE “BMZ” improves the normative base in the area to decent, economically sound award for their work of labor relationship and informs every single employee results, strives for providing its employees with work of the labour remuneration conditions. According and salary that raise their living standards. According to the principles of the UN Global Compact the to the requirements of the Belarusian labor legislation enterprise realizes the principle of equable award for and principles of the UN Global Compact the plant equally valuable labor. stands for decent remuneration of labor, abolishment of forced and child labor. The main objective of one of the strategic lines «The fact that the plant management leading a large-scale social policy support a high level of salary is an evidence of its concern about the staff». of the enterprise’s policy is constant increase of productiveness and quality of the personnel labor, O.E. Lashkevich, efficient application of the existing norms and wage sysDeputy head of the Board of the machine-tool industry of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus tems aimed at manufacturing highquality competitive products based on the rational use of each worker ’s labor potential and enhancing personnel welfare gains. One of the most precise indicators of the works social The enterprise ensures the job evaluation and gives policy effectiveness is the salary level. qualification to the workers, specialists and clerks according to the existing uniform wage rate book Salary is the major source of income of the workers of workers’ jobs and professions as well as wage and the main factor for ensuring a certain standard rate book for management, specialists and clerks. of well-being. RUE “BMZ” policy in the area of remuThis approach allows the plant to avoid a biased and neration of the personnel including top management subjective attitude to workers in the process of their of the plant and its divisions foresees association career promotion of labour remuneration with joint and individual key and contributes to inadmissibility of the workers efficiency indices. In order to achieve unity of interests discrimination of any kind. of all categories of workers in insuring high final results of the works production and commercial operaThe tariff part of the salary is determined based tions in general based on accounting and encourage on the monthly tariff rates established by the unified ment workers wage tariff system of the Republic of Belarus of labour contribution of every division and a single and the collective agreement in conformity with the worker, the enterprise developed the bonus scheme job evaluation in the organization according to the for labor stimulation. categories as follows: In the existing economic situation it is most timely – as far as workers are concerned, it is determined to observe the lowest limit of labour payment for by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff weakly protected groups of workers. multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate established for a worker in compliance with the general provisions annual average salary at the enterprise made up USD of the Uniform Wage -Rates and Skills Handbook based 827,6 in 2011. Average salary of workers and office on the tariffqualifying characteristics of the workers employees made up USD 420,2 in the Republic of professions; Belarus, which is 1,9 times lower than the salary paid at RUE “BMZ”. – as far as clerks are concerned, it is calculated by multiplying the first tariff rate by the tariff » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 89 Social activity 904,1 827,6 720,4 681,2 724,2 Diagramm: BMZ Average salary paid at RUE «BMZ» as compared RB with average salary 424,1 408,1 420,2 334,9 363,5 of workers and office employees in the Republic of Belarus, USD 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 » multiplier of the corresponding tariff rate of the Thus it is prohibited to use women’ labor in: unified wage tariff system established for a worker with reference to its position; – heavy operations and operations with harmful and (or) hazardous labor conditions; – as far as men and women are concerned, according to the work done or position held in conformity with jobs related with lifting and manual handling of the unified wage tariff system and collective agreement. weights; Average salary of the enterprise clerks is 14% some separate professions and positions (steelmaker, higher than workers’ salary. Average salary of the steelmaker ’s assistant, farrier, battery assembler, etc.). management is 57 per cent higher than workers’ salary. This correlation is explained by the complexity Pregnant women are given easier jobs excluding the of the performed obligations stipulated by the job impact of harmful and (or) hazardous labor factors descriptions as well as the organization (separate but their salary remains equal to the average amount structural subdivisions) activity efficiency, quality of their previous salary. of the performed works (services), efficiency of the set targets and objectives fulfillment. A mother (farther) of two or more children aged under 16 (or having a disabled child aged under 18) are given Stimulating payments to the top-management one extra dayoff in a week at her/his request which is are effected depending on the efficiency of paid for in the amount of the average daily payment. the enterprise performance and fulfillment of the plant ’s socialeconomic development factors. A mother bringing up two or more children under sixteen is given an additional dayoff a month at her Women have the same salaries and tariff rates as men, request; this day is paid for in the amount of one basic if they occupy equal positions (professions). payment. Women are given and guaranteed the same rights as A mother bringing up children under eighteen is given men and have additional benefits and guarantees aimed one extra dayoff a month at her request; this day is at their health and maternity protection. not paid for. 996,0 992,1 857,4 869,4 821,2 724,9 men 623,9 660,1 546,9 579,0 women Diagramm: Average salary of men and women at OJSC «BSW», USD 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 90 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Average salary of men at the enterprise is 50,3 higher Immaterial stimulation than that of women. The difference between the average salary of women and the average salary of men is explained by the increased payment for the heavy service work , works with harmful and dangerous labor s ignificant element of the enterprise corporate culture is the system of immaterial stimulation of the employees which comprises social-psychological, conditions, where women’ labor is prohibited. staff and professional aspects. Planning of labour remuneration expenses is based 31 types of the production competitions and on the salary level reached and the output per one contests are held in individual and collective forms. employee. Alongside with the labor productivity Byelorussian Steel Works puts a particular emphasis growth, the average salary increase is planned on stimulating and involvement of the personnel for accordingly. saving material and energy resources, improvement of the labor It is necessary to point out that with the labour productivity, increasing the responsibility for the productivity growth rate in USD equal to 215,3% in quality of the manufactured products, raising the 2011, the salary growth rate was 114,3 per cent. production efficiency as well as development of the creative incentives by holding production competitions So the top management of the enterprise attempts to (“Best n profession”, “Best shop”, “Best Canteen”, “Best restrain drop of the welfare of its employees. in profession among affiliated companies”, “Professional Olympus”, “Best innovator of the year ”, “Best young It is important that in these challenging times specialist ”, “Contest of plant teams and structural the enterprise worked for decreasing the labor subdivisions of the works in conformity with the system coefficient of the manufactured products. In 2011 the “BE AWARE OF A HUMAN!”, etc.). implementation of this approach lead to the decrease of the labor coefficient of the operations fulfilled in basic One of the main constituents of the corporate culture and auxiliary shops by 108,4thou. n/h. The economic and efficient way of enhancing the workers motivation efficiency made up over USD 367,7 thou. (BRB 1700 is corporate awarding. For the purpose of moral mln) stimulation, strengthening glorious labor traditions, increasing the role and strengthening of a Man As far as the salary level is concerned, the plant of Labor the works conducts festive events dedicated takes a decent place among the grossoutput-making to initiation into young metallurgist, celebration enterprises of the M inistry of Industry of the Republic in honor of work dynasties, entering the names of best of Belarus, which is shown in the below diagram: employees’ names in the works Book of Fame or placing their photos in the Hall of Fame, honoring the winners All technical-economic development programs of the of the productive competitions at the annual Labor enterprise are worked out for one year and are reported Festival “Professional Olympus”. All categories of to the personnel. Their results of their implementation the plant ’s employees who attained better results are summarized monthly during a year and are reported in their production activity, actively participate to the employees during forums, meetings and by the in the enterprise social life, gained authority plant ’s newspaper and are respected by their working team members, 827,6 630,3 645,1 Average monthly salary 603 at RUE «BMZ» as compared with 451,8 the gross-outputmaking enterprises of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus in 2011, USD РУП БМЗ РУП Гомсельмаш РУП МТЗ ОАО МАЗ РУПП БелАЗ SOCIAL REPORT 2011 91 Social activity 184833 177478 140091 121814 102392 Diagramm: Dynamics of labour productivity of OJSC «BSW» staff in 2007-20011, 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 USD » are granted the honor to have their pictures posted in the Hall of Fame of RUE “BMZ”. organized and carried out at the enterprise by the Training Center ensures execution of the three motivating functions: All structural subdivisions of the works have “Alleys of Glory ”, “Foremost Workers” stands with the pictures – production-economic (the competitive ability growth, of the best workers. enhancing the quality of duty performance and manufactured products); In 2011 811 employees of our enterprise were awarded in connection with jubilees in SWS-2, powder administrative (providing with qualified personnel, metallurgy and die shop, production motor transport its formation, reproduction, adaptation and personnel shop; number of awards grew considerably. development); It grew into a tradition to congratulate the employees social-cultural (personality socialization, provision with anniversaries, birth of a child, wedding, of occupation, social confidence, offering equal and to organize parties dedicated to recruitment opportunities for professional and career growth). for the armed forces or retirement. The works puts particular emphasis on sustaining Since 2008 the plant organizes celebration in honor favorable social-psychological climate in the working of work dynasties of RUE “BMZ”. Assignment team, organization of professional celebrations, sport of an honorable title of ”Work Dynasty of RUE “BMZ” and cultural events for the employees, their family is based on the principles of succession, continuity members and the population of the region (see section of generations from older to younger one, “Social package of benefits and guarantees for the and continuity of labour activity (at least three staff ”). The approaches in planning of the corporate generations of the relatives of the first-degree kinship events are determined based on the analysis of the results should work at the plant at the same time). of annual integrated study of social-psychological climate of the working teams. In 2010 a new tradition was born at BMZ: presentation of a corporate calendar takes place at the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists in the form of a brilliant and colourful celebration. Pages of the 2011 calendar contain the best pictures drawn by the future metallurgists chosen according to the results of the regional contest and photos of the women working at the plant. The possibility of professional education and increasing the workers qualification is of a particular importance for motivation of the staff. Professional training 92 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 215,3 153,8 141,3 122,3 119,6 125,9 122,5 105,5 РУП БМЗ ОАО Челябинский МК ОАО Молдавский МЗ АОАрселорМиттал ОАО АЗОВСТАЛЬ Череповецкий МК ОАО Магнитогорский МК ОАО Новолипецкий МК Diagramm: Labour productivity Казахстан growth rate of steel making plants of neighbouring foreign countries in 2011 as compare with 2010, % Short-term targets in the field Using dangerous industrial facilities in the production process, the enterprise management bears responsibility of social responsibility for conservation of the employees’ life and health. A The existing labor protection and industrial safety management system is built according to the chievement of the following level of the main tarrequirements of Belarusian legislation and considering get values related with the works social-economic international practice. development is scheduled for 2012: Creation of a labor protection management system – training of the executive never has a zero starting point. RUE “BMZ” has employees and specialists, pers . 1517 already had a certain experience in labor protection management: it arranged the required activities, – employees professional developed and used corresponding documentation. One training, pers. 3102 of the directions in the labor protection management system improvement (LPMS) of RUE “BMZ” was its – general satisfaction OHSAS 18001 coordination with the requirements of of the personnel, % min/ 72 international standard and STB 18001 state standard. – salary growth rate, %, min 175 A significant effort was made in order to coordinate the existing labor protection control system with – personnel turnover, %, max. 3,5 the requirements of OHSAS 18001 and STB 18001. The enterprise developed guidelines, company standards, Labor protection and ensuring carriedout a full-scale identification of hazards of industrial safety and risks. In parallel with that, the enterprise subdivisions performed the work for coordinating the working documentation, and working places RUE “BMZ” sees a human life as the supreme value. in accordance with the requirements of the rules The works does not accept any compromises between and regulations for labor protection, which, in its turn, the health of its employees, safety and profit-making. increased the level of personnel safety, competence Labor safety and health are the key priorities and awareness. Training of the management of the corporate labor protection management system. and specialists in implementation and certification Realizing its mission the works ensures the employees’ of the enterprise compliance with the OHSAS 18001 labor protection, takes measures for reduction and STB 18001 requirements was organized. of accidents risks and occupational diseases, strives In the result of the training internal LPMS auditors for creation and sustaining of such labor conditions were educated. and management awareness regarding that do not harm health and human dignity the aspects of the implementation and advantages of the employees. of observing OHSAS 18001 and STB 18001 requirements was enhanced. » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 93 Social activity »I n 2011 RUE “BMZ” successfully passed a supervisory Implementation of this system allowed our works to: audit for compliance with the requirements of OHSAS 18001:2007 international standard – decrease the costs due to a more efficient use of “Professional safety and health management systems” labor recourses; diminish the expenses related with and a re certification audit for compliance with the traumatism and morbidity ; requirements of STB 18001-2009 state standard “Labor protection management systems. Requirements”. – increase legal safety, guarantees of correspondence to the changing legislative labor safety requirements; Auditors of the certification agency “Bureau Veritas Certification” and the state educational establishment “Republican Higher School University ” confirmed – minimize the risk of judicial punishment; the compliance of the management system implemented at the enterprise with the international and state standard. – respect the interests of the parties – the employer and working team in the process of the enterprise «The system of labour and industrial safety productive activity ; of BMZ has been operating for four years and the plant made a considerable step forward in issues related with labour conditions and labour protection». – improve the enterprise image on product and labor A.M. Degtyaryiv, markets as well as in the eyes of government authorities Expert-auditor of labour and as a socially responsible organization; industrial safety of the state educational establishment “Republican Institute of Higher School” – aim the management team at detecting and decreasing the basic risk types related with the negative impact of the production activity and the released products on the health of its employees, population After implementation of the standards and consumers; at the enterprise we accept contemporary, universally acknowledged international safety technologies. This allows RUE “BMZ” to speak the same language with – to simplify the system approach to problemits international partners and organize cooperation solving, achieve greater responsibility, more distinct more effectively. At present, in many cases for signing responsibility distribution; collective contracts the enterprise needs to confirm the availability of the certified labor protection management system. I t is evident considering western – increase labour productivity due to improvement partners’ mentality. Availability of the certificate of conditions and reduction of unproductive time confirming the conformity with the international and labour waste. standards characterizes the enterprise as a reliable partner, increases its prestige, and the products competitive ability. A control system is developed and introduced the plant to control the state of labour safety. The aim of this system of periodical control of labour safety is to improve efficiency of preventive work directed towards improvement of labour conditions and safety and prevention of accidents in production. The first stage of the periodical control of labour safety is carried out by the head of the corresponding department (head of the shift, senior foreman, foreman) and a social inspector responsible for labour safety every day at the beginning of a working day (shift) and during the working day (shift). 94 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS The second stage of the periodical control of labour safety is performed by a committee headed by the department head (head of the shop, board, service) every week on a certain day determined for the whole plant and named uniform day of labour 11 safety ” (Thursday) according to the approved schedule. 10 9 8 The third stage of the periodical control of labour 7 7 safety is carried out by the plant committee on a uniform day of labour safety (Thursday) according to the approved schedule of inspection Динамика of shops and production subdivisions to inspect labour травматизма and industrial safety. на РУП «БМЗ» 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2006-2011 гг. RUE “BMZ” constantly improves the labor protection and industrial safety system and coordinates it with the requirements of international standards. This allows considerable reduction of the production costs due to lowering the specialists incapacitation related with accidents, occupational illnesses, emergencies and fires. In 2011 investments into the labor protection made up USD 1 272,4. Reduction of the investment level in USD 2 178 333 as compared with 2010 was caused by a considerable 1 763 461 growth of the USD exchange rate in the 1st quarter of 2011 in the Republic of Belarus. 1 435 738 1 322 232 1 272 415 The occupational traumatism level depends on several 889 476 factors; one of them is the volume of investments into labor protection. During recent years considerable means were invested into the labor protection measures Инвестиции в охрану труда that allowed decrease of the traumatism level from 11 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 в дол. США. in 2006 to 7 in 2011. Item No. 2010 2011 Number of recorded accidents 7 7 Number of the injured including: 7 7 mortal 1 2 severe 3 1 group 0 0 Frequency coefficient, Fc 0,61 0,61 Seriousness coefficient, Sc 36,14 51,7 Показатели производственного Wasted days of working ability 253 362 травматизма. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 95 Social activity Improvement of labour conditions A large amount of work is performed within the program of technical revamping to remove outdated equipment from operation and introduce up-to-date equipment meeting all international requirements of labour safety. These arrangements allowed the plant to improve labour conditions to a great extent and reduce the impact of the production factors harmful and dangerous for human health. Training and competence evaluation Every year the plant works out “Measures to provide for labour safety “.90 measures aimed at labour safety and improvement of labour conditions were planned for 2011, 82 of them were fulfilled, 8were excluded. Due to the measures taken labour conditions of 792 A n integral part of the labor protection and industrial safety system of the enterprise is teaching of safe operation of hazardous production facilities, occupational sanitation and labor hygiene. employees were improved (compared with: 787 in 2010). An employee’s labor safety greatly depends on the thoroughness of his/her professional training. Sustaining The enterprise strives for continuous improvement the high standard of knowledge is insured by conductof its performance in the area of labour safety due to ing an obligatory labor safety instruction, periodical improvement of safety of the production processes, knowledge check and personnel certification regarding motivation of the personnel and interest of the staff in safe operation. observation of labour safety requirements. In order to fulfill the educational training Obligations of the employer in providing for safe of the personnel that service and operates high-risk faciliand healthy labour conditions are stipulated in the ties, the corporate Training Center was audited to check its section “Labour Safety ” of the Collective Agreement conformity with the republican legislation and received of the plant. In accordance with the provisions of the the consent of the Department for Supervision of Safe Collective Agreement the employees are timely provided Operation in Industrial and Atomic Power Engineering with free certified working clothes and shoes, personal of the Emergency Situations Ministry of the Republic protective and hygienic equipment, undergo a periodical of Belarus for the right to train employees required medical inspection. Some categories of workers by the works and other organizations. are provided with milk. 2010 2011 Activity % % Plan Actual Plan Actual fulfilled. fulfilled. Enhancement of the administrative employees’ 526 1 037 197 565 688 121 and specialists qualification, total: – PAN RB 326 385 118 365 434 119 – Designated OHSAS courses 200 652 326 200 254 127 Professional training of the workers: 3 551 4 163 117 3 399 3 854 113 – training of new employees 0 50 0 19 Таблица: – retraining 703 1 033 147 705 896 127 Подготовка персонала, обслуживающего – qualification enhancement 482 548 114 608 696 114 и эксплуатирующего объекты повышенной – Designated courses 2 366 2 532 107 2 086 2 243 107 опасности. 96 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 Social control «The most advance methods are not competitive for observance without skilled workers putting their sole into of human rights i their work. And workers do their job well only if there is a social wellbeing. It is harmony of the n the field production development that allows us to conquer of labor protection and retain the leading international position». A Anatoly Saviznok, RUE “BMZ” General Director ll the interested parties including the employees are actively involved i n the process of managing the labor protection and industrial safety system. The works created a system of the two -stage public control. At the first stage daily control of observation In 2011 public labor safety formations carriedof the legislation of the Republic of Belarus out 34 068 inspections. 36 844 nonconformities in the sphere of labor protection, ensuring were detected and 586 notations were issued the employees right to safe labor and health to the management. maintenance is fulfilled by the public service of health and safety executives. The service During the annual integrated research of of public executives in the amount of 419 persons social-psychological climate in the structural consists of the reputable employees selected subdivisions working teams the respondents give a by the working team members by way of open high estimate to the employees’ labor safety level voting. (the satisfaction The executives’ activities and their authorities regarding the control of compliance with the labor protection legislation are regulated by Decree No.179 of the Ministry of Labor and Social Security of the Republic of Belarus “ On the procedure of public control of the compliance with the labor protection legislation carriedout by the persons authorized to control an organization employees’ labor protection” dd. 28.11.2008 and the Articles of Association of the Belarusian Federation of Trade Unions. The executives proceed to individual work after taking a special training course at the private unitary enterprise “Educational-Methodic Center of Gomel Regional Trade Unions”. At the second stage the control of compliance with the legislation and checking operating safety organization in conformity with local regulations is carried out by 36 public commissions including representatives of the structural subdivisions management. Their activity is specified by the Decree of Presidium of the Belarusian Trade Unions Federal Council No. 59 dd. 24.04.2003. » Social activity Social programs In 2011 RUE “BMZ” social programs were fulfilled on C the basis of a union agreement and according to the social budget for the account of the plant’s own funds ontributing to the social development of workers and means granted by the social insurance fund of the and local community Bylorussian Steel Works Republic of Belarus. RUE “BMZ” fulfilled all its obligafollows the principles of the responsible business practice tions concerning main directions of the social programs formulated in the UN Global Compact and other interin 2011 and in spite of the fact that 2011 was a difficult national acts. year from the economic point of view their financing was increased and made up USD 11,7 million. Nowadays the enterprise stability is determined by both economic efficiency factors and parameters of the corpoThe priority directions of RUE “BMZ” social policy are: rate social policy effectiveness. creation of favorable conditions for the workers stability depends on the social and economic stability in and their families for solving all the welfare issues: the region. Pursue of the policy of the corporate social treatment and medical service, saving of reproductive responsibility as regards own employees and local comhealth, health improvement and vacations, promotion munities is a strategic direction of the plant’s activity. of healthy lifestyle standards, improvement of living conditions and cultural service; The personnel are a major society resource for obtaining competitive advantages. – rendering of social and voluntary support for pensioners, the disabled, children, the works employees having Considerable means are invested by the plant in the forlarge families; mation of interested and responsible staff, improvement of working conditions, and provision of social protection – offering of a sponsorship and beneficent aid for sport of the employees. organizations and organizations representing other spheres of public life; The social policy adopted by the plant contributes to retain competitive advantages of the plant, create a offering of a wide scope of quality services highly qualified team of employees able to work effifor the inhabitants of the town and surrounding area ciently in the situation of a strong competition. by the social services. improvement medical service of living conditions sport work and formation of a healthy way of living 10,1% 5,6% 2,0% cultural work 7,5% children's health improvement 4,0% other social payments 70,8% Diagramm. Social package RUE «BMZ» in 2011 98 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Social package of benefits Health protection P and guarantees for the staff RUE “BMZ” makes considerable investments into education rotection of the plant ’s employees is the most and personnel qualification enhancement, labor condiimportant constituent part of the social policy tions improvement, ensuring employees social security; of RUE “BMZ”. it participates in solving socially significant issues in the region considering this activity a constituent part of its The plant ’s medioprophylactic assistance rendered business and social investments into the inherent element to the employees is organized in accordance of corporate responsibility. In order to stimulate labor with the state program of ambulatory assistance productivity enhancement and personnel management cost to the population and fulfills the tasks related optimization, in addition to salary the works uses a social with health protection, medical and sanitary support package that made up over USD 950 per each employee in of the production process, disease prevention, 2011. and follow-up care, and ensures cooperation of the plant ’s divisions in solving issues of labour The social package includes: safety and protection of the employees health.. • medical service $1,18 mln Formation of strategy and tactics in the area of health protection is stated in the comprehensive program • improvement of living conditions – $ 0,66 mln “HEALTH-2011” which coordinates the interaction of the administration, medical staff, industrial safety • cultural work – $ 0,88 mln board, personnel of the community and consumer facilities, trade union in the area of disease • children’s health improvement – $ 0,48 mln and traumatism prevention, promotion of a healthy lifestyle. • sport work and formation of a healthy way of living – $ 0,23 mln The major items of the works social policy and the “HEALTH -2011” are •other social payments (supporting of 9 preschool institutions, 8 works canteens, a recre– enhancing the preventive medical aid level; ation center, etc.) – $ 8,3 mln orientating the medical aid system at increasing The works implements its social policy in the following the ambulatory segment efficiency ; priority directions: – coordinating the on-site work places – labor safety; with the technological and sanitary-hygienic norms; – rest and health promotion of the employees and their improvement of ecological events and environmental family members; protection norms; – physical culture and sport development; – development of the works personnel’s strong orientation at healthy lifestyle. –cultural life of the works employees; The plant develops and improves its own medical – solving of the living conditions issues of the employees; facilities aimed at bringing medical assistance close the employees and rendering medical assistance to the – support of large families; citizens of the town and inhabitants of the region. – social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of lower-income citizens; The plant spent USD 1,18 mln for its medical centre financing in 2011. – child care. The clinic of RUE “BMZ” is the largest among the town SOCIAL REPORT 2011 99 Social activity » enterprises and includes a polyclinic for 250 visits Production-detached treatment procedures were per shift, plant aid posts, plant recreation centers given to over 420 people in 2011. Medical and and is the main medical care base. physiotherapeutic procedures are carried out close to production and are based on rehabilitation centres Specialists qualified in 12 medical specialties receive are located in the shops. patients. 80 % of the medical centre specialists are certified for the first and second qualification So as to make treatment of patients at the medical category. 70 per cent are certified for a category. and sanitary department simpler, provide operation of the medical rooms and services in the automatic There are 7 theraupeutic divisions in the shops, average mode, an electronic ambulatory chart of a patient number of the people served by each of them equals was formed. to 1780. Due to countrywide distribution of chronic diseases, obstetriciangynecologists receive women at the demand for more effective and convenient methods polyclinics. Women are serviced on the shop principle. of treatment grows. This problem can be solved only subject to the principal emphasis being placed on In 2011 the medical centre was visited by 190 532 prevention of diseases and popularization of healthy people which is 1983 less than in 2010. 69,5 % of the lifestyle. total number of visits are due to illnesses.. Free and voluntary vaccination against influenza is a positive Medical services are demanded by the citizens feature of our region. In 2011 proceeds from medical services in prevention of seasonal diseases. made up $ 22,5 thou. The structure of the medical centre includes a clinical and biochemical laboratory, an X-ray room, ultrasonic and functional diagnostics rooms equipped with a stress-test system for a detailed study of the state of the respiratory and cardiovascular system Effectiveness of medical and sanitary of a man, physiotherapy department, daily hospital, four dental rooms, and two drug-stores. Availability programs T of an up -to date equipment and highly professional staff allow laboratory, functional and instrumental diagnostics examination. Doctors of narrow he means invested in the works employees health, specialization render a wide range services. medical service quality enhancement and implementation of modern treatment methods together Continuous attention is paid to disease prevention, with successful realization of the employees’ health their timely detection and medical treatment. Periodic promotion program in sanatoriums and vacation houses medical examinations remain the basic mechanism allows to sustain the positive dynamics of lowering of workers’ health control. Examinations give the employees disease in. a possibility immediately to detect presence of harmful and dangerous production factors and take measures In the result of prevention and early detection for their elimination thus allowing prevention of diseases indices of the employees’ health improved of professional disease development and helping at RUE “BMZ” as well as quality of their life. Diseases to prevent production traumatism. Workers who with temporary disability made up 1021,3 days are influenced by dangerous and harmful factors per 100 employees in 2011 which is 2 days less than on their work places are additionally thoroughly in 2010. examined including instrumental laboratory studies and consultations given by narrow specialists In 2011 the plant continued medical examination to considering industry peculiarities and profession prevent and early detect diseases of the employees. of a worker. Within the framework of this project During 2011 502 people were registered and 990 were more than 5824 employees including 939 women were crossed off the register including 593 people due to thoroughly examined in 2011. Not a single professional recovery. The group of employees regularly followed-up disease was detected in 2011. reduced by 488 people or 10,6% as compared with 2010.. 100 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 Medical-sanitary service of RUE «BSW» – is the biggest among town enterprises. RUE “BMZ” take part in implementation of the national program of demographic safety aimed at 77.51[(77.e87.649)e tm$[7.8366 385.8902 tm23(a)5(e)]tj$10 0 0 10 185.5393 385.8902 tm$73 Таблица: Количественные показатели заболеваемости. Social activity »R ating of the medical centre work is higher than in Besides, in 2011 the works used the children’s health 2010, but it is still at the average level (satisfaction improvement possibilities under the program of children’s index was 0,67 against 0,66 in 2010). Studies showed vouchers distribution by the social insurance fund. The that number of employees informed about the “HEALTH” health-improving services of the republican sanatoriums program existing at the plant grew ; this is the evidence of were used by134 children a growing interest of the employees to their health and Physical culture and sport development P methods of its preservation as well as improvement of the employees’ information about the work of the medical centre. hysical culture and sport is one of the constituent parts of healthy lifestyle, hence forming Sanitation and rest time of the employees the demand in regular sport activities with workers is a priority direction of RUE “BMZ” social policy. and their families This type of activity is specified by the corresponding RUE “BMZ” strives for improvement of the conditions provisions and clauses of the Collective agreement for health promotion and rest of its employees as well with direct participation and financial support as all volunteers in Zhlobin and region. At present by the RUE “BMZ” trade union committee. the works offers the high-quality services that can satisfy any client. “Dneprovskiye Zori” recreation center At present, the works offers its sport and recreation is located on a picturesque bank of the Dnieper river, center for the employees and the town residents in a pine forest and is meant for organizing sport to do sports and conduct outdoor activities. and cultural events. In 2011 1328 had rest there. The realization of the works social mandate regarding The plant spent $63,6 thou. for its maintenance. the development of the mass physical culture and sport and following healthy lifestyle are assigned to this complex having three gyms: for exercising, playing “BMZ is the only enterprise in the country where the program “Health @ work” is games and tennis. The priority work directions being implemented in corpore. The whole of the sport and recreation center are: complex of the planned measure aimed at reduction of stigma and discrimination of people with HIV is embodied. Everything – organization of sport and health-improvement as is done here from this viewpoint. well as sport-mass work at RUE “BMZ”; T.V. Snitko, Manager of the Belarusian Red – strengthening the works employees’ health, enhancing Cross project “Prevention of HIV in the labour sphere” their working efficiency, stress resistance, healthy lifestyle promotion; – satisfaction of the works employees’ needs for systematic sport and physical culture activities, Every year more than 1 800 employees and members the works employees’ health promotion, formation of their families spend holidays in the sanatoriums of physically developed and healthy citizens; and vacation houses of the Republic of Belarus. Financing of health improvement programs and – engaging children and teenagers in regular sport sanatorium-resort therapy is fulfilled on the principles activities. of a solidary participation at the expense of the works budget, state social insurance and employees’ means. The works spent $ 0,17 mln for maintenance of the In 2011 over $ 0,48 mln were used to compensate sport and recreation center in 2011. The allocated the voucher costs for the employees and their family funds were directed to: members. – conducting sport-mass activities: under the annual For organizing the vacations of the employees’ children all-the -year-around Olympics of RUE “BMZ” employees RUE “BMZ” compensates the major part of the expenses. the competitions were held in 16 kinds of sport, 53 In 2011 about 1 450 children spent their vacations in sport events were organized with participation of 35 the children’s health centers of the republic, health teams (2043 people); improvement of more than 1500 children is scheduled for 2012.. – clubs and 9 sporting sections for varied kinds of sport were created and successfully function, where 102 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS over 1000 people were engaged in regular physical league in mini-football team “MFK Zhlobin” and are culture and sport activities; participants of Gomel regional teams. – sport-mass activities according to the schedule Efficiency of healthy lifestyle policy implementation established for 2011 in collaboration with RUE “BMZ” at the works is confirmed by sport achievements of the Trade Union: over 650 workers and their family assembly teams consisting of RUE “BMZ” employees: members took part in 12 traditional sport activities. – 1 team place in the IV summer sports contest of the 57 sport activities visited by over 41,9 thousand people steel industry ; including 16 thou. children were held in the sport and recreation center in 2011. – 1 place in the district all-year-round sports contest; They included a traditional New Year children’ s tournament in mini-football which gathered 164 participants, sports contest “Defender of the – 2 place in the V regional inter-branch trade union Fatherland” in 7 kinds of sport among youth teams of sports contest. the shops and subdivisions of the plant where 10 teams (152 people) took part, XXI International light athletics race dedicated to the Metallurgist’s Day with 223 Volley-ball players of the plant-members of national participants including sportsmen from Russia, Ukraine, team of the trade unions of Belarus won the 3rd place in Baltic states. the IX open international workers’ festival “The Balkans and piece”. Работники завода достойно отстаивают честь предприятия на соревнованиях The works employees In order to organize the workers’ leisure time and support the honor of the enterprise at the competitions promote healthy lifestyle the works implemented the of various levels; some of them are acting participants program of collective visits to the town sport and of the Championship of the Republic of Belarus in major recreation center, Ice Palace, swimming pool and » Employees of the plant very often become leaders and winners at various competitions SOCIAL REPORT 2011 103 Social activity » aqua-park , sport complexes and facilities of the and the town has been played by the Palace of Culture republic: Silichi, Raubichi, and others. of Metallurgists. By right the Palace of Culture is considered the centre of cultural and educational Engaging the works employees into sport activities work directed towards satisfaction of cultural contribute to both their health-improvement and and intellectual needs of all categories of the forming specific corporate spirit of the enterprise that population. 2011 was announced the year of initiative helps in the Republic of Belarus. The team of the Palace of to solve the most challenging production issues. Culture of Metallurgists spent it under the motto “Initiative, creativity, search”. The sport and recreation center services are popular with the region population. Proceeds form physical Various cultural events of educational, aesthetic, and sport services made up USD 13,3 thou. in 2011. entertaining character for different audiences and age groups take place at the Palace of Culture. RUE “BMZ” takes active participation in solving issues A list of events is varied: different parties, discotheques, on the territories of the presence carryingout performances and shows, concerts dedicated to holiday the financial support of “Metallurg” volleyball team – and jubilees, contests, amateur arts festivals. bronze prize winner of the Championshi of the Republic of Belarus in the season of 2011–2012, “MetallurgThe Palace of Culture does not only cheers people but Zhlobin” hockey-club”– volleyball team holder develops talents, gives people the possibility of the Cup of the Republic of Belarus and winner to be occupied with their favourite hobby, make of the championship of the Republic of Belarus the leisure of steel makers and the inhabitants in 2011-12, bronze prize winner of the championship of the town spiritually rich, and interesting. of the Republic of Belarus in 2009 and 2011. The plant Over 560 people are members of hobby groups also sponsored the football club “Zhlobin”, association and creative teams, 450 of them are children. “Hockey federation of the Republic of Belarus”, Belarusian biathlon club. 20 creative teams and amateur associations work at the Palace of Culture: 9 for grown-ups The total amount of USD 9,6 mln was spent by the and 11 for children; 5 collectives were given plant for financing of the development of physical the honorable title of «People’s» and «Classic » culture in the Republic of Belarus. and sport in the Republic of Belarus in 2011. A great emphasis of its activity is placed by the Palace By financing these teams the plant supports of Culture on the professional level enhancement. the development of the sport of high achievements, Guest performances, participation in prestigious sport popularization in particular among young people. festivals and contests support professional skills growth. The following awards received in 2011 are the In 2011 the enterprise spent USD 5,04 mln for result of a laborious work of the creative team of the financing of the erection of the sport centre and a Palace of Culture: rowing canal in Zhlobin which is being carried out by the plant since. – diploma in the nomination Stage Culture” for the folk choir “Krynitsa” at the VI regional festival of the choir arts “Singing Field”; – second place of the for the folk choir “Krynitsa” Cultural life of the plant employees in the regional singing contest named after T.K. Lopatina. O ne of the main tasks of RUE “BMZ” social policy is creation of conditions for promotion and distribution of modern culture, effective social practice for the development of the creative potential Formation of the reputation of the most attractive employer in the region is a precondition for attracting creatively active and educated people to the plant. The enterprise invests funds to arrange events for aesthetic upbringing of children and younger of its employees. During 20 years the key role generation at the Palace of Culture. Thematic in the organization of the cultural life of the region discotheques, parties, festivals, performances, contests 104 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Palace of Culture of Metallurgist is an important component of corporate strategy of RUE «BSW». for people of different ages became regular: “How Such joint projects of the Belarusian Republican Youth wonderful this world is”, “Men’s season”, “Choose me”, Union and the Palace of Culture as “Miss Zhlobin”, “Miss Zhlobin” and many others. For the children “BMZ Superman”, “Lady Perfection”, and “Business of elementary schools music lessons “Journey Lady ” are very popular with the young workers to the country of music ” with participation of the brass of the plant. Supporting the state youth policy band were organized in 2011. Marriage registration the Palace of Culture arranges such traditional at the Palace of Culture became very popular. In 2011 projects as «Sport! Health! Beauty!”, “Family gives start the Palace of Culture arranged 361 events visited to everything!”, youth festival «Dare while young!», etc by more than 32,8 thou. people. 6 770 people including 3 651 children took part in the cultural events. The Palace of Culture promotes implementation of sociallyoriented projects on the regional and local One of the important activities of the Palace level. I ts activity is aimed at improving social climate of Culture is the work directed towards prevention and habitat. Creative teams of the Palace of Culture of the youth asocial behavior, struggle against drugs, constantly participate in town and region festive promoting healthy lifestyle and AIDS prevention. events, annual republican festival-fair “Dazhynki”, gala Different forms of such work are used the main idea concerts dedicated to the Victor Day, Independence of which is: “Creativity as the alternative to drugs Day of the Republic of Belarus, Labour Day, Youth Day and alcohol”. and professional feasts. Realizing social programs in the local community the team of the Palace of Culture closely cooperates with Zhlobin regional organization of “Belarusian Board of Officers” public association, “Belarusian Republican Youth Association”, etc. RUE “BMZ” Veterans’ Board, Women’s Council and other public organizations of the work teams hold their activities under the roof of RUE “BMZ” Palace of Culture. These are joint events – concerts, meetings, gala nights and celebrations. » SOCIAL REPORT 2011 105 Social activity »T he Culture Center teams also participate in regional and republican events. The brass band of the Palace Along with the events based on modern genres, the palace of Culture contributes to the development of Culture is the adornment of key festivals of national folk arts, spiritual revival and preservation in the cultural life of the town. Creative work of the best traditions of Belarusian national culture. of the brass band is valued and loved by the citizens: Active work in this direction is carried out by Krynitsa “One experiences wonderful minutes when clear choir, and creative collective “Skomoroshina. Events and tender sounds of wind instruments are heard organized by these teams are very popular in the park or near the fountain. Just these sounds with the people of different ages. are able to raise one’s mood, enrich a holiday and what is most important touch one’s sole”, said Olga Maksimtsova, a citizen of Zhlobin. The Metallurgist ’s Day is the main feast of RUE “BMZ” work team and the entire town. As far as importance, attendance, impressions brightness impression An important direction of the activity of the Palace are concerned, it is equal to festive events of Culture is organization of events strengthening of the republican scale. Belarusian and Russian the relations with the production, cultivate pride entertainment stars can be seen performing during for the enterprise. the feast. In the center of all the activities is the man of labor, Work of the team of the Palace of Culture completely demonstration of the importance of every single team justifies its high mission. Being the centre member, establishing and support of the corporate spirit of the cultural life of the plant, town and region, for the efficient activity of the entire enterprise. Annual the Palace of Culture is an important constituent part ceremonial presentation of professional premium of the corporate strategy of RUE “”BMZ”. In 2011 “Professional Olympus”, “Miss BMZ”, “Initiation into the plant spent $0,53 mln for organization of cultural Metallurgists”, “Corporate Calendar ”, “Youth Ball”, events. cultural-sport feasts, the events dedicated to the Metallurgist ’s Day, the works birthday are the forms used by the Palace of Culture in its work . The activity of the Palace of Culture is organized in such a way that allows the majority of the workers to disclose their abilities and talents, enjoy the beauty and highly spiritual. I t is proved by the annual amateur arts festival. This creative work unites people, raises their spirits, creates mood for successful and productive work . 106 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Solving of employees’ housing problems In 2011 240 plant ’s employees improved their living A conditions, 165 people were registered as those who need their living conditions to be improved. n important part of the social policy of RUE “BMZ” is engaging and promoting young highlyprofessional production staff. Provision with housing is one Поддержка многодетных семей of the key factors of the working team stability and Р social attractiveness of the enterprise. On the balance of RUE “BMZ” there are six dormitories еализация целевой социальной поддержки for the workers’ family members, where 1676 people работников РУП «БМЗ» осуществляется (574 families) reside, and one dormitory with 340 посредством гибкой системы льгот и компенсаций. beds provided for single employees (306 people Основываясь на принципах государственной политики, including students of Zhlobin metallurgical college) провозглашающей, что дети имеют право на особую reside there. Living conditions in the dormitories are заботу и помощь, что семья как основная ячейка constantly improved due to scheduled capital repairs: общества и естественная среда для роста и благополучия modernization of engineering network and heat points всех ее членов должна быть обеспечена необходимой which helped защитой и содействием, РУП «БМЗ» to decrease municipal expenses с целью дальнейшего развития направлений поддержки материнства и детства на заводе осуществляет In 2011 the plant spent $0,64 mln for these purposes мероприятия по поддержке полных и неполных семей, out of which $183,6 thousand were used for а также семей, имеющих четырех и более детей в возрасте improvement and repair of the housing stock . до 18 лет. Цель мероприятий – повышение статуса семей и улучшение качества их жизни. Согласно положению по The policy of the house building adopted оздоровлению и санаторно-курортному лечению на РУП by the government helped to eliminate the deficiency «БМЗ», семьям предоставляются льготные и частично of permanent and temporary housing for the staff оплачиваемые путевки в санатории и дома отдыха. of the plant: in August 2011 a 36-flat house no. 35 Одним из мероприятий по социальной поддержке in microdistrict 18 was commissioned. In December 2011 семей работников завода являются ежегодные выплаты the 1st block of hostel No. 3 in microdistrict 16 was на приобретение школьной формы, ежемесячное commissioned after modernization and capital repair предоставление оплачиваемого свободного от работы carried out for account of the plant. дня матерям, имеющим более трех детей. Description 2008 2009 2010 2011 177 women 160 women 132 women 400 women Payments for birth of a child (lump sum allowance) $ 106,2 thou $ 84,3 thou $ 72,8 thou. $ 84,2 thou 562 women 546 women 509 women 441 women Payment for nursing a child under 3 $ 472,9 thou $ 411,1 thou $ 490,6 thou $ 419,2 thou Payments for purchasing school uniform $ 14,8 thou $ 10,9 thou $ 11,9 thou $ 23,2 thou Providing one day-off $ 24,2 thou $ 22,6 thou $ 20,3 thou. $ 5,4 thou The means for children’s health improvement $ 385,9 thou $ 326,7 thou. $ 341,2 thou. $ 474,8 thou. Payments for the families raising the disabled children 100 children 100 children 97 children 96 children Table. under 18 $ 4,7 thou. $ 3,6 thou. $ 5,1 thou. $ 8,6 thou. Arrangements for the workers’ families support SOCIAL REPORT 2011 107 Social activity Social support of unemployed Concern for children pensioners, invalids and other categories of people not sufficiently provided for B usiness initiatives have great impact on the processes of social development in the country and their results change the public ideas B eing a socially-orientated enterprise, RUE “BMZ” renders free preschool services satisfying a social order of the society and the state. It puts great emphasis on retaining and improving health of the living quality norms. A pensioner, who receives of the younger generation of metallurgists, creating safe a corporate pension in addition to the state one, is living environment and personal development better protected when he/she gets old. Work with of a child. The realization of this objectives is assigned veterans, invalids and other categories of the needy is to 9 pre -school establishments under the auspices carried out at RUE “BMZ” based on “recipientoriented” of the enterprise attended by 1 871 children (72% are social support both in the form of financial payments children of the plant’s employees, others – of the citizens and using a wide range of social facilities: the clinic, of the area of the plant’s activity). In в 2011 financial the Palace of Culture of Metallurgists, sport investment in the kindergartens amounted to $2,61 mln. and recreation center of RUE “BMZ”. Modern material facilities of the pre-school In 2011 the sum of this support made up establishments allows provision of sanitary and hygienic over USD 578,3 thousand conditions for the children providing a positive emotional state of children, satisfying need of every child There are more than five forms and directions in psychological comfort through a flexible system of rendering social support which were used of the educational process. In kindergartens children by over 1400 people. have equal starting possibilities for the transition to the next, higher level of education. An important line in the social support policy is a monthly material aid for unemployed pensioners. For many years of the work of these establishments Since 01.11.2011 changes and amendments were loving and tender care of each child, enthusiasm introduced in the Collective Agreement anticipating and conscientiousness, initiative and sincere interest growth of additional payments to some categories of the employees in the well-being and health of every of former employees. At present the amount single child remain the unchanging values of their of the monthly pension supplements varies from $21 working teams. to $162 depending on the record of service and awards. In 2011 these supplements made up $335,2 thousand. In December the General director of Byelorussian Steel Works received a note of thanks from the Deputy The financial aid is provided in connection with minister of education of the Republic of Belarus retirement. In 2011 the amount of this aid was over for maintaining the network of pre -school educational $19,46 thousand. Besides, there is an annual financial establishments and development of improved conditions aid dedicated to the International Day for the Elderly. for work of teachers and stay of children in them. Its amount made up $159, 4 thousand in 2011. Those pensioners who do not work get material assistance on For efficiency of the educational process holidays, jubilees, because of hard economic condition, in the kindergartens, up-to-date educational for medical treatment and purchasing of expensive and health-saving methods and integrated classes medicine; other social payments are effected. The and scenario-paying complexes are used and counselors amount of these expenses equaled to $ 49, 5 thousand. and physiologists are involved. A significant attention is paid to protection of a child’s rights. In addition A special place in the social program is occupied by to sport activities thematic matinees and ecological providing the unemployed pensioners with treatment education is organized for the children. in the plant ’s clinic, the sport and recreation center In the kindergartens there are colorful stands, creative services, the services rendered by the Palace of Culture playgrounds, pets’ corners, sculptural compositions, at a reduced charge. Every year the veterans are ecologic rooms; birdfeeders are suspended subscribed to the plant ’s newspaper “Metallurg” in the playground areas. In a word, everything free of charge. is arranged for the children to grow in unity with nature and try to adorn the earth, preserve its beauty. 108 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Ecological education presupposes both caring attitude of Culture of metallurgists within the framework to nature and being responsible for own health, of the festival of children’s creative work “How conformity with certain moral standards and rules wonderful this world is”. Children and adults have of conduct in a forest, in a meadow, small wood a nice opportunity to demonstrate their creative abilities and garden. This attitude to the world to be protected and talents in the visual arts, dramatic art, and music. is raised in the children from early age. This event is highly appreciated by the Educational Board of Gomel Regional Executive Committee and general Since 2008 all kindergartens arrange creative sites public. RUE “BMZ” trade union and administration for the children in summer time: playgrounds, creative, rendered its assistance in arranging this event. ecological, and ethnographic sites; 60 sections They support pre-school establishments in every possible and studios work which are visited by over 650 children; way. in some kindergartens adaptation sites are arranged for the newcomers. “Mothers’ school” is opened «Задача, поставленная перед дошкольным образованием Президентом Республики in one of the pre -school establishments to work Беларусь в дошкольных учреждениях БМЗ уже сегодня реализована» with the families bringing up children of less than three years old. Educational project “World of professions” Начальник отдела образования Жлобинского райисполкома was worked out and is actively introduced in practice Л.И. Артомонова to arouse a cognitive interest of children for steel maker work. Legal education work is carried-out among children and their parents. The pre-school institutions implemented a system of therapeutic and educational events for children’s Its very urgent for the system of pre-school education health improvement which is directed towards creating to improve professional competence of the pre -school optimal ecological, sanitary-hygienic conditions teachers. The system of pre -school education unites over in order to ensure creation of positive emotional 496 including 229 teachers. Improvement condition of children, satisfaction of every child’s need of preschool education quality is provided in psychological comfort via the flexible educational for by organizing conditions for self-realization process system. and improvement of professional level of the teaching staff, organization of work of methodical associations. Professional achievements of the plant’s pre-school Specialists summarize and share teaching experience establishments are awarded in various contests: at the republican and regional seminars. Teachers took part in the international scientific and practical – “Best Pre-school Establishment” and “Professional conference «Management of preschool education Olympus” arranged by RUE “BMZ”,; quality : state, problems, outlooks». Work of K.V. Rzhaev, physical training teacher, «Swimming: diagnostics – regional and district stage of the contest «Best preand realization of skills of the children of pre -school school establishment” – 1st place (kindergarten No.34); age» was published in the republican scientific – methodical magazine “Praleska”. – regional contest for the best sport work “Olympia Land”» three kindergartens of BMZ one the prizeBMZ kindergartens are active participants of events winning places. Based on the results of the contest dedicated to different holidays and remarkable dates: kindergarten No.32 was recognized the best in Zhlobin Day of Unity of Russia and Belarus–an exhibition district; of creative works of children and parents was arranged; Birthday of the plant and Metallurgists’ day: In the national contest “ Best pre-school establishment” for the second time schoolchildren participate kindergarten “Ogonyok ” was given the 5th place among in the contest of children’s drawings “I want to be a steel 200 participants for adequate presentation of its maker ” program. Efficiency of the educational process at pre-school One of bright events in the life of pre-school establishments is determined by the growth of the level establishments is a gala-concert organized at the Palace of the all-round development of the personality SOCIAL REPORT 2011 109 Social activity of a child together with the decrease of the level – providing the workers with working places and salaries of the children’s morbidity rate. In 2011 the figure in conformity with the signed labor contracts, social of total morbidity rate per 1000 children dropped and economic rights established by the existing by more than 13,5% relative to 2010, number of days legislation of the Republic of Belarus; when children stayed at home due to disease decreased by over 11%. Health index reached 32% against 30% – following labor and technological discipline, labor in 2010. protection requirements, industrial safety and production sanitary ; – strengthening social-legal security of the enterprise Monitoring of public opinion workers; concerning social programs stabilization of the social-economic situation effectiveness T in the working teams and subdivisions of the enterprise. he results of the integrated study of social-psychoBeing guided by the UN Global Compact principles logical climate in the structural subdivisions work the works sees ensuring and protection of human rights teams held in 2011 speak of the positive assessment as a priority as compared to the economic results of BMZ activity in social responsibility sphere. Over 12% of the production activity and guarantees their of the employees, who took park in the study, expressed implementation. their opinion of the quality and level of the works canteens, social security and protection, medical services RUE “BMZ” opposes all the forms of discrimination at the enterprise, leisure -spending conditions, conditions and builds its activity on the basis of generally for doing sport and conducting the 0,67 to 0,75 recognized principles and norms of the international law, vs 0,66 0,80 in 2010. standards and conventions of the International Labor Organization, legislation of the Republic of Belarus. 2011 not a single case of gender, national, religious and political discrimination as well as cases of using Employees’ rights forced and child labor was registered at the enterprise. Carrying-out its practical activity, RUE “BMZ” Having productions with enhanced danger level acknowledges the immunity of human rights and takes in its structure BMZ is responsible for ensuring all the required measures for their provision the production facilities safety for the employees and protection. and the population. The works creates healthy and safe work conditions by replacing out-dated equipment Being a socially responsible enterprise, the works and technologies and complies with the labor protection respects the interests and rights of the workers based legislation, international industrial safety on the social partnership principles. These principles and professional illnesses prevention standards as well are laid in the social partnership paramount agreement as internal regulations. The issues of the employees’ – the Collective Agreement. In April 2011 a collective health and safety are set forth in the collective agreement for 2011-2014 reflecting the interests agreement. of RUE “BMZ” employees and considerably improving the previous collective agreement was adopted The works recognizes that its production activity by the employees’ conference. is connected with negative environmental impact and takes all possible measures for minimization of such Aims of the collective agreement are: impact on the population’s life activity. – development of contract relations between RUE “BMZ” guarantees the right of trade unions the enterprise and its employees being the social to carry out their activity without encumbrance partnership parties; and any restrictions as stipulated by the legislation. The right of the employees and trade unions – coordination of the works and employees interests to participate in contract regulation of labor relations during elaboration of common principles of regulating is realized in the procedures of preparing and signing social-labor relationships; the Collective Agreement, in the employees’ right 110 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS to participate in creation and improvement of labor Strict and rigorous observance of human rights conditions and occupational environment. and freedoms is the foundation of modern socially responsible business aimed both at profit-making Legal regulation of labor relationships at RUE “BMZ” and stable development of the plant and the entire is performed in conformity with the Labor Code region. RUE “BMZ” intends to comply with of the Republic of Belarus and the Collective Agreement the legislation requirements and international social of the enterprise: responsibility principles in the future. – conclusion of collective agreements, working contracts is fulfilled taking into account the substantiations of production, organizational Social partnership I and economic reasons; – an employee should be informed about changes n order to improve moral and physiological climate in the labor conditions not later than one month prior of the work team, solving the issues regarding to contract extension; the collaboration coordination of the management and organizations representing the interests of various – an employee should be informed about the contract categories of the employees, the works implemented expiration, or the intent to prolong/terminate «Be Aware of a Human!» system since April 2005. the contract for a new term not later than one month prior. The notification period was increased two times since 2009. «Your collective agreement is complete and protects the employees to a considerable extent. Byelorussian Steel Works is the only organization which collective agreement stipulates additional payment to pensions of the retired employees. The works strives for prevention of labor disputes Not any other member of the entrepreneur’s union provides for the same. In and contracts, and if there are any, it participates general, this collective agreement is more socially-oriented than any other». in open negotiations with the employees recognizing L.I. Khovansky, mutual responsibility of the social partnership parties. Deputy Chairman In order to ensure equal rights of the works employees, of Belaruisin trade union of industrial workers conformity with the legislation of the Republic of Belarus, and solving disputes, a labor disputes commission was established. It includes an equal number of representatives of the management and work teams. The commission objective is competent consideration of individual disputes that arise between any employee In collaboration with the trade union organization and the management regarding the issues connected and other social organizations the works creates to labor relations. During the year the commission the social partnership system that is a foundation performed continuous work acting as an arbitrator. for mutually beneficial cooperation. In 2011 8 applications of the works employees were considered. In the result of considering the applications Sustaining close relationships with the management, by the commission 6 of them were rejected the Public Organizations Council conducts its activity due to inconsistency of the submitted claims, at the enterprise. It acts in the interests of the employees with reference to another two were withdrawn because forming an active public position of each work team the arisen issue was solved by the management. member. For the purpose of following and ensuring human rights The Council includes the representatives of : at the enterprise in conformity with the existing system of the employees’ continuous training and personal Trade Union organization; development a great emphasis is placed on increasing the awareness level and legal literacy of all the employees. Over 90% of the employees, who Primary organization of “Belarusian Republican Youth undertook professional training in 2011 studied Union” public association; the fundamental principles of the legislation referring to economic, ecological or social responsibility. Veteran’s Union; SOCIAL REPORT 2011 111 Social activity Primary public organization “Belarusian Women’ the principles of regulating trade and socialeconomic Union”; relationships as well as guarantees and privileges for the employees, mutual responsibilities and liabilities of the parties. The aim of the Agreement is joining International soldiers’ organization; together the efforts of the parties for attaining socialeconomic stability and competitive ability of the industry organizations, increasing the employees’ Young Specialists’ Union; living standard, observance of their legal rights and interests and creating the system of the employees’ comprehensive social protection. Foremen Union; The plant recognizes that the objective of the trade union is not limited to protecting the employees’ rights Physical Culture Team’s Union and influencing labor relationships. I t is also a certain indicator of the public mood. The trade union expresses the working teams’ reaction to the social and economic In order to ensure the efficient realization policy implemented by the enterprise and contributes of the employees’ rights and establishing confidential to its timely adjustment. The dialogue relations with all parties concerned, the Public of the management and representatives of the working Organizations Council keeps an active collaboration teams is especially important to be established with the representatives of the regional social service in the situation when the works, as a part of the world centre; region and district law enforcement agencies; financial and economic system, experiences difficult central regional; hospital and RUE “BMZ” clinic; legal times and seeks for the opportunities to enhance their services of the works, region and deputy of the House efficiency. of Representatives of the National Assembly of the Republic of Belarus elected to the parliament In their practical activity the parties are guided from among the plant’s employees. by the principles of social partnership, such as legal equality of the parties, compliance with the legislation norms, considering real opportunities for performance «You feel at once good spirit and mood and free of the assumed obligations, obligatory fulfillment communication of your team. This evidences that you feel the pulse in the production, economy and social life. of the arrangements and responsibility BMZ is a flagship in the region and in the country». for the obligations assumed. B.K. Pirshtuk, Deputy chairman of Gomel RUE “BMZ” Trade Union Organization regional executive committee unites 12 029 people or 97,2% of the total number of employees. In order to observe the rights and legal interests of the workers the employees represent RUE “BMZ” in the regional association and in the Republican Trade Union Committee being members of the Regional Trade Union Association Council, members of the Belarusian Trade Union Federal Council. RUE “BMZ” trade union organization The social partnership document which allows strengthening of social-legal security of the enterprise The works establishes mutually beneficial relationships employees is the Collective Agreement. The Agreement and develops a collective agreement with regulates social benefits and lump -sum benefit the trade union organization based on the norms payments, additional payments and financial awards, and principles of the Tariff Agreement concluded the size of which directly depends on the results between Belarusian Professional Union of Industrial of production-financial activity of the entire enterprise workers, Belarusian Professional Union work team. of Metalworkers, the M inistry of Industry This document establishes supplementary, as compared of the Republic of Belarus, Republican Association to the active legislation, provisions regarding labor of Industrial Enterprises. The Agreement sets conditions and payment, social and residential provision 112 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 of the workers, compensations and other privileges. healthy and The Collective Agreement stipulates various forms of financial payments, bonuses, awards following the results of the work during the year, for the service record, sums of the bonuses for high qualification, professional skill and others, sets guarantees and privileges for the families with children. Besides, a person is not left alone in a challenging life situation; this aid is also stipulated by the main document. In order to comply with the Collective Agreement, in 2010 the Trade Union Committee financed the following: •allowances to parents for the birth of a child $13,41 thou; • New Year ’s presents for children $128,52 thou; • cultural events $57,32 thou; • sport events $90,30 thou; • presents for the employees’ jubilees $14,49 thou; • presents for the retiring employees $13,02 thou; • supporting veterans (4 658 people) $15,14 thou; • material support $162,16 thou. BMZ trade union organization became the winner of the republican contest for the right to be called the best primary trade union organization of Belarusian union of industrial workers in 2010-2011. A continuously operating body of social partnership is the Collective Agreement Commission that controls fulfillment of the obligations assumed. I t consists of representatives of the management and the Trade Union Committee. The constant dialogue results in reaching the agreements regarding salary issues, optimization of the management structure, ensuring Social activity Primary organization of BRYU «В первую очередь работа библиотеки сводится к тому, чтобы человек развивался не только интеллектуально, но и духовно, и эстетически» Realization of the state youth policy by the works is built on the principle of mutual cooperation Заведующая профсоюзной with the primary organization of “Belarusian библиотекой М.В. Ивченкова Republican Youth Union” Young Specialists’ Union, Trade Union Committee and other public organizations acting at the enterprise. The works corporate program “Youth” is carried out by conducting an open constructive dialogue with the parties concerned and continuous improvement of the methods of informing, feedback and cooperation. under the auspices of the Trade Union Committee a commission for family and school assistance has In conformity with the state strategy in youth policy been working since 2005. the program implemented at RUE “BMZ” sets the priorities and cooperation directions Under the auspices of RUE “BMZ” Trade Union for the parties concerned with regard to creating Committee the trade union library operates favorable conditions for the development with the fund of 41 640 books. The library and realization of the youth’s potential in various is a unique one because the plant ’s employees, their spheres of the activity via: children, and citizens of Zhlobin can always find the required literature, or their request – information support of the state in youth policy; for a certain book can be accepted, and they may get a professional advice. USD3,7 thou. from – civil formation, spiritual and ecological education the trade union budget were spent for purchasing of the youth; new literature and decoration of the library and for subscription of 1200 veterans – support of research and technology creativity; to periodicals. The library numbers over 3600 regular readers. Last year 38 400 people visited – youth cooperation and creative potential the library and 131 578 books were given out. development; April 6 the library celebrated its 25th anniversary. During this period a new generation of readers – healthy lifestyle and tourism development; grew who visit the library since childhood and are now BMZ employees. – improvement of the youth social security protection. Every year the role and influence of the trade union grows. This is evidenced by a positive Traditional meetings of young specialists to assessment of its activity in 2011 made exchange work experience with the with the youth by the plant ’s employees during a comprehensive and representatives of : study of the social and psychological climate in the subdivision teams. Index of satisfaction – state agencies; with the activity of the trade union organization is growing from year to year and in 2011 it equaled – regional, town veterans’ unions of Gomel region; to 0,68 (0,59 in 2010). – young employees of the enterprises included BMZ trade union organization became the winner the production association “Byelorussian Steel of the republican contest for the right Works”; to be called the best primary trade union organization of Belarusian union of industrial – primary organizations of Belarusian Republican workers in 2010-2011. Youth Union, establishments, organizations and enterprises of the region; – youth of the industrial enterprises of the Republic 114 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS of Belarus and CIS countries as part of scientific – “We – to children” – aid to the social – pedagogical and technical conferences. centre of assistance for families and children in purchasing stationeries, detergents, equipment Informing and engaging young employees of the plant for the children’s room at the district hospital. in realization of the state youth policy of the Republic of Belarus is carried out using all available means of mass media: corporate, republican, regional – “Pure Nature”. Cleaning of the territory adjoining newspapers and other sources of information. the Virsky artificial pond. Having the priority right regarding the realization of the “Youth” program, the works primary organization Effectiveness of the organization activity is evidenced of Belarusian Republican Youth Union prepares by its achievements and awards won in 2011: the photo-reports, posters, information materials reflecting the issues of realizing state youth policy. –At the Vth republican sport rally of the trade union At present the organization has 1450 members organizations RUE “BMZ” team won the second team or 49,86% of the youth aged under 31 who work place. at the plant. – 2nd and 3rd place in the regional contest of craftsmanship among young milling machine Number of the members BRYU operators; 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 561 1132 1308 1336 1313 1368 1450 – 3rd place in the regional contest of craftsmanship among young lathe operators; The most significant activities conducted by RUE “BMZ” youth organization in 2011 were charitable campaigns for: – 1st place in the series of district intellectual games – children’s home in Bobruisk; “What? Where? When?”; – Zhlobin district veterans’ organization; – 1st place in a dance contest “Youth wave” among amateur collectives of the town and district enterprises; – Gomel regional Board of public association “Belarusian republican pioneer organization”; – 2nd place in the district contest “Best young family of Zhlobin area”; – Minsk seminary. – 9th place in the republican contest of welders among 63 participating teams. The following actions became traditional: According to the results of 2011 BRYU primary – “BMZ Youth – to Veterans”. The veterans received organization of RUE “BMZ” received commendation congratulations and presents, they are assisted of Gomel regional BRYU organization for many years in improving of living conditions. of cooperation and support of the social association Belarusian Republican Youth Union and a deed of district BRYU for active participation – “All children are ours”. Clothes were collected in the implementation of projects and programs for the pupils of the boarding school of Zhlobin. of Zhlobin BRYU organization. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 115 Veterans’ Union The organization unites 1448 ex-employees and present-time pensioners, who made their contribution into establishment and development of the Belarusian metallurgy industry. All the organization activity was directed towards enhancing the status of the elderly, social recognition of their destinies and life experience, participation in social life, overcoming their isolation, changing the idea of ageing, understanding the story of their life owing to the dialogue of generations. The Veterans’ Union cooperates with the youth organiz БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS for treatment of the diseased child of F/ Sikov, plant «I would like to thank the soldiers-internationalists employee, “A Helping hand” – to collect money for their courage and firmness, the work for the Association of assistance to invalid children they do to immortalize their fellow-soldiers, invaluable contribution into patriotic and young people, “They should not cry ” and “a School upbringing of the young generation». Bag” – to collect clothes and school accessories for children from low-income families. The Women’ Union L.N. Apanasyuk, tell the stories about the women with active life stand, Chairman of Zhlobin district executive committee who unsparingly devote a lot of time to social life, on the pages of newspaper “Metallurgist” and TV channel “Nuance”. The Union continuously encourages the works women’s initiative in the social life sphere, make regular proposals regarding the issues of health, labor security and conditions, promoting health of women and their children, production and welfare In 2011 over 120 representatives of Russia, Ukraine, culture; takes care of the family strengthening, Belarus, Latvia, and Great Britain took part protection of maternity and childhood, low-income in the scientific and technical conferences “Metal-2011”. families or families with many children, raising Young specialists of the plant participated in scientific handicapped children. In its activity the Women’ Union and technical conferences arranged by the enterprises applies modern technologies. Regular sociological of metallurgical industry of Russia and the Ukraine studies on diverse subjects are held. The site of the Young employees demonstrated their developments which Women’ Union was created in the work-wise computer were awarded at these events. network “INFO BMZ”. One of the ways of realization of the long-term strategy Union of soldiers-internationalists of the staff potential development is selection and direction of young specialists to establishments 130 soldiers-internationalists work in BMZ structural to get post-graduate education so as to train its own subdivisions. Issues of their labor, welfare, health high-grade scientific staff able to successfully implement improvement are reviewed at Union meetings involving the promising program of technical revamping the participation of the management and Trade Union of the enterprise. Committee representatives. The union works in close collaboration with international organizations giving assistance in patriotic education. The works soldiers«International scientific and technical conference internationalists annually take active participation “Metal” held during many years has become in regional festival of Afghan Songs, international a distinctive symbol of BMZ, its businessconference of local wars participants of Baltic states card, a unity of experience and youth». and the city of Kaliningrad, in the events dedicated S.M. Borschchov, to the Memory Day of Soldiers-Internationalists. Deputy General Director for technical development-Chief engineer of RUE “BMZ” Union of young specialists Over 300 young specialists work at the enterprise. The union considers all the issues related with young employees: their adaptation at the production, professional growth, research Union of foremen and technology activity, labor-saving work. The important part of the work is enhancing business The Union organizes its work in close contact and creative activity of the youth, organizing scientific with the personnel services and solves urgent issues and technical conferences, young employees’ participation of 563 foremen of the works. The Union holds public in such forums held at other enterprises, exchange discussion and development of recommendations of experience. regarding the enhancement of the foremen role; participation in the activities for organizing professional, ideological and economic training of firemen; considers SOCIAL REPORT 2011 117 the issues of labor and moral education of the workers, strengthening labor and performance discipline, promoting the young workers reserve. In 2011, implementing the program of the development of human resources and training of the manager reserve the union of foremen participated in the organization and conducting of the meeting at OJSC «Legmash” Plant in Orsha, in training of young specialists graduated in 2011, awarding the title of “Master of I, II grades’ (88 employees have this title:: 61 and 27 accordingly), organization of the 2nd conference of BMZ foremen, summary and popularization of the best experience of the foremen – nominees and winners of the professional Olympus contest. Supporting the principles of social responsibility and developing charity initiatives of the plant foremen took an active part in all charity campaigns held at the plant. Union of physical training and sports The Union solves the issues of planning, organization and conduct of sport-mass work in the enterprise work team. The Union confirms the schedule of conducting sports contests, tournaments, competitions and sportive health-improvement programs; considers the issues of their material and financial provision. Monitoring of public opinion A of the social partners ssessment of the work of the public organizations acting at the enterprise, their influence on the working team life was given by the employees during the annual study of the social and psychological climate (the satisfaction index according to the criteria made up 0,66 against 0,61 in 2010). 118 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 Responsibility for the goods produced RUE “BMZ” presumes that an efficient business of steel privacy of the customer employees; and steel structures production should be formed on the basis of continuous enhancement of quality compliance with the established requirements. management, thereat providing for production with the quality meeting customers’ requirements During production and sales, the plant’s management and expectations. Supporting and implementing implicitly follows principle 1 of the EN Global Compact. the principles of social responsibility for the goods In compliance with principle 8 of the UN Global produced, Byelorussian Steel Works became an active Compact the plant’s management undertakes initiatives member of the Central and West Europe Quality Leaders and holds activities aiming at reduction Club since 2008. The club unites winners, laureates, of the production impact on the environment which and finalists of the international quality tournament. is covered in the section “Environmental Protection”. In order to meet the requirements of its customers both The plant’s management’s standpoints as per liability on the domestic and international markets, aspects are outlined in: the plant processes various grades of steel and produces the following material: concast billet, sections Corporate Policy; and structural shapes, pipes, steel cord, wire and steel fiber. The feedstock for the production is secondary raw documentation of the Corporate Management System materials is steel scrap. listed in this section; The plant’s production is in demand with the consumers, Code of Ethics. and competitive; and over 80% of the plant’s production is exported to all continents of the world. Product life cycle «BMZ is one of the few steel plants which has Structurally, RUE “BMZ” is composed of three basic 48certificates for different types of products. production lines (steelmaking, production of rolled This is one of the weighty advantages which gives us the possibility to reorient our material and steel cord and wire manufacturing), deliveries quickly to those markets where infrastructure shops and subdivisions of the enterprise’s our products will be most demanded». activity management. The steelmaking production A.A. Peratsaihina, includes a scrap yard and two electric melt shops. Deputy General Director Acceptance, storage, classification and processing for technology and quality of scrap are performed in the scrap yard. The scrap yard is equipped with overhead cranes and racks used for loading material into charging baskets which are delivered to the melt shops by scrap trucks. The steelmaking production is represented by three powerful electric-arc furnaces with the capacity of 100 tons General provisions each.. The products manufacturing and packaging are safe for human health and environment. The steelmaking process is intensified by the application of gas and oxygen technologies. Deoxidization and The plant’s Director General and its deputies ensure that alloying of steel is performed in a ladle. Finishing the liability aspects, as regards the production, of steel chemical composition is performed in special are as follows: ladle furnaces and vacuum degassers. Steel is cast by three continuous casting machines; two of them being ensuring of security and health of customers when six-strand units producing billet cross-section 125х125 in contract with the products; mm, 140х140 mm and one – a four-strand machine with 250х300, 300х400 м mm billet cross-sections and relevant production labeling and marking; round diameter 200 mm. marketing communication with customers and suppliers; The high tech rolling production is represented by a modernized small-section rolling mill 320, wire 120 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS rod mill 150, duo reverse rolling mill 850 with a «You already produce 2,6 mn t of steel per year and we set of equipment for production of rolled sections, have to point out that you achieved the highest level structural shapes, wire rod for various applications, of quality of the product manufactured, if we compare your production with similar plants in Asia or Europe». and reinforcing steel. In mill 320 methods of production of reinforcing steel against standards of Horst Wisinger, Germany, Holland, Great Britain, Finland, Sweden, representative Norway, Austria, Poland and Russia has been mastered of HW Consulting GmbH, Austria and certification of these types of products by the national authorities of these countries has been carried out; slitting process has been mastered with dividing of a bar into several strands has been developed and this is a new and perspective direction in the rolling technique. Another important hardware product enjoying keen June 2007 witnessed commissioning of a pipe mill the demand is the wire for high-pressure hoses (hose wire). equipment for which was supplied by SMS Meer, a With respect to automation and equipment level, wire German company. The pipe mill uses three types of billet production is one of the highly developed in the world. diameters: 140, 160 and 200 mm. The plant ’s specialists are successfully developing and implementing new steel cord constructions taking into The designed capacity of the pipe mill equals to 252 consideration global development tendencies and tire thou. tons per year; the finished pipe size range varies requirements of the automotive market. More than from 21.3 to 168.3 mm. The amount of $270 mln. was 60% of the produced steel cord is dispatched into 18 spent for this project implementation. First piercing far-abroad countries. The export share of the hose of a hot-rolled seamless pipe took place on June 29, wire delivered to the far-abroad countries has always 2007, and at the end of 2008 the mill approached its remained high and today it makes up about 90%. In designed capacity. order to satisfy the requirements of the consumer companies, RUE “BMZ” specialists have developed a Since the commissioning of the pipe mill production of wide range of hose wire types beyond the project scope, more than 250 types of pipe products of various range including high-tensile and ultra high-tensile types. The has been mastered. range of wire production output is not limited by the abovementioned assortment. The plant produces bead Pipe quality meets the requirements of Russian and wire, welding coppercoated and noncoppercoated foreign standards: GOST, DIN, ASTM, API 5L, EN. wire, die -rolled colddeformed reinforcing wire for Products meeting complex requirements of these concrete reinforcement, spring, spoke, nail, general standards at the customer ’s request purpose wire and steel fiber (anchor, wavy, micro -fiber). Over 80% of the pipe products are sold outside the The plant ’s infrastructure is represented by repair Republic of Belarus. Our customers represent such shops for power, electrical and mechanical equipment, countries as Austria, Czech Republic, Estonia, France, production provision with fluids and electric power, Germany, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, Latvia, railway and transport shops, and such other auxiliary Lithuania, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Turkey, the departments. USA, Russia, China, Serbia and Ukraine. Customer ’s health and safety Hardware production is composed of three steel wire M shops, powder metallurgy and die shop, and a container and package shop. ain customers of RUE “BMZ” are machine Steel cord production is a most complicated science building and motorcar construction intensive process which presupposes production of enterprises, hardware, tire, pipe and reinforced concrete brasscoated steel wire diameter 0.15 mm out of cast structure plants of the neighboring and far-away billet size 250х300 mm, capable of sustaining high countries and those of the RB. mechanical loads. The plant is the main supplier of such world-recognized tire manufactures as Continental, RUE “BMZ” is aiming at production of quality goods Michelin, Goodyear, etc. and services, advantageous and safe for the consumers’ health. The best quality assessment SOCIAL REPORT 2011 121 Responsibility for the goods produced EMS No.1 EMS No.2 Rolling mill 320 Rolling mill 150 Rolling mill 850 Pipe mill The plant follows the way of innovative SWS No.1 SWS No.2 SWS No.3 development and implements advanced technologies of the plant production is its high competitive ability Confidence in the stable quality of wire production is and continuously increasing sales turnover. ensured by the quality system existing at the enterprise and certified for the compliance with standard In order to provide the inner market security, safety ISO/TS 16949:2009. of the citizens and environmental protection, the Republic of Belarus, Russia, EC countries production is approved by the representatives of wire and some other states do not allow to import products consuming companies: Michelin (France), Continental which are not certified for the compliance (Germany), Goodyear (Luxembourg), Eaton (USA, with the requirements of their national standards. Germany), Manuli (Italy), Parker (Italy), Diesse (Italy), Alfagomma (Italy), Knapheide (Germany) and others, «В области качества можно достичь which perform the counterparty audits. хороших результатов, только если работать в одной команде. Это понятие не существует виртуально, оно The Central Plant Laboratory is accredited неразрывно связано с производством, всеми службами завода». for the compliance with ISO/MEK 17025 requirements since 2009. Заместитель генерального директора по технологии и качествуРУП «БМЗ» Е.А. Перетягина In 2011 Republican Unitary Enterprise «Byelorussian Steel Works» together with Belmet Handelgesellschaft m.b.h. (Linz, Austria), its representative in EC countries, and in accordance with REACH regulation No. EC 1907/2006 arranged registration of the chemicals (manganese, iron, copper and silicon) contained Production certification in compliance with the in concast billet and bloom as products which further requirements of national and international standards use is accompanied with the chemical composition was commenced at RUE “BMZ” in 1991, and has change. been successfully performed thereafter. Quality and security of the RUE “BMZ” products complying with All other products of our enterprise belong to goods the requirements of the national standards which do not suffer their chemical composition change of its customers is certified by conformity certificates and not emitting substance in the course of further issued in Russia, Belarus, USA and most of the EU standard use and are not subject to registration. countries. Following the results of 2011 RUE “BMZ” holds 48 compliance certificates All BMZ products do not contain substances for various types of products. Quality and security of increased hazard (SVHC). of the RUE “BMZ” products and their compliance with normative documents is systematically checked The main goal of the REACH system is to provide high in the course of supervisory audits with the frequency level of human health and environment protection, established by the certification rules of every certain including promotion of alternative methods country (1, 2, 3 times a year). of substance hazard assessment, and free turnover of 122 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS substances within the domestic market Packing and shipment are in accordance of the European Union, thereat enhancing with the requirements of the existing process the competitive ability of chemical industry documentation with consideration of the requests and of the Member States and facilitating innovative requirements of the customers stipulated technologies introduction. in the contract. In order to inform product consumers on safe In August 2006 a permit to use the “CЄ” mark application during further processing, safety data sheet on structural steel rolled section under for serial production are executed in compliance the requirements of directive 89/106/СЕ with GOST 30333 and such other technical-regulatory and BS EN 10025-2004 was for the first time received legal acts as established by the organization’s from CARES. In February 2008 TÜV NORD Systems standard STP 840-KSM-7.5.1.2 “Management (Germany) issued a new compliance certificate facilities of production process. Special processes. for the right to attach the “CЄ” marking to: Special characteristics of the production and special parameters of the process”. In compliance hot-rolled seamless hollow profiles of structural with the customer requirements, the production steel grades with strength groups ranging from S235 inspection with respect to radioactive safety to S355 in compliance with the requirements of annexes is performed at the plant with the subsequent delivery А and B of DIN EN 10210-1:2006 and Directive of the relevant certificates to customers. 89/106/EEC of the EC Council for construction production amended by Directive 93/68/EEC Packing, storing, handling operations and delivery of the European Council (since 2008); of products is performed by the personnel in compliance with the requirements of the enterprise’s standard – seamless pipes S 195T series Н and М, as well STP 840-KSM-7.5.5 “Production and maintenance. as L, L1 and L2 type Ø 21,3mm to 165,1mm of unalloyed Ensuring the production compliance. Procedure steel for welding and threading in accordance of the finished product dispatching”. Materials with the requirements of DIN EN ecologically sound and harmless for human health 10255:2004+А1:2007 and Directive 89/106/EC and environment are used for packaging. of the EC Council for building products amended according to Directive 93/68/ЕС of the EC Council In the reporting period we received several remarks (since 2010); regarding steel cord damage during railway transportation, pipe damage due to breakage – hot-rolled steel bars from structural steel of the packing strip, deformation of coils because with the strength groups ranging from S235 of steel strap shift. For elimination of the remarks and S355 in compliance with the requirements we analyzed them and introduced some changes of the European standard DIN EN 10025-2:2005 in the loading scheme, revised and improved packing and Directive 89/106/EEC of the European Council and fixture of products during transportation. for construction production amended by Directive 93/68/EEC European Council. – anchor, wavy and straight fiber (microfiber) Product marking in accordance with the requirements of DIN EN 148891:2006 and Directive 89/106/EC of the EC council with appropriate information for building products amended according to Directive A 93/68/ЕС of the EC Council (since 2010). ll products supplied to the customers are marked Percentage of the goods with the CЄ mark and accompanied by a quality certificate. in the production output in 2011 was 3,45 per cent. The product marking is performed in compliance with the plant regulations on the marking requirements, In the reporting period we received one message from and includes information on the manufacturing our customer regarding incorrect class of reinforcing country, trade mark of the plant, supply contract steel indicated in the marking tag and one remark about number, consignment number, country of destination, wrong information indicated in the packing list: double weight and other quality information. Quality identification of steel cord boxes. certificates contain quality information of the product. RUE “BMZ” scrutinized regulations from the point SOCIAL REPORT 2011 123 Responsibility for the goods produced of view of protection against operator ’s mistakes. trade policy, using the existing commercial and trading The remark was discussed with the responsible relations, expanding our presence on the traditional personnel. After the nonconformity was eliminated, outlets with absolutely new types of products. there were no troubles in future. Approaches used in marketing strategy: 1. Improvement of export infrastructure and diversification of export distribution structure. Diagram: 2. Development of new production. Number of QMS and product external audits . 2007г. 2008г. 2009г. 2010г. 2011г. 3. Participation in exhibitions and fairs. 4. Interaction with international; marketing networks, improvement of qualification of RUE “BMZ” specialists involved in foreign economic activity. 5. Diversification of the price policy. Diagram: Percentage of products with СЕmark 2007г. 2008г. 2009г. 2010г. 2011г. Mutually beneficial cooperation with consumers of the plant ’s products Marketing communications Our consumers are the most interested parties for us M because such cooperation is profitable for the plant. RUE “BMZ” is guided by needs and expectations of its arketing communications are oriented towards customers, strives for the fullest satisfaction solving of certain tasks which in their turn of the partners’ requirements in its activity. should correspond the main goals of the communication program: In order to study and specify customer requirements, the plant constantly arranges meetings with its – awareness of users of the trade mark; customers, studies domestic and foreign developments in the field of production quality improvement – dissemination of information about RUE “BMZ”; and work quality optimization, performs analysis of market development tendencies. – fair business; Organization of periodic meetings and discussion – formation of a positive image of the plant and its trade of problems with its partners allow the enterprise mark. to find efficient solutions of the existing and potential problems, realize possible product development The final goal of marketing communications and optimization directions. of the enterprise is a search of markets with stable consumption and product sale at maximum possible price. Work with customers is organized in compliance with the Code of Business Ethics and enterprise Marketing strategy for 2010-2015 is aimed at maximum standard STP 840-SMK-7.2 “Processes associated enhancement of export in all directions by groups with customers. Procedure of the plant ’s product of products, retaining the traditional product markets sales”. and developing new ones, leading a maximum open foreign 124 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS 99,0 93,8 90,1 91,0 90,4 91,1 87,7 89,0 90,0 80,5 86,0 86,5 85,0 РУП БМЗ Bekaert Цель Assessment values of satisfaction of the key users of the hardware products 2007 год 2008 год 2009 год 2010 год 2011 год (far foreign countries) Every year following the annual work results, the plant undertakes an assessment of its customers’ satisfaction with the help of feedback . Customer satisfaction assessment is a part of RUE “BMZ” business and is aimed at basic problems detection concerning cooperation with customers, determination of priority directions of its activity and production optimization of further development. I t is carried out in accordance with goaloriented order No.2 «Measures of improvement of quality and competitiveness of the marketable products» and methods of processing the assessment results UM 840-SMK-04-2005 developed on the basis of TK RB 4.2-Р-07-2002. So as to get high reliability of the results, the assessment if performed with consideration of the level of our customer satisfaction with similar goods produced by our competitors on the market concerned. 97,1 97,0 96,8 97,0 96,3 96,4 96,0 89,2 РУП БМЗ 90,0 89,0 ОЭМК Цель 86,5 86,0 85,0 Assessment values of satisfaction of the end users of the metallurgical products (CIS market) 2007 год 2008 год 2009 год 2010 год 2011год SOCIAL REPORT 2011 125 Responsibility for the goods produced 97,7 96,8 96,8 96,8 96,2 96,1 91,6 91,0 90,0 89,0 РУП БМЗ Северсталь-метиз 86,5 Цель 86,0 85,0 Assessment values of satisfaction of the key and end users of the hardware products 2007 год 2008 год 2009 год 2010 год 2011 год (CIS market) Stable work of the staff aimed at production output increase, quality improvement, product range extension, and new pipe market development is adequately appraised by our customers. Since the time our plant came into this market a positive tendency is observed in assessment of the customer satisfaction with our products. Cooperating with its customers in accordance with the principles of the UN Global Compact the plant does not collect any information about private life and personal data of the customer staff. There haven’t been any claims related to privacy infringement since the plant erection. 96,2 95,7 95,6 94,8 91,0 90,2 90,0 РУП БМЗ ТМК 89,0 88,4 Цель 86,5 86,0 Assessment values of satisfaction of the key and end users of the pipe products (CIS market) 2008 год 2009 год 2010 год 2011 год 126 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Mutually beneficial cooperation with the suppliers At the end of 2011 Byelorussian Steel Works introduced some changes in the supplier contract requirements. One of them is use of 8D process Another equally important party concerned in solving quality issues. is our suppliers providing the plant with stock This process showed itself to advantage in the world and raw materials for our production. practice as one of the most effective tools for solving The procurement procedure is regulated by product quality problems of suppliers. I t gives the following acts of law : «Procedure of selecting the possibility to eliminate the reasons of the problem a supplier (contractor, executor) to perform state occurrence and exclude their reiteration. purchases in the RB» approved by Decree No. 618 Introduction of the process of problem solving of the President of the RB dd. 17.11.2008; developed on the basis of 8D method (system exclusion by the Decision of CM of the RB No. 1987 «Some issues of problems) allowed us to increase the level of the state purchases» dd. 20.12.2008, by General of co operation of the plant with its suppliers Director ’s order No. 85 “Formation of a commission in the area of information exchange and corrective for purchases arrangement ” dd. 30.01.2009. and preventive action management. RUE “BMZ” establishes honest and unbiased relations So as to develop partnership relations and improve with suppliers based on reasonable pricing, recognizing quality of the delivered product by development license and trade rights. Cooperation with suppliers is organized in compliance with the Code of Ethics and enterprise standard STP 840-KSM-7.4 «“We have cooperated with BMZ fro almost 20 years, during which our cooperation has constantly developed. We trust your plant, you trust us. “Procurement. Procedure of cooperation The prize we were awarded as the best supplier is very brilliant. And we do our with suppliers”, and Supplier Manual. best to maintain brilliancy in our mutual work». Selection of suppliers is performed based on: Serbo Zalavitsa, – Study of market and supplier questioning. Alfeco Limited (Great Britain) Moscow office director Rating on the commodity and services market. Quality of the acquired resources (services) with consideration of data on consumer ’s quality management system functioning and its efficiency in the form of : of the management system with the acceptable suppliers – results of mass regular supplies without according to the Bulletin of suppliers assessment reclamations or claims; for the previous period specialists of the plant perform – compliance certificates for the management supplier audits. system and products of the supplier; Following the cooperation results and assessments, – supplier obligations to respect the rights a “List of Approved Suppliers” is drawn up and agents and freedoms of the citizens in compliance performing deliveries are specified. with the principles of the UN Global Compact; The results of the supplier assessment are given – supplier consent to follow the Consumer in the table below. Quality Manual of RUE “BMZ”. The activity of customers is assessed according to the following criteria: – observation of the volume and terms of product delivery (logistics); – compliance of the delivered product with the established requirements and calculation of the delivered goods quality index (IQL) considering the existence of the suppler quality system, share of supplies with deviations in the total number of deliveries and consideration of deviation significance coefficient (loyalty); – degree of the consumer loyalty to the plant and corrective actions execution. Supplier quality assessment is reviewed at the plant quality meetings. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 127 Responsibility for the goods produced Delivery quality Logistics, Loyalty to Actual data, % Supplier index, % % the plant % 2009 2010 2011 Excellent IQL=95,1-100 100 100 28,5 37,20 32,05 Reliable IQL=75,1-95 100 100 64,09 50,24 57,84 Acceptable IQL=30,1-75,0 85-100 80-100 4,26 4,45 3,14 Unsatisfactory IQL ≤ 30* <85 <80 3,14* 8,11* 6,97* *purchases from this supplier should be cancelled Table: Criterion 2009 2010 2011 The results of the supplier assessment Percentage of certified suppliers (supplier assessment bulletin data ), % 58,2 44,2 49,4 Construction of an effective model of supplier General Director of BMZ addressed cooperation and interaction allows the plant to the participants. He pointed out that successful to implement plans and strategies, and achieve work of the enterprise is ensured by over 500 suppliers the targets set forth. having established stable and trustful relations with the enterprise. Such events help us to discuss So as to perfume its activity successfully, special actual questions, determine outlooks and better know attention is paid to feedback . Being an essential each other. Special attention was paid to the procedure component of the plant ’s policy, arrangement of material and products approval existing at the plant. of feedback strengthens mutual trust, joins and unites the parties concerned from the point of view of unified Within the framework of the conference RUE “BMZ” public aims, values, and interests. managers made reports on directions of further interaction with the parties concerned and RUE “BMZ” RUE “BMZ” implements the principles of openness, development. involvement and balancing of interests RUE “BMZ” held the 2nd international conference of the plant ’s Best suppliers of 2011 were awarded diplomas suppliers which evoked a warm response and special prizes. of the interested parties. Representatives of Belarusian, Russian, German, Italian, Chinese, British, Polish, Latvian, Serbian, Slovakian and Finnish enterprises supplying materials, raw materials and different equipment to the plant took part in the conference 128 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 Interaction of the parties T he plant cooperates with an extensive number of the parties concerned, which goes beyond the frameworks of its production activity. RUE “BMZ” sets forth a unified approach to the social activity Interaction with the civil society B yelorussian Steel Works is a township-forming enterprise defining not only the appearance but also management, including a great majority of various the character of Zhlobin. Throughout its history instruments; thereat, the principle of targeted the plant was involved into construction creating and individual approach is always preserved with respect industrial and social infrastructure of the town. The first to every group of the parties concerned. Successful facility built by “BMZ” was the boiler house “Severnaya” business is impossible without favorable socio-economic commissioned in1983. environment both internal and external. Investing into the development of the region of our presence now, Due to “BMZ”, Zhlobin takes advantage of 5 educational we are currently creating potential for economical, social, schools, 9 nursery schools, 7 stores, a restaurant, material and spiritual growth of thousands of people. a hotel, children’s department for 120 people and surgical It also means that we form a stable and free society building for 240 patients of the regional hospital. confident in tomorrow. For a convenient highroad service, a viaduct over the rail track was build connecting two parts of the town. Being a socially responsible enterprise, RUE “BMZ” cooperates with the parties concerned adhering There was time when we had no stable reception to the following approaches: of the republicans and regional TV programs. This problem was solved with the help of a relay station installed – observance of the legislation and legal norms by the plant. Liberators’ Square became a real adornment of the Republic of Belarus as well as principles of the town. A new building of school No.1 was built of the UN Global Compact; by the plant as well as sport centre with a skating rink and an aqua-park. – involvement of all elements and participants of cooperation; The town streets were renewed, convenient transport communication of the developing “metallurgic capital” disclosure of a complete and reliable information is assured by 3 viaducts. Today Zhlobin is a rapidly on the results in the field of economic, ecological developing town with modern districts, various sport and social activity; and cultural facilities. – promotion of responsibility for the assumed obligations The plant’s management realizes that social and economic and their execution; stability in the region of its presence affects the long-term stability of business. That is why it is strategically expedient observance of universal norms and values; to abide by the corporate responsibility policy both with respect to the employees and with respect – formation of favorable internal and external to the local communities. Investigating the peculiarities environment; of the social and economic development of the region of its presence, the plant defines the priority directions maintaining of reasonable balance of interests and forms of social activity. Besides fulfilling tax of the plant and society. obligations, RUE “BMZ” initiates cooperation with regional partners and supports programs and projects RUE “BMZ” is a part of the society and it supports civil aimed at social infrastructure development. initiatives in the field of economic, social and cultural development of the region of presence, preserving cultural Helping the region, the plant thereby establishes effective heritage, national originality, environmental protection, relations with the local authorities and community healthcare and welfare of the population and employees. opening opportunities to develop its business over the certain territory, to implement new projects and engage qualified personnel. RUE “BMZ” is searching for optimal correlation of its social obligations and actual potential, maintaining balance between the needs of the region and business concerns. What for its practical activity, the plant creates 130 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS relationship with the civil society with due consideration Charity and sponsorship of the results of the comprehensive research “Plant and its employees as viewed by the townspeople”. Annual BMZ policy in the field of charity and sponsorship is aimed multidimensional research is carried out with the purpose at facilitation of the formation of the socially accepted to study the opinion of the townspeople within the region image of the efficiently operating and socially responsible of the plant’s presence as concerns the degree of BMZ enterprise, to affect the public recognition of the social influence on the vital activity of the region. importance of metallurgy, to consolidate its standing and enhance the loyalty to RUE “BMZ” on the part Steady development of the region of presence of all interactive groups and the civil society. is an important component of the plant development strategy aimed at solving of priority tasks within the field: Charity and sponsorship performed by the plant not only – assistance to the steady development of the territory facilitate the formation of its image but actually helps of presence; those in need to raise their level of living and solve major problems. maintaining stable social and economic environment in the local communities; RUE “BMZ” actively participates in the process – development of partnership relations with the regional of resolving of the socially important tasks authorities and local administration; on the regional and nationwide level. The priority directions of the corporate charity and sponsorship creation of comfortable living conditions for the plant activity are defined as follows: ecology, support employees and population of the region; of education, sports and social objects on the territory of the plant’s presence. The distribution of funds allocated establishment and maintaining the image of conscientious by the plant for this purpose is given in the table. and attractive employer. Category 2010 2011 Sponsorship, total ($ thou.), including: 9485,9 15 723,9 Financial aid to the development of physical culture and sports in the RB, total: 7168,0 9 589,4 Aid to the “Hockey Club CJSC” “Metallurg-Zhlobin 3978,0 7922,6 Aid to the SE “Gomel Volleyball Club, Ltd” 839,5 1189,6 Aid to football club “Zhlobin” 42,6 Aid to UE “Belarusian biathlon club” 311,4 Aid to the wrestling federation 10,8 Aid to the association “Hockey federation of RB” 108,1 Aid to the establishment “School of high sport skill” 4,3 Financing of erection of a sport facility in Zhlobin 2350,5 4325,7 Aid to third-party organizations, total: 2317,9 1808,8 Construction of the National Park “Prypiatsky 1 936,2 To orgnaizations of Zhlobin and Zhlobin districts Ремонт автодорог г. Жлобина 677,0 Помощь Белорусскому союзу ветеранов войны в Афганистане 4,7 4,4 РДУСП «Папоротное» 377,0 1058,7 РДУТП Металлургстрой 46,7 Table. 0,5 The distribution Учреждениям образования, в т.ч. of funds allocated by the plant БНТУ 19,0 for the corporate charity and Академия управления при Президенте Республики Беларусь 0,8 sponsorship activity. ГУО Академия последипломного образования г.Минск 1,7 SOCIAL REPORT 2011 131 Interaction of the parties A new direction is developed at RUE “BMZ”: personal participation of the personnel in charity activity. The main result of this work is mastering of the mechanism of operative assistance to people. In 2011 plant’s workers actively participated in the following charity actions: «All children are ours», «Do good», «We to children», etc. are given in the table below. Amount collected, USD Name of the action 2010 2011 Belarusian peace fund 3533,8 437,8 Red Cross Society 1519,1 1452,6 OSVOD 409,7 173 Republican public cultural action «Belarus is us!» 1007,4 0 «We to children» (for the children of Zhlobin comprehensive boarding school, children’s hospital, 671,6 1369,0 Bobruisk orphan home) «Do good» 396,9 1412,3 (dedicated to disabled people day) «All children are ours» 674,1 (funds for purchasing school accessories collected together with the social service centre) For medical treatment and operations: – of Aleksandr Sikov 640,6 – of Vladislav Jupriyanov 1178,9 – of Aleksandr Furs 358 Donation to the victims of the act of terrorism in Minsk underground 1010 Minsk religious school 64,9 Таble. Results BMZ youth to veterans 115,6 of personal participation For reconstruction of the building of the historical museum of the town of Zhlobin 1800,0 0 of the employees in charity activity. Total: 9338,5 8 886,8 Realization of the scheduled activities had a favorable Interaction with mass media T impact on the plant cooperation with the main groups of stakeholders: authorities, civil society, ecology community employees. It helped to strengthen BMZ he plant closely cooperates with the regional mass reputation as a socially responsible enterprise and achieve media informing the public of the results the highest social and economic efficiency from of its production activity, major actions and events prothe money spent on charity and sponsorship purposes. viding relevant and truthful information including the corporate web-site. Interviews with the plant’s manage In May Gomel regional branch of public association ment are published in newspapers and magazines “Belarusian Peace Fund” awarded the staff of the Republic of Belarus. The most important events of Byelorussian Steel Works and its general director of the enterprise’s activity are all the time covered Anatoly Savianok with аn Honourary Diploma by television. RUE “BMZ” is striving for informational for active participation in the fund’s activity openness and transparency of its activity realizing and promotion peace and friendship among peoples. the exceptional importance of the interaction with mass media. In 2011 the enterprise’s activity was covered in 95 publications of printed editions (in 2010 – 88 publications) and in 36 video reports (in 2010 – 42). 132 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Information of the plant was given in the following «Belarusian biathlon club pays much attention newspapers and magazines: «Sovetskaya Belarussia», to the development of this kind of sport «Respublika», «7 dnei», «Zvyazda, «Narodnaya Gazeta», in our country. We render assistance not only to the members of the national team, but to sport «Gomelskaya Pravda», «Znamya Yunosti», «Novy Dzen», schools training sportsmen. Byelorussian Steel Works «Ekonomicheskaya Gazeta» and magazines: «Naviny makes a considerable contribution in this activity». Tydnya», «Metall-Courier», «Casting and metallurgy»; as well as on the channels of state television and radio O.B. Abyzov, Director of Belarusian biathlon club companies: Belarusian 1, Belarus 2, Public National Television, Capital Television, MIR», and Gomel Radio. Two times a month information about the plant performance is published on the republican web-sites. • 9th meeting of the Council of Quality Leaders 6 press conferences were held with representatives Club of Central and East Europe; of mass media dedicated to: • discussion of the report on assessment • First international RUE “BMZ” supplier of environmental impact of the planned erection conference; of lime kiln No.3 (of the scrap yard; • sitting of the Board of Gomel Regional • Main directions of innovation and technical Committee of Natural Resources and Environment development of RUE “BMZ”; Protection dedicated to work aimed at reduction of harmful emissions in the air and observation of the requirements of the environmental law by RUE • “BMZ” – a national heritage of the republic; “BMZ”; • regional seminar with the chairmen • «Erection of a small-section wire rod mill of coordination boards of the trade union committees by Danieli; of Gomel region and a sitting of the Presidium; • scientific and practical seminar “Main • Belarus today: view from outside directions of innovative development of PA “BMZ”; (with participation of representatives of Russian federal and regional mass-media); • seminar dedicated to new powerand energysaving technologies of Siemens VAI; • Gomel and Gomel region – cultural capital In accordance with the principles of the UN Global of Belarus and CIS (with participation of Russian Compact RUE “BMZ” ensures free access information agency ITAR-TASS and Belarusian BELTA). to the information, develops external communication, and acknowledges its readiness for open dialogue with the parties concerned. In December 2011 BMZ RUE “BMZ” strives for informational openness employees participated in the republican forum “Global and transparency of its activity as it understands the importance of interaction and exchange of experience «We may call Anatoly Savianok, BMZ general director with all parties concerned. a prominent citizen of Zhlobin area: in spite of the difficult time and complicated economic situation the employees work stably under his leadership, production In 2011 the following arrangements were organized capacity grows and new markets are developed». and took place on the basis of RUE “BMZ”: L.N. Apanasyuk, • training of the volunteers – consultants Chairman of Zhlobin district executive committee in prophylaxis of HIV in labour; • practical lesson of the ideological activists of Gomel region; SOCIAL REPORT 2011 133 Interaction of the parties Compact in Belarus: best methods of a socially and formation of the state policy. The loyalty responsible business – 2011” held on the basis of the region population to the plant and its employees of the representative office of the Local network is proved by the outcomes of the election campaigns of the UN Global Compact in Belarus where they resulted in 12 plant employees being elected to local, exchange their experience and informed regional and republican regulatory bodies: the representatives of the business-community about arrangement and functioning of system of corporate – Zhlobin Regional Deputy Council – 10 persons; social responsibility at RUE “BMZ. – Gomel Regional Deputy Council – 1 person; – House of Representatives – 1 person. Interaction with authorities Alongside with that, RUE “BMZ” did not provide donations in favour of any political parties or individual RUE “BMZ” builds up cooperation with all politicians. the parties concerned on the basis of the following basic principles: respect and consideration of interests, opinions and preferences, openness and transparency, trust and sincerity, implicit abidance by the legislation, Interaction with science I international and Belarusian standards, responsible fulfillment of the assumed obligations, respect of the history, culture, traditions, way of living nnovative development of industry is a guarantee and heritage of the people residing within the business of economic security of Belarus. The plant follows territory. the route of innovative development courageously implementing new projects. The By the decision Ensuring compliance of the activity and strategy of the State Committee on science and technologies of the plant development with the general social of the Republic of Belarus adopted in 2008 BMZ was and economic direction and interests of the country included into the register of high-tech enterprises of our and region of the business activity is a highly important country. task facing the plant employees. Constructive interaction with the governmental bodies helps RUE “BMZ” to find Byelorussian Steel Works established strong relations solution of this rather complicated task. with the National Academy of Sciences of the Republic of Belarus. The enterprise cooperates with the institutes Decisions on burning issues of the social and economic of powder metallurgy, hot-rolled metals, metal development of the region, work with the youth, holding technology, and polymer system mechanics. Scientists joint events, and optimization of medical care do a lot for BMZ developing special technologies. for the population are taken by the plant’s management The economic effect of such cooperation results and local authorities in the course of monthly business in billions of roubles. meetings. In the national contest of innovative projects of 2011 Prospects of Gomel region development, progress held under the patronage of the National Academy of the socially important programs, extension of Science of the Republic of Belarus and the State of the plant’s export policy, plans for designing Committee on Science and Technologies scientific and construction of sheet production are regularly projects of two BMZ employees in the nominations discussed by the Director General with the deputy prime“Best innovative project” and “Best innovative project minister of RB V.I Semashko, minister of industry of RB developed by young people” are marked as being important D.S. Katerinich, chairman of the state control committee for Belarus and were awarded III-degree diplomas. of RB A.S. Yakobson. during their multiple visits to RUE “BMZ”. Specialists of the Institute of Energetics of the National Academy of Science of Belarus together The plant’s management believes that participation with specialists Institute of Energetics of its representatives in the work of elected authorities of National Academy of Science of the Republic would be important for the formation of parity of Belarus accomplished their study of the plant from relationships with the governmental bodies the point of view of power consumption. In their opinion 134 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Завод идет по пути инновационного развития, смело внедряя новые проекты. they stated out that in spite of continuous growth A cooperation agreement on training of specialists of power resource prices, BMZ manages to retain the of 1st and 2nd stage of higher education as well as share of fuel and energy resources in the product selfon free assistance in development of material cost at the level not exceeding 20%, which corresponds and technical basis of the university for 2011-2015 to the world best analogs. In particular, during was signed with this university. 12 young specialists the first half of 2011 this figure equaled to 19,2%.This of the plant were interviewed and allowed to pass exams result became possible due to scientific approach for the MA course of the university in the specialty and investments in reconstruction, modernization “Metallurgy” in 2011. and revamping. In-depth training programs of the university lecturers The plant’s cooperation with science has a multifaceted at the departments of RUE “BMZ” and teachers character. The preparation of advanced specialists of the Training Centre of BMZ at the EE GSTU named in engineering is performed together with the leading after P.O. Sukhoi have been successfully implemented higher education establishments of the country. teachers. Seminars and advance training of managers and plant employees is organized on the basis of higher educational establishments. Students of higher educational «Cooperation of higher educational establishments with Byelorussian Steel Works goes out of the logic of our existence. We prepare specialists, carry establishments undergo all types of practical training out research work and you are a potential user of our “product” That is at BMZ. Being a participant of the State program why from this purely technological viewpoint we have to cooperate». of training specialists in foreign economic activity, A.V. Rogachyov, Byelorussian Steel Works organized practical training Rector of Gomel State University named after F. Skorina of students of corresponding departments Belarusian State University, Belarusian State Economic University, Gomel State University named after F. Skorina in its foreign representative offices. In April the plant received a note of thanks Together with Belarusian National Technical University from Gomel State University named after F. Skorina a branch of the department “Machines and casting for free assistance in the form of measuring instruments technology ” was established. In 2011 branches and auxiliary equipment supplied to the university of the departments “Metal deformation process” for revamping the optical material and technical base. and “Metallurgy and casting” of Gomel State Technical University named after P.O. Sukhoi were established on the basis of BMZ so as further develop interaction with educational institutions in the area of development and implementation of specialists training program. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 135 ПРИЛОЖЕНИЯ БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 1 2009 2010 2011 data planned actual planned actual planned actual 1. PRODUCTION, FINANCE AND ECONOMIC INDICES 1.1 Level of industrial productivity, min., % n/d 106,0* 105,7 1.2 Level of profitability of the product sold, services 2,5* 3,7 5,0 6,6 10,0**** 21,8**** rendered, min., % 1.3 Reduction of the material consumption level, % n/d -1,5 -10,0 1.4 Power saving, % -13,5 -3,4 -8,0* -8,0 -6,5 -6,5 1.5 Foreign trade balance, min. USD n/d 605 528 1.6 Investment in fixed assets, min., BRB bln. n/d 291,64 398,1 2. QUALITY 2.1 Level of rejects due to production shops, % Order Order No.2 Order No. No. 2 на OK OK OK 2.2 Non-conforming product level на 2010 2 for 2011 2009 2.3 Level of costs due to defects per 1000 BRB 1,76** 3,65 OK 3,7 1,92 3,52 of commodity output, max. % (3,18***) 2.4 Assessment of external customer satisfaction, min. % 86,5 93,3 89,0 93,0 90,0 92,1 2.5 Number of claimed products relative 10% OK 10% down not OK 10% down OK to the previous year down 3. ENVIRONMENT 3.1 Amount of production wastes stored relative 2% (max. 21,2 % n/d to the level of 2010 to be decreased by, % 330421,7т) (260584т) 4. LABOUR PROTETCION AND INDUSTRIAL SAFETY not not 4.1 Growth of industrial traumatism relative to the previ25% OK to allow OK to allow OK ous period is not allowed down growth growth 4.2 Improvement of conditions and provision of labour 1350 1352 780 787 790 792 safety of the workers, persons 5. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 5.1 Training of managers and specialists, persons 2149 2578 1487 2110 929 1011 5.2 Professional training of workers, persons 3452 4015 3551 4163 3399 3853 5.3 General satisfaction of the personnel, min., % 72 72 72 72,4 72 72,3 5.4 Salary growth rate, min., % 100* 98,2 107,6 113,5 117,3 151,6 5.5 ТEmployee turnover, max , % 3 1,68 2,5 2,4 2,5 2,7 Notes: * – indices adjusted by Minprom, , ** – for shops, *** – for BMZ, **** – for 2011 sale profitability should be used instead of profitability of sales Analysis of target indices achieved of products in 2011. SOCIAL REPORT 2011 137 ABBREVIATIONS API American Petroleum Institute – non-governmental organization, the USA, performing investigations in the oil and gas sector. GRI Global Reporting Initiative – an independent non-commercial organization which mission is development and worldwide distribution of unified reporting principles in the area of stable development first of all with the help of Reporting Manual for the area of stable development. Established in 1988, the organization has the headquarters in Amsterdam and is managed by international experts of various organization worldwide. EFQM Europe an Fund of Quality Management ISO International Organization for Standardization (Международная организация по стандартизации) OHSAS Professional health and labour safety management system SA 8000 International standard “Social responsibility 8000” BMZ Byelorussian Steel Works BNTU Belarusian National Technical University BRYU Belarusian Republican Youth Union GDP Gross domestic product GOST State industrial standard SEE State educational establishment PCM Palace of Culture “Metallurg” EAF Electric-arc furnace CJSS Children and juvenile sport school EU European Union UWRB Unified wage rate book ZMF Zhlobin meat factory HB Housing board Info-BMZ Information system of the plant kg kilogram CMS Corporate management system PC Purpose courses MAZ Minsk automotive factory MISiS Moscow institute of steel and alloy CCM Continuous casting machine mln million bn billion mm millimeter MSD Medicosanitary department MTZ Minsk tractor plant IFRS International Finance Reporting System NAS National academy of scienceк 138 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 2 NP National park IIWD Information and ideological work department UNO United Nations Organization LPD Labour protection department ISD Industrial safety department ODS Ozone depleting substances QMD Quality management department DGCU Dust and gas collecting unit MPC Maximum permissible concentration PA Production association RB Republic of Belarus EW&S Executive workers and specialists RUE “BMZ” Republican Unitary Enterprise “Byelorussian Steel Works” OJSC Open Joint-Stock Company “Byelorussian Steel Works” “BSW” RF Russian Federation CM Council of Ministers MM Mass media YSC Young specialists council CIS Commonwealth of Independent States RM Rolling mill STP Plant standard STB Belarusian standard SWS Steel Wire Shop EMS Environment management System LPMS Labour Protection Management System USA United States of America TNLA Typical Normative-Legal Acts TU Technical requirements r.f.t. Reference fuel ton Thou. Thousand FPR Fuel&Power Resources EP & ISB Environment protection and industrial sanitary board SHF Sport and Health Facility CEE Central and East Europe RWPS Refractory wastes processing shop EMS Electric melt shop SOCIAL REPORT 2011 139 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual GRI Index description Reference in the report, page 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Declaration of the General Director, the Chairman of the Board of the directors 1.2 Key impacts, risks and possibilities characteristics 2 Description of the organization 2.1 Name of the organization 2.2 Main brands, types of products and (or) services 2.3 Functional structure of the organization including the main subdivisions, operational companies, daughter companies and joint-ventures 2.4 Location of the central office 2.5 Countries (regions) where organization is functioning and which are most significant from the point of view of the questions of steady development covered by the report. 140 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 2.6 Nature of the ownership and legal and organizational form 2.7 Markets where the organization is working (including the geographical breakdown, the sectors serviced, the categories of the consumers and the beneficiaries). 2.8 Size of the organization including: Quantity of workers and officials; Net sales (for the private sector organizations) or net proceeds (for the state organizations); General capitalization with the breakdown by borrowed and own capital (for the private sector organization); Quality characteristics of the products or the services rendered; General value of the assets 2.9 Considerable changes in the organization activity and (or) in the structure of the ownership during the reporting period including: opening, closing and development of the enterprises; changes in the structure of the share capital and other actions to form, support or change the capital (for the private sector organizations) 2.10 Awards in the reporting period 3 GENERAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE REPORT ОБЩИЕ СВЕДЕНИЯ ОБ ОТЧЕТЕ 3.1 The reporting period (for example, financial/calendar year) to which the submitted information refers to 3.2 The date of publication of the last of the previous reports (if any) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 141 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, two-year etc.) 3.4 Contact information about the report and its contents SCOPE AND BOUNDS OF THE REPORT 3.5 Process of the reports’ contents determination including significance and priorities and subject determination within the framework of the report as well as revealing of the interested parties considered as potential users of the report. 3.6 Bounds of the report (countries/regions, subdivisions/units/joint-ventures / daughter companies) 3.7 Indicate any limits of the scope or the bounds of the report З.8 Grounds for inclusion in the report of the data concerning joint-ventures partly belonging to the daughter companies, production rent, transfer of a part of the functions to external contractors and other situations, which can essentially influence the comparison with the previous reports and/or other organizations 3.9 Methods of data measurement and calculations including proposals and procedures used for indices preparation and other information of the report 3.10 Description of the nature and meaning of any fresh wording of the information given in the previous reports, and grounds for such fresh wording (for example, merger/absorption, change of the reporting period, business nature, evaluation methods) 3.11 Important changes concerning the previous reporting as regards the scope, bounds or methods of measurement used in the report 142 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 GRI INDEX 3.12 Table of the arrangement of the standard components in the report CONFIRMATION 3.13 The policy and practical approaches applied concerning an independent confirmation of the report. 4 Control, obligations and interaction with the parties concerned MANAGEMENT 4.1 Structure of the management including the main committees in the top managing body, responsible for concrete tasks, for example, strategy development or general supervision over the organization’s activity. 4.2 Indicate if the chairman of the highest managing body is at the same time the CEO of the company (and, in case of a positive answer, what is the role of this manager in the company management and what are the reasons for such state of affairs) 4.3 For the organizations with a unitary board of directors, indicate the number of independent members of the highest managing body and/or the members who do not refer to the executive board of the company 4.4 The mechanisms which are used by the shareholders or the personnel of the organization to direct the activity of the managing body or give it recommendations 4.5 Link between payments (including the severance pays) for the members of the top managing body, representatives of the top management and the executive management and the efficiency of the organization (including social and ecological efficiency) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 143 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual 4.6 The existing processes in the top managing body called upon to avoid conflicts of interests 4.7 Processes of determination of qualification and competence of the members of the top managing body required for determination of social, economic and ecological strategy of the organization 4.8 Mission, declaration of values declaration, codes of corporative behavior and principles developed inside organization, and principles significant from the point of view of economic, ecological and social efficiency as well as the degree of its actual implementation 4.9 Processes used by the top managing body to supervise and control assessment of the economic, social and environmental efficiency by the organization including determination of the corresponding risks and possibilities, their control and also observation and correspondence to international standards, codes of corporative behavior and principles 4.10 Processes of evaluation of its own efficiency by the top managing body , in particular, concerning the economic, ecological and social results of the organization’s activity PARTICIPATION IN EXTERNAL INITIATIVES 4.11 Explain, if and how the organization uses principle of precaution 4.12 Developed by external parties voluntary economic, ecological and social charters, systems of principles or other initiatives, to which the organization has joined and which it supports 4.13 Membership in associations (for example, branch) and/or national and international organizations defending interests 4.14 List of the interested parties with which the organization cooperated 144 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 4.15 Base for determination and selection of the interested parties for further cooperation with them 4.16 Approaches to cooperation with the interested parties including frequency of cooperation by forms and interested groups 4.17 Key questions and interests raised or revealed during the process of cooperation with the interested parties, and how the organization took into consideration these questions and interests Indices of economical efficiency ECONOMICAL EFFICIENCY EC1 Created and distributed economical cost including gains, operational costs, compensation of employees, donations and other investments in the community, undistributed profit, payments to suppliers of capital and to countries (basic) EC2 Financial aspects and other risks and possibilities for organization’s activity related to change of the climate ( basic) EC3 Security of the obligations of the society linked to the pension plans (basic) EC4 Financial assistance from the government (basic) PRESENCE ON MARKETS EC5 Relation of the initial salary and the fixed minimum salary in the significant regions of the organization’s activity (basic) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 145 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual EC6 Practical approaches for the purchases from the local suppliers and percentage of such purchases in the important regions of organization activity (basic) EC7 Hire procedure of local population and portion of top management hired from local population in the significant regions of the organization’s activity (basic) INDIRECT ECONOMICAL INFLUENCE EC8 Development and influence of investments on the infrastructure and services rendered by the organization in social interests by commercial, natural or beneficent participation (basic) EC9 Description of the significant indirect economical influences including the area of influence (additional) Indices of ecological efficiency MATERIALS EN1 Used materials with the specification of weight or volume (basic) EN2 Percentage of the materials representing processed or recycled wastes (basic) ENERGY EN3 Direct use of energy with the indication of the primary sources (basic) EN4 Indirect use of energy with the indication of the primary sources (basic) 146 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 EN5 Energy saved as a result of the measures taken to decrease consumption of power and to increase efficiency of energy (additional) EN6 Initiatives to propose energy-effective products and services or those based on the use of the renewable energy and decrease of the need for energy as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to decrease indirect consumption of energy and the decrease achieved (additional) WATER EN8 General quantity of the taken-in water with the breakdown by the sources (basic) EN9 Water sources considerably influenced by the water diversion by the organization (additional) EN10 Percentage and total volume the reused and recycled water (additional) BIOVARIETY EN11 Location and area of the land owned, leased and managed by the organization and situated on the preserved territories and those with high value of biovariety outside their boundaries or adjoining such territories (basic) EN12 Description of important activity influences, products, services on biovariety on guarded territories with high value of biovariety outside its borders (basic) EN13 Preserved or restored habitats (additional) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 147 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual EN14 Strategies, actions and future control plans of impact on biovariety EN15 Quantity of species entered in the Red List of the IUEP and the national list of protected species inhabiting the territory affected by the organization’s activity with the breakdown according to the level of treat to the existence of a species (additional) EMISSIONS, DISCHARGE AND WASTES EN16 Full direct and indirect emission of hothouse gases with the indication of the weight (basic) EN17 Other significant indirect emissions of hothouse gases with the indication of the weight (basic) EN18 Initiatives to decrease emissions of hothouse gases and the decrease achieved (additional) EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances with the indication of the weight (basic) EN20 Emission of NOx, SOx and other significant polluting substances to the atmosphere with the indication of the weight (basic) N21 Total amount of discharged wastes indicating the quality of the sewage water and the receiving unit (basic) EN22 Total amount of the wastes with the breakdown by type and method of handling (basic) 148 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 EN23 Total amount and quantity of considerable spills (basic) EN24 Amount of transported, imported, exported or processed wastes being “dangerous” according to Annexes I, II, III и VIII of Basel convention (additional) EN25 Characteristics, size, status of protection and value form the point of view of the biovariety of the water objects and the related habitats significantly affected by the discharge of the organization and the surface drainage from the territory of its units PRODUCTION AND SERVICES EN26 Initiatives aimed at softening (decreasing) the influence of the products and services on the environment and the size of the reached decrease of the influence (basic) EN27 Portion of the products sold and its packing materials returned to the producer for processing with the breakdown by categories (basic) CONFORMITY TO THE REQUIREMENTS EN28 Big penalties in money terms and total quantity of non-financial sanctions imposed due to non-conformity to the ecological law and standard requirements (basic) TRANSPORT EN29 Significant impact of the transportation of products and other goods and materials used for organization’s activity and the transportation of manpower on the environment (additional) GENERAL EN30. Total costs and investments in protection of the environment with the breakdown by types (additional) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 149 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual Indices of the efficiency of the approaches to labor organization and worthy labor EMPLOYMENT LA1 Total quantity of manpower by the type of employment, occupation agreement and region (basic) LA2 Total number of the personnel and employee turnover by age group, sex and region (basic) LA3 Payments and advantages granted to the employees working on the basis of full employment which are not granted to people working on the basis of incomplete or temporary employment (additional) INTERRELATIONS BETWEEN THE EMPLOYEES AND THE MANAGING BODY LA4 Portion of the employees covered by the collective agreements (basic) LA5 Minimum period (periods) of notification concerning considerable changes in the organization’s activity and its determination in the collective agreement (basic) HEALTH AND SECURITY AT A WORKING PLACE LA6 Portion of all people represented in the official joint committees for health and security with the participation of the management and the staff taking part in monitoring and forming recommendations concerning health and security programs at a working place (basic) LA7 Level of production traumatism, level of professional illnesses, coefficient of missed days and coefficient of absence at a working place as well as total number of fatal cases linked to job with the breakdown by regions (basic) LA8 The existing programs of education, training, consultation, prevention and control of risk to help the employees, members of their family and the population concerning serious illnesses (basic) 150 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 LA9 Reflection of health and safety problems in official agreements with the trade union (additional) TRAINING AND EDUCATION LA10 Reflection of health and safety problems in official agreements with the trade union (additional) LA11 Программы развития навыков и образования, призванные поддерживать способность сотрудников к занятости, а также оказывать им поддержку при завершении карьеры LA12 Доля сотрудников для которых проводятся периодические оценки результативности и развития карьеры VARIETY AND EQUAL POSSIBILITIES LA13 Structure of the organization’s top management and the staff by sex and age indicating the minorities and other indices of variety (basic) LA14 Relation between the average salary of men and women by categories of the staff (additional) Efficiency indices: human rights PRACTICE OF INVESTMENTS AND PURCHASES HR1 Share of important investment agreements including clauses guaranteeing human rights or being assessed from the point of view of human rights (basic) HR2 Portion of important suppliers and contractors from the point of view of human rights (basic) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 151 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual HR3 Forms of training the employees in policies and procedures linked to aspects of human rights which are significant for the organization’s activity and also the number of trained employees (additionally) BANNING OF DISCRIMINATION HR4 Total number of cases of discrimination and taken measures (basic) FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND HOLDING OF COLLECTIVE NEGOTIATIONS HR5 Activity within the framework of which the right to freedom of association and holding of collective negotiations can be subject to significant risks and actions taken to support these rights (basic) CHILD LABOR HR6 Activity within the framework of which there is a significant risk of use child labor and measures taken to participate in the exterminate of child labor (basic) FORCED AND MANDATORY LABOUR HR7 Activity within the framework of which there is a significant risk of use of forced and mandatory labor and measures taken to exterminate forced and mandatory labor (basic) APPROACHES TO SECURITY HR8 Portion of the security staff trained in the policies and procedures related with the human rights connected with the realized activity (additional) RIGHTS OF NATIVE AND SMALL NATIONS HR9 Total number of violations of the rights of native and small nations and taken measures (additional) Indices of efficiency of interaction with the community COMMUNITY SO1 Programs and actual approaches in the field of evaluation of the influence of the organization’s activity on the local communities and control of this influence, covering the beginning of the activity, its implementation and completion (basic) 152 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Annex 3 CORRUPTION SO2 Portion and total number of business units analyzed from the point of view of risks connected with corruption SO3 Portion of employers trained in the anticorruption policies and procedures of the organization (basic) SO4 Measures taken to prevent corruption (basic) STATE POLICY SO5 Position in respect of the state policy and participation in formation of the state policy and lobbying (basic) SO6 Total amount (in natural and money terms) of donations to political parties, politicians and the organizations connected with them by countries (additional) OBSTACLES TO COMPETITION SO7 Practical approaches to avoid monopolistic practice and the results of their application (additional) CONFORMITY TO REQUIREMENTS SO8 Conformity to the law and standard requirements (basic) Indices of efficiency: responsibility for production HEALTH AND SECURITY OF A CUSTOMER PR1 Stages of the life cycle on which influence on health and security of products and services is evaluated to reveal the possibilities of improvement and the portion of significant products and services subject to such procedures (basic) SOCIAL REPORT 2011 153 Table of standard reporting components of GRI (G3) manual PR2 Correspondence with the standard norms and voluntary codes related to the influence of products and services on health and safety (additional) PRODUCTS AND SERVICES MARKING PR3 Types of information about the properties of products and services required by the procedures and portion of significant products and services subject to such information requirements (basic) PR4 Standard requirements and voluntary codes related to the information about the properties of products and services and marking (additional) PR5 Policies related to the satisfaction of a customer including the results of investigation of the level of a customer’s satisfaction(additional) MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS PR6 Programs to assure conformity with the legislation, standards and voluntary codes in the area of marketing communications including advertising, promotion of products and sponsorship (additional) PR7 Correspondence to the standard requirements and voluntary codes related to marketing communications including advertising, promotion of products and sponsorship (additional) INVIOLABILITY OF THE PRIVATE LIFE OF A CUSTOMER PR8 Total number of legitimate complaints regarding the violation of the private life of a customer and loss of customer’s data (additional) CORRESPONDENCE WITH REQUIREMENTS PR9 Денежное значение значительных штрафов, наложенных за несоблюдение законодательства и нормативных требований, касающихся предоставления и использования продукции и услуг Table of conformity to the GRI elements and indices is prepared with the help of the Manual of accounting in the area of stable development of the Global Reporting Initiative (revision 3) 154 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS CONTENT General Director’s appeal 2 Preface for the forth edition 4 Steelmaking: steel markets 5 Participation of the scientific potential of the republic in the development of the metallurgical facility 7 Steel making of Belarus 9 Aims and tasks of the reformation of the branch 9 Development strategy 10 Characteristics of key impacts, risks and opportunities 12 Dates and events of sustainable development 12 Strategy and mission 15 Principles of strategy realization 16 Strategy and targets of sustainable development 17 Targets of the plant for medium-term development outlook 18 Chronology of new product types mastering 18 Stages of production volume increase 20 Methods of investment projects development 21 Influence of the plant on the social and economic development of the region of its business activity 22 Targets and objectives of investment projects 23 Risk management 25 Description of the plant 26 General information 26 Description of the major structural divisions 26 Organizational management structure 26 Competitive advantages of RUE “BMZ” 27 Approaches ensuring stable development 27 Transport-logistics scheme of RUE “BMZ” steel export 27 Perspective directions of sales activity 28 World market trends 31 Date and events of 2011 32 General information about achievements and awards 34 Management, responsibilities, interaction with interested parties 36 Corporate management 36 Communication 39 Approaches in the field of communication formation 39 Approach implementation 39 Internal communication structure 41 Participation in external initiatives 44 Interaction with the interested parties 44 SOCIAL REPORT 2011 155 CONTENT External communication structure 46 Social safety and discipline 47 Effectiveness indices in the field of social responsibility 48 Corporate social responsibility 48 Economic activity 49 Financial economic activity 49 Economical effectiveness 50 Main indicators 50 Profit 51 Payments to the owner 51 Taxes and compulsory payments 51 Enterprise’s risks 51 Investment risks 51 Branch risks 52 Country risks 53 Legal risks 53 Industrial safety, labour protection and ecological risks 53 Financial support provided by the Government 54 Presence on the markets 54 Medium-term targets of the plant 56 Ecological activity 56 Ecological policy 56 Main principles and approaches 57 Implementation of ecological strategy 58 Minimizing the plant’s impact on the region’s vital activities 58 Minimizing the plant’s impact on flora and fauna 58 Fauna 58 Efficient use of natural resources 62 Efficient use of energy resources 62 Air basin protection 64 Water basin protection 67 Utilization of industrial wastes 68 Training 69 Improvement of ecological culture of the personnel 70 Development and implementation of resource-saving, low-waste and environmentally safe technologies 71 Expenses for environmental protection and monitoring 71 Ecological payments 71 Medium-term targets of the plant 72 156 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS CONTENT Social activity 72 Labor relations and adequate labor 73 Personnel management policy 73 Main principles and approaches 83 Description of the personnel 74 Professional and career development 77 Training and education 79 Motivation system 82 Material stimulation 83 Immaterial stimulation 86 Short-term targets in the field of social responsibility 87 Labour protection and ensuring of industrial safety 87 Improvement of labour conditions 90 Training and competence evaluation 90 Social control for observance of human rights in the field of labor protection 91 Social programs 92 Social package of benefits and guarantees for the staff 92 Health protection 93 Effectiveness of medical and sanitary programs 95 Sanitation and rest time of the employees and their families 96 Physical culture and sport development 96 Cultural life of the plant employees 97 Solving of employees’ housing problems 99 Support of large families 100 Social support of unemployed pensioners, invalids and other categories of people not sufficiently provided for 100 Concern for children 101 Monitoring of public opinion concerning social programs effectiveness 102 Employees’ rights 103 Social partnership 104 RUE “BMZ” trade union organization 105 Primary organization of BRYU 107 Veterans’ Union 108 Women’s Union 109 Union of soldiers-internationalists 110 Union of young specialists 110 Union of foremen 119 Union of physical training and sports 111 Monitoring of public opinion of the social partners 111 SOCIAL REPORT 2011 157 CONTENT Responsibility for the goods produced 111 General provisions 111 Product life cycle 112 Customers’ health and safety 113 Product marking with appropriate information 115 Marketing communications 116 Mutually beneficial cooperation with consumers of the plant’s products 116 Mutually beneficial cooperation with the suppliers 118 Interaction of the parties 120 Interaction with the civil society 120 Charity and sponsorship 121 Interaction with mass media 123 Interaction with authorities 124 Interaction with science 124 Annex 125 Analysis of target indices achieved in 2011 Abbreviations Table of standard reporting components of GRI Manual G3) Remarks Feedback questionnaire 158 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 БЕЛОРУССКИЙ МЕТАЛЛУРГИЧЕСКИЙ ЗАВОД BYELORUSSIAN STELL WORKS Notes SOCIAL REPORT 2011 159 annex 4 Dear readers! You have just acquainted with Social Report of OJSC “BMZ”. Your opinion about this document is very important for us and we try maximally to take into account your comments and suggestions in the future Reports. Will you send please the filled form by fax : + 375-2334-5-54-26; + 375-2334-2-42-61;  + 375-2334-3-16-35 or to the address: 37, Promyshlennaya str., Zhlobin, 247210, Gomel region, Zhlobin, Belarus, with mark “ Social Report 2011” or by e-mail (secr.dpir@bmz.gomel.by) To which group of interested parties do you belong to? The representative of authority  Members of the public  Investor  Partner  Customer  Worker  Other group of interested parties How do you evaluate the Social Report regarding the provided information completeness High  Satisfactory  Low  Как Вы оцениваете Социальный отчет с точки зрения достоверности и объективности представленной информации? High  Satisfactory  Low  Как Вы оцениваете Социальный отчет с точки зрения удобства поиска необходимой информации? High  Satisfactory  Low  Как Вы оцениваете дизайн Социального отчета?  High  Satisfactory  Low  Does the Social report create your understanding of OJSC “BMZ” in the field of sustainable development? Yes, completely  Yes, partially  No, not completely  No, I don’t understand  Evaluate please the following sections of the OJSC BSW Social Report from 1(low) to 5 (very high): how they were interested to you, actual and completely explained Metallurgy. Making fresh advances  Plant description  Participation of scientific potential of the Republic in Plant description  the development of metallurgical complex  Economical activity  Description of key impacts, risks  Ecological activity  Management, obligations, cooperation with Social activity  interested parties  Parties cooperation  Responsibility for produced goods  Does the Social Report influence your relation to OJSC “BMZ” activity? Yes, my relation significantly improved  It didn’t influence  Relation to OJSC “BMZ” became worse  What information in the Social Report was the most interesting for you? What directions of OJSC BMZ is it necessary to improve regarding the social responsibility increase? What information do you want to see in future Social Reports of OJSC “BMZ”? Thank you for cooperation! OJSC “BMZ” 160 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 In October, 31 Open Joint-Stock Company “Byelorussian of selling is 76 percent. Steel Works – management company of “BMC” holding” introduced a corporative social report for 2011 Increasing production capacity of the enterprise, to a public. Representatives of the Ministry of Industry, we don’t forget about the decrease of ecological load. UNO Global Compact, Byelorussian trade union, local To decrease emission scope, dedusting authorities, enterprises of “Byelorussian Metallurgical Company” holding, banks, social organizations, supervisory bodies and other interesting parties took part in social hearings. For participants of hearings the report was introduced in the form of take -one. The information about the date and place of social hearings was introduced in local and Republican mass media a month before hearings. Social hearings of corporative social report were opened by Deputy General Director for technology and quality Peretyagina Elena Anatolyevna. General Director of Open Joint-Stock Company “Byelorussian Steel Works – management company of “BMC” holding” Savenok Anatoly Nikolaevich appealed to the present: “We are introducing a corporative social report of Byelorussian Steel Works for 2011. This document is very important for our enterprise oriented for export and providing work to more than 12 thousand people. It confirms openness and transparency of our work; it is not possible to build successful relations with our business partners without these characteristics. Speaking about the results of 2011, I want to say that this year was successful for our enterprise. So, in steel production, we achieved 2,6 million tons; it was impossible for us before. Every division separately worked well, and it allowed us to produce commodity output for 2 milliards dollars and to achieve 17,1 percent of sales profitability. Export share in the total scope Social hearings of a report on at the enterprise. Economic effect from introduced actions for personnel development, international cooperation in 2011 was 49,9 million dollars. Growth rate of production in experience exchange. He also told about motivation system, volume in comparable prices for work results in 2011 achieved which was worked out at the enterprise and about social 105,5 percent. In January-December industrial production package for workers. is shipped to the amount more than two milliards dollars, it is 37,2 percent above the level of the previous reported year. The report was continued by the Deputy Chief Engineer Share of deep processing production has significantly increased for Safety Labor, Industrial Safety and Environmental in the structure of shipped production. Long-term experience Protection Efimenko Vladimir Viktorovich: “The enterprise of work in foreign markets and the existence of own commodity not only increases production capacity from year to year, distribution network in different regions of the world helped but carries out constant and purposeful work, connected the enterprise to achieve the reputation of trusted partner. with safety work conditions and their improvement. Together 1,9 million tons of steel production for 1467,7 million dollars with personnel of Safety Labor Department, social inspectors has shipped for exports. Profitability of sold production was are engaged in decision of this problem. Integral part of Safety 21,8% against 6,5 % according to results of 2010. Export Labor and Industrial Safety Department at BMZ is to teach geography in 2011 numbered 64 countries of the world. to safety operation of dangerous production units, industrial BMZ kept its export potential in traditional markets and sanitation and labor hygiene.!nvestments to Safety Labor were developed new ones: Portugal, Angola, Burkina Faso, Kuwait, 11,5 milliards rubles. Traumatism level decreased Gabon, Saudi Arabia, Indonesia, Taiwan, Turkmenistan”. from 13 incidents in 2004 up to 7 incidents in 2011. The plant admits that its production activity is connected with negative influence on environment and takes all possible measures to minimize such influence on population life activity. Deputy General Director for Personnel and Ideological Work The enterprise pays much attention to reconstruction Florizyak Vladimir Eduardovich told about social policy of and modernization of the production considering the increase the enterprise and main directions in the work with personnel, of ecological demands that helps to reduce the quantity development of inner and external communication structures. of emissions, contaminants dumping and negative influence “Enterprise activity in the field of corporative social of waste products on environment. So, gross emission responsibility is directed for creation of effective and safety of contaminants into atmosphere in 2011 decreased 1,3% working places, professional development of personnel, support (71 tons) in comparison with the previous year.” of sport and culture, environmental protection, assistance to activity of region development.” In general, interested parties and mass media highly appreciated OJSC “BSWmanagement company of “BMC” holding” In his speech Vladimir Eduardovich touched the questions not only as export oriented enterprise, but as socially of staffing, work with young specialists, professional training responsible company. Statements are given in the following management and realization of corporative programs section, materials of regional and republican mass media. 162 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011 Responses of interested parties Head of metallurgy and machine-tool industry department of the Ministry of Industry of the Republic of Belarus Schappo Vladimir Minovich : “BMZ was built with application of the best technologies by specialists of Austria and Germany. At the beginning its capacity was 700 thousands tons. Nowadays, thanks to the right personnel, technical and government policy, the capacity of production is 2 million 600 thousands tons and at the nearest time it will be 3 million tons per year. To realize such capacities, it is necessary to correspond to international standards demands, and especially the countries where the production is supplied. I t is also necessary to report to international organizations. Byelorussian Steel Works ks annex 5 Chairperson of Byelorussian Trade Union of industry workers Vadim Vadimovich Fedorov : “I want to say that only 30% of enterprise success is made with the help of new technologies and investments implementation. Other 70 % is made with the help of positive system of management, right deployment of personnel, ability to forecast a nd to foreseen market. High professional team which is capable to react to changes in world processes is created at BMZ. But as far as the report is social, the defining point is a Collective Agreement. I want to mention that it is absolutely transparent public document. Among many questions, great attention is paid to personnel health and medical treatment. It was На трибуне mentioned in reports. председатель Белорусского профсоюза Attention to rising generation, veterans, personnel is работников devoted at the plant and it takes an important place in промышленности Федоров В.В. the plant activity and represents strong foundation for future. Serious tasks for further development are set to you. I want to wish success to everybody and hope that in the next hearings you will tell about your further achievements”.  164 СОЦИАЛЬНЫЙ ОТЧЁТ 2011
