2 0 1 2 R E G I ST R AT I O N D O C U M E N T ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT Contents 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 5 4 Financial information 4.1 Comments on the Capgemini group 105 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values 6 consolidated results AFR 106 1.2 Serge Kampf, founder, Chairman and 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements AFR 112 inspiration of the Group for 45 years, 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. passes the torch to Paul Hermelin 8 Financial Statements AFR 174 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements AFR 176 organization chart 9 4.5 Other financial and accouting 1.4 The Group’s activities 11 information AFR 198 1.5 1.6 The market and competitive environment 2012: a year of strengthening and development 14 16 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 201 1.7 The Group’s investment policy, financing 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital AFR 202 policy and market risks AFR 24 1.8 Risk analysis AFR 25 5.2 Cap Gemini and the Stock Market 206 2 Corporate governance and internal control 31 5.3 5.4 5.5 Current ownership structure Employee Shareholders AFR Share buyback program AFR 209 210 212 2.1 2.2 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors AFR General organization of the Group AFR 32 46 6 Text of the draft resolutions 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary 213 2.3 Compensation of corporate officers AFR 49 Shareholders’ Meeting 214 2.4 Internal control and risk 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary management procedures AFR 56 Shareholders’ Meeting 216 2.5 Statutory Auditors’ report prepared 6.3 Statutory Auditors’ reports 218 in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors AFR 64 7 Additional information 7.1 Legal information 221 222 3 Capgemini, 7.2 7.3 Group management structure Persons responsible for the information 225 226 its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 65 8 Cross-reference tables 8.1 Information required under Commission 229 3.1 Ethics 67 Regulation (EC) no.809/2004 230 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset 69 8.2 Annual Financial Report cross-reference table 231 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment 87 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management 3.4 Independent external analysis 100 Report required under Articles L. 225-100 3.5 Grenelle correlation table 102 et seq of the French Commercial Code 232 The English language version of this report is a free translation from the original, which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate presentation of the original. However, in all matters of interpretation, views or opinions expressed in the original language version of the document in French take precedence over the translation. The information from the Annual Financial Report is clearly identiified in the table of contents by the AFR symbol AFR REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 The French version of this registration Document (Document de Reference) was filed with the Autorité des Marchés Financiers (AMF) on April 22th, 2013, pursuant to Article 212-13 of the AMF’s General Regulations. It may be used in connection with a financial transaction if it is accompanied by an Information Memorandum approved by the AMF. This document was prepared by the issuer and engages the responsibility of its signatories. In accordance with Article 28 of European Regulation no. 809/2004 of April 29, 2004, the following information is incorporated by reference in this registration document: 1. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2011: ■ the management report, consolidated financial statements and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, set out in the registration document filed on April 26, 2012 under no. D.12-0437 (pages 73 to 92 and 117 to 180, respectively); ■ the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements set out in the registration document filed on April 26, 2012 under no. D.12-0437 (pages 181 to 201 and 202, respectively); ■ the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the registration document filed on April 26, 2012 under no. D.12-0437 (page 203). 2. Relating to the year ended December 31, 2010: ■ the management report, consolidated financial statements and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements, set out in the registration document filed on May 3, 2011 under no. D.11-0442 (pages 73 to 93 and 117 to 180, respectively); ■ the parent company financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A. and the Statutory Auditors’ report on the parent company financial statements set out in the registration document filed on May 3, 2011 under no. D.11-0442 (pages 181 to 201 and 202, respectively); ■ the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments, set out in the registration document filed on May 3, 2011 under no. D.11-0442 (page 203). The information included in these two registration documents, other than that referred to above, has been replaced and/or updated where necessary, with information included in this registration document. Copies of the registration document are available from Cap Gemini S.A., 11 rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris, on its corporate website at http://investor.capgemini.com, and on the website of the AMF at www.amf-france.org. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 1 Board of Directors Serge KAMPF, Chairman of the Board of Directors until May 24, 2012 and then Honorary Chairman and Vice-Chairman Paul HERMELIN, Chief Executive Officer until May 24, 2012 and then Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Daniel BERNARD Yann DELABRIÈRE Laurence DORS Michel JALABERT until March 13th 2013, the date of his death Phil LASKAWY Bernard LIAUTAUD Thierry de MONTBRIAL Ruud van OMMEREN Terry OZAN Pierre PRINGUET Bruno ROGER Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS Statutory Auditors PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit represented by Serge VILLEPELET KPMG S.A. represented by Jean-Luc DECORNOY 2 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Consolidated Financial Statements in millions of euros 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Revenues 8,710 8,371 8,697 9,693 10,264 Operating expenses (7,966) (7,776) (8,110) (8,980) (9,477) Operating margin 744 595 587 713 787 % of revenues 8.5% 7.1% 6.8% 7.4% 7.7% Operating profit 586 333 489 595 601 % of revenues 6.7% 4.0% 5.6% 6.1% 5.9% Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 451 178 280 404 370 % of revenues 5.2% 2.1% 3.2% 4.2% 3.6% Earnings per share Number of shares at December 31 145,844,938 154,177,396 155,770,362 155,770,362 161,770,362 Earnings per share at December 31 (in euros) 3.09 1.16 1.80 2.59 2.29 Dividends per share for the year (in euros) 1.00 0.80 1.00 1.00 * 1.00 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT DECEMBER 31 774 1,269 1,063 454 872 Average number of employees 86,495 90,238 97,571 114,354 121,829 Number of employees at December 31 91,621 90,516 108,698 119,707 125,110 * Subject to approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 3 4 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.1 MILESTONES IN THE GROUP’S HISTORY Development of the offers portfolio 17 AND ITS VALUES 6 Acceleration and strengthening of strategic and technological partnerships 18 An ongoing industrialization and cost-reduction 1.2 SERGE KAMPF, FOUNDER, CHAIRMAN process 19 AND INSPIRATION OF THE GROUP Appropriate geographical deployment 20 FOR 45 YEARS, PASSES THE TORCH Some key contracts signed in 2012 21 TO PAUL HERMELIN 8 Studies: capgemini paves the way 21 Capgemini: a player recognized by key 1.3 MAIN GROUP SUBSIDIARIES AND customers, analysts and partners 23 SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART 9 1.7 THE GROUP’S INVESTMENT POLICY, 1.4 THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES 11 FINANCING POLICY AND MARKET RISKS 24 Four major businesses 11 Investment policy 24 Six sectors of activity 11 Financing policy and financial rating 24 Operational organization 12 Market risks 24 The revenue 13 1.8 RISK ANALYSIS 25 1.5 THE MARKET AND COMPETITIVE Identification of risks 25 ENVIRONMENT 14 Risks related to operations 25 The competition 14 Legal risks 27 Markets trends 15 Financial risks 28 Insurance 28 1.6 2012: A YEAR OF STRENGTHENING AND DEVELOPMENT 16 A changing landscape 16 A clear, strategic vision... 16 ... for methodical change 16 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 5 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.1 MILESTONES IN THE GROUP’S HISTORY AND ITS VALUES 1967 Formation of SoGETI by Serge Kampf, on October 1, in Grenoble (France). 1970 SoGETI and OBM (Organization Bossard Michel) agree to combining IT and consulting services. 1971 Creation of Eurinfor, “facilities management” company, by SoGETI with the Cofradel Group and Lyonnaise de Banque. 1973 The 7th “Rencontres SoGETI” in Djerba (Tunisia), the last “Rencontres” to which all Group employees (440) are invited. 1974 SoGETI takes control of C.A.P. (the leading French IT service company at the time) and of Gemini Computer Systems (US). 1975 January 1 marks the official birth of the Cap Gemini Sogeti Group, which, with a headcount of 1,700, becomes Europe’s top IT services company. 9th “Rencontres” in Istanbul (Turkey), with 270 participants. 1976 The Group moves it headquarters to 17, avenue Georges V, Paris. The first Annual Report is published (financial year 1975). 1977 The French authorities veto EDS acquiring a stake in the Group. 1978 The Group takes on the US market and sets up its first “outpost” in Washington DC (Cap Gemini Inc.). 1980 After a long tussle with the SESA, the Group gets the DGT contract to produce the French electronic phonebook. 1981 The sale of SORINFOR marks the Group’s withdrawal from processing activities. 1982 Revenues exceed the one billion French franc (150 million euros) mark, of which half is generated outside France. 1984 To general surprise, Serge Kampf declares that English is to be the Group’s official language. 1985 Spectacular initial public offering of the Group’s shares on the Paris stock exchange (with demand 123 times the offer). 1987 The group takes control of SESA, having held a 42% stake since 1982. 1989 The Group reports a year-end after-tax profit of 7.4%, a record not yet broken. 1990 17th “Rencontres” in Marrakesh (Morocco): the 550 participants decide on an aggressive strategy including, if necessary, joining up with an industrial group. Shortly after, the Group makes several acquisitions: SCS in Germany, Hoskyns, the European leader in “outsourcing” activities, and two US companies (URC and Mac Group) to comprise the Group’s consulting “pole.” The invasion of Kuwait triggers a global economic crisis, which lasted four years. 1991 Daimler-Benz takes a 34% stake in the holding company Sogeti (which itself controls 60% of the Group). 1992 Acquisition of Volmac in the Netherlands (3,200 employees) and Progamator in Sweden (1,600 employees). GENESIS is launched at the 18th “Rencontres,” which brings together 700 managers in Prague (Czechoslovakia). This is Group’s first transformation program, and mobilizes up to 5,000 employees for over a year. By the year-end, Cap Gemini — after 25 years of consecutive growth — announces the first losses in its history (it will be a similar story in 1993 and 1994). 1996 Under the combined pressure of the two other major shareholders, Serge Kampf accepts the “amalgamation” of the two-tiered control of SKIP and SOGETI within the listed company Cap Gemini Sogeti. 1997 Daimler-Benz exits from the Group’s share capital. Brossard Consultants (in which Capgemini has held a 49% stake for more than 20 years!) is integrated into the Group’s “consulting” arm. Celebration of the Group’s 30th birthday during a memorable evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris. 1998 Cap Gemini rejoins the Paris stock exchange’s CAC40 index (it had been on the index from August 1988 to November 1993). 2000 Acquisition of Ernst & Young Consulting (employing more than 12,000 consultants). The Cap Gemini share price rose to its highest ever level of 368.9 euros in March, making a stock market capitalization on that day of 44.5 billion euros. 2002 Creation of a subsidiary specializing in local services and taking over the Sogeti name. 2003 Sogeti acquires Transiciel (7,000 employees); the Group signs a major multi-year contract with the British tax authorities and opens its first “offshore” production center in Mumbai (India). 2006 Launch of the I.cube (Industrialization, Innovation, Intimacy) transformation program. 2007 Acquisition of Kanbay, a US company with a strong presence in India and specializing in financial services (7,000 employees). Capgemini is the main sponsor of the 6th Rugby XV World Cup. Celebratory evening at the Louvre Carrousel, Paris, to mark the Group’s 40th birthday. 2008 A number of small acquisitions, including Getronics PinkRoccade in the Netherlands. 2009 Acquisitions in Romania, Vietnam and Australia. Launch of five global service lines (Business Information Management, Application Lifecycle Services, Testing Services, Infostructure Transformation Services, Smart Energy Services). 2010 Acquisition of IBX in Sweden and CPM Braxis in Brazil (5,500 employees); 23rd Group “Rencontres” in Barcelona (Spain) around the theme“la niaque” (fighting spirit). The Group ends the year with a headcount in excess of 100,000. 2011 Acquisition of eight companies, including Artesys, Avantias and Prosodie in France, and Praxis Technology in China. The Group restructures around six Strategic Business Units (SBUs). Launch of a new global service line (Mobile Solutions). 2012 Serge Kampf passes the torch of Chairman to Paul Hermelin during the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. 6 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.1 Milestones in the Group’s history and its values Group values Since the creation of the Group in 1967, our culture and business practices have been inspired and guided by our seven core values. These principles drive us as a Group and also as individuals. More than just rules of behavior, these values are at the heart of our approach as an ethical and responsible company. A fundamental part of the Group’s DNA, they are the guarantor of Capgemini’s reputation. The first value, “and it’s no coincidence” is Honesty, that is loyalty, integrity, uprightness, and a complete refusal to use any underhand method to 1 help win business or gain any kind of advantage. Growth, profit and independence have no real merit unless won through complete honesty and probity. All Group employees know that any failure to meet this obligation of honesty will be immediately and severely sanctioned. Boldness, a flair for entrepreneurship, a desire to take considered risks and to show commitment (clearly linked to a firm determination to uphold one’s commitments). This value is at the heart of competitiveness: it involves making decisions and seeing them through to implementation, and being willing to periodically challenge one’s direction and the status quo. Boldness needs to be combined with prudence and clear-sightedness, without which a bold manager can become reckless. Trust means the willingness to empower both individuals and teams, to make decisions as close as possible to the point where they will be put into practice and to favor open-mindedness as well as the sharing of ideas and information. Freedom is synonymous with independence in thought, judgment and deed and favors entrepreneurial spirit and creativity. It also means tolerance, respect for others and for different cultures and customs: essential qualities, for example, for the successful merger of two service companies. Solidarity means team spirit, friendship, loyalty, generosity and fairness in sharing the rewards of teamwork. Respecting this value involves taking responsibility and spontaneous participation in group efforts, even in the most difficult circumstance. Modesty signifies simplicity, the contrary to affectation, pretension, smugness, arrogance and boastfulness. But modesty does not imply naivety; it is more about being discreet, showing natural modesty and common sense, being attentive to others and taking the trouble to be understood by them. It is about being frank in work relationships and having a sense of humor. Finally, Fun, means feeling good about being part of a Group with high growth and a good reputation, being proud of what one does, experiencing a sense of accomplishment in the search for excellence, participating in collective celebrations, etc. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 7 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.2 SERGE KAMPF, FOUNDER, CHAIRMAN AND INSPIRATION OF THE GROUP FOR 45 YEARS, PASSES THE TORCH TO PAUL HERMELIN During the Cap Gemini S.A. Board of Directors’ meeting held at the both as Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chairman of Company’s head office in Paris on April 4, 2012, its Chairman, Mr. several major subsidiaries, enabling him to continue making a major Serge Kampf: contribution to the discussions of the Board and the actions of Group Management, promoting the values forming the backbone of the Group ■ informed directors of his decision not to go to the end of his term of and strengthening privileged relationships developed with certain office, as he had expressively reserved the possibility when his term major clients and leading company executives. He highlighted that on of office was renewed in May 2010, the creation of SoGETI, Serge Kampf was one of the pioneers of a ■ reminded the Board of Directors of the recommendation he had new business focused on the service concept. He made commercial made to it on the same day to reverse the decision taken in 2002 activity the keystone of the entire organization, thereby accelerating to separate the functions of Chairman and those of Chief Executive the growth of the Group which rapidly became international, first as Officer, with immediate effect at the end of his term of office, a European leader and then as a major global player. Serge Kampf ■ recalled also that the same day the Board adopted this built the “Cap Gemini culture” around seven core values, paradoxically recommendation and that, again at the recommendation of Serge focused on the individual. The respect and promotion of these values Kampf, decided that following the abolition of this separation of unifies employees (and therefore the whole company) and provides functions, Paul Hermelin would be appointed Chairman and Chief them with an identity, thereby setting them apart from competitors Executive Officer. and playing a major role in much of the Group’s success. Finally, Paul Everything went as planned on April 4. At the beginning of the Hermelin underlined the audacity with which Serge Kampf launched the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 Serge Kampf set transition/succession process in 2002, recalled the constant support he out the personal and professional reasons he had considered in-depth received from him and expressed the desire that to help him assume over the previous winter, explained the decision he finally took to pass his new responsibilities transferred that day, Serge Kampf remains at his the torch that day to his successor who he had chosen as early as side as “his closest advisor”. 2002, and lastly expressed for him and the Group – which is in excellent The torch was therefore passed before 270 shareholders attending the health as he steps back – the wish that change and continuity go hand Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, many of whom in glove. immediately wished to publicly demonstrate (quite noisily for certain) He than handed over to Paul Hermelin who firstly wished to underline the highest esteem in which they hold Serge Kampf and express their that an individual such as Serge Kampf had to a certain extent built in regret to see him start distancing himself from the Group. his image the identity and culture of this Group that he created and led for nearly half a century. He welcomed his decision to remain active, 8 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.3 MAIN GROUP SUBSIDIARIES AND SIMPLIFIED ORGANIZATION CHART 1 The Group performs its business activities through 125 consolidated Cap Gemini S.A. holds: subsidiaries as listed in Note 30, List of the main consolidated ■ the entire capital of an inter-company service company known as companies by country, to the consolidated financial statements for the Capgemini Service S.A.S., year ended December 31, 2012 (page 169) and is present in around forty countries in eight geographic areas: ■ the entire share capital of Capgemini Université S.A.S, which operates the Group’s University, ■ North America: USA, Canada, ■ the entire share capital of Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S, which ■ the United Kingdom and Ireland, operates the campus housing the Group’s international training ■ France, to which Morocco is associated, center, ■ Benelux, as well as operating subsidiaries held directly or indirectly via regional ■ Nordic countries: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, holding companies. The main operating subsidiaries are presented in the simplified organization chart below. ■ Germany and Central European countries: Switzerland, Austria, Poland, the Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, etc., Finally, Group policy is not to own its business premises. The vast majority of Group subsidiaries rent their business premises from third■ Southern Europe (Italy, Spain, Portugal) and Latin America: Mexico, party lessors. There is no relationship between these lessors and the Brazil, Argentina, Chile, etc., Group and its senior executive management. ■ and finally the Asia/Pacific region: India, China, Singapore, Hong Kong, Australia. The sole real estate assets owned by the Group are: The parent company, Cap Gemini S.A., defines the strategic ■ a building held by S.C.I. Paris Etoile and housing Cap Gemini S.A.’s objectives of the Group via its Board of Directors, and ensures headquarters, located at Place de l’Etoile, 75017 Paris, their implementation. In its role as a shareholder, Cap Gemini S.A. ■ the Group’s University in Gouvieux, located 40 km (25 miles) north contributes, in particular, to the financing of its subsidiaries, either in of Paris, owned by a real estate limited liability company, “Les the form of equity or loans. Finally, it allows its subsidiaries to use the Fontaines”, which holds a real estate lease contract, and trademarks and methodologies that it owns, notably “Deliver”, and ■ approximately one-third of the office space used by the Group in receives royalties in this respect. India. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 9 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.3 Main Group subsidiaries and simplified organization chart The organization chart of the main Group subsidiaries (regional holding companies, operating, support and resource companies) directly or indirectly wholly owned by Cap Gemini S.A., with the exception of CPM Braxis S.A. (held 55.80%), is presented below: CAP GEMINI S.A. Capgemini S.C.I Capgemini Capgemini Immobilière Service S.A.S Paris Etoile Université S.A.S. Gouvieux S.A.S. les Fontaines Capgemini North America Inc. Capgemini Capgemini NV Sogeti S.A.S. (USA, Canada and Mexico) France S.A.S. (Benelux) and its subsidiaries Capgemini Deutschland Capgemini AB CGS Holding Ltd Asia-Paciﬁc Holding GmbH (Nordic countries) (UK) India, China, Australia… (Germany and Central Europe) Capgemini Financial Services International Inc. Capgemini Italia SpA Capgemini España SL Capgemini Portugal SA and its subsidiaries CPM Braxis S.A. Prosodie (Brazil) 10 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.4 THE GROUP’S ACTIVITIES With a presence in 44 countries, the Capgemini Group is dedicated business lines, considerable expertise in many sectors of activity and 1 to helping its customers improve their performance and become “packaged” offers that incorporate the finest available technology. more competitive, offering a range of services that combines four key Four major businesses ■ Consulting Services: helping companies and organizations To be sure of meeting its clients’ expectations as closely as possible, to identify, structure and implement transformations that will the Capgemini Group has: permanently improve their results and their competitive edge. ■ developed a flexible global production capacity known as ■ Technology Services (TS): devising, developing and implementing IT Rightshore®, standardizing its processes while bringing them more projects of all kinds involving the integration of complex systems and into line with CMMI (an international certification system for software the development of IT applications. production), ■ Local Professional Services (Sogeti): IT services tailored to meet local ■ worked closely with leading technology specialists to create an needs in terms of infrastructures, applications, engineering, testing ecosystem that allows it to react rapidly to the current upheavals and operation. and make the most of them, ■ Outsourcing Services (OS): taking charge for several years, either ■ implemented a broad portfolio of innovative offers in key areas fully or partially, of a customer’s IT system (or that of a group (e.g. cloud computing, intelligent data management, mobility and of customers ) and/or business activities (Business Process application testing) by incorporating new service models based on Outsourcing, BPO). intellectual property and geared toward specific sectors such as energy and retail. EXPERT CONNECT Direct access to the Capgemini experts at capgemini.com On the “Expert Connect” platform launched in 2010, over 100 experts from around the world, representing all the Group’s businesses, sectors of activity, technologies, solutions and service lines, share their experience and expertise via blogs, other content and social media, and can also be contacted directly. Since its creation, Expert Connect has already hosted over 75,000 conversations, frequently highlighting video content. In 2012, Expert Connect won first prize in the Professional Services category of the British Chartered Institute of Marketing’s annual awards. The project is a fine illustration of the Group’s initiative, with interpersonal digital technologies generating new ways to stay in touch with Capgemini’s key audiences and communicate with them. It combines the full wealth of expertise available from our worldwide network with the commitment of the individual experts themselves, offering the content and information needed by the people getting in touch with them. Six sectors of activity Thanks to its sector-specific expertise, the Group speaks the same ■ The public sector: Capgemini helps central administrations, language as its customers, understands their needs and is able to offer companies, public agencies and major local authorities to implement solutions tailored to meet their specific objectives. The Group is active their modernization programs and projects, in six sectors: REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 11 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.4 The Group’s activities ■ The energy, utilities and chemicals sector: drawing on the latest ■ The consumer products, retail, distribution and transportation technologies, the Group helps companies tackle the double sector: many companies in this sector are facing similar productivity challenge of constantly changing regulations and ever-stricter requirements. Capgemini offers them a technological framework with environmental standards. Capgemini is the world leader in IT cloud computing at its heart, plus the level of expertise necessary to systems designed to manage smart electricity meters, develop e-commerce platforms that combine speed and flexibility, ■ Financial services: the Group is responsible for streamlining ■ The telecommunications, media and entertainment sector: operators applications and infrastructures within financial institutions and has in this sector have a variety of issues to address: the drop in the also contributed various innovations – particularly in terms of mobility income generated by their traditional activities, competing digital and intelligent data management, content from players coming from other fields, and the saturation ■ The manufacturing sector: this needs to boost its competitiveness of their current networks arising from an explosion in such content. on a permanent basis; in particular, the cost of raw materials Having worked with these operators for over thirty years, Capgemini continues to rise sharply. In areas such as outsourcing and BPO, can offer an in-depth knowledge of the telecommunications and the Group offers its customers solutions that will allow them to make digital content sector and considerable technical expertise in respect substantial savings in terms of managing their IT systems and their of networks. main functions, Operational organization Capgemini’s objective is to help its clients boost their competitive edge ■ The Group’s Latin American activities covers the Application Services and their ability to react to developments within their markets by offering and Infrastructure Services businesses and includes a joint venture innovative solutions and reliable, high-quality services – all supplied in Brazil. promptly and at competitive prices. The Group is organized on an These seven SBUs have recently been joined by Prosodie-Capgemini, international level into large-scale operational units (Strategic Business an operator in the multi-channel transactional flow sector. Units, SBUs), and is based on global service lines. GLOBAL SERVICE LINES OPERATIONAL UNITS ■ The multi-sectoral offers available from Capgemini are divided into To ensure the optimum response to its customers’ requirements and three global service lines: to developments in the market, Capgemini is structured into seven • Business Information Management (BIM): optimizing the way a operational units (Strategic Business Units, SBUs): company’s data is managed throughout its life cycle and exploiting ■ Capgemini Consulting handles the Group’s consulting activities, its potential value to the full, covering the fields of strategy and transformation, • Testing Services: bringing together the industrialized approach and ■ Sogeti is in charge of local professional technology services, expertise of Capgemini and Sogeti to provide software testing and ■ Infrastructure Services handles the design, implementation, quality assurance services, with the emphasis on mobile and social outsourcing and maintenance of its customers’ IT infrastructures, applications, ■ The Group’s system integration and application maintenance • Mobility Services: introduced in 2012 to cover every aspect of capacities are divided geographically between two SBUs, mobility. Application Services One and Application ServicesTwo, The Smart Energy Services (SES) line, dedicated to helping energy ■ Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) is responsible for services suppliers and distributors switch their existing assets to smart grids and relating to the outsourcing of functions and processes on behalf of terminals, has been assimilated into the energy, utilities and chemicals companies and organizations, sector. Meanwhile, the Group’s Business Process Management (BPM) services have merged with its Application Services SBU. CENTERS OF EXCELLENCE In India, the Centers of Excellence (CoE) are among the key hubs of innovation within the Capgemini Group. By creating offers, accelerators and solutions in response to the specific requirements of different business lines, they play a vital role in helping our customers maintain a distinctive market profile. India is the major contributor here, with centers including CALORIE (energy and utilities), CRESCENT (consumer products and retail), CHROME (industry and automotive), CHIME (media and entertainment), CELLS (life sciences), CARES (tax and social welfare) and COMMS (telecommunications). 12 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.4 The Group’s activities Revenue BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY BUSINESS Local Professionnal 1 Services 14.9 % Technology Consulting Services 4.9 % Services 39.8 % Outsourcing Services 40.4 % BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY SECTOR Energy, Utilities & Chemicals 11.3 % Financial Services 19.8 % Consumer Products, Retail, Distribution & Transportation 14.1 % Others 4.7 % Manufacturing 17.8 % Public Sector 23,2 % Telecom, Media & Entertainment 9.1 % BREAKDOWN OF REVENUE BY COUNTRY OR REGION Benelux 10.9 % France 21.3 % United Kingdom 20.5 % Rest of Europe, Asia North America 20.5 % and Latin America 26.8 % REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 13 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.5 THE MARKET AND COMPETITIVE ENVIRONMENT The market in which the Capgemini Group is active is one defined by development and maintenance activities and is covered jointly by two Gartner Consulting, the American market analysis specialists, as the of the Group’s departments (Application Services and Sogeti), and IT professional IT services market. In 2012, this was worth a total of €563 infrastructures. billion worldwide. The Capgemini Group is classified by Gartner as The consulting market is worth a worldwide total of €66 billion annually. the seventh largest operator in its field globally – the fifth if we exclude On a global level, the Group is the tenth largest player in this market, the Japanese market, where the Group has no more than a marginal with strong positions in Europe. Of all the segments, consulting is the presence dating back to a small, targeted acquisition in 2012. most cyclical in nature. Our largest market worldwide is North America, accounting for 43% The development and integration market amounts to an estimated of the total – a vital part of the Group’s activities because it became €180 billion worldwide. Here, the Group ranks as the ninth largest the largest part of them in 2012. Western Europe is our second largest player in the world, and the second largest in Western Europe. This market, representing around 28% of the total. Here, the Group is seen is a fairly cyclical market, particularly when it comes to local activities, as the second largest player, and is in fact the market leader (in terms of which follow short cycles and are governed by short contracts. System revenue) in France and the Netherlands. Then come Japan, with 14% Integration activities, on the other hand, have somewhat longer cycles. of the market, the Asia Pacific zone with 9% and Latin America with 4%. The Group now has a presence in all these zones. On a global For the most part, both the consulting market and the development level, the Group’s market share was around 1.8% in 2012, and 4.7% and integration markets are investment expenditure by the Group’s in Western Europe. customers, and this is what gives them their cyclical character. Gartner segments the market into consulting, development and The system management and process management markets are, by integration, system management (outsourcing) and process and large, maintenance and operations markets, with comparatively management (business process management). This division more or long cycles and contracts, and this makes them more resilient. The less matches the various businesses within the Group, except that estimated value of the system management market is €209 billion, our development and integration activities and system management and the Group is considered to be the ninth largest global player in all fall under the heading of Application Services. Since these different this field. The process management market amounts to an estimated markets are very closely related, there is of course some overlapping €108 billion, but here the Group does not occupy a leading position. – for example, the applications market, which incorporates both The competition The Capgemini Group’s competitors fall into three categories: global, To date, the offshore operators (who are mostly Indian in origin) are the offshore and regional operators. ones who have grown most radically. The major names in this category, such as TCS, Infosys, Wipro, Cognizant or HCL, are now in a position The global operators include two IT giants, IBM and HP. Their presence to compete seriously with the global operators. in other closely related technological markets, such as hardware and software, provides them with a broader overall market base for their Lastly, the regional operators: there are a great many of these, because customer relations. Then come the pure IT services players, such as the IT services field is a comparatively easy one to enter; however, they Accenture or CSC. Capgemini is one of this select group of global do not generally have the wide range of offers of the global operators, players, making the others its most direct competitors. Also included or their geographical coverage. The most important of these are Atos, here are Japanese groups such as Fujitsu and NTT Data, who are T-Systems, CGI-Logica, Indra and Steria in Europe, and Lockheed present primarily in Japan but are making inroads into other territories. Martin, SAIC, CGI, Deloitte and Xerox in North America. The merger of CGI and Logica in 2012, coming hot on the heels of the merger of Atos and Siemens IT in 2011, confirms a trend toward consolidation in this sector. 14 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.5 The market and competitive environment Markets trends Alongside the main structural development in the IT services market customers’ needs better while limiting the pressure on the pricing of – namely, the spectacular growth in offshore services (starting with the services they offer. The Capgemini Group is devoting considerable the Indian service providers in the early 2000s) – we have also seen resources to the development of such solutions. the rapid development of cloud computing, the emergence of new The cloud computing phenomenon – the “on-demand” use of services 1 markets geared toward the “big data” phenomenon, the rapid changes or infrastructures shared among many public users – began with major in behavior associated with the massive growth in mobile services, and players like Amazon, Google and Microsoft, and then picked up speed the increasingly vital role played by social networks. as mobile IT consumption using a wide range of terminals (PCs, tablets, The Indian service providers have made inroads into the North smartphones) became widespread. Thanks to its strong positioning in American markets by offering them a well-trained, low-cost workforce. the infrastructure management field and its business process expertise, The result has been a rapid increase in market share, especially the Capgemini Group is particularly well placed to benefit from the in the segments, most readily accessible to them (re-engineering, transformation of the economic model brought about by this new way maintenance, application development) and in the English-speaking to make use of IT resources. countries (primarily the United States, but also the United Kingdom, The generation of data also continues to accelerate around the world, Canada and others). Today, they are progressively extending their both on the part of consumers using various forms of equipment (e.g. reach into the more complex segments, such as software package computers, smartphones, tablets) and from the wide range of sensors installation, and into non-English-speaking countries (starting with the used by many industries. Players in some sectors – the consumer Nordic countries, then taking in the Netherlands and Germany and goods sector, for example – are beginning to catch on to the potential eventually France). To fight off this competition, all the other operators, value to be gained from such data, and are plowing substantial particularly global operators like the Capgemini Group, have greatly resources into disruptive projects designed to tap into more of the value intensified their presence in India, and adapted their production model represented by their consumers. Arriving alongside the revolution in so as to enable their offshore teams to be involved in the handling of consumption triggered by mobile terminals, this well-established trend their customers’ projects and then to increase their role. As a result, has been a feature in our markets for some years now. these operators have been able to restore their margin while cutting their prices, thereby remaining competitive. The offshore operators The growth in mobile usage accelerated in 2012, faster than many had themselves have responded by strengthening their presence at a local expected. The fact that computers are being replaced by tablets or even level; this has brought them closer to their customers and allowed them smartphones for a wide variety of uses is revolutionizing both the field to make headway in market segments that are difficult to service at a of commerce in general and many internal company processes: quite a distance, such as consulting. Over the coming years, it seems likely that few industries have by now been changed by the digital transformation. offshoring will continue to grow while undergoing a sea change, from Lastly, it is impossible to overlook the way social networks have a cost-cutting model to one that enables offshore teams to provide permeated people’s personal and professional environments – a an increased level of added value. The growth in offshore services is factor that is profoundly changing the way individuals interrelate – likely to slow down in more mature zones such as North America, while both internally within companies and between companies and their accelerating within continental Europe. customers. New customs and new needs are emerging as a result, and The main players in this sector are also developing more and more these in turn generate new requirements on the part of our customers. “high value added” offers based at least in part on solutions to which they own the intellectual property. This trend allows them to meet their REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 15 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.6 2012: A YEAR OF STRENGTHENING AND DEVELOPMENT A changing landscape Today’s major geopolitical and economic shifts are generating ■ Technological change: smart computing (proliferation of transactions shock waves in both emerging economies and mature markets. The via mobile devices) and the participatory web (opinions shared mainspring of economic power is changing from the transatlantic model through social media), which generate Big Data ready for analysis, to a more broadly distributed model, with Asia the center of gravity. and cloud computing. These are responsible for radical changes At the same time, technology is becoming increasingly innovative and in consumer behavior, decision-making processes and companies’ critical to both companies and political institutions, not only in rapidoperational procedures. Businesses have to learn to “ work growth regions but also in developed countries. Capgemini customers differently” and undergo a “digital transformation.” need to adapt to this context and determine where and how they can ■ Social change: the boundary between professional and personal expand. computing is starting to be erased. This creates new requirements Against this backdrop, Capgemini’s revenue exceeded €10 billion. A in terms of flexibility, reactivity, decision-making and system solid group with offices in 44 countries, it is a leader in its European architecture, as well as new rules of behavior, organization and market and is making major inroads in North America and Brazil. It has security. more than 125,000 employees, 40% of whom are part of its global ■ Shattered boundaries and volume explosion: under pressure from delivery model, Rightshore®. these trends, the “truly global” economy is becoming an operational Key to Capgemini’s success is the differentiating strategy it has reality that is no longer limited to Europe and North America. employed for many years. In this new landscape, the Group has developed a clear vision and is basing its strategy on three major changes that are taking place: A clear, strategic vision... The Group initiated its transformation in this climate several years ago. ■ A world-class technology partner because of its dual expertise It has a clear goal: to continue to “make a difference” in the market in application services and infrastructure, its innovative strategy, and be regarded by its most demanding customers as a world-class and its ability to partner with the market’s top technology players, business and technology partner. whether well-established companies or startups. These strengths are boosted by the Group’s local and global presence and by its ■ A world-class business partner because Capgemini is one of just a industrialization efforts. handful of players on the market combining technological skills and consulting expertise on a global scale across all industry sectors and regions. ... for methodical change Consequently, 2012 was a year of methodical and systematic with key market players strengthened. Work on the Pyramids consists strengthening and development. The Group continued the threeof ensuring that the right people with the right skills are in the right place. pronged transformation program introduced in 2011, which consists The Group has also stepped up its recruitment of young graduates, of adapting its Portfolio, reviewing its human resources Pyramids and who accounted for 40% of all new hires in 2012. With respect to accelerating its Industrialization (PPI). Industrialization, ongoing method standardization has significantly improved productivity and costs, particularly via the transformation With regard to the Portfolio, the aim is to redirect our offerings toward of Capgemini’s Rightshore® model. Almost 7,000 employees have high added value segments where innovation is most concentrated: undergone training to ensure optimal delivery quality, while multiCloud, Big Data, Digital Transformation, Mobility and Multi-Channel customer AM factories have been introduced to further underpin this Experience. The launch of the “Mobility” Top Line Initiative is an excellent approach. example of this. Focus must also be placed on new economic models via new offerings that include intellectual property (IP), and partnerships 16 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.6 2012: a year of strengthening and development The Group has also continued to make a number of fundamental shifts: operations and innovation projects while reducing investment-related costs and costs associated with running infrastructure, ■ development of the infrastructure business through an original approach of positioning the Group as an “orchestrator.” With the ■ extension of the BPO offer, particularly by creating new production emergence of the cloud, IT service providers are gradually adopting centers, on-demand models (SaaS and laaS, for example), which means ■ strengthening of the Group’s presence in the most promising regions a change in the deployment of a company’s IT infrastructure. The and countries, such as Asia-Pacific and Latin America. 1 approach offered by Capgemini simplifies the planning of business Development of the offers portfolio Spearheaded by digital transformation, the Group’s offers portfolio was consumer goods and distribution sectors; Smart Energy solutions substantially enhanced in 2012. Numerous new offers were launched, and real-time analysis of data from smart meters and smart grids both horizontal and sectorial, many of which were developed with the for Utilities customers; fraud protection in tax systems and social Group’s key technology partners and are available worldwide. These security in the area of public security, offers, developed and managed by a global team, are supported by ■ accelerated development of marketing solutions and models shared major advertising and marketing campaigns. The aim is to respond with our technology partners, to market needs at the global level by offering solutions based on ■ investment in software solutions available to a large number of technological innovations and replicable from one customer to another. customers based on a pay-per-use model. These new offers To boost the offers portfolio and to design growth-generating programs, market the Group’s Intellectual Property (IP) which has either been Capgemini keeps a constant watch on promising innovations. developed in-house or acquired through the takeover of companies The Group’s offers portfolio was upgraded on the basis of four key such as Prosodie in France, the country’s leading customer tracks: relations management firm, acquired in 2011, and IBX (procurement ■ launch of the new Mobile Solutions global service line (see box), management) and Skvader (installation and management of smart meters using its own software solution) acquired in 2010, both ■ creation of customized sectorial offers: overhaul of the customer companies being of Swedish origin. experience and a demand-driven supply chain aimed at the MOBILE SOLUTIONS: A NEW GLOBAL SERVICE LINE TO ORCHESTRATE AN ENTERPRISE’S MOBILITY The Mobile Solutions global service line was launched in March 2012. As an enterprise mobility “orchestrator,” the Group offers through this new line a comprehensive range of solutions covering all aspects of mobility to help companies implement an effective mobile strategy. As part of the Mobile Solutions line, a “one-stop shop for mobile requirements” has already won over a large number of customers, with services based on SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) or PaaS (Platform-as-a-Service) models. The software, set-up, hosting and applications support are offered on a pay-per-use basis to address customers’ needs and expectations. This offer will be significantly enhanced by the pioneering mobile solutions co-innovation and co-development agreement signed with SAP. CLOUD, IP, BIG DATA: NEW TYPES OF SERVICES AND and customer data analysis (Business Analytics-as-a-Service). In NEW “TRANSFORMATIVE” OFFERINGS 2012, this same SBU launched a Governance Risk and Compliance (GRC) service. This is the market’s first BPO offer introduced to help In 2012 the Group focused on new economic models via new offerings companies manage operations proactively and reduce finance and that incorporated intellectual property (IP). Today, the Group’s IP assets accounting, operational, and legislative and statutory compliance risks. comprise a broad range of products: traditional solutions, Software-asa-Service, service platforms and “accelerators.” In addition, Utilities customers now benefit from a “ Smart Water Services” SaaS platform that allows them to manage the water As a result, the Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) SBU continues consumption cycle through a measuring system deployed across their to upgrade its offering with new IP content. New SaaS offerings are networks. enhancing outsourcing services, particularly in the area of financial REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 17 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.6 2012: a year of strengthening and development One of the portfolio’s many SAP implementation accelerators is platform and offers a 360° customer overview by combining data from EnergyPath. This SAP-certified All-in-One ERP (Enterprise Resource multiple channels. Also available are the Next Best Action solution for Planning) solution is aimed at energy sector companies (drilling and marketing decision-making, the Customer Retention solution and the energy services). Revenue Improvements solution. In Big Data, the Group has developed analytical solutions with high added value for its customers in a variety of sectors. For example, the retail sector benefits from a broad range of new offers, such as the Customer Connect Retail solution, which is built on the Salesforce.com THE BUSINESS CLOUD, PLAIN AND SIMPLE The cloud’s impact is felt everywhere in business, from the design of technology infrastructure to day-to-day business processes, new operations, information management, capital expenditure and IT solutions. The cloud is part and parcel of society, impacting not only our personal use of IT, but also redefining our professional expectations. Capgemini is one of the first companies to have exploited the cloud’s advantages to the benefit of its customers. In place of a dedicated infrastructure, it is now possible to access standardized and shared capabilities that are available on demand and on a pay-per-use basis, which reduces costs while improving service. In the face of this major shift, Capgemini has positioned itself as an orchestrator of cloud services – whether or not these services are based on in-house capabilities. Thanks to its technological expertise, deep understanding of its customers’ businesses and processes, and advisory skills, the Group is able to manage complex situations and help customers transition more easily to these new services. Capgemini helps customers adapt their organization while at the same time respecting the integrity of existing systems. INNOVATIVE SOLUTIONS FOR ALL SECTORS In 2012, the Group’s Centers of Excellence (CoE) in India introduced a raft of innovative solutions. For instance, for the retail and consumer products industry, CRESCENT created a framework of solutions for demand-driven supply chains. CRESCENT’s “MultiChannel Customer Experience” solutions also help customers in this industry transition into digital by diversifying their sales channels. Another example is the Digital Utilities Transformation framework launched by CALORIE. This offer provides customers with ways to “reinvent” themselves and adopt “breakthrough” digital technologies while limiting investment costs. It also provides them with the infrastructure and services to help them make the energy transition to a sustainable economy. Such solutions encourage utilities to introduce new services for individuals or local authorities, such as energy management. Acceleration and strengthening of strategic and technological partnerships Spurred on in particular by the innovative companies of Silicon Valley, agreements signed in 2012 are a good illustration of this strategy’s business practices and computer technologies are undergoing a major dynamic nature. transformation. To be at the very hub of global technological innovation, the Group has for many years based its Global Channels and Partners PARTNERSHIPS TO ACCELERATE A COMPANY’S entity in the San Francisco Bay Area. Combining the Group’s in-depth TRANSFORMATION sector expertise and the skills of its technology partners, who are at the cutting edge of innovation, this team is ideally placed to spot future In February 2013, the Group announced the expansion of its global trends and technologies well in advance. strategic alliance with EMC, with the signature of a new go-to-market agreement aimed at increasing operations in Brazil. Capgemini will The Group makes significant investments with its strategic partners collaborate with EMC to deliver next-generation cloud solutions, SAP, Oracle, Microsoft, EMC/VMware, HP and IBM. It also invests in particularly in the agri-food and banking sectors. A new BU, Integrated new areas of innovation, including SaaS services, with fast-growing Solutions, has been created for this purpose at Capgemini in Brazil. technology partners such as Salesforce.com, VMware, Amazon, It will offer customers services with high added value based on EMC Workday, NetSuite, BMC Software, Badgeville, Pega and SAS. technology, as well as SaaS-based cloud solutions. In addition to the partnerships mentioned in Section 4, “ Financial Information” (page 110: “Significant events in 2012”), a number of 18 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.6 2012: a year of strengthening and development In June 2012, Capgemini signed a new partnership and coBecause software quality is vital to customers, Capgemini has also development agreement with Oracle to offer customers the SWIFT had a long-standing collaboration with CAST, a pioneer and now world HCM (Human Capital Management) solution. The goal is to provide leader in software analysis and measurement. Since 2007 CAST has companies with end-to-end methodology so that they can quickly been the “backbone” of Capgemini’s Application Intelligence Center. implement cloud solutions. It will also help them transform their talent Use of this platform has since been expanded globally to ensure the management and payroll processes. strictest quality standards in software development and maintenance. In 2012 the Group signed a new partnership agreement with CAST related 1 Still with the same goal of accelerating customers’ cloud adoption, to the use of its Application Intelligence technology so that customers Capgemini has significantly strengthened its shared services partnership can quickly assess their applications portfolio. This thorough audit of the with US company BMC Software. Henceforth, Capgemini’s outsourced structural health of an applications portfolio means that an information infrastructure customers in Europe will have the option to move from system’s risks and vulnerabilities can be detected very early on, thus their existing IT service desk solution to a highly standardized, payguaranteeing the highest quality standards in software development and as-you-go cloud service. The new Remedy OnDemand platform from maintenance at the lowest cost. BMC, a global leader in IT Service Management, is hosted at one of the Group’s European data centers. Under the terms of their agreement, BMC and Capgemini will provide shared services capabilities to PARTNERSHIPS THAT PROVIDE NEW OFFERINGS TO Capgemini customers via a joint center of excellence. Capgemini will THE PUBLIC SECTOR AND FINANCIAL INSTITUTIONS also team with BMC Global Services to deliver IT Service Management To enhance its Business Information Management (BIM) global service and Business Service Management. line, in May 2012 Capgemini signed a new partnership agreement In 2012 Capgemini partnered with Badgeville, a company offering with SAS, a leader in business analytics software and services, aimed a platform that uses gaming technology in a professional context at the public sector. The goal is to provide government agencies in (gamification). Badgeville has recorded some of Silicon Valley’s fastest Europe, Brazil, India and Asia-Pacific with an end-to-end offering to SaaS growth and now has more than 200 customers worldwide. This help them combat fraud. This offering enables agencies to detect partnership brings together Capgemini Consulting’s experience in largesuspicious patterns in social programs, uncover tax evasion and identify scale digital transformation and Badgeville’s expertise in gamification sophisticated fraud and money laundering rings. These solutions have techniques and focuses on transforming companies. already been adopted by HM Revenue & Customs in the UK and the Maharashtra Sales Tax Department (MSTD) in India. PARTNERSHIPS FOR MOBILE APPLICATIONS AND In August 2012, Capgemini signed a new partnership agreement with SOFTWARE QUALITY Pegasystems, a leading provider of Business Process Management (BPM) and Customer Relationship Management (CRM) solutions, and In 2012 the Group embarked on a new type of partnership, signing DLA Piper, a global law firm and leading regulatory advisor. The purpose a strategic co-innovation and co-development agreement with SAP was to offer the Comprehensive FATCA Compliance solution to financial for mobile solutions. Capgemini has been defined by SAP as “the institutions that are subject to the US Foreign Account Tax Compliance preferred systems integrator for implementing mobile applications in Act (FATCA), which took effect on January 1, 2013 and applies to all the consumer products industry.” institutions with customers in the United States. This is a major achievement: it is the first time a global systems integrator has participated in the creation and development of SAP mobile solutions. An ongoing industrialization and cost-reduction process More and more customers are choosing to outsource their services This approach primarily leverages Lean Management tools and by leveraging Capgemini’s production network, which offers an optimal methods, the close relationships Capgemini has forged with its quality/price ratio through the Rightshore® model. This industrialized customers, and the quality of their collaboration. global delivery model provides services on a large scale to a substantial To deliver the highest quality at the best price, in 2012 Capgemini number of customers. Capitalizing on the lead it has acquired transformed its main production models by focusing on three priorities: in this area, the Group is engaged in ongoing efforts to improve shared services for project management, the creation of multi-customer performance with the ultimate goal of optimizing costs, processes production units to manage applications, and the move toward and standardization at each of its service stages – all for the benefit of performance-based production. customers. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 19 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.6 2012: a year of strengthening and development ■ Shared services for optimized production. To enable contract ■ A performance-based production model. To manage managers to focus on managing production and customer infrastructure, the market is now moving toward a standardized satisfaction, the Group deploys via its offshore centers a range “ catalog” of infrastructure services. Against this backdrop, of services that are shared by a large number of projects and Capgemini is changing its production model, no longer basing customers for managing administrative tasks (project monitoring, it on the number of man hours per week but on the notion of financial reporting, document management, quality control, etc.). performance, which from the customer’s viewpoint is far more ■ Multi-customer production units. This industrial approach is also important. To this end, in 2012 the Group launched a conversion used for application management. The Group has set up production program for its infrastructure services business, particularly at its units in India to deploy SAP applications and develop customized offshore centers. application solutions. This has the twofold benefit of sharing cuttingedge skill resources among several contracts and fully capitalizing on the advantages of standardization. Production units are also ideal platforms for innovation. TRANSFORMATION OF THE RIGHTSHORE® MODEL The Group’s structure has long been supported by its Rightshore® production model. This unique model allows the Group to offer seamless service worldwide and is an efficient way of optimizing resources, guaranteeing customers that the right person will be in the right place at the right time. Each project is carried out uniformly by a single team, as reflected in the motto: “Global talent, one team.” The model consists of establishing production centers in various countries to give customers a competitive advantage, and now combines offshore (emerging countries), nearshore (neighboring countries) and onshore (local) production. Alongside the main production center in India, which employs more than 40,000 people – one third of the Group’s resources – the Rightshore® model has platforms in Poland, Morocco, Vietnam, the Philippines, Brazil, Guatemala, Argentina and Mexico. Brazil is also home to a global production center for Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services. Within this model, offshore operations, particularly in India, are moving toward increasingly sophisticated end-to-end integration. For example, to promote digital transformation offerings, India has created its own sales teams who work closely with onshore teams. This development was one of the factors that led to the Group’s winning of several major contracts in 2012. Appropriate geographical deployment In 2012, the Group continued its geographical expansion and set ■ Brazil, where the market is driven by a combination of three itself three goals: to maintain its leadership position in all regions, factors: public investment in infrastructure, the emergence of large, to strengthen its presence in all countries where it ranked in the ambitious global customers, and upcoming events that will boost top 10, and to invest and expand in countries where IT services are the economy, such as the Olympic Games and Soccer World Cup. experiencing rapid growth, such as Asia-Pacific – particularly Australia, In China, the customer base has experienced rapid growth over the last New Zealand and China – and Brazil. Two regions in particular offer decade. The Group has offices in the major cities (Beijing, Guangzhou, significant potential for expansion: Shenzhen and Hong Kong), operates Business Process Outsourcing ■ North America, the world’s largest market for IT services, where (BPO) centers in Guangzhou and Hong Kong, and has a shared growth is fueled by low energy costs and the West Coast is a services center in Kunshan in Jiangsu Province. major source of innovation. This region is one of the most profitable for Capgemini, and currently accounts for more than 20% of the Group’s total revenue. In 2012 revenue for the region increased by a remarkable 16.4%. 20 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.6 2012: a year of strengthening and development BRAZIL, A LAND OF DEVELOPMENT Brazil is a genuine springboard for the Group’s expansion in Latin America, thanks to Capgemini’s stake in CPM Braxis, the country’s fourth largest IT services provider. Moreover, with the opening of a new site in 2012, the Group has expanded its role as a global production center for Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) services. 1 Some key contracts signed in 2012 In addition to the contracts for applications and infrastructure design its Mi Movistar mobile portal to provide customers in Spain with services and BPO services mentioned in Section 4, Financial access to a broad range of services. Information (“ Operations by business, ” page 107 , and Sogeti was selected by SNCF (French national railways) for its ambitious “Significant events in 2012,” pages 108 and 109), a number of strategic CONCERTO project (CONCEption de Roulements de rames other contracts signed in 2012 are worth noting. TGV Optimisée). This innovative solution allows designers to produce In France, Prosodie-Capgemini signed a six-year contract with the early studies using simulation to improve the performance, productivity national health insurance fund (Caisse nationale d’assurance maladie) and robustness of high-speed TGV trains. for a call management solution aimed at individuals and healthcare In China, CPIC, one of the country’s leading insurers, launched a professionals. The solution is based on the Prosodie IVR (Interactive customer-centric transformation program. Capgemini Consulting Voice Response) call qualification platform and its cloud-based spearheaded two projects that consisted of designing and implementing intelligent routing solution, Odigo, which is deployed at 4,500 work CPIC’s digital operating models and target multi-channels. By stations in more than 80 internal call centers. Already used by Pôle organizing the sharing of customer data between channels, these Emploi, France’s national job center, this new service strengthens the projects led to an increase in the number of policies held per customer Group’s position in public sector entities. and to new targets being reached as a result of innovative online Prosodie-Capgemini also won a project with Total in connection with the initiatives. Capgemini Consulting set the operating priorities, defined collection of France’s national HGV Ecotax. Lastly, Prosodie-Capgemini the target positioning of the channels to support these operations and was awarded a contract with Spanish telecommunications operator associated set-up, determined IT tool requirements, and structured the Telefónica, which chose Backelite (a Prosodie-Capgemini subsidiary) to implementation. It also put in place a team that combined local and international expertise. Studies: Capgemini paves the way “Having control means being able to anticipate...” Deciphering major are usually produced internationally and conducted in collaboration with trends to help company executives anticipate the future is part of established partners. They provide valuable and sometimes unexpected Capgemini’s remit. In addition to providing consulting services to private insight, and help managers pursue the most effective strategy to meet companies and government agencies, the Group makes every effort to the challenges of a rapidly changing world. understand the key trends driving economic sectors and IT. Every year it publishes dozens of studies that are standard references. Whether sector-specific or cross-sector, these annual studies cover a wide range of topics, from digital transformation to the state of global wealth. They THE DIGITAL ADVANTAGE: HOW DIGITAL LEADERS OUTPERFORM THEIR PEERS IN EVERY INDUSTRY This survey by Capgemini Consulting-MIT was widely covered by the media and presented to more than 400 business leaders around the world. It revealed that the most digitally mature companies – the Digirati – significantly outperform their competitors. Digital pioneers such as Burberry, Prisa, Asian Paints and L’Oréal earn an average of 9% more from their assets than other companies in their respective industries. Furthermore, they are 26% more profitable, and their stock market valuation is also substantially higher (12%). The first study produced by Capgemini Consulting and MIT on companies’ digital transformation was identified by Source, a provider of research about the management consulting market, as one of five best pieces of thought leadership from the last decade. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 21 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.6 2012: a year of strengthening and development The Deciding Factor: big data and decision making. This increased by 0.8% to 11 million in 2011, while overall wealth fell by survey from The Economist Intelligence Unit of more than 600 senior 1.7% to US$42 trillion. executives around the world confirms that there is a growing appetite Asia-Pacific Wealth Report 2012. This report, published with RBC by companies for data analysis. It reveals that for nine out of ten Wealth Management, found that there are more rich individuals in Asiaexecutives, data is now the fourth factor of production and as important Pacific than in North America. The number of Asia-Pacific residents with to the company as land, labor and capital. Companies that base their investable assets of $1–$5 million climbed by 1.9% in 2011 to 3.08 decisions on data analysis have a competitive advantage: the use of million. The region is growing in importance as a wealth management Big Data improves their performance by an average of 26%, a figure center, at a time when the world’s rich are struggling to hold on to their that could reach 41% over the next three years, when most of the fortunes. companies surveyed said that they planned to increase investment in this area. Today, two-thirds of senior managers consider their company European Energy Markets Observatory 2012. This annual report to be “data driven,” with strategy and day-to-day decision-making being from Capgemini tracks progress in establishing an open and competitive largely based on the data they have collected and analyzed. As for electricity and gas market in the EU-27 (plus Norway and Switzerland), those who make decisions based solely on intuition or experience, they as well as headway on meeting the EU’s 2020 climate change goals. are increasingly rare. The study shows that in a period of economic uncertainty, governments and regulators are placing increased pressure on utilities, jeopardizing Business Cloud: the state of play shifts rapidly. This global study not only future profitability but also much-needed investment in energy based on interviews with 460 business and IT executives reveals that infrastructure. cloud adoption, spurred on by IT departments, now extends to all areas of a company’s operations. The cloud is of interest not just as an IT Cars Online 2012/2013. This 14th annual study involved over 8,000 platform, but also for the possibilities it offers in terms of pay-per-use consumers in eight countries: Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, and accelerated project implementation. Beyond simple technology, Russia, the UK and the US. The report provides a detailed global the cloud is a transformation tool that offers the opportunity to “work analysis of numerous aspects of the automobile industry, including differently” and adopt new growth models. The study concludes that purchasing behavior, consumer profiles, the use of social media, online the cloud can no longer be viewed as simply an IT platform. Now firmly purchasing, “green” vehicles, smartphone applications, connected car embedded within the business way of working, it has become a real services and after-sales service. The study shows that technological business and technology driver that brings together a range of new innovation improves the customer experience, from making the public and private services to deliver the benefits of agility, scalability, purchase to driving the vehicle. Ninety-four percent of people looking to simplicity and flexibility. buy a car start with online research. Global Business Process Management Report. This study of World Quality Report 2012-13. The fourth edition of this global over 1,000 senior business leaders and IT decision makers reveals report, published by Capgemini and Sogeti with Hewlett Packard, is that in the current economic climate, business process management based on telephone interviews across 25 countries. It found that most is increasingly viewed as an absolute priority, particularly in banking, companies are struggling to keep up with the demands of the “access insurance and private equity, where increased regulation makes any information, anywhere, as soon as you can” age. More than twocompliance paramount. thirds are failing to test their mobile applications properly, and less than a fifth is focusing on security. World Wealth Report 2012. This report, published with RBC Wealth Management, found that the population of high-net-worth individuals 22 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.6 2012: a year of strengthening and development Big Social: Predicting behavior with Big Data. This report, Digital Shopper Relevancy. This study by Capgemini Consulting published in 2012 by VINT, Sogeti’s Research and Innovation laboratory, reveals that consumers around the world, and particularly in mature describes available sources and shows how organizations can predict markets, want to shop using all available channels – online shopping, consumer behavior in the short term by using Big Data. This predictive social media, mobile apps and shopping centers – seamlessly and power can be applied in many areas, such as fraud detection to identify transparently. where the next burglary will take place or predicting the most intimate events in consumers’ lives which will influence their buying behavior. For more information, visit http://www.capgemini.fr.com 1 Capgemini: a player recognized by key customers, analysts and partners CAPGEMINI RANKED A WORLD LEADER Capgemini has been ranked a world leader by the following organizations: ■ IT Organization Redesign Consultancies, Q4 2012 by Forrester Research, Inc. (Nov. 2012)* ■ Business Intelligence Services Providers, Q4 2012 by Forrester Research, Inc. (Oct. 2012)** ■ Oracle Implementation Service Providers, Worldwide by Gartner, Inc. (Sept. 2012)*** (a) ■ CRM Service Providers, Worldwide by Gartner, Inc. (Sept. 2012)*** (b) ■ Help Desk Outsourcing, Europe by Gartner, Inc. (Aug. 2012)*** (c) ■ SAP Implementation Service Providers, North America by Gartner, Inc. (July 2012)*** (d) ■ Global F&A BPO by Gartner, Inc. (July 2012)*** (e) ■ Leading software testing position in EMEA based on 2011 revenue by NelsonHall (Jan 2012)**** In addition, Capgemini was ranked in the top 10 of the 2012 Global Outsourcing 100 list, a survey conducted by the International Association of Outsourcing Professionals® (IAOP®). This ranking is established according to revenue, customer results, competencies, customer relations management, talent management, and experience. * The Forrester WaveTM: IT Organization Redesign Consultancies, Q4 2012, Forrester Research Inc., Nov. 14, 2012 ** The Forrester WaveTM: Business Intelligence Services Providers, Q4 2012, Forrester Research Inc., Oct. 18, 2012 ***(a) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for Oracle Applications Implementation Services, Worldwide,” Alex Soejarto, Sept. 27, 2012 ***(b) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for CRM Service Providers, Worldwide,” Patrick J. Sullivan, Ed Thompson, Sept. 20, 2012 ***(c) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for Help Desk Outsourcing, Europe,” Gianluca Tramacere, Claudio Da Rold, Frank Ridder, Aug. 29, 2012 ***(d) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for SAP Implementation Service Providers, North America,” Susan Tan, July 12, 2012 ***(e) Gartner, Inc.: “Magic Quadrant for Finance and Accounting BPO,” Cathy Tornbohm, May 30, 2012 **** NelsonHall: “Software Testing Assessment and Forecast January 2012,” Dominique Raviart, Jan. 2012 During the China International Service Outsourcing Cooperation Having also won two finalist selections (out of 150 nominations in 22 Conference in July 2012 in Nanjing, China, the China Council for categories), Capgemini established itself as one of the top performing International Investment Promotion (CCIIP) ranked Capgemini among partners in the SAP ecosystem. the top 10 global service providers in China for the second consecutive Microsoft named Capgemini “2012 Microsoft Services Outstanding year. Collaboration Partner of the Year.” Almost 3,000 entrants from around At the 2012 SAP® Pinnacle Awards, Capgemini received two awards the world competed for this award, which recognizes excellence in the categories of “ Transformational Award: Unwired Enterprise” in innovation and implementation of solutions based on Microsoft and “ Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) and Business Process technology. as a Service (BPaaS) Provider of the Year.” These awards recognize excellence in partnership development and customer success. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 23 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.7 THE GROUP’S INVESTMENT POLICY, FINANCING POLICY AND MARKET RISKS Investment policy Against a backdrop of economic and financial uncertainty, the major At the same time, CPM Braxis became Caixa’s strategic partner for IT players in the IT services sector adopted an extremely prudent services. approach to external growth. Several projects were studied during the year with a significant Few companies performed major acquisitions, with the exception of realization potential for certain of them during the opening months of the Canadian company, CGI, which bought the UK company, Logica. 2013. In this context, Capgemini adopted a prudent external growth policy, Capgemini will continue its external growth policy in 2013 driven by the concentrating on the integration and development of companies goal of always satisfying the Group’s ambitions in terms of geographical acquired in previous months. coverage and the development of the technology portfolio. Accordingly, the leading Brazilian public bank, Caixa, acquired a 22% These acquisitions will be made possible thanks to the Group’s very stake in the Brazilian company, CPM Braxis, joining Capgemini which solid financial position, which they should not comprise. acquired this company at the end of 2010 and which remains the majority shareholder along with the other existing Brazilian shareholders. Financing policy and ﬁnancial rating FINANCING POLICY ■ a good level of liquidity and durable financial resources, which means: Cap Gemini S.A. financing policy is intended to provide the Group with adequate financial flexibility and is based on the following main criteria: • maintaining an adequate level of available funds (€2,091 million at December 31, 2012), supplemented by a €500 million multicurrency ■ a moderate use of debt leveraging: over the last ten years Capgemini syndicated line of credit secured on January 13, 2011 and maturing Group has strived to maintain at all times a limited level of net debt on January 13, 2016 and backed by a €550 million commercial (and even a positive net cash position) including in the manner in paper program, which it finances its external growth, • borrowings, with only a limited portion falling due within 12 months ■ diversified financing sources adapted to the Group’s financial profile: (contractual cash flows within less than one year; see Note 17 to Capgemini seeks to maintain a balance between bank financing the consolidated financial statements) representing just 9% of total (including the syndicated credit line and the use of leasing to finance contractual cash flows at December 31, 2012. property and IT equipment) and market financing (issue of OCEANE bonds convertible and/or exchangeable for new or existing shares for €437 million in June 2005 and €575 million in April 2009 ; euro FINANCIAL RATING bond issue performed in November 2011 for €500 million see Note The Group’s ability to access financial and banking markets and the 17 to the consolidated financial statements), cost of accessing such markets depends in least in part on the credit rating attributed by the rating agency Standard & Poor’s: on January 21, 2008, the latter attributed Cap Gemini the long-term credit rating of BBB – (stable outlook), which has not since changed. Market risks Currency risk, interest rate risk, equity risk, liquidity risk and credit risk are set out in Notes 9, 17 and 19 to the consolidated financial statements of the Capgemini Group in this Registration Document. 24 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.8 RISK ANALYSIS Identiﬁcation of risks 1 Group Management has discussed, drafted, approved and distributed a These rules and procedures are updated regularly to reflect the set of rules and procedures known as the Blue Book. Compliance with development of the Group’s business activities and changes in its the Blue Book is mandatory for all Group employees. The Blue Book environment. restates and explains Capgemini’s seven core values, sketches out the The Internal audit function independently assesses the effectiveness of overall security framework within which the Group’s activities must be these internal control procedures given that, irrespective of how well conducted, and, finally, describes the methods to be followed in order they are drafted and how stringently they are applied, these procedures to exercise the necessary degree of control over the risks identified in can only provide reasonable assurance – and not an absolute guarantee each of the Group’s main functions. – against all risks. Risk management control procedures are described Individual business units supplement and adapt the Blue Book by in the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors. drawing up detailed internal control procedures which comply with the relevant laws, regulations and customary practices in the country where they operate, in order to exercise control more effectively over risks specific to their local market and culture. Risks related to operations Capgemini is a service provider and consulting group, and as such, the Despite the formal approval procedure for all client project commitments main risks to which the Group is exposed are (i) failure to deliver the undertaken by the Group, in some cases, difficulties with respect services to which it has committed; (ii) failure to deliver services within to project performance and/or project costs may have been the contractual timeframe and to the required level of quality; or (iii) underestimated at the outset. This may result in cost overruns not infringement, notably through human error, of obligations liable to affect covered by additional revenues, especially in the case of fixed-price the operations of a client or third party. In the course of its consulting contracts (which make up approximately half of the Group’s business) activities, the Group has an obligation to provide information and could or reduced revenues without any corresponding reduction in expense in incur liability should it fail to do so. the case of certain outsourcing contracts where there is a commitment to provide a certain level of service. RISKS CONCERNING PROJECT PERFORMANCE Despite the stringent control procedures that the Group applies in the project performance phase, it is impossible to guarantee that Contracts are subject to a formal approval procedure prior to signature, all risks have been contained and eliminated. In particular, human involving a legal review and an assessment of the risks relating to the error, omissions, and infringement of internal or external regulations project and to the terms of performance. The authority level at which the or legislation that are not, or cannot be identified in time, may cause contract is approved depends on the size, complexity and risk profile damage for which the Company is held liable and/or may tarnish its of the project. The Group Review Board examines the projects with the reputation. most substantial commercial opportunities or specific risk exposures, as well as proposals for strategic alliances. Capgemini has developed a unified set of methods known as the REPUTATION “Deliver” methodology to ensure that all client projects are performed Intense media coverage of any difficulties encountered, especially on to the highest standards. Project managers are given specific training large-scale or sensitive projects, could negatively impact the Group’s to develop their skills and acquire the appropriate level of certification image and credibility in the eyes of its clients, and by extension, its for the complexity of projects assigned to them. The Group also has a ability to maintain or develop certain activities. pro-active policy of seeking external certification (CCM, ISO, etc.) for its When dealing with third parties and clients, the behavior of team production sites. members may be inconsistent with our principles (values, work Contract performance is monitored using Group-defined management methods, etc.) and could even present a danger to the company if and control procedures, and complex projects are subject to dedicated contrary to ethics or legislation. control processes. Internal Audit checks that project management Finally, internet users could make negative comments in open forums and control procedures are properly applied. Expert teams may also (Twitter, Facebook, etc.) on Capgemini’s performance, service offers or intervene at the request of the Group’s Production/ Methods and human resource policy, thereby tarnishing the Group’s reputation. Support department to audit projects that have a high risk profile or that are experiencing difficulties. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 25 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.8 Risk analysis EMPLOYEES due to an incident or a natural disaster, in so far as several operational units could be affected simultaneously. The use of a large number of The vast majority of the Group’s value is founded on its human capital production sites increases the range of contingency options available and its ability to attract, train and retain employees with the technical to the Group. expertise necessary to the performance of client projects to which it has committed. In particular, this requires a strong reputation in the employment market and ensuring fair appraisal and promotion ENVIRONMENT procedures as well the professional development of our employees. As an intellectual service provider, Capgemini’s activities have a The Group pays close attention to internal communication, diversity, moderate impact on the environment compared with other economic equal opportunity and good working conditions. Group Management activities. Nonetheless, despite being considered immaterial due to has published a Code of Business Ethics and oversees its application. the nature of its business, the Group strives to limit its environmental Nevertheless, in the event of an industrial dispute or non-compliance footprint as part of its overall corporate citizen approach. with local regulations and/or ethical standards, the Group’s reputation and results could be adversely affected. CLIENTS Sending employees to countries which are geopolitically unstable Capgemini serves a large client base, in a wide variety of sectors and may expose the Group to risks regarding the physical safety of countries, limiting the risk of dependency on a given sector and/or these employees. Economic instability and poorly controlled growth market. The Group’s biggest clients are multinationals and public bodies can also be a source of risk for the company’s performance and (see Note 15 to the consolidated financial statements, page 142). reputation. The risk of natural disasters in certain countries where we are present, political instability and even terrorist attacks and similar risks in countries where we may be called on to work in response to SUPPLIERS AND SUB-CONTRACTORS client requirements, could impact the physical safety of our employees. Capgemini is dependent upon certain suppliers, especially in its Economic uncertainty in a poorly controlled environment generates Technology Services and networks businesses. While alternative many other risks (galloping inflation and its impact on wages, poorly solutions exist for most software and networks, the failure of a supplier adapted infrastructures, unstable fiscal and social environment, etc.) to deliver specific technology or expertise could have prejudicial which could impact our overall economic performance. consequences for certain projects (see Section 3.3 – Stakeholders and Figures concerning, in particular, the attrition rate, the utilization the environment, Our suppliers and business partners, page 88). rate, changes in headcount (including in offshore countries), career The bankruptcy of a suppler, its takeover by a competitor (and a change management, the development of expertise and building employee in its current service offer/product range), a change in its sales model, loyalty are presented in the Chapter “Capgemini, its values, employees such as the use of Cloud Computing for IT services, or a technical (fire and Corporate Social Responsibility”, Section 3.2 “Our people, a key or natural event) or human (error/negligence or malicious act) incident Group asset” (pages 69 et seq.). could generate additional risks. Finally, the poor management of expenditure incurred with a third party, INFORMATION SYSTEMS budget overruns, the use of unapproved suppliers and purchases that Capgemini’s operations have little dependency on its own information do not comply with equipment strategic decisions, can also generate systems. The systems used to publish the Group’s consolidated risks. financial statements present a specific risk in view of the strict reporting deadlines. The Group is aware of the importance of internal COUNTRY communication network security, and protects its networks via security rules and firewalls. It also has an established IT security policy. For Capgemini has permanent operations in approximately 40 countries. some projects or clients, enhanced systems and network protection is The bulk of its revenues is generated in Europe and North America, provided on a contractually agreed basis. which are economically and politically stable. An increasing portion of its production is based in emerging countries, PRODUCTION SECURITY and primarily India, which now represents approximately 33% of the Group’s total headcount. Consequently, Capgemini is now more Capgemini’s evolving production model, Rightshore®, involves exposed to the risk of natural disasters in South East Asia and Latin transferring a portion of the Group’s production of part of its services America, political instability in certain regions of India and adjoining to sites or countries other than those in which the services are used or countries, and even terrorist attacks. From an economic standpoint, in which the Group’s clients are located and particularly India, Poland, the Group is also exposed to risks stemming from the negative effects China, Asia and Latin America. The development of this model has of insufficiently controlled growth (wage inflation, which is particularly rife made the Group more reliant on telecommunications networks, which in the IT sector, inadequate domestic infrastructure and higher taxes). may increase the risk of business interruption at a given production site 26 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.8 Risk analysis Strict approval criteria must be met before employees are sent to work procedures. Unforeseen problems can generate higher integration costs in countries where there are no existing Group operations, and even and/or lower savings or synergies than initially forecast. If a material, stricter criteria apply in the event that employees are sent to countries unidentified liability subsequently comes to light, the value of the assets considered “at risk”. acquired may turn out to be lower than their acquisition cost. (see Note 12 to Capgemini’s Consolidated financial statements, page 139). EXTERNAL GROWTH 1 External growth transactions, one of the cornerstones of the Group’s ECONOMIC CONDITIONS development strategy, also contain an element of risk. Integrating any The Group’s growth and financial results may be adversely affected by a newly-acquired company or activity, particularly in the service sector, general downturn in the IT service sector or in one of Capgemini’s other may prove to be a longer and more difficult process than predicted. The key business segments. A shake-up resulting in a change of ownership success of an external growth transaction largely depends on the extent at one of Capgemini’s clients or a decision not to renew a long-term to which the Group is able to retain key managers and employees, contract may have a negative effect on revenue streams and require maintain the client base intact, coordinate development strategy cost-cutting or headcount reduction measures in the operational units effectively, especially from an operating and commercial perspective, affected. and dovetail and/or integrate information systems and internal Legal risks FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS The sheer diversity of local legislation and regulations, which are GOVERNING OUR ACTIVITIES constantly changing, exposes the Group to a risk of infringement of such legislation and regulations by under-informed employees especially While the Group’s activities are not generally regulated, certain of our those working in countries that have a different culture to their own – clients sometimes require us to comply with regulations imposed on and to the risk of indiscretion or fraud committed by employees. As them, or in rare cases, make us comply with another regulation. stringent as they may be, the legal precautions taken by the Group both at a contractual and an operational level to protect its activities or CONTRACTUAL RISK to ensure adherence by employees to internal rules can only provide reasonable assurance and never an absolute guarantee against such The acceptance of unfavorable conditions, such as unlimited liability in risks. certain circumstances, comprises a risk. Contractual risks may notably arise when the Group’s liability for failing to fulfill certain obligations is unlimited, when there is no liability protection clause in relation to LITIGATION RISK services affecting health and safety or the environment, and when the Having developed a vast network of contractual relationships, the rights of third parties are not respected. Group is not immune from legal action. There are no governmental, legal or arbitration proceedings, including COMPLIANCE WITH LEGISLATION any proceedings of which the Group is aware, that are pending or liable The Group is a multinational company operating in several countries and to arise, which are likely to have or have had in the last 12 months a providing services to clients who, in turn, operate around the world and material impact on the Group’s financial position or profitability other are subject to numerous and constantly changing laws and regulations. than those that are recognized in the financial statements or disclosed in the notes thereto (see Note 21 to Capgemini’s Consolidated financial statements page 158). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 27 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 1.8 Risk analysis Financial risks Detailed information concerning these risks is provided in Notes 9, process on the translation of the foreign currency accounts of 17 and 19 to Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements in this consolidated subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro, Registration Document. and currency risks arising on operating and financial cash flows which are not denominated in the entities’ functional currency. The growing use of offshore production centers in Poland, India, China and Vietnam EQUITY RISK exposes Capgemini to currency risk with respect to some of its The Group does not hold any shares for financial investment purposes, production costs. Capgemini is also exposed to the risk of exchange and does not have any interests in listed companies. However, it holds rate fluctuations in respect of inter-company financing transactions and treasury shares acquired under its share buyback program. fees paid to the Group by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. CREDIT AND COUNTERPARTY RISK Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or EMPLOYEE-RELATED LIABILITIES counterparty risk mainly relate to financial investments and accounts Capgemini’s consolidated financial statements may be impacted by receivable. The hedging agreements entered into with financial provisions for pensions covering funded defined benefit plans, which institutions pursuant to its policy for managing currency and interest are also subject to volatility. Furthermore, the Group could be faced with rate risks also expose the Group to credit and counterparty risk. calls for funds from trustees to make-up pension fund shortfalls, over a short or long time period, potentially deteriorating its financial position. LIQUIDITY RISK The main risk factors are fluctuations in interest rates and financial The financial liabilities whose early repayment could expose the Group markets and life expectancy. The value of pension obligations is to liquidity risk are mainly the 2009 convertible bond issue and the calculated based on actuarial assumptions and particularly interest November 2011 bond issue. rates, inflation rates and life expectancy. Pension plan assets, which are invested in different categories of assets (including equities), are managed by the trustees of each fund and are subject to market INTEREST RATE RISK risk. Under these conditions, plan assets may be less than pension The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk must be considered in light obligations, reflecting a funding shortfall or deficit. Changes over time of its cash position. The liquidity at its disposal is generally invested in assets and/or liabilities are not necessarily in the same direction and at floating rates, while the Group’s debt – primarily comprising bond are eminently volatile and can increase or decrease the funding asset/ issues – is mainly at fixed rates. liability or the resulting deficit. Nonetheless, the potential economic impact of these changes must be assessed over the midand longterm in line with the timescale of the Group’s pension commitments. CURRENCY RISK The Group is exposed to two types of currency risk that could impact earnings and equity: risks arising in connection with the consolidation Insurance The Group insurance manager is part of the Group finance department contacts signed with clients. Deductibles are set so as to encourage and is responsible for all non-life insurance issues. Life and health operational unit managers to commit to risk prevention and out-ofinsurance issues, which are closely related to employee benefit court settlement of claims, without exposing the Group as a whole to packages, are managed by the human resources departments in each significant financial risk. country. The Group risk management and insurance policy encompasses COMMERCIAL GENERAL LIABILITY AND the security of individuals, its assets and those assets under its PROFESSIONAL INDEMNITY responsibility. The Group’s insurance policy is to adjust insurance This type of coverage, which is very important to clients, is designed, coverage to the replacement value of insured assets, or in the case taken out and managed centrally at Group level. Cap Gemini S.A. and of liability insurance, to an estimate of its own risks and reasonably all subsidiaries over which it exercises direct or indirect control of more conceivable third party risks in its business sector, taking account of than 50% are insured against the financial consequences of commercial country-specific risks, as well as changes in major exposure under 28 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Presentation of the Company and its activities 1 1.8 Risk analysis general liability or professional indemnity arising from their activities, the risk of loss due to business interruption, arising from an incident at under an integrated global program involving a range of lines contracted a site. The Group’s largest site, which is located in India, employs some with a number of highly reputable leading insurers. The terms and 8,000 people in a number of different buildings. Supply shortage risk conditions of this program, including coverage limits, are periodically is assessed and insured to the extent possible, based on knowledge reviewed and adjusted to reflect changes in risk exposure, due of the materiality of the risk and the available offering in the insurance particularly to the Group’s activities, new countries where Capgemini operates and changes in client contracts, as well as the position on market. 1 insurance markets. OTHER RISKS The €30 million primary layer of this program is reinsured through a Personal security, travel assistance and repatriation coverage for consolidated reinsurance subsidiary which has been in operation for employees working outside their home countries, as well as crime several years. and fidelity coverage (especially for information systems) are managed centrally at Group level via global insurance policies. All other risks – PROPERTY DAMAGE AND BUSINESS INTERRUPTION including motor vehicle, transport and employer liability – are insured locally using policies that reflect local regulations. The Group has set-up an integrated property damage and business interruption insurance program covering all of its subsidiaries worldwide. The Group has decided not to insure against employment practice Its real estate policy is to rent rather than to buy its business premises, liability risks, given its preventive approach in this area. Pollution risks and consequently it owns little property. are low in an intellectual services business, and Capgemini is not insured against these risks in any country in which it operates. The Capgemini’s business premises are located in a wide variety of Group has also decided that, unless coverage is compulsory and readily countries, and the Group operates at multiple sites in most of them. available, it is not necessary to systematically insure against terrorismThe Group has approximately 500 sites with an average surface area related risks. Certain risks are excluded from coverage or restricted of 2,500 square meters. Some of the Group’s consultants work off-site under the general conditions imposed by the insurance market. at client premises. This geographical dispersion limits risk, in particular REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 29 1 Presentation of the Company and its activities 30 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES 2.3.3 Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate officers 53 OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 32 2.3.4 Stock subscription options, stock purchase 2.1.1 History and composition of the Board of Directors 32 options and performance shares 54 2.1.2 Other offices and duties exercised by members of the Board of Directors 34 2.4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND 2.1.3 Role, meetings, operating rules RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES 56 and self-assessment procedure 39 Objectives and means 56 2.1.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees 41 General principles 57 2.1.5 Rights and obligations of Directors – Compensation 43 Operational risk and management procedures 58 2.1.6 Declaration concerning the Group’s executive Activity-related risk management 58 corporate officers 45 Legal risk management 60 Financial risk management 60 2.2 GENERAL ORGANIZATION OF THE GROUP 46 Risk management procedures concerning 2.2.1 Composition of management the preparation and processing of financial and administrative bodies 46 and accounting information 61 2.2.2 Transactions carried out by members of the Board of Directors and other Senior Managers involving 2.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT Cap Gemini shares 48 PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L.225-235 OF THE FRENCH 2.3 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE COMMERCIAL CODE ON THE REPORT OFFICERS 49 PREPARED BY THE CHAIRMAN 2.3.1 Compensation of the two executive corporate OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 64 officers 49 2.3.2 Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, compensation policy 51 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 31 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.1 ORGANIZATION AND ACTIVITIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS 2.1.1 History and composition of the Board of Directors LEGAL STRUCTURE indicated last year that he did not exclude the possibility that after having enjoyed the benefits of “separation” for 10 years, he may decide Created in Grenoble in October 1967 by Serge Kampf, the Company to propose to the Board of Directors to return to a “traditional” limited and the Group it formed were managed for nearly 30 years by a liability form (i.e. in which the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive “traditional” limited liability company (société anonyme). Throughout Officer are exercised by a single individual) and concomitantly appoint this period, its founding Chairman was both Chairman and Chief Paul Hermelin as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He would Executive Officer and major shareholder, controlling directly and then remain at his side and be available if necessary, while continuing to work indirectly the majority of the share capital. At the end of this initial in the interests of the Group, particularly within the Board of Directors period, Capgemini comprised 25,000 employees and reported annual and in the business world at large. revenues of approximately FRF 13 billion (€2 billion). Accordingly, in line with the above, the Cap Gemini Board of Directors’ On May 24, 1996, under the combined pressure of the two other major meeting on April 4, 2012, chaired by Serge Kampf, took due note that shareholders at the time (Daimler-Benz and CGIP), who convinced he: Serge Kampf that in the interests of Capgemini Group, its financial capacity should no longer be limited to that of its founding Chairman, ■ had decided (as he expressly reserved the possibility on May 27, Serge Kampf finally recommended that the Shareholders’ Meeting 2010 when his term of office was renewed) not to go to the end of approve the merger-absorption of SKIP and SOGETI (the two holding his term of office as Chairman and to resign on May 24, 2012, the companies which had until then allowed him to retain majority control date of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, of the Group) within a new company, Cap Gemini with a Management ■ proposed – in accordance with the general principle already Board, which he chaired and a Supervisory Board chaired by Klaus discussed and accepted during the Board meeting of March 27, Mangold (who, after the exit of the shareholder DaimlerBenz, was 2010 – that the Company decide concomitantly: replaced by Ernest-Antoine Seillière, the Chairman of CGIP). • to return to a unified governance structure in which the functions of On May 23, 2000, at the same time as the integration within our Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer are structures of Ernst & Young Consulting (which almost doubled the exercised by a single individual, size of the Group), the return to the previous governance structure of • to appoint the current Chief Executive Officer, Paul Hermelin, as a “traditional” limited liability company appeared preferable with, this Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. time, the appointment of a General Manager, Geoff Unwin, replaced by Serge Kampf highlighted that these decisions were the outcome Paul Hermelin on January 1, 2002. of a transition process launched exactly ten years previously. This On July 24, 2002, Serge Kampf took the initiative to recommend to the probationary period of quite exceptional length enabled the Group Board of Directors which accepted to split the functions of Chairman to develop and strengthen its position as global leader, thanks to the and Chief Executive Officer, as recently made possible by the New remarkable relationship enjoyed over these years by the Chairman and Economic Regulations Law (NRE). He considered that after creating, the Chief Executive Officer. expanding, leading and managing the Group for 35 years, the time had After deliberating (and hearing in this respect the concordant come for him to give more power and visibility to the person who, from recommendations of the Ethics and Governance Committee) the Board 1999, he considered the best qualified to succeed him one day. This thus unanimously decided: two-man team operated efficiently and in harmony for 10 years and legally could have continued until the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting 1) to change the governance structure of the Company and return to in the Spring of 2014, called to approve the 2013 financial statements, the traditional form of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from the marking the simultaneous end of the current terms of office. Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, This being said – and as Serge Kampf highlighted in 2011 * – the 2) to appoint Paul Hermelin to this office as of the same date, smooth functioning of this team was more closely tied to the long3) to pay tribute to the immense contribution of Serge Kampf, standing relationship of trust, friendship and mutual respect between founder (in 1967), leader and inspiration of the Group for 45 years, Paul Hermelin and him than what legislation says regarding the by solemnly conferring on him the title of Honorary Chairman of respective roles, powers and responsibilities of the Chairman and the Cap Gemini and appointing him Vice-Chairman of the Board of Chief Executive Officer. Certain directors even observed that the very Directors. general drafting of this law could one day for example should one or other no longer be part of this two-man team – become a source of ambiguity, confusion and possibly even conflict. Serge Kampf therefore * See 2010 Financial Report/Registration Document, page 108. 32 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Accordingly, we can say that there have been five main periods in the governance of the Group: Duration Period Legal form Administrative bodies/Group Management 29 years From creation (1967) “Traditional” Limited liability company Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Serge Kampf to May 24, 1996 (Société Anonyme) No General Manager 4 years From May 24, 1996 Limited liability company with a Management Management Board with 4 members: Serge Kampf to May 23, 2000 Board and a Supervisory Board (Société (Chairman) Paul Hermelin, Pierre Hessler and Geoff a Directoire et Conseil de Surveillance); Unwin the Supervisory Board was initially chaired by Klaus Mangold (Daimler-Benz) and then by Ernest-Antoine Seillière (C.G.I.P.) from September 8, 1997 2 years From May 23, 2000 Return to a “traditional” Limited liability Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Serge Kampf 2 (merger with Ernst & Young company (Société Anonyme) General Manager: Geoff Unwin Consulting) to July 24, 2002 (until December 12, 2001) and then Paul Hermelin 10 years From July 24, 2002 Limited liability company (Société Anonyme) Chairman: Serge Kampf to May 24, 2012 with separation of the functions of Chairman Chief Executive Officer: Paul Hermelin and Chief Executive Officer 1 year From May 24, 2012 to date Limited liability company (Société Anonyme) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer: Paul Hermelin with unification of the functions of Chairman Honorary Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the and Chief Executive Officer Board of Directors: Serge Kampf This summary clearly demonstrates that the Company’s governing ■ the thirteenth director was elected by the same Combined, bodies have always successfully organized the governance structure Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 to replace Jean-René to ensure it is constantly aligned with the interests and specific Fourtou, who did not seek the renewal of his term of office. The term requirements of the Group, however temporary. of office of the director in question, Laurence Dors, will also expire in the Spring of 2014, at the same time as the above eight directors, A. COMPOSITION OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS ■ the fourteenth director was elected by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012. The term of office of the director in The term of office of members of the Board of Directors, which question, Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, who represents employee was initially six years, was reduced to four years by decision of the shareholders, will expire in the Spring of 2016, the day of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 11, 2006, in response to Combined Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the 2015 recommendations in governance rules aimed at more frequently offering financial statements. shareholders the opportunity to decide on the composition of the Board which represents them. The Board of Directors was long assisted by two non-voting directors who were previously directors and who were appointed non-voting Strengthened by the experience and diversity of its members, the Cap directors in July 2002: Pierre Hessler and Geoff Unwin, who replaced Gemini Board currently has fourteen directors (1): Phil Laskawy (a non-voting director subsequently appointed director) ■ two of these directors, Bernard Liautaud and Pierre Pringuet, and Chris van Breugel. Their terms of office were renewed for a period were appointed at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, of two years at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 2009 and their terms of office therefore expire today, and therefore expired the day of the Combined Shareholders’ meeting of May 24, 2012. Despite the Company’s directors having on several ■ two additional directors, Daniel Bernard and Thierry de occasions indicated their satisfaction with the contribution of the two Montbrial, were initially appointed at the Combined Shareholders’ non-voting directors to Board meetings (the attendance rate for nonMeeting of May 12, 2005 and their terms of office were renewed for voting directors was 94% in 2011) and the quality of their contributions a further four years at the same Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to the two Committees on which they sat, the Combined Shareholders’ on April 30, 2009. Their terms of office therefore also expire today, Meeting of May 24, 2012 did not see fit to renew their terms of office. ■ eight other directors, who have been Board members for several The Board of Directors unanimously regretted this decision. years, saw their terms of office renewed at the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 for a period of four years, therefore expiring in the Spring of 2014, the day of the Combined B. RENEWAL OF THE TERMS OF OFFICE Shareholders’ Meeting called to approve the 2013 financial OF DIRECTORS EXPIRING TODAY statements: the directors in question are Yann Delabrière, Paul The Board of Directors currently has 13 members following the death Hermelin, Michel Jalabert (1), Serge Kampf, Phil Laskawy, Ruud of Mr. Michel Jalabert on March 13, 2013 at 80 years of age, after a van Ommeren, Terry Ozan, and Bruno Roger, long illness. The terms of office of four of these thirteen directors expire today. (1) 13 since March 13, 2013, the date of Michel Jalabert’s death. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 33 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Faced with the expiry of these terms of office and deliberating at the The Board of Directors thanked Thierry de Montbrial, a director since recommendation of the Ethics & Governance Committee chaired by Mr. 2005, for his contribution to the development of the Group. During Serge Kampf, the Board of Directors took account of the upcoming the last 8 years, which have seen the Group confirm its global outlook application of diverse legislative provisions already adopted or in the both through its commercial presence and the internationalization of its course of adoption concerning male/female representation on Boards production tool, Thierry de Montbrial has enriched the work of the Board and the widening of Boards to include employee representatives. In of Directors with his in-depth knowledge of international challenges and order to ensure the collective-nature and efficiency of their decisions, emerging countries. all Board members wish to restrict the number of directors to 12 and If the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting follows the recommendations therefore it was decided to propose the renewal of only three of the four of the Board of Directors, the latter will comprise fewer directors, with terms of office expiring. Mr. de Montbrial – sharing these objectivesdid a younger age pyramid and a more diversified nationality and gender not seek the renewal of his term of office. spread. It is therefore proposed today to renew the terms of office as director of Messrs. Daniel Bernard, Bernard Liautaud and Pierre Pringuet for a period of 4 years. 2.1.2 Other ofﬁces and duties exercised by members of the Board of Directors First appointment Other offices held during and expiry * of the last five years outside Members of the Board term of office Offices held in 2012 and current offices the Group Serge KAMPF 2000-2013 Principal office Member of the Académie Date of birth: Chairman of the Board of Directors des Sports October 13, 1934 until May 24, 2012 and then: Honorary Chairman Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. Other offices Chairman of: ■ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. ■ CAPGEMINI SUISSE S.A. Director of: ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA INC. (U.S.A.) Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Sole manager of: 4,897,492 ■ SCI PARIS ETOILE * At the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. 34 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors First appointment Other offices held during and expiry * of the last five years outside Members of the Board term of office Offices held in 2012 and current offices the Group Paul HERMELIN 2000-2013 Principal office None Date of birth: Chief Executive Officer April 30, 1952 until May 24, 2012 and then: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. Chief Executive Officer of Capgemini Group Other offices (1) 2 Chairman of: ■ CAPGEMINI AMERICA, INC. (U.S.A) ■ CAPGEMINI US LLC (U.S.A) ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA INC. (U.S.A.) ■ CAPGEMINI HOLDING INC. (U.S.A.) Chief Executive Officer of: ■ CAPGEMINI SERVICE S.A.S. ■ CAPGEMINI NORTH AMERICA INC. (U.S.A.) ■ CAPGEMINI HOLDING INC. (U.S.A) Director of: ■ CGS HOLDINGS LTD (UK) ■ SOGETI S.A. (BELGIUM) ■ CAPGEMINI AUSTRALIA PTY LTD ■ CAPGEMINI FINANCIAL SERVICES INTERNATIONAL INC. ■ CPM BRAXIS S.A. (BRAZIL) Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Member of the Supervisory Board of: 227,048 ■ CAPGEMINI N.V. Daniel BERNARD 2005-2012 Principal office None Date of birth: Chairman of: February 18, 1946 ■ PROVESTIS Other offices Chairman of the Board of Directors of: ■ KINGFISHER PLC ■ MAF RETAIL GROUP Director of: ■ ALCATEL LUCENT Chairman of: ■ THE HEC FOUNDATION Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Senior Advisor to: 150 ■ TOWERBROOK CAPITAL PARTNERS, L.P. Yann DELABRIÈRE 2004-2013 Principal office Director of: Date of birth: Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ■ SOCIÉTÉ GÉNÉRALE December 19, 1950 ■ FAURECIA Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: 2,550 * At the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. (1) A resolution proposing the appointment of Paul Hermelin to the Board of Directors of AXA is presented to the AXA Shareholders’ meeting of April 30, 2013. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 35 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors First appointment Other offices held during and expiry * of the last five years outside Members of the Board term of office Offices held in 2012 and current offices the Group Laurence DORS 2010-2013 Principal office Corporate Secretary of: Date of birth: Senior Partner of: ■ EADS March 16, 1956 ■ ANTHENOR PARTNERS Senior Executive Vice-President Member of the Executive Other offices Committee of: Director of: ■ DASSAULT SYSTÈMES ■ CRÉDIT AGRICOLE SA Corporate Secretary ■ EGIS SA Member of the Executive ■ INHESJ (FRENCH NATIONAL INSTITUTE FOR ADVANCED Committee of: STUDIES IN SECURITY AND JUSTICE) ■ RENAULT GROUP ■ IFA (FRENCH INSTITUTE OF DIRECTORS) Member of: ■ IHEAL (INSTITUTE OF LATIN AMERICAN STUDIES) STRATEGIC Number of shares held POLICY COMMITTEE at December 31, 2012: ■ MEDEF (FRENCH PRIVATE BUSINESS ASSOCIATION) 100 INTERNATIONAL COMMERCE COMMISSION Michel JALABERT (2) 2000-2013 Principal office None Date of birth: Director of: January 20, 1933 ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. Other offices Number of shares held ■ NONE at December 31, 2012: 425 Phil LASKAWY 2002-2013 Principal office Director of: Date of birth: Chairman (non-executive) of: ■ DISCOVER FINANCIAL SERVICES March 31, 1941 ■ FANNIE MAE (USA) Director of: ■ GENERAL MOTORS CORPORATION (USA) Other offices Director of: Number of shares held ■ HENRY SCHEIN, INC. at December 31, 2012: ■ LAZARD LTD 7,600 ■ LOEWS CORPORATION Bernard LIAUTAUD 2009-2012 Principal office Co-founder in 1990 of: Date of birth: General Partner of: ■ BUSINESS OBJECTS June 17, 1962 ■ BALDERTON CAPITAL MANAGEMENT (BCM) (UK) Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: Other offices ■ BUSINESS OBJECTS Member of the Supervisory Board of: Director of: ■ SAP ■ CLINICAL SOLUTION (UK) Director of: ■ QUICKBRIDGE (UK) ■ NLYTE SOFTWARE LTD (UK) ■ TALEND SA (FRANCE) ■ SAP (GERMANY) ■ WONGA GROUP (UK) ■ SCYTL (SPAIN) ■ ABIQUO GROUP INC. (USA) ■ VESTIAIRE DE COPINES S.A. (FRANCE) ■ DASHLANE INC. (USA) Number of shares held ■ RECORDED FUTURE INC. (USA) at December 31, 2012: ■ EWISE GROUP INC. (USA) 200 ■ QUBIT DIGITAL (UK) * At the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. (2) Until March 13, 2013, the date of his death. 36 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors First appointment Other offices held during and expiry * of the last five years outside Members of the Board term of office Offices held in 2012 and current offices the Group Thierry de MONTBRIAL 2005-2012 Principal office None Date of birth: Founder and Chief Executive Officer of: March 3, 1943 ■ IFRI (FRENCH THINK TANK ON INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS) Other offices Chairman of: ■ THE FRANCO-AUSTRIAN CENTER FOR ECONOMIC CONVERGENCE IN EUROPE ■ WOPYCO SAS 2 Chairman of: ■ OCP GROUP INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD (MOROCCO) Member of: ■ RENAULT FOUNDATION ■ LAFARGE INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD ■ RUSAL INTERNATIONAL ADVISORY BOARD ■ L’INSTITUT DE FRANCE (ACADÉMIE DES SCIENCES MORALES ET POLITIQUES) Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Emeritus Professor at: 100 ■ CONSERVATOIRE NATIONAL DES ARTS ET METIERS Ruud van OMMEREN 2000-2013 Principal office Chairman of the Supervisory Date of birth: Director of: Board of: September 11, 1936 ■ GAK ONROEREND GOED V.O.F. ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. Member of the Supervisory Other offices Board of: Chairman of the Supervisory Board of: ■ KONINKLIJKE GROLSCH N.V. ■ CAPGEMINI N.V. Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Member of the Supervisory Board of: 100 ■ WILLEM VAN RIJN B.V. Terry OZAN 2000-2013 Principal office Director of: Date of birth: Director of: ■ NOTEWORTHY MEDICAL July 21, 1946 SYSTEMS, INC. ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. Other offices Director of: ■ COHESANT INC. ■ TFS FINANCIAL CORPORATION Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Member of the Strategy Committee of: 24,300 ■ STATE INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS Pierre PRINGUET 2009-2012 Principal office Joint Chief Executive Officer and Date of birth: Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief sole Managing Director of: January 31, 1950 Executive Officer of: ■ PERNOD RICARD GROUP ■ PERNOD RICARD GROUP Other offices Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Director of: 1,700 ■ ILIAD S.A. * At the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 37 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors First appointment Other offices held during and expiry * of the last five years outside Members of the Board term of office Offices held in 2012 and current offices the Group Bruno ROGER 2000-2013 Principal office Non-voting director: Date of birth: Chairman of: ■ EURAZEO August 6, 1933 ■ LAZARD FRÈRES S.A.S. ■ COMPAGNIE FINANCIÈRE LAZARD FRÈRES SAS Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES BANQUE Other offices Chairman of: ■ LAZARD GLOBAL INVESTMENT BANKING Managing Partner of: ■ LAZARD FRÈRES ■ MAISON LAZARD ET CIE Number of shares held at December 31, 2012: Member of the Deputy Chairman Committee of: 100 ■ LAZARD FRÈRES GROUP Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS 2012-2015 Principal office None Date of birth: Deputy Chief Financial Officer of: January 19, 1964 ■ CAP GEMINI S.A. Other offices (1) Chairman of: ■ CAPGEMINI EMPLOYEES WORLDWIDE (FRANCE) Director of: ■ CAPGEMINI REINSURANCE INTERNATIONAL (LUXEMBOURG) ■ SOGETI SVERIGE AB (SWEDEN) ■ SOGETI SVERIGE MITT AB (SWEDEN) Number of shares held ■ SOGETI DANMARK AS (DENMARK) at December 31, 2012: ■ SOGETI NORGE A/S (NORWAY) 6,614 ■ SOGETI SA (BELGIUM) * At the date of the Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements of the year concerned. (1) A resolution proposing the appointment of Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS to the board of Directors of Bureau Veritas is presented to the Bureau Veritas Shareholders’ meeting of May 22, 2013. 38 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1.3 Role, meetings, operating rules and self-assessment procedure THE ROLE OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS been implemented to ensure there is no risk that sensitive information, or any information that should remain confidential prior to the Board The principal role of the Board of Directors is to determine the key meeting, could fall into the hands of anyone other than members of the strategies of Cap Gemini and its subsidiaries, to ensure that these Board. Directors are also sent or handed a summary report comparing strategies are implemented, to validate the legal and operational the share price of the Cap Gemini share to that of various general and structure of the Group and the appointment of key managers and, sector indexes and to its main competitors and, where appropriate, a more generally, to deal with any issues that arise in respect of the daytable providing a breakdown of the last known consensus. In addition, to-day operation of the Group. The Board pays particular attention to important press releases (signature of major contracts, alliances, etc.) the management of the Group’s 125,000 employees and thousands issued by the Company are of course brought to the attention of of managers across the globe, given Capgemini’s business as a service provider. The Board takes decisions collectively and seeks to directors throughout the year. 2 comply with and ensure compliance with all rules of good governance together with a certain number of values which each Board member OPERATING RULES has solemnly undertaken to respect. A “Code of Business Ethics” was For many years, the Cap Gemini Board of Directors has applied the best drafted at its initiative and distributed to all Group employees (and is governance practices now aligned with the recommendations of the signed by all new recruits) with the following main objectives: AFEP/MEDEF corporate governance code to which Cap Gemini refers. ■ ensure all Group companies comply with a certain number of rules of Accordingly, the Board has: good behavior and primarily that of perfect integrity in the conduct of ■ prepared, adopted, applied (and amended where useful or business and the management of employees, necessary) highly detailed Internal Rules of Operation (see section ■ implement measures stopping, fighting and sanctioning non2.1.5), compliance with the core values of the Group, or prevailing laws and ■ set up four specialized Board Committees – the Audit Committee, regulations in the country concerned, the Selection & Compensation Committee, the Ethics & Governance ■ provide an institutional framework for the actions, controls and Committee, and finally the Strategy & Investment Committee – and dissuasive measures required to deal with the problems identified given each a clearly defined role (see section 2.1.4), by these measures. ■ adopted a system for allocating attendance fees, whereby the It is not incidental to note that each of the directors signed this Code, majority of such fees are indexed to attendance at Board and evidencing their support (both individual and collective) for all the Committee meetings (see section 2.1.5), measures contained therein. ■ periodically reviewed the personal situation of each director in light of the definition of independence adopted by the AFEP/MEDEF MEETINGS corporate governance code (a director is independent when he/ she has no relationship of any sort with the Company, the Group The Board meets at least six times a year. Meetings are convened by or its Management, that is likely to impair his/her judgment). Based the Chairman in accordance with a timetable decided by the Board on the aforementioned reviews, the Board considers that ten out before the end of the prior year. However, this timetable may be of fourteen directors qualify as independent (Daniel Bernard, Yann amended during the year in response to unforeseen circumstances or Delabrière, Michel Jalabert (1), Phil Laskawy, Bernard Liautaud, Thierry at the request of more than one director. In 2012, the Board met seven de Montbrial, Ruud van Ommeren, Terry Ozan, Pierre Pringuet and times (four times during the first six-months and three times during Laurence Dors). the second six-months), with an average attendance rate of 90%. All absences noted were due to cases of force majeure. SELF-ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE The Notice of Meeting, generally sent to directors 15 days before the meeting date, contains the agenda determined after the Chairman Again within the framework of these best governance practices, the and Chief Executive Officer has consulted with the Vice-Chairman Board has performed on three occasions (in 2005, 2008 and 2011) and any directors who proposed specific points to be discussed by a self-assessment of its operations and the impact of its decisions. the Board. If the agenda includes questions requiring specific analysis, Each director was presented with a detailed questionnaire validated a memorandum or supporting documentation prepared by members upfront by the Board. This questionnaire and the individual responses of Group Management is sent to directors prior to the meeting (or of directors were then used as the basis for two-hour interviews with exceptionally is handed to them at the beginning of the meeting) such each director, aimed at gathering their comments and proposals on that they have the information they need to form an opinion on the a completely anonymous basis. For the purposes of the 2011 selfissues on the agenda. Needless to say, a secure electronic system has assessment, carried out by Jean-Philippe Saint-Geours, a partner with (1) Who died March 13, 2013. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 39 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors the consulting firm Leaders Trust International, the questionnaire was Strategy & Investment Committee, whose Chairman is unanimously divided into five sections: appreciated. The vast majority of directors consider they have a clearer picture of the various strategic directions open to the Group ■ understanding of the Group’s businesses, its management and its than three years previously and recognize the efforts of Group competitors, etc., Management to clarify the choices available and inform them of their ■ strategy, consequences, ■ the Board of Directors’ activities, ■ significant improvements were also identified in the organization ■ risk management, of the Board’s activities: documents useful to the preparation of ■ the composition of the Board of Directors and Board members’ Board meetings are communicated earlier (such that directors have compensation. more time to prepare the meetings and can provide more relevant contributions), discussions are conducted in a satisfactory manner, Each of these sections contained numerous questions (between 8 the allocation of roles between the Chairman and the Chief Executive and 15 for the most detailed), including an open question encouraging Officer was well respected and their good relationship was evident respondents to add any specific comments for two sections. In addition, and a guarantee of efficiency, each of the four Specialized Board Committees received a specific tailored questionnaire. An analysis of the information collected from ■ risk management procedures were unanimously considered to be the questionnaires and the one-on-one interviews was summarized under tight control, with the Audit Committee and its Chairman in a report submitted by Jean-Philippe Saint-Geours to the Board on inspiring considerable confidence in all Board members, June 22, 2011, when it was discussed at length. The primary focus of ■ a large majority of Board members considers the Board’s this assessment was to analyze the activities of the Board today and to composition to be satisfactory: they did not consider the introduction compare them with its activities three years ago. From this point of view, of “nationality quotas” to be desirable, as renewals of terms of office the general conclusion of the summary report was as follows: in recent years have favored additional diversity beneficial to a richer ■ significant progress has been achieved in the way the Board quality of debate. operates, In terms of improvements that may still be made, it is emphasized that ■ further improvements could be achieved in certain areas, and the significant progress achieved on the prior assessment does not particularly the organization and monitoring of Committee activities. preclude certain directors from wishing further efforts in some of the following areas: In terms of progress achieved since 2008, all directors noted and appreciated the efforts of the Chairman (and also the Chief Executive ■ the Board would like even more comprehensive information and Officer at the time, who is now Chairman and Chief Executive Officer) in particular a true management report covering the roll-out of the to take account of the recommendations made three years previously strategy adopted by the Group. Extremely rapid changes in markets and thereby improve the operation and working conditions of the Board: and technologies are sometimes difficult for Board members (who come from a variety of professional backgrounds) to follow and they ■ Board meetings are considered more animated and open have asked for “ongoing training” in these areas to enable them to to discussion and each Board member makes an increased more precisely assess the competitive position of the Group, contribution to strategic planning, ■ the time devoted to the presentation by the Specialized Committees ■ with regards to understanding the Group’s businesses and of their activity reports is considered somewhat insufficient, competitive position, the level of information provided has ■ Board members would like a better balance between financial issues considerably improved: the Barcelona Meeting (which brought together 450 Group managers in October 2010) brought participants and operational and strategic issues in meeting agendas, up to speed on technological developments and how the Group ■ with regard to other issues, such as the human resources policy intends to incorporate them in the development of its portfolio (particularly concerning key managers) and the identification of risks offering and production methods, and the risk management policy, directors wish better coordination ■ with regards to strategic planning, a clear majority of members between the Board and Specialized Committees (Selection & considers that the Board’s contribution has now increased, while Compensation, Audit). expressing a generally positive opinion on the usefulness of the 40 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1.4 Role and composition of the four Specialized Board Committees Some thirteen years ago in May 2000, at the proposal of its Chairman THE AUDIT COMMITTEE ( Serge Kampf), the Board of Directors decided the creation of In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 823-19 of the French three specialized Committees (an Audit Committee, a Selection & Commercial Code and the AMF recommendations of July 22, 2010, Compensation Committee and a Strategy & Investment Committee). the role of the Cap Gemini Audit Committee is to control the processes Each Committee would be tasked with studying in-depth certain governing the preparation and distribution of accounting and financial specific matters as well as reviewing and preparing the corresponding information, to assess the appropriateness and the consistency of the Board discussions in plenary session, submitting proposals to the accounting policies and methods used to prepare the annual and halfBoard, and providing advice and recommendations to the Board on year consolidated and company financial statements, to check the decisions to be made. The initial appointment of directors and nonefficiency of internal control and risk management procedures, to ensure voting directors to these Committees was decided by the Board of by all means the quality of information presented to the Board and finally 2 Directors at its meeting of September 13, 2000, following which each to present to the Board its assessment of the various engagements Committee drafted specific Internal Rules of Operation defining its roles carried out by the Statutory Auditors and give its opinion on whether and responsibilities. their audit engagement should be renewed. Following the appointment on May 12, 2005 of two new directors The Audit Committee currently has four (1) directors: Yann Delabrière ( Daniel Bernard and Thierry de Montbrial) and a new non-voting (Chairman), Michel Jalabert (1), Phil Laskawy and Pierre Pringuet. director (Marcel Roulet), the Board of Directors decided on July 27, Through their professional careers, Audit Committee members have 2005 to reallocate the directors and non-voting directors to these three amassed the necessary accounting and financial expertise to perform Committees, appointing three or four directors to each one and in their duties. For example, the Chairman, an independent director, was certain cases a non-voting director. Chief Financial Officer of PSA Peugeot Citroën from 1990 to 2007 and At its meeting of July 26, 2006 and at the proposal of its Chairman Phil Laskawy was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Ernst & ( Serge Kampf), the Board decided to set up a fourth Committee Young from 1994 to 2001. called the Ethics & Governance Committee, whose terms of reference The Committee met six times in 2012, with an average attendance rate encompass all matters relating to the legal or operational organization of 96%. of the Group (previously included in the brief of the Selection & Compensation Committee) and appoint Serge Kampf as its Chairman. The Committee reviewed the company and consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 and the Following the appointment of two new directors at the Combined consolidated financial statements for the half-year ended June 30, Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, 2009 (Bernard Liautaud and Pierre 2012. It focused in particular on the accounting treatment of events Pringuet) and the expiry on the same day of the term of office of Marcel with a material impact on the annual or half-year financial statements Roulet, a non-voting director (who did not seek reappointment), the and on changes in working capital requirements, the treatment of Board of Directors decided on June 17, 2009 to appoint Bernard deferred tax, the measurement of goodwill, the recognition of put/call Liautaud to the Strategy & Investment Committee and Pierre Pringuet options covering the remaining share capital of CPM Braxis (45%) and to the Audit Committee. the financial impact of the UK employee pension plan. It also reviewed After the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 27, 2010 renewed the proper performance of a certain number of major contracts. The the terms of office of 8 of the 12 directors and appointed Laurence Committee interviewed: Dors as a new director (to replace Jean-René Fourtou who did not seek ■ Philippe Christelle, Internal Audit Director, questioning him on reappointment), the Board – on June 9 and December 15 – reviewed working methods, terms of reference, the findings of audits carried all of these appointments and reiterated that in order to comply with the out during the year and any avenues for further improvement, principle of collective decision-making, the Committees must, under no circumstances, usurp the power of the Board which has sole decision■ François Hucher, Production/Method and Support Director, making power and that the directors are collectively responsible for the questioning him in particular on operations and developments at decisions made and the duties entrusted to them by law and/or the production centers, on the results of audits performed by the soCombined Shareholders’ Meeting. called “flying squads” on risk-sensitive topics and finally on the program to reduce production costs through the better reuse of Following the appointment of a new director at the Combined existing tools, Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 (Lucia Sinapi-Thomas) and the decision of this same meeting not to renew the terms of office ■ Lucia Sinapi-Thomas, Corporate Finance Director in charge of of the two non-voting directors (Pierre Hessler and Geoff Unwin), the Risk Management in the pre-sale phase, questioning her on the way Board of Directors meeting of June 20, 2012 – after warmly thanking in which major business proposals are analyzed before submission, the two non-voting directors for their precious contributions (over ten on potential strategic partnership arrangements and on framework years) to the activities of the Board and the two Committees on which client or supplier contracts with certain specific characteristics and they sat – decided to appoint Lucia Sinapi-Thomas to the Selection & as such, subject to the prior approval of the Group Review Board. Compensation Committee. (1) Three since March 13, 2013, the date of Michel Jalabert’s death. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 41 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors Finally, the Committee reviewed various recapitalization projects for The Committee studied the principle and means of granting certain subsidiaries and presented its opinion to the Board on the utility performance shares to certain managers. It drafted and communicated of these capital contributions and the means of their performance. a list of 132 beneficiaries and the proposed allocation between them of 1,003,500 performance shares to the Board of Directors for agreement The Statutory Auditors also issued recommendations to the Audit on December 12, 2012. Committee to make the accounting and financial procedures even more efficient. Finally, the Committee monitored the career and succession plans for executives of the Group’s Strategic Business Units and performed an extensive review of all the systems in place at each Strategic Business THE SELECTION & COMPENSATION COMMITTEE Unit and at Group level to identify high-performing individuals, develop This Committee is tasked with monitoring the human resources policies retention schemes, and ensure internal mobility. applied by Cap Gemini subsidiaries to executive managerial positions (executive appointments, additional training, changes in theoretical and actual compensation, setting objectives to determine the variable THE ETHICS & GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE portion of compensation, criteria for the grant of performance shares, The main remit of this Committee (created in July 2006 by decision career and succession planning, etc.) and making sure that the policies of the Board) is to verify that the Group’s seven core values (Honesty, are both consistent – while complying with specific local requirements Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit, Modesty and Fun) are correctly – and closely aligned with individual and collective performances applied and adhered to, defended and promoted by the Group’s in the Business Unit to which the manager concerned belongs. It is corporate officers, senior management and employees in all of its consulted by Group Management prior to any decisions concerning businesses and in all subsidiaries under its control, in all internal and the appointment or replacement of Executive Committee members external communications – including advertising – and in all other acts and Strategic Business Unit directors and on their compensation undertaken in the Group’s name. It is also tasked more generally with (fixed and variable). It also presents to the Board its opinion on the overseeing the application of best corporate governance practice compensation, personal objectives and performance of the Chief within Cap Gemini and its main subsidiaries. The Ethics & Governance Executive Officer and on the Chairman’s compensation. Finally, the Committee is responsible for all matters relating to the selection, Committee reviews the various schemes enabling employees to share appraisal, independence and compensation of the Company’s directors in Group profits (performance share grants, Group savings schemes, (and, where applicable, non-voting directors). It must keep up-to-date etc.) and proposes to the Board of Directors the incentive instruments (and be ready to implement) the list of measures to be taken, should the it considers appropriate and capable of being implemented in all (or question of replacing the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer suddenly certain) Capgemini Group companies. arise. It must handle and propose to the Board any changes it considers appropriate or relevant to the Board’s operation and composition (coThe Selection & Compensation Committee currently has five directors (1): opting a new director or replacing a resigning director, increasing the Ruud van Ommeren (Chairman), Michel Jalabert (1), Terry Ozan and proportion of female directors, etc.) or to the governance structure Pierre Pringuet and Lucia Sinapi-Thomas. currently in force within the Group, etc. The Committee met six times in 2012, with an average attendance rate The Ethics & Governance Committee currently has three directors: of 90%. Serge Kampf (Chairman), Daniel Bernard and Bruno Roger. From In accordance with the Committee’s remit, it ensured throughout the creation of this committee, Serge Kampf wished Paul Hermelin to 2012 the consistency of the Group’s senior executive management be a regular guest. and compensation policy. Its Chairman regularly reported on the This Committee met five times in 2012, with an attendance rate of 80%. Committee’s work and presented recommendations to the Board of Directors concerning the following areas: The Committee interviewed: ■ the general compensation policy of the Group and its subsidiaries, ■ Philippe Christelle, the Internal Audit Director, who presented a ■ the compensation of the two executive corporate officers (unification special report describing the strengthening of the ethical framework of the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from within which the Group has decided to operate, as well as instances May 24, 2012) and that of the members of the Executive Committee of non-compliance (most often involuntary of course), changes and and the Group’s key managers. These recommendations focused at updates performed during 2012 and identifying a certain number of the beginning of the year on: potential improvements in the follow-up of audit recommendations, • an appraisal of the individual performance of each of these managers ■ Hervé Canneva, the Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, appointed compared with objectives set at the beginning of the year, by the Committee on March 1, 2009, who presented a report on the foundations of the Group’s ethics program which is based on • calculation of the variable portion of compensation paid in the first four documents available in eight languages – the Code of Business quarter of the next year, Ethics (signed by all new recruits), the anti-corruption policy, • adjustment of the fixed and two variable portions of the “theoretical” the antitrust policy and the Blue Book (manual of principles and compensation for the following year, procedures applicable within the Group) – and presented to all new • setting objectives to be used at the end of the current year as a recruits. New recruits must also follow an e-learning program aimed basis for calculating the actual variable portion due. at establishing and strengthening throughout the Group perfect (1) Four since March 13, 2013, the date of Michel Jalabert’s death. 42 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors integrity in the conduct of business and awareness of the importance ■ identify and assess the alliances or acquisitions which would appear of adopting at all times a behavior in accordance with Cap Gemini able to facilitate or accelerate the implementation of these strategies, ethics. This report also highlighted the Group’s major efforts in ■ finally, recommend a choice to the Board (or at least establish an e-learning (in 2 years over 77,000 employees followed the ethics order of priority). charter course). It also referred to the progressive implementation in More generally, the Committee identifies and deliberates on any the main countries of the employee advice and professional warning direction or issue considered relevant to the Group’s future, provided it procedure (known as the “Raising Concern Procedure”). Finally, it does not compromise the smooth running of operations and guarantees proposed a certain number of recommendations aimed at further operating and financial stability. strengthening the culture of business ethics. Of course, the Committee discussed the conditions and means of the The Strategy & Investment Committee currently has six directors: change in Cap Gemini’s governance structure following Serge Kampf’s Bernard Liautaud (Chairman), Daniel Bernard, Laurence Dors, decision (as he expressly reserved the right in 2010 when his term Paul Hermelin, Thierry de Montbrial and Bruno Roger. of office was renewed) not to go to the end of his term of office as This Committee met four times in 2012, with an attendance rate of 2 Chairman of the Board of Directors (that is the day of the Combined 96%. Shareholders’ Meeting in the Spring of 2014 called to approve the 2013 One of its major tasks during the year was to prepare the discussions financial statements). and activities of the Board which held a day-and-a-half “Strategy The Committee also discussed the composition of the Board of Seminar” at the Capgemini University in Gouvieux (Oise) in June 2012 Directors and likely changes therein and particularly the principle to discuss the following issues: of equal representation of men and women, as well as the Board’s ■ market developments and trends, activities and changes in the operational governance of the Group. ■ the impact of technology breaks and the “cloud” on service activities, ■ changes in the competitive environment, THE STRATEGY & INVESTMENT COMMITTEE ■ the identification of key performance drivers for the Group, The role of this Committee is to: ■ the update of the acquisition policy and priorities. ■ study in-depth the strategic options open to the Group to ensure It also studied the integration monitoring process for completed its continued growth, improve its profitability and maintain its acquisitions, reviewed a possible typology for the management of future independence to enrich Board discussions, acquisitions and proposed to the Board of Directors the definition of ■ determine the amount of investments required to implement each of limits framing potential negotiations. these possible strategies, 2.1.5 Rights and obligations of Directors – Compensation INTERNAL RULES OF OPERATION The Board of Directors represents shareholders and its principal role is to determine the key strategies of the Company, to monitor their When the legal form of the Company returned to that of a traditional implementation, to ensure the smooth running of the day-to-day limited liability company (société anonyme) in May 2000, a new set of operations of the Company and to resolve, through deliberations, any Internal Rules of Operation were debated and adopted by the Board of issues that may arise in respect of such operations. With the exception Directors. These rules have since been amended several times. of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the directors have no The Internal Rules of Operation of the Board set out the main obligations individual power and actions and decisions must therefore be taken on of the Code of Business Ethics that Cap Gemini directors undertake a collective basis. to comply with throughout their term of office, and in particular the The role of the four Specialized Board Committees is to study and rules governing share trading and the obligation for each director to document the issues that the Board has scheduled for discussion communicate to the French stock market authority (AMF) and to the and to present recommendations on the subjects and sectors within Company any transactions they may have carried out in the Company’s their remit to plenary sessions of the Board. The Committees are shares within five trading days of the execution of such transactions. consultation bodies and therefore hold no decision-making powers. These Internal Rules of Operation set out or clarify the scope of (and Their members (and the Chairman) are appointed by the Board of bases for exercising) the various powers entrusted to the Board of Directors and are selected exclusively from among Cap Gemini directors Directors, the four Specialized Board Committees, the Chairman and (and non-voting directors where applicable). They are appointed in a Chief Executive Officer and the Vice-Chairman. personal capacity and may under no circumstances be represented REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 43 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors at the meetings of the Committee(s) to which they belong. The Board ■ increases or reductions in the share capital of a direct subsidiary of reserves the right to amend at any time the number and/or make-up Cap Gemini, concerning an amount in excess of €50 million, of these Committees, as well as the scope of their duties. Finally, the ■ the grant to employees of incentive instruments conferring access to Internal Rules of Operation of each of the four Committees and any the share capital of the Company, amendments thereto which the Committee may later propose – must ■ specific authorizations concerning the granting of pledges, security be formally approved by the Board. and guarantees. As Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer prepares, organizes and leads its work. He sets COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS, NON-VOTING the agenda of meetings, ensures that directors are able to carry out DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE CORPORATE OFFICERS their duties and have all information necessary for this purpose, and oversees the proper operation of the Company’s bodies, the correct In compensation for the time spent actively participating in Board and implementation of Board decisions and compliance with the rules Committee meetings and in very partial consideration for the directors’ of good conduct adopted by Cap Gemini. He chairs Combined increasing responsibilities, the Company was authorized by the Shareholders’ meetings to which he reports on the activities and Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011 to pay attendance decisions of the Board. fees to directors of up to €800,000 per year. The Board of Directors decided, at Serge Kampf’s proposal, to return to paying a fixed portion The Vice-Chairman: in the absence of the Chairman and for the and therefore to adopt a formula for allocating attendance fees based duration of this absence the Chairman’s powers will be exercised by a on the following principles: Vice-Chairman appointed by the Board of Directors (see page 2). ■ payment once again of a fixed portion: €15,000 per year to each As Chief Executive Officer, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer director, €10,000 per year to each non-voting director (i.e. twohas the most extensive powers to act in all circumstances in the name thirds of the amount allocated to directors), €15,000 per year to the of the Company. Chairmen of the Specialized Committees and €30,000 per year to The Internal Rules of Operation stipulate nonetheless that he must the Chairman of the Board, seek and obtain prior approval from the Board of Directors for any ■ retention of a fixed amount of €3,000 for each attendance at decision which is of major strategic importance or which is liable to an official meeting of the Board or one of the four S pecialized have a material impact on the financial position or commitments of Committees (no distinction being made here between directors the Company or those of one or more of its principal subsidiaries. This and non-voting directors). This fixed amount may be reduced if applies in particular to: circumstances require the Company to hold an exceptional number ■ the approval and update of the three-year plan based on the strategy of meetings, resulting in aggregate attendance fees exceeding the approved by the Board, threshold authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, ■ the approval of the annual investment and divestment budget, ■ the payment of attendance fees for the half-year then ended, as ■ the conclusion of strategic alliances, opposed to once per annum at the year end. ■ significant changes to the structure of the Group or to its range of It should be highlighted that Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin business activities, spontaneously decided for 2012 (in the same way as for the last three years) to waive their right to collect attendance fees as directors of Cap ■ significant internal restructuring operations and/or changes to the Gemini, a decision warmly received by the Board. In application of the make-up of the Group Management team (including Strategic above, attendance fees paid to directors and non-voting directors in Business Unit Managers) that he wishes to make, respect of fiscal year 2012 totaled €710,500 (€403,000 for the first■ financial transactions with a material impact – or a potential material half and €307,500 for the second-half), representing 89% of the ceiling impact – on the financial statements of the Company or the Group authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. (in particular the issue of securities conferring immediate or future A breakdown of compensation paid in respect of fiscal year 2012 to access to the share capital, or issues of market debt instruments), the two executive corporate officers (Serge Kampf until May 24, 2012) ■ acquisitions or disposals of assets or investments not recorded in is presented in the section 2.3.1 “Compensation of the two Executive the budget, individually worth more than €100 million and subject to Corporate Officers” (page 49). a cumulative annual ceiling of €300 million, 44 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.1 Organization and activities of the Board of Directors 2.1.6 Declaration concerning the Group’s executive corporate ofﬁcers As far as the Company is aware, none of the current members of the ■ service contracts between the members of the Board of Directors Board of Directors: and Cap Gemini or any of its subsidiaries that provide for the granting of benefits upon termination thereof. ■ has been found guilty of fraud at any time during the last five years, ■ has been involved in any bankruptcy, receivership or liquidation at any time during the last five years, REGULATED AGREEMENTS WITH RELATED PARTIES ■ has been subject to any form of official public sanction and/or No agreements falling within the scope of Article L.225-38 of the French criminal liability, pronounced by a statutory or regulatory authority Commercial Code (Code de Commerce) were authorized by the Board (including designated professional bodies), of Directors in the year ended December 31, 2012. ■ has been disqualified by a court from acting as a member of the 2 administrative, management or supervisory bodies of an issuer or LOANS AND GUARANTEES GRANTED TO DIRECTORS from participating in the management or conduct of the affairs of any AND MANAGERS OF THE COMPANY issuer at any time during the last five years. None. As far as the Company is aware, there are no: ■ conflicts of interest among the members of the Board of Directors between their duties towards Cap Gemini and their private interests and/or any other duties, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 45 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.2 GENERAL ORGANIZATION OF THE GROUP 2.2.1 Composition of management and administrative bodies Cap Gemini is the parent company of what is generally known as ■ the Group’s operations in Latin America encompassing the “the Capgemini Group” comprising approximately 165 companies, Application Services and Infrastructure Services businesses and which are listed on pages 169 et seq. of this Registration Document including the joint venture in Brazil, (after removing dormant companies and companies in the course of ■ in addition to these seven Strategic Business Units, Prosodie is the dissolution). precursor of a new “Business Model” unit. These basic business units – grouped, depending on their number, OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE into larger business units – reflect the Group’s presence in around forty One of the founding principles underlying the creation of this Group countries, which are in turn grouped into eight geographic areas, useful is decentralization. It seeks to ensure that operating managers act as for reporting purposes and comparing performance year-on-year: entrepreneurs, taking each year the risk to commit to a budget and ■ North America: USA, Canada, personal and collective objectives. It is the Company’s role to provide ■ the United Kingdom and Ireland, them with the means necessary to react rapidly to market requirements ■ France, to which Morocco is associated, and to provide consistent responses to changes in demand as well as new opportunities offered by particularly rapid and abundant ■ Benelux, technological innovation. ■ Nordic countries: Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, The organizational structure of the Group remains based on this model, ■ Germany and Central European countries: Switzerland, Austria, with basic business units of a size that allows their managers to remain Poland, Czech Republic, Romania, Hungary, etc., in close contact with clients, tightly manage projects and know their ■ Southern Europe (Italy, Spain, Portugal) and Latin America: Mexico, employees. With access to numerous management tools and the daily Brazil, Argentina, Chile, etc., monitoring of results obtained (contracts signed, activity rates, progress ■ and finally the Asia/Pacific region: India, China, Singapore, Hongon contracts in progress, etc.), these managers are fully responsible Kong, Australia. for their business units meeting quantifiable objectives relating to financial performance (growth, profitability, etc), the quality of human resource management (recruitment, training, motivation, good match of GROUP MANAGEMENT employees to the business unit’s needs, etc,), business development, The Capgemini Group Management structure was substantially altered client satisfaction, management rigor (administrative and accounting), in 2012, with the reunification of the functions of Chairman of the Board strict application of internal control procedures, absolute compliance of Directors and Chief Executive Officer and the personal choices of the with the values adopted by the Group, etc. two executives who, alongside Paul Hermelin, comprised the Group These basic units are grouped by business and geographical area. The Management team. grouping by business ensures consistent economic models, the sharing Since May 24, 2012, Paul Hermelin is Chairman of the Board of of experience and the industrialization of processes and methods to Directors and Chief Executive Officer of Cap Gemini. serve international clients efficiently and consistently. In 2012, Paul Hermelin was assisted in his duties of Chief Executive There are seven strategic business units: Officer by a Deputy General Manager, Nicolas Dufourcq and a General ■ 4 global strategic business units: Secretary, Alain Donzeaud. Alain Donzeaud retired with effect from • Consulting Services, July 1, 2012 and Nicolas Dufourcq was called on by the French government to take up an important role in the public sector and left • Infrastructure Services, i.e. the design, installation and maintenance the Group on December 1, 2012. of client IT infrastructures, These changes led the Board of Directors, at the advice of the Ethics • BPO (Business Process Outsourcing), & Governance Committee, to introduce a new Group Management • Local Professional Services, provided by the SOGETI sub-group and structure. This new structure has a dual objective: provide him with its subsidiaries, the time and distance necessary to the proper exercise of his duties ■ 2 systems integration and applicative maintenance strategic as Chairman of the Board of Directors and confer wider powers of business units in the following regions and countries: operating control on several talented managers of the Group who, • Application Services One: North America, the United Kingdom and jointly with him, will be involved in Group Management. the Asia/Pacific region and global responsibility for the Financial Services sector; China is included in this unit from 2013, • Application Services Two: France, Benelux, the Nordic countries, Germany and Central Europe and Southern Europe, 46 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.2 General organization of the Group Paul Hermelin will however remain the only executive corporate officer coordination committee was appointed bringing together local of Cap Gemini. managers of the different Group businesses and tasked with ensuring improved cooperation (particularly with respect to actions carried out Group Management, led by Mr. Paul Hermelin, is structured around individually by one or other business for the major clients appearing in a two bodies: list drawn up at the beginning of the year). ■ the Group Management Board (GMB) whose role is to lead Group operations and take the necessary measures in this respect. It prepares the broad strategies and issues presented to the THE CENTRAL DEPARTMENTS Executive Committee for decision and ensures their application by Group Management is assisted by the following central departments: the strategic business units. The GMB comprises Paul Hermelin and five individuals: The Group Finance Department • Salil Parekh, responsible for the general management of the Apps 1 Headed by Aiman Ezzat since December 13, 2012, the primary tasks strategic business unit and supervision of Sogeti, of this department are the preparation of budgets and monitoring 2 • Olivier Sévillia, responsible for the general management of the Apps performance, management control, operational reporting, financial and 2 strategic business unit and supervision of Capgemini Consulting, management accounting, consolidation and accounting standards, Prosodie and BPO, treasury management, taxation, and financial communications. He is • Patrick Nicolet, responsible for the general management of the also responsible for IT and procurement. Infrastructures Services strategic business unit and supervision of Latin America, The General Secretary • Aymar de Lencquesaing, responsible for Group Resources and Since September 1, 2012, this position is occupied by Jean-Baptiste particularly the supervision of our operations in India, Massignon who is responsible for: • Aiman Ezzat, Group Chief Financial Officer. ■ Legal Affairs, covering two departments: one dealing with all legal ■ the Executive Committee, whose role is to assist Group Management matters related to the Group’s operating activities (Isabelle Rouxdefine broad strategies and prepare decisions concerning the Chenu) and the other concerned with the functioning of the Group’s operational structure of the Group, the choice of priority offerings, governing bodies (the Board of Directors, S pecialized Board production rules and organization and the means of implementation Committees, Shareholders’ Meetings, etc.) and in charge of legal of human resource management. It assesses the performance of matters impacting the general Group structure (Philippe Hennequin), Group managers and prepares succession plans for major positions ■ the Ethics & Compliance Department whose primarily task is within the organization. The Executive Committee meets once promoting and ensuring compliance by all Group entities with a a month with, in addition to the Chief Executive Officer and GMB corporate culture and a duty of integrity that requires all 125,000 members: Group employees to behave in an ethical manner. It implements • the Global Sales and Portfolio Director, initiatives aimed at consolidating prevention methods and avoiding any infractions or non-compliance in this area (Hervé Canneva), • the Delivery Director (Production / Methods and Support Department), ■ Corporate Secretarial Services for Capgemini Service, the entity managing Capgemini holding company activities both with respect • the General Secretary, to its operation and the management of Group managers and • the Marketing and Communications Director, related share capital incentive programs. Duties also encompass • the Development Director, the supervision of the companies comprising the Group’s real • the Director of our operations in India, estate assets, the head office premises and the Fontaines domain in Gouvieux (Jacques Collin), • the Directors of the above strategic business units, ■ Management of the control process for risks presented by certain • the Deputy Director of the Apps-Continental Europe strategic business proposals also falls within his remit. business unit. representing a total of 16 individuals. The Global Sales and Portfolio Department Two special-purpose committees assist Group Management: Headed by Paul Nannetti, this department encompasses: ■ the Group Review Board which examines the major business ■ the management of client offerings and the launch of growth proposals in the course of drafting or negotiation, multi-national or initiatives, multi-business framework agreements entered into with clients or ■ relationships with major strategic and technological partners of the suppliers, major contracts involving guarantees given by the Group Group (Jean-Claude Viollier), etc., ■ the stimulation and promotion of Group offerings in the ■ the Merger & Acquisitions Committee which examines acquisition following sectors: Utilities / Distribution & Consumer Goods / and divestment projects in the course of identification, selection, Telecommunications / Public sector – Taxation and Public Security assessment or negotiation. (Stanislas Cozon), Finally, in a certain number of cases where it was considered useful ■ the definition and standardization of sales support processes. or necessary (and particularly in the Group’s main countries), a REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 47 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.2 General organization of the Group The Development Department ■ the Human Resources Department, which is tasked with coordinating policies that fall within its remit implemented by the Headed by Pierre-Yves Cros , this department encompasses, in Group’s subsidiaries, in particular career management and employee particular, Strategy and investment and divestment transactions and retention policies for high potential managers (Jeremy Roffe-Vidal), is primarily tasked with fostering deliberations on strategic issues by Group Management, the Board of Directors, its Chairman and the ■ the supervision of operations in India, Strategy & Investment Committee. To this end, it maintains close ■ coordinating the implementation of shares services to provide relations with leading firms specializing in analyzing the market and support functions. trends therein. It investigates acquisitions and divestments in close conjunction with the Finance Department. The Marketing and Communications Department This department is responsible for the Group’s internal and external The Production / Methods and Support Department communication and is tasked with coordinating actions implemented Headed by François Hucher, this department is tasked with designing in this area by operating subsidiaries as well as their marketing and disseminating prevailing methodologies within the Group, certifying deliberations and initiatives and proposing a selection of “sponsoring” certain categories of employee (project leaders, architects, etc.) and choices. It is headed by Philippe Grangeon, who is also responsible performing audits of risk-sensitive projects conducted by specialized for Capgemini University, which is tasked with providing Group teams known as “flying squads”. It leads and supervises the various managers and employees with the additional training they require production industrialization programs undertaken by the strategic (in new technologies and commercial functions, large-scale project business units and particularly the “Lean” program for permanent management skills, personal leadership skills development, etc.) and improvements in productivity and quality. also forms a natural and convivial platform for exchange for all Group members (Steven Smith). Group Resources Department The Internal Audit Department Headed by Aymar de Lencquesaing, this department is responsible for common resources of the Group, whether its most valuable Headed by Philippe Christelle, this department reports directly to asset, human resources, or intellectual capacity, intellectual property, the Chairman and the Chief Executive Officer and is tasked with production capacity in India or shared services. controlling the correct application by business units of Group principles and rules, particularly with respect to risk management and control. In this respect, it is responsible for: The implementation of recommendations issued by the Internal ■ enhancing Group offerings, selecting investments in the “solutions” Audit Department by the business units concerned is systematically sector and implementing our intellectual property policy, monitored. 2.2.2 Transactions carried out by members of the Board of Directors and other Senior Managers involving Cap Gemini shares Transactions carried out in 2012 and by directors and senior managers performed three sales transactions of 100,000 shares each on involving the Company’s shares, based on AMF disclosures and August 1, 2012, September 7, 2012 and December 10, 2012 at a unit Article 223-26 of the AMF’s General Regulations, may be summarized share price of €29.67, €31.53 and €33, respectively. as follows: Serge Kampf (Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors) 48 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.3 COMPENSATION OF CORPORATE OFFICERS 2.3.1 Compensation of the two executive corporate ofﬁcers Compensation in respect of 2011 Compensation in respect of 2012 Paid in Total 2010 Paid in Paid in 2012 Paid in Gross amounts (Reminder) 2011 2012 Total 2011 (5 months) 2013 Total 2012 Serge Kampf: Chairman until May 24th 2012 2 Gross fixed compensation 960,000 960,000 960,000 400,000 400,000 Variable compensation Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind* Value of options granted Value of performance shares granted TOTAL 960,000 960,000 960,000 400,000 400,000 Paul Hermelin: Chief Executive Officer Total 2010 Paid in Paid in Paid in Paid in then Chairman as of May 24th 2012 (Reminder) 2011 2012 Total 2011 2012 2013 Total 2012 Gross fixed compensation 1,320,000 1,320,000 1,320,000 1,320,000 1,320,000 Variable compensation 834,680 864,000 864,000 929,100 929,100 Exceptional compensation Attendance fees Benefits in kind* 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 3,600 Value of options granted Value of performance shares granted 808,866 808,866 TOTAL 2,158,280 1,323,600 864,000 2,187,600 1,323,600 929,100 3,061,566 * Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin did not receive any benefits in kind in 2012, with the sole exception of contributions paid by the Company for Paul Hermelin’s unemployment insurance underwritten by the “Garantie Sociale des Chefs d’Entreprise” of €3,600. 2012 COMPENSATION OF SERGE KAMPF, CHAIRMAN 2012 COMPENSATION OF PAUL HERMELIN, CHIEF OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS UP TO MAY 24, 2012 EXECUTIVE OFFICER UP TO MAY 24, 2012 AND It was at the proposal of Mr. Serge Kampf himself, that the Board CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER FROM of Directors set his 2010 compensation at €960,000, equal to the THIS DATE fixed only portion of his 2009 compensation. This compensation After noting that Paul Hermelin’s compensation comprises – as does was maintained at the same level in subsequent years. The Board of that of all Group managers – fixed compensation equal to 60% of the Directors also took due note of Serge Kampf’s decision to waive his total theoretical amount and variable compensation (40% of the total right to collect attendance fees as Chairman of the Board of Directors of theoretical amount) based 50% (V1 component) on a comparison of Cap Gemini S.A. and Chairman of the Ethics & Governance Committee actual audited and budgeted Group consolidated results and 50% (V2 in respect of 2012, as he did for the last three years. component) on the attainment of a certain number of personal strategic and operational objectives set at the beginning of the fiscal year, the Finally, it should be highlighted that since 1988 and for the 24th year in Board of Directors: a raw, Serge Kampf decided not to ask the Company to reimburse the expenses he incurred in the performance of his duties (business travel, ■ verified that for Paul Hermelin, as for the other key managers of entertainment, etc.), with the exception of TGV train travel between the Group, V1 is – for fiscal year 2012 – equal to 107.16% of its Paris and Grenoble, the historical headquarters of Cap Gemini. theoretical value, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 49 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.3 Compensation of corporate officers ■ validated the Selection & Compensation Committee’s appraisal of 2013 COMPENSATION OF PAUL HERMELIN the degree of attainment of each of the personal objectives set for When setting the amount of this compensation for fiscal year 2013, fiscal year 2012, resulting in a total mark awarded of 104 (out of a the Selection & Compensation Committee proposed to the Board of theoretical total of 100). Directors to take account of the fact that in addition to his duties as Paul Hermelin’s actual compensation for fiscal year 2012 therefore Chief Executive Officer, Paul Hermelin assumes the duties of Chairman breaks down as follows: of the Board of Directors since May 24, 2012. It also reminded the ■ fixed compensation of €1,320,000 paid in 12 monthly payments of Board that as early as 2008, Paul Hermelin requested that his €110,000 each, compensation remain unchanged until an improvement in the economic environment. Taking account of these recommendations, the Board of ■ V1 compensation of €471,500 equal to 107.16% of theoretical V1 Directors decided to increase his theoretical compensation for fiscal year compensation (€440,000), 2013 from €2,200,000 to €2,420,000 (+10%), still consisting of fixed ■ V2 compensation of €457,600, equal to 104% of theoretical V2 compensation equal to 60% of the theoretical total (€1,452,000 paid compensation (€440,000), in 12 monthly payments of €121,000 each) and variable compensation representing total actual compensation of €2,249,100, up 3% on his equal to 40% of the theoretical total (€968,000). 2011 actual compensation (€2,187,600). In addition, on December 12, 2012, the Board of Directors granted EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT OF EXECUTIVE Paul Hermelin entitlement to a maximum of 50,000 performance shares. CORPORATE OFFICERS It notes in this respect that the last grant performed in March 2009 concerned the same number of shares and that – based on the Serge Kampf, founder, Chairman and corporate officer of the Group for performance condition calculation – only 25,000 shares definitively 45 years, has never had an employment contract. vested in March 2011 (i.e. 50% of the initial grant). It should also be With regards to Paul Hermelin, the Board reminds readers that his noted that Paul Hermelin is required to hold all shares of this nature employment contract is suspended in its entirety since May 24, 1996 granted to him until the expiry of his term of office as corporate officer (date from which he exercised his first term of office as a member and at least four years. The unit value of shares granted was calculated of the Management Board), but that if was decided in 2009, upon in accordance with IFRS 2 (€16.18 per share) and the performance a recommendation by the Selection & Compensation Committee, conditions applicable to these shares are detailed in Section 4.4 on to maintain jointly his term as corporate officer and his employment pages 183 et seq. contract. This decision was based on the desire to maintain for this Finally, the Board of Directors took due note of Paul Hermelin’s decision executive corporate officer his entitlement to pension benefits, given to waive his right to collect attendance fees as a Director of Cap Gemini his seniority in the Group (20 years at March 1, 2013) and the services S.A. in respect of 2012, as Serge Kampf and he did for the last three he has rendered to the Company and was in no way motivated by a years. desire to maintain for his benefit any entitlement to a severance pay provision stipulated in his employment contract (his contract does not contain any such provision), the Chief Executive Officer not enjoying any specific compensation clause in the event of his early departure at the initiative of the Board of Directors. In keeping with this measure, Paul Hermelin has made a commitment to the Board of Directors to waive his employment contract when he reaches the age at which he may legally exercise his right to retire. Indemnities and benefits Indemnities Supplementary following appointment, in respect of Executive corporate officers: employment contracts Employment pension scheme termination or change non-compete and deferred compensation contract (see below) in function clause Serge Kampf – Chairman of the Board of Directors up to May 24, 2012 No Yes No No Paul Hermelin – Chief Executive Officer up to May 24, 2012 and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer thereafter Yes Yes No No 50 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.3 Compensation of corporate officers OTHER COMPENSATION of executive corporate officers of publicly listed companies. It should be noted that based on the number of years’ service upon retirement In 2006, Cap Gemini set up a supplementary collective defined benefit of the two corporate officers, the projected replacement rate will be pension scheme for certain senior executives regarded as having made approximately 39% of the reference earnings. a significant and lasting contribution to the Group’s development, which was reviewed to ensure it complied with AFEP-MEDEF’s With regard to Serge Kampf, readers are reminded that he has long subsequent recommendations. The beneficiaries of this scheme are exercised – in addition to his duties as Chairman of Cap Gemini S.A. – persons deemed to have made a major contribution to the Group’s and still exercises, several other duties within the Group: accordingly he business over at least ten years and having ended their career within is Chairman (since its creation in 1993) of Capgemini Service, an interthe Group. In addition, this scheme stipulates certain limits ensuring company service company which groups together and manages a large that the amount of the supplementary pension may not exceed 40% part of Group top management and whose role is to provide services of the beneficiary’s reference earnings and the beneficiary’s cumulative and assistance to all operating companies of the Group (commercial development, financial and legal assistance, external growth, human pension benefits from all mandatory and top-up schemes may not exceed 50% of his/her reference earnings. Reference earnings are resource management, consistency in commercial relations with 2 calculated by taking average compensation over the final employment major clients, communication, etc.), as well as Chairman of Capgemini years capped at 60 times the annual ceiling set by the French Social Switzerland for over 45 years (i.e. since the creation in 1968 of this the Security. Therefore, in order to receive the maximum pension amount, Group’s first subsidiary), Director of Capgemini North America Inc. (USA) beneficiaries must have between 25 and 30 years’ service depending and sole partner of SCI Paris Etoile. He received total compensation of on the circumstances. An external firm was asked to review this scheme €560,000 in respect of these duties for the period June to December and confirmed that it complied with the recommendations published 2012. by AFEP/MEDEF on October 6, 2009 concerning the compensation 2.3.2 Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, compensation policy In a drive for increased transparency, Cap Gemini decided to further Committee recommendations take account of executive management improve in this Registration Document the information already compensation levels and components in leading French and foreign disclosed in the Management report on the procedures for setting the companies in the IT services and consulting sector (and CAC 40 compensation of Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. companies). The following paragraphs comply with the recommendations of the As disclosed in the Management report (see § 2.3.1) Paul Hermelin’s AFEP/MEDEF Code and supplement such information. compensation comprises as does that of all Group managers fixed compensation equal to 60% of the total theoretical amount if objectives The components and procedures for setting Paul Hermelin’s are achieved and variable compensation equal to 40% of this total compensation integrate the recommendations of the AFEP/MEDEF theoretical amount. code , whether with respect to the fixed and variable portions, performance share grants and other share-based incentive schemes or Overall, the Board of Directors: the supplementary pension scheme. The latter is also described in full ■ decides the fixed compensation for year N, in the Management report (see above); the inclusion of Paul Hermelin in the supplementary collective defined benefit pension scheme was ■ decides the “theoretical” variable compensation comprising two approved by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of April 26, 2007. components tied to performance indicators and Group results (V1) and based on the attainment of personal objectives by Paul Hermelin Paul Hermelin does not receive any benefits in kind, nor enjoy any (V2), termination compensation or non-compete clauses. He has waived his ■ decides the company internal performance indicators and the right to receive attendance fees since fiscal year 2009. weighting applicable to each indicator. The percentage attainment of these indicators is based on the ratio of actual audited to budgeted PROCEDURES FOR SETTING HIS COMPENSATION consolidated Group results and determines the actual level of V1 The procedures for setting Paul Hermelin’s compensation for year compensation, N is decided by the Board of Directors’ meeting of year N held to ■ decides the personal strategic and operational objectives underlying approve the financial statements for year N-1 at the recommendation V2 compensation and their weighting. of the Selection & Compensation Committee, which comprises Actual variable compensation may vary between nil and twice the only independent directors and the director representing employee theoretical amount. shareholders. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 51 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.3 Compensation of corporate officers The percentage attainment of objectives and the amount of variable (2009 plan) or four-year (2012 plan) lock-in period and the expiry of his compensation are decided by the Board of Directors’ meeting held to term as corporate officer. approve the financial statements for fiscal year N meeting in N+1, at the recommendation of the Selection & Compensation Committee. The 2013 COMPENSATION OF PAUL HERMELIN Committee meets shortly before the Board of Directors’ meeting and examines the percentage attainment by Paul Hermelin of his objectives. As indicated above in section 2.3.1, the fixed compensation of Paul Hermelin in respect of fiscal year 2013 was set at €1,452,000. Paul Hermelin’s fixed compensation is paid in twelve equal monthly installments in fiscal year N. Variable compensation is comprised for 50% of V1 compensation and for 50% of V2 compensation, as defined above. The target variable His variable compensation is paid after the Board of Directors’ meeting compensation for 2013 was set at €968,000. that approves the financial statements for fiscal year N underlying the calculation of the variable compensation and that decides the The operating indicators adopted for 2013 V1 compensation are: percentage attainment of the objectives set. Payment generally takes ■ revenues, place in March of fiscal year N+1. ■ operating margin (1), ■ net income, CAP GEMINI SHARE-BASED INCENTIVE POLICY ■ free cash-flow. The company intends to continue its current share grant policy in fiscal The personal strategic objectives adopted for 2013 V2 compensation year 2013 and beyond, that is: are: ■ the grant of performance shares or equivalent share capital incentive ■ the sustainable performance of the Group, instruments based on Cap Gemini results and the involvement of its main executive, ■ the attainment of mid-term strategic objectives, ■ the non-systematic grant of shares depending on the year, it being ■ further improvements to the governance of the Company, now noted that Paul Hermelin did not receive any performance shares in reunified, and the functioning of management teams. 2010 or 2011, Paul Hermelin’s theoretical or target compensation for 2013 is therefore ■ the grant of shares to Paul Hermelin at a rate below that authorized €2,420,000, up 10% on 2012. The decision to increase Paul Hermelin’s by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting in favor of executive compensation was taken by the Board of Directors this year taking corporate officers, it being noted that the Combined Shareholders’ account, firstly, of the fact that his theoretical compensation has not Meeting of May 24, 2012 authorized the grant to executive changed since 2008, secondly, of the change in Group structure and, corporate officers of 10% of the 1.5% of share capital authorized finally, of his wider responsibilities. for all beneficiaries. Performance shares granted to Paul Hermelin As in previous years, the Board of Directors will report on its assessment on December 12, 2012 represented 2.06% of the total amount of Paul Hermelin’s results and the percentage attainment of his 2013 authorized by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 objectives following the Board of Directors’ Meeting held to approve the and 4.9% of the total grant to all beneficiaries, 2013 financial statements. As indicated above, its decision will be taken ■ the grant of shares subject to the same performance conditions as after hearing the recommendation of the Selection & Compensation those granted to other executive and employee beneficiaries of the Committee. Group. Paul Hermelin must hold all performance shares vested under the 2009 and 2012 plans until the later of the end of the mandatory two-year (1) Since 2012, the published operating margin is the operating margin before amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. 52 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.3 Compensation of corporate officers 2.3.3 Attendance fees and other compensation received by corporate ofﬁcers Readers are reminded that Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin voluntary waived their right to collect attendance fees as Directors of Cap Gemini S.A. in respect of 2012 (in the same way as for the last three years). Amount awarded Amount awarded in euros in respect of 2011 in respect of 2012 Serge KAMPF 0 0 Daniel BERNARD 57,000 60,000 Yann DELABRIERE 66,000 69,000 2 Laurence DORS 45,000 48,000 Paul HERMELIN 0 0 Michel JALABERT 72,000 54,000 Phil LASKAWY * 48,000 51,000 Bernard LIAUTAUD * 60,000 60,000 Thierry de MONTBRIAL 51,000 48,000 Ruud van OMMEREN * 69,000 69,000 Terry OZAN * 51,000 48,000 Pierre PRINGUET 57,000 72,000 Bruno ROGER 57,000 60,000 Lucia SINAPI-THOMAS n/a 28,500 TOTAL 633,000 667,500 * As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to these four non-resident beneficiaries. The twelve non-executive corporate officers received no additional The Board of Directors decided to continue paying the two non-voting compensation other than the attendance fees indicated above, with directors the same attendance fees as the directors in respect of the the exception of Lucia Sinapi-Thomas who represents employee first five-months of 2012 (the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of shareholders. Lucia Sinapi-Thomas holds an employment contract in May 24, 2012 decided not to renew their term of office), as in previous respect of her functions in the Group Finance Department and receives years. They therefore received the following compensation in respect of compensation in this respect that is unrelated to her corporate office in the last two years: the Company. in euros 2011 2012 Pierre HESSLER 46,000 23,000 Geoff UNWIN * 43,000 20,000 TOTAL 89,000 43,000 * As required by law, the Company deducted withholding tax on the amounts paid to this non-resident beneficiary. Attendance fees paid to directors and non-voting directors for 2012 The rules governing the allocation of these attendance fees are therefore amount to €667,500 + €43,000 = €710,500 (or €629,850 presented in section 2.1.5. after deduction of withholding tax on the amounts paid to non-resident beneficiaries). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 53 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.3 Compensation of corporate officers 2.3.4 Stock subscription options, stock purchase options and performance shares The following tables present a breakdown of stock options and performance shares granted to executive corporate officers and historical information on stock options granted: Value of options Number and calculated using type (purchase the method or subscription) adopted in the Plan of options consolidated Stock options granted during the year to each date and granted during financial Strike Exercise executive corporate officer number the year statements price period Serge KAMPF n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Value of shares calculated using the method Performance shares * granted during Theoretical adopted in the the year to each executive corporate Plan maximum number consolidated officer by Cap Gemini S.A. and/or any date and of shares granted financial Potential Potential availability other Group company number during the year statements vesting date date Serge KAMPF n/a n/a n/a n/a n/a Later of the end of his term of office Paul HERMELIN 3rd Plan 50,000 808,866 01/01/2015 and 01/01/2019 * A detailed description of performance shares is presented in section 4.4 on pages 183 et seq. of the Registration Document. Plan Stock options exercised during the year date and Number of options Exercise by each executive corporate officers number exercised during the year Strike price period Serge KAMPF n/a n/a n/a n/a Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a Plan date and Number of shares vested Vesting Performance shares vested to executive corporate officers number during the year conditions Year of grant Serge KAMPF n/a n/a n/a n/a Paul HERMELIN n/a n/a n/a n/a It should be noted that: ■ as Paul Hermelin was not granted any performance shares in 2010 or 2011, no shares vested in 2012. ■ Serge Kampf has never been awarded (and has never requested) any stock options or performance shares, 54 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.3 Compensation of corporate officers HISTORICAL INFORMATION CONCERNING STOCK OPTIONS GRANTED TO CORPORATE OFFICERS Date of Shareholders’ Meeting 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 05/12/2005 Grant date 04/01/2007 10/01/2007 06/01/2008 Plan number 6th plan 6th plan 6th plan Total number of shares granted 400,000 1,932,500 219,000 o/w granted to Serge Kampf n/a n/a n/a o/w granted to Paul Hermelin * n/a n/a n/a o/w granted to the ten employees receiving the greatest number of shares 86,000 114,000 60,000 Start of exercise period 04/01/2008 10/01/2008 06/01/2009 2 Expiry date 04/01/2012 10/01/2012 06/01/2013 Subscription price (in euros) 55 44 40.5 Exercise conditions 10% after 1 year, 30% after 2 years, 60% after 3 years and 100% after 4 years * Complete historical information on stock options granted and still available for exercise is provided on pages 183 to 186 of the Registration Document. Stock options granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (nonofficers) having thus subscribed for the greatest number of shares are corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares and as follows: the number of shares vested to the ten employees (non-corporate Total number of stock Weighted Stock options granted to/exercised by the ten employees (non-corporate options granted / average Plan officers) having received the greatest number of shares exercised price number Options granted during the year by Cap Gemini to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares n/a n/a n/a Options exercised (held previously on Cap Gemini) by the ten Group employees having exercised the greatest number of shares n/a n/a n/a Performance shares granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to the ten employees (non-corporate officers) holding the greatest number of vested shares (non-corporate officers) having received the greatest number of shares are as follows: and the number of performance shares vested to the ten employees Performance shares granted/vested to the ten employees (non-corporate Total number of shares officers) having received the greatest number of shares vested / granted Plan number Performance shares granted during the year by Cap Gemini to the ten employees of all eligible companies having received the greatest number of shares 165,000 3rd Performance share plan Shares available (held previously on Cap Gemini) to the ten Group employees holding the greatest number of vested shares 106,175 2nd Performance share plan REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 55 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.4 INTERNAL CONTROL AND RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES The implementation of systems and procedures contributing to ■ finally, the continued transformation of the finance function with: strengthening the uniformity of processes within the Group continued • the roll-out of a single integrated management system, in 2012. • the transfer of subsidiary accounting services to shared service Among these measures, the following may be highlighted: centers. ■ the update of the Blue Book (manual of rules and procedures), These actions help standardize processing and procedures within the ■ the launch of the roll-out of a global application for human resource Group and strengthen the Capgemini internal control environment. management (excluding recruitment) to focus the Group on systems, procedures and expectations defined centrally, Objectives and means A blueprint for internal control was defined at the initiative of the the Group’s values and the Code of Business Ethics was supplemented French stock market authority (AMF), which it recommends all French in 2011 by an Anti-Corruption Code. This system seeks to: companies subject to the requirements of the Financial Security Law ■ develop within new recruits an ethical culture guaranteeing integrity (Loi de Sécurité Financière) use and apply within their subsidiaries. of behavior, Capgemini Group has therefore defined and implemented a control system with a view to ensuring: ■ raise awareness of compliance with international and national laws, ■ highlight initiatives aimed at strengthening the system to prevent and ■ compliance of all management acts with relevant laws and avoid infractions, non-compliance and negligence in these areas. regulations, For over 30 years, the Capgemini Group has had a central Internal Audit ■ compliance with the Group’s seven core values and guidelines set by function. Its Director, Philippe Christelle (see Section 2.2.1), reports the Board of Directors and/or Group Management, directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, guaranteeing ■ application by the subsidiaries of instructions communicated, the independence of the internal audit function with respect to the ■ the smooth functioning of the Group’s internal control processes functions and business units audited. The internal audit team comprises safeguarding assets, and 26 auditors, representing 10 different nationalities and covering ■ the reliability of the Group’s financial information. 92% of the languages spoken locally in the Group. This significant internationalization of the internal audit team reflects the desire to While contributing to the improved efficiency of its operational support accompany the expansion of the Group into new regions of the world; functions, the optimal use of resources and good risk control, this the internal audit department also has a Bombay desk, created four system does not however offer an absolute guarantee of the control of years ago, with nine auditors including two technical experts specializing all possible risks imaginable, no more than it can – irrespective of the in the review of IT projects. The Internal Audit department is tasked with: skills of the employees performing the controls – guarantee alone the realization by the Group of all objectives set. ■ reviewing the internal control procedures implemented in the Strategic Business Units and their component legal entities to For these reasons, since its creation, Capgemini has placed significant ensure that they comply with the general principles and rules laid importance on compliance with the values and principles which guide down by the Group and with certain specific procedures enabling and inspire our actions and, in particular, our business practices. Our the elimination or mitigation of the risks to which they are exposed seven values (headed by honesty) represent the Group’s fundamental locally, DNA and justify its reputation as an ethical and responsible company. ■ auditing the Group’s major contracts considered to present For over 20 years, a set of rules and procedures known as the “Blue significant risk: Internal Audit uses one or more technical experts Book” has had force of law within Cap Gemini and its subsidiaries. (Group Delivery Auditors), who are selected from among a list of The Blue Book reminds employees of their obligations in this area and Group accredited professionals according to their skills (and also inventories the tools and methods helping them avoid identified risks in their complete independence from the unit being audited). the exercise of the Group’s businesses. The ethics system founded on 56 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Each Strategic Business Unit is audited in line with a bi-annual program diligence assignments. These reviews involve an examination, from that the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer has the power to modify an ethical stance, of commercial, environmental, social, employer in the event of a contingency (delays and irregularities, major divergence and buyer practices within the target company in order to ensure, from budgetary commitments, etc.). During 2012, the Internal Audit in particular, their compatibility with Capgemini Group expectations. Department performed: At the request of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Internal ■ 59 audits of units belonging to all Group Strategic Business Units, Audit Department may also perform special assignments to review with each audit involving on average 33 days in the field and specific situations. Once annually, the Internal Audit Director presents: concluding with the issue of an action plan that management of the ■ to the Audit Committee, a comprehensive report on the department’s unit audited undertook to implement as quickly as possible in order work (particularly regarding internal control efficiency and risk to improve or correct the points identified by the audit. The Internal management in the preparation and processing of financial and Audit Department uses a tool enabling it to monitor real-time the accounting information), implementation of recommendations following the audit, focusing particularly on priority actions, ■ to the Ethics & Governance Committee, a specific report on 2 compliance with the Group’s Code of Business Ethics, ■ 2 special assignments for Group Management, ■ finally, the Internal Audit Department may at any moment draw up a ■ 3 due diligence assignments, that is, a prior audit of a company that special report for presentation to the Chairman and Chief Executive the Group intends to acquire. Since 2012, the Group Internal Audit Officer on any matter that it considers should be brought to his Department is directly responsible for coordinating, with the Group’s attention. Chief Ethics and Compliance Officer, the ethics phase of due General principles The aim of the general internal control principles is to ensure efficient ■ the framework of general policies and procedures: the Blue Book and traceable decision-making. They concern: sets out the main principles and basic guidelines underpinning the Group’s internal control procedures, and covers specific issues ■ delegation of decision-making powers and authorization: the relating to the following areas: decision-making process applied within the Group is based on rules concerning the delegation of powers. These rules are regularly • the Group’s organization and corporate governance scenarios as updated, comply with the principle of subsidiarity and define well as authorization guidelines, three levels of decision-making depending on the issues involved, • sales policy, corresponding to the three levels of Capgemini’s organization: • contractual engagement guidelines, • the Business Unit, for all issues that fall within its remit, • service production, • the Strategic Business Unit (or the Country Board) for all issues that • finance function organization and procedures, concern several Business Units under their authority, • human resources management, • the Group (Group Management, Executive Committee, central departments, etc.) for all decisions outside the scope of responsibility • external communications, of a Strategic Business Unit or region which must be taken at Group • business knowledge management, sharing and protection, level due to their nature (acquisitions, divestments, etc.), or for other • information systems, major transactions whose financial impacts exceed well-defined • procurement organization and controls, materiality thresholds. • environmental protection guidelines. This process has been formalized in an authorization matrix which requires both prior consultation and the provision of sufficient information to the parties involved. Recommendations submitted to the final decision-maker must include the views of all interested parties as well as an objective assessment of the advantages and drawbacks of each of the possible solutions, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 57 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Operational risk and management procedures ACTIVITY-RELATED RISK MANAGEMENT ■ global access to the expertise available through Capgemini’s Applications Development Centers, Project risk ■ monthly Group-wide identification of all risk-sensitive projects in the The Group has devised a formal process to identify and control risks execution phase, and the implementation of action plans aimed at associated with the delivery of information systems projects ordered by eliminating or containing such risks, clients, from pre-sale to acceptance and payment by the client of the ■ commissioning independent technical audits of the teams in last invoice for the project. This process differentiates between: charge of a given project to identify additional risks in cases where actual performance appears to diverge from forecasts or from ■ pre-sale risk controls, commitments undertaken. These engagements are carried out by ■ technical controls during the project execution phase, the Production/Methods and Support Department, and complement ■ business control. the upstream independent technical audits carried out by the Business Units as a preventative measure for operational risks. Pre-sale risk controls Projects are increasingly complex, both in terms of size and technical Business control specifications, especially in Outsourcing (long-term commitments, Depending on its size, each Business Unit has one or more project sometimes involving transfers of assets, staff and the related financial controllers whose role is to: obligations). As a result, identifying and measuring the risks involved is ■ monitor the financial aspects of each project and primarily actual essential at all stages of the selling process, not only for new contracts versus budgeted project production costs. Progress reports and but also for extensions or renewals of existing contracts. This risk management indicators are built into the monitoring process, analysis is based in particular on: which relies mainly on the periodic analysis of estimated costs to ■ a reporting tool consolidating all commercial opportunities at Group completion and their accounting impact, level. Data concerning commercial opportunities is entered as and ■ permanently control compliance with contractual commitments – when identified, and updated throughout the sale process, particularly billing and payment milestones. ■ validation, at the various organizational levels of the Group’s operational structure and at the different stages of the selling Reputation risk process (from identification of an opportunity as investment-worthy Compliance with clear principles of business ethics is firmly embedded from a Group perspective and the submission of service proposals, in Capgemini’s culture. On its creation in 1967, the Group identified often in several stages, to the signature of a contract) of the main seven core values which form the keystone of its identity. Today, each characteristics of the opportunity, in particular as regards technical, of the 125,000 managers and employees continue to refer to these financial and legal matters. values and have committed to applying them personally on a daily basis As described above, the decision to commit the Group to commercial and ensuring their compliance by individuals in their business unit or opportunities meeting pre-defined criteria concerning size and who participate on joint projects. From this point of view, the Code complexity is the sole prerogative of the Group Review Board. For of Business Ethics issued in 2010 represents the continuation and particularly complex projects, a review of solutions may be carried out formal documentation of cultural reflexes already firmly embedded in during the final pre-sale phase in order to bring to the Group Review Capgemini. A specific policy dealing with the prevention of corruption Board’s attention any potential risks relating to the performance of these was distributed within the Group in 2011, followed by a second in 2012 projects. covering anti-trust legislation. All new recruits undertake to comply with the principles explained in these two policies and follow an e-learning Production and quality control training course thereon. The Group has approved policies for monitoring the proper performance The Group has decided only to locate in those countries satisfying a of contracts that are applied throughout the life of the project to ensure certain number of criteria concerning work ethics and security in the that it runs smoothly. The key features of these policies include: conduct of business. ■ clear definition of the roles and responsibilities of each individual In 2011, the Group implemented a new solution for indentifying and regarding execution and supervision throughout the entire monitoring risks and problems likely to arise in external social networks production process, in particular as regards the choice of project and took the necessary measures to deal with such problems where leader, client relationship management, billing, estimation of costs to necessary. Internally, communication experts monitor these networks completion, joint oversight arrangements with the client, etc., and stand ready to react rapidly to any negative comments from ■ use of proprietary production methodologies in all of the Business employees. Units, 58 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Listed on the Paris Stock Exchange and a global leader in its business Communication (email) and collaborative systems are covered by a sector, the Group is frequently called upon by the media and the redundant architecture at two datacenters ensuring service continuity. financial community to provide information on its expertise, strategic Business continuity and resumption plans in the event of a disruption to direction, forecasts, results, etc. Therefore, to control and limit risks to the specific IT infrastructures of a given center, client or contact are the its reputation, only persons duly authorized by Group Management are responsibility of the Group subsidiaries: permitted to speak on behalf of the Group. Where required by specific contracts, a business continuity plan is Human resources risk prepared by selecting appropriate measures according to the criticality of the service. Reviews and simulations are performed in the subsidiary The Group pays very close attention to the quality of its human resource entities to test the efficiency of these plans. Certain of these entities management and employee commitment. Accordingly, an internal have heightened security requirements reflecting client imperatives and survey is conducted each year aimed at measuring commitment and they are consequently certified ISO 27001-compliant by an independent expectations among the Group’s 125,000 employees. This survey is an appraisal tool and action plans are established based on identified agency. 2 results. Environmental risk Furthermore, a human resources management information system As an intellectual service provider, Capgemini has little impact on the project (SAP) is currently being rolled out by the Group Human environment. The Group nonetheless strives to reduce its environmental Resources Department to ensure the comprehensive management of all footprint through a number of measures set out in theCapgemini, its processes concerning the management of high-performing individuals value, employees and corporate social responsability Chapter (3.3.3 The and a uniform approach to monitoring performance, the career plans Group and the Environment, page 95). The risks to which the Group is of our employees, the management of international mobility and exposed in this respect are not considered material. The Group pays succession plans, in a manner consistent with the strategic objectives special attention to energy consumption, the management of its IT of the Group and the interests of our clients. hardware and waste and has implemented specific action plans in these Finally, the Capgemini Group International Works Council covers areas and particularly in the data processing centers. Measures to raise not only European countries but also includes representatives of the employee awareness and aimed at reducing business travel, though the main countries outside Europe (India, United States and Brazil). The use of internet and video technology, have been implemented. Group’s key managers regularly attend meetings to present changes in the Group and the main challenges facing it, and discuss them with Client risk employee representatives in an open manner and an environment of The Group is exposed to several types of client risk: mutual understanding. ■ the risk of excessive dependence on a single client or group of Management information systems risk clients or a single market sector: the Group has several thousand clients, which to a certain extent enables it to resist market While the Group is not highly dependent on its management information turbulence and reduce its exposure to volatility in certain sectors. systems in the course of its business, it has nevertheless implemented The client portfolio consists of both a large number of entities from business continuity procedures in the event of a disruption to IT the public sector and a large number of entities from the private services. The Group has drawn up an IT infrastructure security policy sector, from a wide spread of diversified markets. Exposure to risks and the main management IT systems are covered by a back-up plan of commercial dependency is therefore limited, at a second datacenter. The security policy and the back-up plans are verified periodically. ■ client insolvency: client solvency analysis upstream of the sales process helps minimize client credit risk. The solvency of these major clients, combined with the wide diversity of other smaller Production security risk clients, helps reduce credit risk, Production systems and services provided by the Group to its ■ the risk of dissatisfaction: Capgemini pays particular attention to subsidiaries are duplicated and covered by back-up plans that are assessing client satisfaction and has implemented a rigorous client tested periodically. relationship management process that it carries out throughout the Telecommunications networks used by the Group are automatically project, known as OTACE (On Time and Above Client Expectations). duplicated in cases where “Rightshored” production resources This is a key pillar of the Group’s client loyalty policy, particularly for are deployed. In the event of a breakdown in the preferred (fastest) major client accounts. communications network between Europe and India, service continuity is ensured by tried and tested alternative routes. The Group’s Indian Supplier and subcontractor risk subsidiary has set up a Business Continuity Management (BCM) The Group has signed framework agreements and contracts with its structure to ensure service continuity in line with the Good Practice suppliers containing clauses similar to those contained in contracts Guidelines of the Business Continuity Institute (BCI). These measures signed with its clients, in a bid to improve the management of take account of various hypothetical threats along with the differing contractual risks and acceptance risks. These framework agreements degrees of potential damage at site, urban and country level. and contracts clearly stipulate obligations with respect to delivery REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 59 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures deadlines, service level and operating tests as well as penalties for Economic climate risk non-compliance. Over recent years, the Group has signed strategic Although a substantial proportion of the Group’s operations depends partnership contracts with a diversified group of major suppliers in order on its clients’ investment capacity, the fact that the Group is organized to preserve its independence and guarantee the sustainability of its around medium-sized Business Units close to their target market allows services. The Group has signed a certain number of strategic contracts for rapid responsiveness to changes in the business environment. with major and financially sound suppliers. The risks represented by smaller suppliers and/or start-ups are analyzed and back-up plans established. LEGAL RISK MANAGEMENT In parallel, Capgemini has implemented a tool allowing for worldwide Legal risks are identified, analyzed and managed by the Group Legal procurement management and monitoring. This tool, known as GPS Affairs Department, which is comprised of central, regional and local (Global Procurement System), is used for the issue and approval of teams in each of the main geographic areas in which Capgemini has purchase orders. The procurement tool contains an approval chain operations. that ensures the correct allocation of costs to projects and provides for a financial approval mechanism. The centralized management of Failure to comply with regulations governing our activities data in this procurement base enables us to control and better manage During acquisitions and prior to launching a new business line, the Group expenditure and supplier selection. Suppliers are selected Group performs a focused due diligence review of the target and by a functional team based on rigorous procedures using multiple applicable regulations. criteria, several of which concern ethical standards and sustainable development. Contractual risk Country risk The Group has established a Contract Clause Negotiating Guide, which identifies clauses exposing the Group to risk and requires information The Capgemini Group restricts operations to countries able to offer to be reported to the Group Legal Affairs Department in the event of satisfactory guarantees in terms of individual security. Work on client derogation from accepted standard positions. Criteria determining when engagements in certain countries classified as “at risk” is subject to it is necessary to report to the Group Review Board have also been approval by the Group Review Board. Rules and procedures have defined for contracts identified by the Group as presenting a high level been drawn up for “at risk” territories in which the Group conducts of risk due to their size or other criteria. engagements in order to satisfy the demands of its major clients. Specific contracts have been agreed with organizations specialized in managing these risks to assess independently the risk exposure in Compliance with legislation each country. Accordingly, certain countries are subject to strict travel The Group has a Legal Affairs Department with an established presence bans. The risk is reassessed continuously based on the geopolitical in the main geographic regions. Its role is to monitor changes in position and warning systems are used to inform employees of country legislation relevant to the Group’s activities, advise the Group thereon risks. Furthermore, these organizations also help resolve any potential and provide training in the main legal issues to targeted employee difficulties encountered by employees assigned to work in these categories. The Group has also adopted a Code of Business Ethics, countries and provide risk prevention training courses prior to their an anti-corruption policy and anti-trust policy and calls on a network of departure. Legal Counsels who double-up as Ethics and Compliance Officers and participate in identifying risks and train and monitor employees in order Acquisition risk to guarantee compliance. Capgemini has a wealth of experience in acquisitions, having carried out around 50 external growth transactions since the 1970s. Entrepreneurial Litigation risk spirit, managerial autonomy, and the principle of subsidiarity are crucial A procedure has been implemented for reporting information to the factors in the successful integration of newly-acquired businesses. Group Legal Affairs Department on actual and potential litigation The successful integration of new businesses is also facilitated by the and other disputes and government inquiries. The local Legal Affairs Group’s organization along geographic regions and business lines. The Departments also regularly inform the Group Legal Affairs Department Group’s Legal Affairs Department is involved in the negotiation of the of any threats of this nature. legal aspects of merger/acquisition projects. An integration manager is appointed for all acquisitions. He is involved FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT from early on in the acquisition process and generally from the due The Group has standardized rules and procedures for the identification, diligence stage and, in all events, prior to signature of the contract. control and management of financial risks. These are framed in He has substantial technical experience and the necessary authority a conservative financing policy based notably on the upstream and asserts his role as manager responsible for the implementation of authorization by the Board of Directors of all major financing decisions, appraisal systems and the regular review of management reports used and the measured use of debt thanks to the Group’s high liquidity levels. to monitor the integration process and avoid any mismatch. 60 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures Equity risk interest rates the risk of a drop in returns from the investment of cash surpluses (and as such an increase in the finance cost differential). The Cash surplus investment policy defined by the Group Finance Department and documented in the internal manual (Transform), prohibits all equity investments. The proper application of this policy is Foreign currency risk regularly controlled by internal and external auditors. The Group implements a policy aimed at mitigating and managing foreign currency risk: With a few exceptions, the Group holds the entire share capital of its subsidiaries and does not hold any listed equity investments. ■ production cost risks primarily concern internal flows with India and Poland; a hedging policy is defined by the Group and its Cap Gemini has a share buyback program authorized by its implementation which is mainly centralized at Cap Gemini S.A. level Shareholders’ Meeting. Its implementation is authorized each year primarily involves forward purchases and sales of currency, by the Board of Directors, which also approves each share buyback decision (outside the liquidity agreement, implementation of which is ■ financial flows exchanged as part of inter-company financing delegated and subject to a resource ceiling). The value of these shares activities primarily in Cap Gemini S.A. are mainly hedged (primarily 2 is deducted directly from Group equity and fluctuations in the Cap using forward purchases and sales of currency), Gemini share price do not impact its results. ■ royalty flows payable to Cap Gemini S.A. by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro are also generally hedged. Counterparty and credit risk The investment policy authorizes the investment of cash surpluses in Employee-related liabilities money market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV) satisfying the “monetary” In conjunction with the Trustees, the Group strives to strengthen the classification criteria defined by the AMF and other types of investment governance and management resources of its main pension funds. (negotiable debt securities, term deposits, capitalization contracts) The investment strategy of its main pension funds, encompassing the immediately available or with investments periods, potentially renewable, management of assets and liabilities, is reviewed annually and monitored not exceeding 3 months, issued by companies or financial institutions periodically with the aim of reducing volatility, as much as economically with a good credit rating (minimum A2/P2 or equivalent). The Group possible and reasonable to do so. Increased life expectancy is taken also applies maximum concentration per counterparty rules. into account as and when it is recognized by actuaries. The Group abides by similar risk quality/minimum rating and Group commitments in respect of pension shortfalls depend on local diversification rules when selecting counterparties for foreign currency regulations. They are reviewed and negotiated with the Trustees and interest rate management hedging contracts. approximately once every three years and give rise to payments spread over periods of 5 to 10 years. Liquidity risk The majority of Group financing is borne by the parent company and, RISK MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES CONCERNING as such, implementation of the finance policy is largely centralized. The THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF FINANCIAL Group adopts a prudent finance policy based primarily on: AND ACCOUNTING INFORMATION ■ measured recourse to debt leverage, combined with limiting the grant of contractual provisions that could trigger the early repayment Compliance with rules governing share trading of borrowings, The Group requires all employees to refrain from carrying out any ■ the maintenance of an adequate level of liquidity at all times, transactions involving the Company’s shares during certain periods of the year. All Group employees are reminded of these restrictions in ■ the active management of financial liability maturities, aimed at writing before the start of each such period. limiting the concentration of borrowing maturities, ■ the diversification of financing sources, to limit dependence on Procedures concerning the preparation and processing certain categories of lenders. of financial and accounting information Interest rate risk These procedures are used to ensure the application of and compliance with Group accounting rules relating to the preparation of budgets and As part of its financing policy, the Group seeks to restrict interest rate forecasts, financial reporting, consolidation, management control and risk by opting for either fixed rates or capped floating rates. financial communications. During each accounts closing period, the The Group favors investments offering a high level of security and Group Finance Department sends out a questionnaire to all subsidiaries generally floating – rates and as such accepts – in the event of a fall in dealing with the application of general internal control principles and REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 61 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures procedures concerning the processing of reported financial and b. Budgets, forecasting, financial reporting and consolidation accounting information. These questionnaires are analyzed for any In order to exercise effective control over their operations, the Group irregularities and corrective measures devised where appropriate. requires Business Units to submit weekly, monthly, quarterly, half-yearly a. Financial and accounting structure and annual reports of all budget, forecast, operational and accounting information required for the general management of the Group: The Group’s financial functions are integrated into the operating structure, that is, both Business Units and countries. They have access ■ budget and forecasting process: budgets form the basic building to common resources encompassing accounting rules and procedures, blocks in the management control process. They are debated and information and management systems and share service centers. negotiated at length between the different Group Business Unit Each Business Unit has a dedicated financial controller (reporting to managers and their superiors, with each budgetary item decided the corresponding Strategic Business Unit’s financial controller) who is based on past performance, the Group’s chosen strategic priorities responsible for ensuring that the results of its activities are accurately and available information concerning expected market trends. reported in the accounts in accordance with Group accounting rules Group Management sets quantified targets for each geographic and methods. The financial controller verifies that services are correctly area, Strategic Business Unit and their component Business Units. billed and paid for, checks profit estimates for ongoing projects The budget preparation process is a key moment in the relationship and assesses their accounting impact, and ensures the quality of between the different levels of the Group’s management and the information contained in the financial reports and accounting makes it possible to substantially link the variable portion of the packages used as the basis for preparing the Group’s consolidated compensation paid to Business Unit managers to the attainment financial statements. These Business Unit financial controllers report of the budgetary targets of their Business Unit and the next level to the financial controller of the Strategic Business Unit, whose main Business Unit to which they belong. A forecast operating income responsibility is to ensure that financial and accounting information statement (for the current month, the following six months and is reported to the parent company on a timely basis. Their direct the full year) is prepared monthly by each Business Unit manager. superior is the Group Chief Financial Officer in order to safeguard the Variances from budget are analyzed so that any corrective action independence required when preparing accounting results. Operational plans that may be needed can be drawn up as quickly as possible, control is, therefore, decentralized. ■ operational reporting process: information reporting is structured The countries and geographic areas have a Legal Financial Director, by geographic area and business. This allows revenues and costs whose duties and responsibilities include ensuring that all financial to be analyzed on a monthly basis both by type and function, staff in the country or region are well-versed in the Group’s accounting and performance indicators to be updated and measured against policies and methods, checking compliance with local taxation and budget (A/B), the latest forecasts (A/F) and prior-year figures (A/A). statutory reporting requirements, helping maintain an effective internal Balance sheet items are analyzed on a quarterly basis. A monthly control environment, liaising with shared service centers and the management report is prepared for each Strategic Business Unit Statutory Auditors, setting accounts closing and financial reporting jointly by the manager and financial controller, and is submitted timetables, signing off on the consolidation packages of the subsidiaries to Group Management for review. This report gives a detailed under his or her authority, signing the representation letter and bringing breakdown of actual performance, forecasts for the following any and all matters that he or she sees fit to the attention of the Chief six months and actions taken in the event of material variances Financial Officer. between actual and budget figures. Reconciliations are performed systematically to ensure that financial information derived from the All financial staff is required to apply the Group’s accounting procedures operational reporting system is consistent with the consolidated and policies contained in the TransFORM manual, which sets out: financial information provided by the legal entities within the Group, ■ the fundamental rules of internal control, ■ consolidation process: at each yearly or half-yearly closing, the ■ what information must be reported, when, and how often, scope of consolidation is updated at Group level by the Finance Department and validated by the Legal Affairs Department. Written ■ management rules and procedures, instructions are issued providing the schedule for period-end tasks ■ accounting policies, rules and methods, (particularly the reconciliation of inter-company transaction balances), ■ performance indicators. highlighting current accounting issues requiring specific attention, Furthermore, the Group has a single integrated management system and describing the control procedures applied during the preparation (GFS), which continued to be rolled out in the Group’s subsidiaries in of the consolidated financial statements. The consolidation process several countries in 2012. Other major business units will migrate to is based on accounting packages by geographic area, which must this system in 2013. The desired uniformity of management systems is be signed off by the person responsible for preparing them. Income therefore a step closer, strengthening the control environment. statements, balance sheets and other key management indicators required for subsequent analysis are stored in a single database Finally, the shared service centers pool the accounting processing maintained at Group level. Access to this information system is resources of the Group’s subsidiaries. The main centers are located in strictly controlled. Cracow (Poland) and Calcutta (India). The centralization of accounting processes was stepped up in 2012 and also contributed to increased uniformity within the Group. 62 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Corporate governance and internal control 2 2.4 Internal control and risk management procedures c. Financial information ■ the Statutory Auditors, who it need merely be noted here, carry out Controlling financial information: financial information and its an ongoing review of internal control procedures with an impact on communication are subject to specific controls at half-year and annual the preparation and quality of the financial statements as part of their period ends. These include: audit engagement. Communicating financial information: this is subject to rigorous internal ■ a systematic review carried out with the assistance of the Legal control, with a particular focus on three key media used to report Affairs Department of all material operations and transactions financial information: occurring during the period, ■ the half-year financial report and annual report, ■ a procedure to identify, collate and report off-balance sheet commitments and any other information liable to have significant ■ financial press releases, repercussions on the financial position of the Group or one of its ■ analyst and investor meetings. subsidiaries at the period-end, ■ a review of the tax position of each of the Group’s legal entities, The Annual Report has been the cornerstone of the Group’s financial communications strategy for the past 38 years (the first edition 2 ■ a review of the value of intangible assets, concerned the 1975 fiscal year). The preparation of the report, its ■ a detailed analysis of the statement of cash flows. content, illustrations, design and distribution are therefore subject to particular attention on the part of Group Management and, above all, of The controls described above carried out by the Group Finance his honorary Chairman and vice-chaiman. All the sections of the Group’s Department are supplemented by the work of two independent bodies Annual Report are written internally by staff and managers of the Group tasked with carrying out checks on the internal control environment who are each responsible for designing and setting out a chapter on and verifying the quality of the financial statements: the Internal Audit their area of competence, within the general framework proposed by department and the Statutory Auditors: the Communications Department. The Registration Document, which is ■ Internal Audit: based on its program covering the Group’s Business integrated in the Annual Report, combines all the information that must Units, drawn up in agreement with the Chairman and Chief be provided pursuant to legal and regulatory requirements and is drawn Executive Officer (to who it reports directly), the Internal Audit up under the responsibility of the Finance Department. department is responsible for carrying out controls to ensure that Financial press releases are only published further to the formal procedures relating to the safeguarding of assets, the valuation of validation of the Board of Directors or the Chairman and Chief Executive work-in-progress, the actual amount of trade accounts receivable, Officer, and they must therefore be submitted sufficiently in advance and the proper recognition of liabilities, are applied in each Business to allow time for such approval. Financial press releases are published Unit in accordance with the rules and methods established by the outside the trading hours of the Paris stock exchange, except in Group. In particular, the Internal Audit department is required to pay exceptional circumstances. special attention to revenue recognition methods and to controlling the percentage of completion of projects, so as to ensure that these Analyst and investor meetings are subject to specific preparation, are accounted for on the basis of rigorous, up-to-date technical and their content is presented to the Board of Directors prior to such assessments. The Internal Audit brief also includes a review of the meetings. This preparatory work is then used as a framework for procedures and controls in place within the Business Unit to ensure comments and explanations provided by the Chairman and Chief the security and validity of transactions and accounting entries, Executive Officer, the Chief Financial Officer, or employees in charge of investor relations during the meetings. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 63 2 Corporate governance and internal control 2.5 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORT PREPARED IN ACCORDANCE WITH ARTICLE L.225-235 OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE ON THE REPORT PREPARED BY THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS This is a free translation into English of the statutory auditors’ report issued in French prepared in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board on the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of accounting and financial information issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and the relevant professional standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of Cap Gemini S.A., and in accordance with Article L.225-235 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby report to you on the report prepared by the Chairman of your Company in accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code for the year ended December 31, 2012. It is the Chairman’s responsibility to prepare, and submit to the Board of Directors for approval, a report describing the internal control and risk management procedures implemented by the Company and providing the other information required by Article L.225-37of the French Commercial Code in particular relating to corporate governance. It is our responsibility: ■ to report to you on the information set out in the Chairman’s report on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information; and ■ to attest that this report sets out the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code, it being specified that it is not our responsibility to assess the fairness of this information. We conducted our work in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. INFORMATION CONCERNING THE INTERNAL CONTROL PROCEDURES RELATING TO THE PREPARATION AND PROCESSING OF FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING INFORMATION The professional standards require that we perform procedures to assess the fairness of the information on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information set out in the Chairman’s report. These procedures mainly consisted of: ■ obtaining an understanding of the internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information on which the information presented in the Chairman’s report is based, and of the existing documentation; ■ obtaining an understanding of the work performed to support the information given in the report and of the existing documentation; ■ determining if any material weaknesses in the internal control procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information that we may have identified in the course of our work are properly described in the Chairman’s report. On the basis of our work, we have no matters to report on the information given on internal control and risk management procedures relating to the preparation and processing of financial and accounting information, set out in the Chairman of the Board’s report, prepared in accordance with Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. OTHER INFORMATION We attest that the Chairman of the Board’s report sets out the other information required by Article L.225-37 of the French Commercial Code. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 22, 2013 Paris La Défense, February 22, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 64 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.1 ETHICS 67 3.3 STAKEHOLDERS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 87 Group fundamentals, guidelines and policies: 3.3.1 Perimeter and themes 87 the blue book 67 3.3.2 Our stakeholders 87 Business ethics 67 3.3.3 The Group and the environment 95 Ethics & compliance organization and network 67 Ethics & compliance program in 2012 68 3.4 INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL ANALYSIS 100 International laws and voluntary codes 68 Statutory Auditors’ attestation of disclosure and limited assurance report on a selection of human 3.2 OUR PEOPLE, A KEY GROUP ASSET 69 resources, environmental and societal information 100 3.2.1 Methodology-perimeter and themes 69 3.5 GRENELLE CORRELATION TABLE 102 3.2.2 A moving social environment 69 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 65 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility For Capgemini the principles of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) & 2. Our employees and our workplace: We are committed to being Sustainability extends beyond legal compliance and philanthropy. Hence a responsible employer and an employer of choice. We strive to our focus has been on embedding them into our business strategy, our ensure that both the physical working environment and our business processes and our daily way of working. They are no longer specialist practices comply with safety regulations and allow our employees or peripheral activities, but rather a real requirement for all leaders and to develop and deliver their best. As a people-oriented business, businesses. These principles, grounded in the Group’s shared values, our focus is on the professional development and well-being of all have been encapsulated in our Code of Business Ethics and guide our our employees. We have a culture whereby we respect and value relationships with our stakeholders, our communities, our environments the diversity of our employees as individuals. At Capgemini, being and the over 40 countries in which we have offices. treated and treating others with respect and courtesy is a right and a duty for everyone. We believe that effective communication is a Paul Hermelin called for the Group to show its passion and energy prerequisite for an open and inclusive culture. as well as its intellectual capability. He refers to this “fighting spirit” as “la niaque” and calls for a culture that reflects our values and history, 3. Our clients: The way we collaborate with our clients. We aim to respects our people, acknowledges performance, and inspires energy understand their real business needs and are dedicated to delivering and ambition. profitable and sustainable growth by working together with our clients to deliver added value through our expertise and behavior. This approach to CSR & Sustainability contributes to Capgemini’s We take customer dialog and feedback very seriously. CSR, Green potential to succeed and achieve this ambition. The Ethics & IT, and Sustainability considerations are integrated into our service Compliance program contributes to attracting, developing and offerings. retaining the best people. The Annual Employee Survey shows that the employees’ commitment is strongly linked to the belonging to a group 4. Communities. The way we build a positive impact in the with an ethical culture. Achieving commitment and creating an ethical communities in which we work, live, and want to make a difference. environment lead the strengthening of our reputation, win business and As a major global employer, we work on national and international to take our place in the “Champions League” i.e. amongst the leaders levels with local authorities and associations on different themes. We of our industry. encourage the active involvement of our employees in community development Capgemini is committed to responsible and sustainable business 5. Suppliers & Partners. We are committed to follow reliable and practices, delivering to its stakeholders, which include clients, sustainable procurement principles with our suppliers. We expect shareholders, investors, business partners, suppliers, employees, the our suppliers to fully comply with the country laws. We work with community, and the environment. In 2004, the Group joined the UN business partners to bring added value to our clients, and expect Global Compact. The member companies of this program support and our partners to strictly comply with the law. respect ten principles in the areas of Human Rights, environment, labor rights, and the fight against -corruption. The Group respects national 6. The environment. The way we are recognized for our impact on and local laws and regulations in the countries in which it operates, the environment. We strive to measure and reduce any negative while supporting international laws and regulations, in particular the environmental impact from the Group’s business activities. These International Labor Organization fundamental conventions on labor include: greenhouse gas emissions; energy consumption in our rights. In 2007, the Group signed up to the UN Global Compact offices, data centers and business travel; waste created by our “Caring for Climate” initiative and in 2011, the Women’s Empowerment operations; and our procurement activities. We endeavor to Principles. raise employee awareness on the critical issues of sustainable development. Our CSR & Sustainability priorities are based on six pillars, which underpin all aspects of our business. For each pillar, we have identified More information on the Group’s six pillars can be found at: the key areas that are essential to our business, aspects on which we http://www.capgemini.com/about/corporateresponsibility/ can act and which are important to our stakeholders. We have set objectives for each pillar in order to improve our internal reporting processes and monitor our performance. 1. Leadership, Values & Ethics: The way we lead, work, and behave. We embrace the seven core Values of Honesty, Boldness, Trust, Freedom, Team Spirit/Solidarity, Modesty and Fun. We maintain a strong Code of Business Ethics, an Anti-corruption Policy and a Competition Laws Policy both underpin all of our business practices. 66 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.1 ETHICS Our Ethics & Compliance Program was launched in 2009 by the Group Competition Laws Policy have been launched to reassert its values in Board of Directors. This program is based on the culture of ethics which every country in which it operates. Since, all new recruits are expected has been a core part of the Group since its creation in 1967. As part to undertake to comply with the principles of these “three basic of this program, a network of Ethics and Compliance Officers was set foundations”, and follow an e-learning tuition on each. up, and a Code of Business Ethics, an Anti-corruption Policy and a Group fundamentals, guidelines and policies: the blue book In our largely decentralized and entrepreneurial organization, it is ■ Finance, merger, acquisitions, disposals and insurance rules and essential to have a set of common guidelines, procedures and policies guidelines, which govern our daily operations. The company confidential Blue ■ Human resources policies, Book, so-called on account of its color, was created in 1989. It provides ■ Marketing and communications, knowledge management and 3 a shared global reference tool which enables each employee and Group IT, Company service or department to work effectively and maintain unity. ■ Procurement policies, including ethical purchasing and supplier The Blue Book contains: selection, ■ Group fundamentals – Group mission & expertise, fundamental ■ Environment and community policies. objectives, Values, Code of Business Ethics, and collaboration All businesses must ember these policies, procedures and guidelines principles, as a minimum in their local policies, procedures and guidelines while ■ Group governance and organization, at the same time adhering to local legal requirements and specificities. ■ Authorization processes, Compliance with these guidelines forms a part of our Internal Audit ■ Sales and delivery rules and guidelines, process. The Group Blue Book is reviewed on a regular basis and updated to reflect changes and increased focus on CSR & sustainability. ■ Business risk management, pricing, contracting and legal Its update in 2012 allows us to incorporate our Code of Business Ethics requirements, and reinforce Group governance. The Blue Book is available to all employees on our intranet. Business ethics Grounded in our seven core Values, Capgemini’s CSR & Sustainability The objectives of the program are to: principles guide all our relationships with stakeholders and the ■ develop a sustainable ethical culture, which reinforces integrity and communities and environment in which we operate. Of our six pillars, leads to ethical behavior, Leadership, Values & Ethics rank amongst the most important. ■ strengthen knowledge and awareness of international regulations, The Capgemini Group has forged its reputation in the market through national laws and internal policies applicable in the Group longstanding values which have been continually applied. Today this companies, and reputation is a genuine asset, essential to our profitability and growth. ■ implement initiatives reinforcing prevention and aiming at avoiding To protect this reputation and, in doing so, to strengthen its competitive misconduct and breaches in the field of ethics and compliance. advantage, in 2009, the Group launched an Ethics & Compliance Program and built a network of Ethics & Compliance Officers across the Group. Ethics & compliance organization and network The managers of the Group and its entities (SBU/BU) are accountable laws and regulations and procedures. They are also accountable for in their respective Unit(s) for ethics and compliance with the applicable driving the Ethics & Compliance program. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 67 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.1 Ethics The Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) is responsible for the General Counsels have also been appointed as Ethics & Compliance Ethics & Compliance program across the entire Group. The Ethics & Officers (CG ECO). They are responsible for the Ethics & Compliance Compliance program and its achievements are reviewed annually by the program within the geography under their responsibility and liaise with Ethics and Governance Committee of the Board of Directors. the CECO. Ethics & compliance program in 2012 THE CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS SPECIFIC POLICIES Encapsulating our long-term ethical culture, the Code of Business Ethics released in 2010 is available in 13 languages. It received the Group Anti-corruption Policy collective and individual support of the members of the Board, the In 2011, the Group distributed a specific policy concerning the Group Executive Committee and the “Vice-Presidents” community. prevention of corruption, available in eight languages. At the end of Capgemini expects all Group employees to adhere to the seven core 2012, more than 73,000 ; employees had followed the related Values and to the principles expressed in its Code of Business Ethics, e-learning module, available in four languages. This represented more including: than 58% of the Group’s employees at end-2012. ■ To respect all applicable international, national and local laws and In addition, all new employees are expected to undertake to comply regulations, with the principles set out in the Group Anti-corruption Policy and to complete the related e-learning module. ■ To apply any health and safety rules and contribute to a safe and inclusive work environment, Group Competition Laws Policy ■ To act responsibly in the marketplace, complying with any applicable competition laws and regulations and anti-corruption rules, avoiding In September 2012, the Group distributed a specific policy concerning conflicts of interests and insider trading, and providing accurate and the competition laws, available in eight languages. At the end of 2012, correct business and financial information, i.e. 3 months after, more than 12,000 employees had followed the related e-learning module. ■ To build honest and clear relationships with clients, alliances or other business partners, and suppliers, In 2013, all new employees will be expected to undertake to comply with the principles set out in the Group Competition Laws Policy and to ■ To maintain the security and integrity of the assets of the Group and complete the related e-learning module. of any third parties with whom we work, ■ To support the communities and respect the environment in which A dedicated procedure for requesting advice and guidance we operate, and to raise a concern ■ To refuse the use of forced labor and child labor. The Code of Business Ethics provides that anyone faced with a At the end of 2012, more than 77,000 employees had followed the question or issue involving ethics or compliance should discuss it first related e-learning module, available in four languages. This represented with his/her local management team. If the issue is not resolved by more than 61% of the Group’s employees at end-2012. the management, or if the employee is not comfortable discussing the In addition, all new employees are expected to undertake to comply matter with the management team or if other procedures for dealing with the principles set out in the Code of Business Ethics and to with individual grievances and complaints are not applicable, the complete the related e-learning module. employee may use the Raising Concern Procedure (RCP) and seek advice and guidance from or report concerns on ethics and compliance issues to the local General Counsel – Ethics & Compliance Officer (GCECO); and/or even directly to the Chief Ethics & Compliance Officer (CECO) in Paris. At the end of 2012 the RCP is currently in operation on a case-by-case basis in more than 35 countries where the Group operates, in accordance with the applicable legislation. International laws and voluntary codes As a basic rule, we respect international, national and local laws ■ the principles of the fundamental conventions on labor standards of and regulations in the countries in which we work and undertake the International Labour Organization, all necessary commitments to adhere to them. For Capgemini the ■ the OECD guidelines for Multinational Enterprises, principles of CSR & Sustainability extend beyond strict legal compliance. ■ the Principles of the UN Global Compact Program and has signed We support and adhere to international laws and standards, such as: up the UN Global Compact “Caring for climate” initiative. ■ the principles of the 1948 Universal Declaration of Human Rights and refuses the use of forced labor and child labor, 68 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 OUR PEOPLE, A KEY GROUP ASSET 3.2.1 Methodology-perimeter and themes Three sources of information are available to provide the HR and Social ■ An ad-hoc questionnaire collecting social and community indicators, data in the Group and are used in this report: which are either more qualitative or only needed annually. ■ The Group financial reporting tool, including data reported monthly Consistency checks and trends are performed to ensure quality of data or quarterly using common indicators such as total headcount and and in case of doubt or inaccuracies, corresponding data are excluded. its movements (hires/acquisitions/departures/attrition rate). The The coverage percentage which is indicated for each indicator reported coverage for these data is Group wide. there-after, only includes data deemed relevant and appropriate. All the social themes of the Article R225-105-1 of the French Commercial ■ An internal Business Intelligence (BI) tool, which is interfaced with Code are covered in this report as, based on our analysis they were all most local HR systems. It provides monthly statistics on seniority, declared relevant for our business. age range, gender, grading whenever legal. 96% of the Group is connected to this tool. 3 3.2.2 A moving social environment STRATEGIC DIRECTIONS AND RISK FACTORS ■ every employee is part of a competency and career framework. His and her skills are assessed against technological changes and Our Group Human Resources (HR) priorities seek continuous Company’s business objectives, improvement in the recruitment, appraisal, development, and promotion process: ■ personal ambition is equally important in the definition of a career path while ensuring that discussions are open and fair, The Human Resources Department continues to improve contribution: ■ all employees have access to a wide range of training to enable their ■ giving Managers the means to properly career manage their professional development, employees, ■ group University, available on three continents (Les Fontaines in ■ giving Employees the means to perform and further develop, France, Hyderabad in India and Chicago in North America) ensures ■ we progressively build an Employee Self-Service to support that every year over 4.2 million hours of training are delivered to increased mobility, virtual working and human relations, our employees world-wide. All training programs are aligned to new ■ improving employee safety, especially during business trips. technologies, client requirements and employee needs, ■ to improve access to learning, we accelerate our efforts in virtual Capgemini hires around 30,000 new employees year on year: programs and e-learning modules. ■ every recruitment is carefully reviewed to ensure a cultural fit with the Capgemini is favoring the mobility of talent at local and global levels. group values and right skills, ■ Year-on-year, over 20,000 employees work on international ■ overall, we ensure gender diversity in the external recruitment and internal promotion processes, while reflecting the characteristics of assignments. our local communities, Leadership becomes essential in a People Company: ■ we continue our policy regarding the employment of people with a ■ Every external and internal recruitment, promotion, mobility, and disability, salary decision follows our our New Leader Profile (business pioneer, ■ more than 40% of our hires are “freshers”. We therefore continue profit shaper, people leader, la niaque, collaboration), to strengthen our partnerships with major business schools and ■ We now have created a full leadership journey supported by a universities worldwide to facilitate the integration of young graduates. specific training opportunities at each level, Our employees are appraised by our clients and developed through ■ Performance and career evolution is reviewed systematically. a competency and career framework governed by the Capgemini University, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 69 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset Personalized career management STRONG HEADCOUNT GROWTH, BOTH ORGANIC AND EXTERNAL The Career & Competency Framework The development of the Group’s workforce over the last ten years is Employees’ professional development is supported by a Career & a reflection of the economic cycles that have affected the Consulting Competency Framework which forms the basis for performance Services and Technology sectors. The strong organic growth of the appraisals and personal career advancement. Rooted in shared values, late 1990s, coupled with the takeover of Ernst & Young Consulting in the Career & Competency Framework is tailored to take into account 2000, meant that Group headcount more than doubled in five years. the specific needs of each of the Group’s businesses and Group’s Moreover, this period was marked by sustained demand for Consulting functions. Common frameworks allow today employees to understand and Technology services due to the oncoming Y2K, the introduction of competencies across businesses. the euro and development of the Internet. Capgemini believes in offering an opportunity for a successful and During the three years following 2000, a slowdown in investment in the rewarding career not just a job. Each employee has his or her own information technology sector led to the downsizing of our workforce. personal aspirations, motivations and career preferences. The Career This slowdown can be attributed to two factors: firstly, a general & Competency Framework has been designed to help employees to economic deterioration due to the emergence of major international develop in a wide variety of different roles, with the clarity required crises, culminating in the 9/11 attacks and the war against Iraq, and to support clear career progression, and the flexibility to let you take secondly, the bursting of the Internet bubble. charge of your own career. The year 2004 was marked by a return to growth, mainly as a result As a global organization, our clients expect consistency of services of staff transfers (over 5,300 people were transferred upon signature and uniform excellence, regardless of where we deliver. As individuals, of two large outsourcing contracts, notably the Aspire contract in the we expect clarity in the career options available to us. The Career & United Kingdom). Growth continued, with a doubling of the workforce Competency Framework defines and describes a standard set of between 2004 and 2011 as a result of acquisitions (notably Kanbay roles for our businesses, regardless of your region, business unit (BU), in 2007, BAS in 2008 and CPM Braxis in 2010) and strong organic project, account, sector or technology specialization. At a glance, you growth, in particular in offshore markets (India, Poland, Latin America, should be able to understand the breadth of options available to you. China and Morocco). While the economic crisis of 2008 resulted in a The Career & Competency Framework allows employees to understand clear slowdown in the rate of hires and led in 2009 to the first reduction and measure the competencies they need to be successful in each role/ in the year end workforce for a decade, the upturn in new hires seen in level, and to be clear about what they need to achieve to be ready for late 2009 accelerated through 2010 and 2011. The Group passed the the next step up the career ladder. milestone of 100,000 employees in September 2010 and has now more For each role, there are a number of core attributes; professional than 125,000 employees by the end of 2012, an increase of more than competencies that apply to everyone in Capgemini, independent of 5,400 employees (+ 4.5%) over the year. Headcount growth was largely where you sit in the business; and role-specific competencies, tailored generated by India in 2012. to the Capgemini businesses. The size of this growth has been a significant influence on the Group’s To support your development, learning maps can guide you about the transformation. The workforce more than doubled in a decade, with an best ways to hone your skills for each role. increase of 125% or nearly 70.000 people. This growth came mainly from offshore. Average headcount End-of-year headcount Year Number Change Number Change 2003 49,805 -9.3% 55,576* 5.5% 2004 57,387 15.2% 59,324 6.7% 2005 59,734 4.1% 61,036 2.9% 2006 64,013 7.2% 67,889 11.2% 2007 79,213 23.7% 83,508 23.0% 2008 86,495 9.2% 91,621 9.7% 2009 90,237 4.3% 90,516 -1.2% 2010 97,571 8.1% 108,698 20.1% 2011 114,354 17.2% 119,707 10.1% 2012 121,829 6.5% 125,110 4.5% * 48,304 excluding the Transiciel contribution, incorporated only at December 31. 70 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset The acquisitions of Kanbay, BAS B.V. and CPM Braxis in recent particular, continued to significantly affect the geographical distribution years, strong organic growth notably in Asia and Latin America, and of Group employees. This development is summarized in the table the economic crisis that affected continental Europe and the USA in below: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2011 December 31, 2012 Breakdown of workforce by region Numbers % Numbers % Numbers ; % North America 8,667 8.0% 9,505 7.9% 9,609 7.7% United Kingdom & Ireland 8,515 7.8% 8,977 7.5% 8,964 7.2% Nordic countries 4,012 3.7% 4,538 3.8% 4,504 3.6% Benelux 10,782 9.9% 10,391 8.7% 9,186 7.3% Germany and Central Europe 7,929 7.3% 8,962 7.5% 9,581 7.7% France and Morocco 20,277 18.7% 21,738 18.2% 21,738 17.4% Southern Europe and Latin America 14,853 13.7% 16,499 13.8% 16,735 13.4% Asia-Pacific 33,654 30.9% 39,079 32.6% 44,767 35.8% Middle East & Africa 9 0.0% 18 0.0% 26 0.0% TOTAL 108,698 100% 119,707 100% 125,110 100% 3 The calculation of numbers of employees in any one country excludes high level of recruitment over the last three years. The large number of staff based in other countries but carrying out operations destined for recent recruits has therefore automatically reduced the percentage of that country. employees with more than five or ten years’ service. For the purpose of calculating length of service, it should be noted that it is the date of The above development reflects: the ongoing adaptation of delivery recruitment by the acquired company, and not the date of integration capabilities to our Rightshore® model, combining local resources (in the into Capgemini, which is taken into consideration. Average length of client’s area) with those situated in specialized production centers, the service in the Company stands at 4.4 years in 2012, a decrease of 0.1 balance depending on the technology or the offering concerned. This years versus 2011, due to the high number of recruitments in the last resulted in the significant increase seen in the Asia-Pacific headcount three years. This varies according to the geographical area, ranging (notably India), which now comprises more than one third of the Group’s from just over 1.9 years for India to 9.7 years in the Benelux countries. resources (compared with 12.1% in 2006 and less than 5% in 2004). Growth in Central Europe, notably due to the development of the BPO 33.4% business in Poland, and the emergence of Latin America following the acquisition of CPM Braxis in Brazil and the signing of new contracts in this region, were both reflected in the increasing share of these two 26.6% 27.0% regions in the Group’s population. Moreover, India saw very significant 24.1% 23.4% development in recent years with headcount rising from slightly under 22.3% 2,000 people in 2004 to more than 40,000 in 2012. Similarly, Poland 19.3% 19.0% had fewer than 500 employees in 2004 but by end-2012 the headcount 17.6% has passed the bar of 5,000 employees. Lastly, the Group has been 15.6% 16.2% 15.7% 14.6% growing in Latin America (Argentina, Chile, Brazil and Guatemala) since 13.4% 2007. With the buyout of CPM Braxis in Q4 2010, the region had nearly 11.9% 9,300 employees at end-2012, including 7,500 in Brazil. Benelux was the main region to see its headcount fall for the second year in a row, due in particular to a difficult economical situation in the Netherlands. In France headcount is stable in 2012, although its relative weight has decreased because of the headcount increase in BRIC countries. < 1 year 1-2 years 3-4 years 5-9 years 10 years and + Breakdown of workforce by length of service: december 2010 december 2011 december 2012 2010-2012 changes The coverage interval for the data below is 98% of year-end headcount. Breakdown of workforce by age: 2010-2012 changes Changes for average length of service reflect the Group’s recruitment The coverage interval for the data below is 97.9% of year-end dynamics over the last few years with more than 30,000 recruits each headcount. The average age of employees is declining again in 2012 year. The high percentage of employees with an average level of service at 34.3 years due to the hiring of young graduates who represented of less than three years (56% of the headcount) is clearly due to the 42.3% of recruitment in 2012. The percentage of employees aged less REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 71 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset than 35 years rose by 1 point over the previous year to 60.6%, the graduates who are predominantly male. Consulting Services, however, highest level since 2003. This rise was due in full to the increase in the is a more diversified market, with a more balanced 62/38 ratio. number of employees aged less than 25 years which has improved by 73.5% 72.5% 71.9% 1 pt between 2011 and 2012. The share of employees in the 35 to 44 age group fell by 1 points since 2010, and the over 45 group dropped in by 0.8 points. The proportion of employees aged 55 years is very stable around 4%. Average age is lowest and below 30 in Latin America (Brazil/Guatemala/Chile), India, China or Poland, whilst United Kingdom, Sweden, Canada and Netherlands are the only country with an average age just above 40 years. 49.1% 48.7% 48.7% 26.5% 27.5% 28.1% 24.7% 24.0% 23.7% Men Women december 2010 december 2011 december 2012 ; 10.9% 11.9% 12.5% 12.3% 11.7% 9.7% Workforce breakdown of workforce by category: 2010-2012 changes 4.0% 4.1% 4.0% The Company’s workforce breaks down into three broad categories: ■ Client Serving Staff (CSS). These employees ensure that our services < 20 24 years 25 34 years 35 44 years 45 54 years 55 years and + with clients are managed correctly and make up the majority of the Group’s workforce. Their percentage within the workforce has december 2010 december 2011 december 2012 ; steadily increased to 91.8% at end-2012. ■ Dedicated Sales People (DSP). These employees make up the Breakdown of workforce by gender: 2010-2012 changes sales team and are responsible for sales and customer relations The coverage interval for the data below is 96.9% of year-end management across the full portfolio of products. The size of this headcount. The percentage of females in the workforce continued to team is stable. rise in 2012, increasing by 0.6 point over 2011 to reach 28.1% at year ■ Dedicated Support Staff (DSS). These employees carry out end. This improvement was mainly due to strong growth in previous administrative support functions. years of BPO (a business sector in which the proportion of females 6.4% 6.2% 6.1% can reach 50%), an activity which attracts more females, and despite 2.4% 2.2% 2% its recent expansion in countries (notably India where the ratio of males to females is 75/25) and business sectors (Services Infrastructure) where females are less present in the workforce. Nevertheless, in several geographic regions the percentage of females is increasing at constant scope. In 60% of countries the percentage of females has 91.3% 91.6% 91.8% either improved or stabilized, with India US, Argentina, Switzerland and Guatemala being particularly noteworthy all progressing by 0.9 pt. The countries with strong BPO development, and therefore a high proportion of women joining the Group, include Poland, China, Brazil (excluding CPM), Romania and Chile where the percentage of women in the workforce exceeds 50%. Conversely, the percentage of women is less than 25% in eleven countries covering 25% of the workforce 2010 2011 2012 analyzed, including France, Belux and Argentina mostly. India, United Kingdom and USA have all improved their ratio and passed the 25% bar this year. The overall gender breakdown is a reflection of the information DSS DSP CSS technology sector as a whole, which tends to attract engineering 72 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset Against a still uncertain economic backdrop for 2012, the Group hired turnover rate remains in line with industry norms and that appropriate more than 31,000 people, one of the highest number in Group’s history response initiatives are developed to suit the needs of each business and a significant increase over both recent years and the average line and geographical area. number of hires over the past decade. COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS Acquisitions Hires transfers The Group’s remuneration policy is based on shared principles, applied 2003 4,724 8,032 in a decentralized way and tailored to local job market conditions and regulations. This policy aims to: 2004 9,285 5,363 ■ attract and retain talent, 2005 14,453 712 ■ reward individual and collective performance with a remuneration 2006 18,592 1,495 model that is motivating yet flexible, 2007 24,814 7,569 ■ be fair and consistent with the Group’s financial and operational 2008 22,526 3,358 targets. 2009 13,072 543 Where local rules permit, employees can select the components of 2010 30,139 7,579 their remuneration package from a predefined package. This provides 2011 32,713 3,158 employees with additional flexibility, enabling them to reconcile their 2012 ; AVERAGE 31,100 20,142 769 3,858 financial and personal situations in the best possible way. 3 Profit-sharing is available to employees pursuant to the local regulations applicable in the country. This dynamic was not felt in the same way across all geographic Vice-President and senior executive compensation schemes are regions and countries, with offshore countries contributing strongly reviewed and authorized at the Group level for both fixed salaries and to recruitment numbers and being responsible for more than half of variable compensation schemes. Non Vice-President compensation all recruitment in 2012. India, where 42% of recruitment took place, schemes, which are locally designed and managed, are subject to saw headcount grow organically by more than 5,000 people in 2012, Group approval with regard to their principles. representing 98% of Group net growth. The diversification of offshore recruitment resulted in the Polish workforce expanding considerably and The minimum salaries applied by the Group in each country always passing the bar of 5,000 people in 2012, while Brazil continued to grow exceed or are equal to the legal minimum salaries in force in the country to become the fifth country of the Group in headcount size. concerned, and are sometimes higher by a very significant proportion. In France this rate is 105%. Due to the difficult economic situation, the employee turnover rate (the percentage of voluntary departures) decreased in 2012 at 17% but was The Selection and Compensation Committee of the Cap Gemini S.A. higher in Latin America and India (where the IT Services market is more Board of Directors is in charge of supervising compensation policies and dynamic) than in Europe or North America. This rate is, however, below actions throughout the Group as well as determining the compensation the peak rate over the last ten years, which reached 19.7% in 2007. of the Chairman of the Board of Directors and CEO. Turnover rate Employee access to stock holding 2003 10,2% In 2009, Capgemini also launched its first international employee stock 2004 14,1% ownership plan, covering 19 countries. This plan was widely subscribed to, with more than 14,000 employees applying for shares. Based on the 2005 15,4% authorization approved by Shareholders, a new international plan was 2006 16,6% launched in 2012 covering all employees of 19 countries with again a 2007 19,7% significant coverage with 12000 employees subscribing. As a result of 2008 17,2% these two plans our employees, as a whole, are the Group’s principal shareholders with more than 6.6% of the Group share capital. 2009 10,4% 2010 16,3% In addition, instead of paying a bonus in cash for the “profit sharing bonus” implemented in France in 2011, the Board decided following 2011 18,1% a negotiation with French employee representatives to pay this 2012 ; 17,0% incentive through performance shares subject to a presence condition in 2 years and with a compulsory holding period of another 2 years. The number of voluntary departures was close to its 2011 level at nearly 20, 000 employees were potentially eligible and might become 20,800. These statistics are carefully monitored to ensure that the shareholders in July 2014. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 73 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset At last, Capgemini launched a product whose performance is related to plans. The Management Report, presented at each Cap Gemini S.A. its share price: the BSAAR. This product was made available to Group Shareholders’ Meeting, provides a detailed yearly breakdown of these managers at the price of €3.22 (at fair value and in accordance with a allocations for the sixth plan and for performance shares. valuation carried out by an external expert) and was accompanied by Concurrently, stock options granted to Executive Corporate Officers an information memorandum approved by the French Financial Markets form a very low percentage of the aggregate options distributed. Authority (AMF). BSAARs are an opportunity for managers who would Under the fifth and sixth plans, 1.1% of the total number of options like to make a long-term investment in the Company (from 4-7 years) allocated was awarded to Executive Corporate Officers, and no options while being fully exposed to fluctuations in the share price. are exercisable on plans still active. Regarding performance shares, resolutions set a limit of 5% or 10% to be allocated to Directors and the Share-based incentive schemes volume effectively allocated represented 2.7% of the total grants of the Cap Gemini S.A. has allocated share-based instruments (stock options 3 performance share plans Moreover, share based instruments are not and performance shares) on a regular basis in line with its corporate allocated on an automatic and/or annual basis. governance. These allocations are made selectively with the aim Detailed information regarding the stock options or performance of rewarding employee loyalty, namely for those who have made shares allocated by Cap Gemini S.A. to directors and to the ten main exceptional contributions to company sales, production, innovation or beneficiaries (non-directors), the options exercised by the latter, and the management or who have been acknowledged for specific initiatives. plans in general are provided on pages 183 to 186 of this Registration Any employee in the Group may be selected to receive them. They are Document. an exceptional reward and do not form part of the general remuneration policy. The last Shareholders’ Meeting approved a resolution granting the Group the authority to award performance shares up to a maximum The Board of Directors allocated a certain number of stock options to percentage of 1,5% of the share capital. This authorization has been 6,193 beneficiaries under the fifth plan, to 2,298 beneficiaries under partly used in 2012 up to 50% with two grants. the sixth plan and to 1,205 beneficiaries under the performance shares WORK ORGANIZATION, HEALTH AND SAFETY WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF PART-TIME WORKFORCE: 2010-2012 CHANGES (2012 DATA ;) 18.9% 2010 2011 2012 6.2% 5.3% 4.6% 4.7% 3.6% 2.8% 1.5% 0.4% 0% a d ies lux pe co S ric c ciﬁ Ind TA an outh an ntr ne Eu roc ia L Am rel ou Be ro Mo d L er Pa TO e &I iarth cc al ntr nd ati n E As m rdi n A ur me ope No ing Ce ea do No nc dK nd ric ite anya Fra a Un rm Ge 74 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset The coverage interval for the above data is 97% of year-end headcount. decreased by 2.9% due to economic pressure Conversely, in India and The number of part-time employees in the Group decreased by 0.6 Latin America part-time working is not widespread which, given the points compared with 2011, to 3.6% of the headcount in 2012. The importance of these regions in terms of recruitment, explains the overall figures show significant variation between regions: part-time working drop in this indicator as most of the headcount growth comes from is most widespread in the Benelux countries with 18.9%, an increase these regions. In France (and Morocco), 5.3% or approximately 1,100 of 3.4 pts due to a change in the scope (without Sogeti Belux in people work on a part-time basis. This figure has remained relatively 2012), followed by the United Kingdom & Ireland with 6.2% which stable over the last three years. WORKFORCE BREAKDOWN OF WORKFORCE BY FIXED WORKING HOURS IN 2012 ; A study of fixed working hours in the Group showed a wide variation 71% between the regions. This study covered 97% of the workforce at year end. France was singled out, with a 35-hour working week, and represented 17% of the total workforce. More than two thirds of our employees have a 40-hour working week. This is mainly the case in Europe (excluding the United Kingdom, Finland and Denmark, where it is generally around 37 hours), North America and India, where the Group offers a more attractive 40-hour week, although the legal maximum working week is 48 hours. South American countries vary 3 from a base of 44 hours per week in Guatemala, Brazil and Chile to 48 hours in Argentina. 17% 8% 2% 1% 35h 36h > 39h 40h 41h > 47h 48h WORKFORCE RATE OF ABSENTEEISM 2011-2012 4.3% 3.4% 2011 2.7% 2.7% 2012 2.4% 2.5% 1.8% 1.5% 1.3% 0% ca d ies ne x uro e co S ciﬁ c ia TA an outh eri an ntr lu roc Ind L rel p Pa TO Am &I ou Be lE Mo d L er As rth cc en nd ati n E iaom rdi tra n A ur me ope No gd ea No nd nc Kin C ric Un ya Fra a ite an d rm Ge REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 75 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset The coverage interval for this study is 62.2% of year-end headcount. of 0.1 pt versus 2011. The highest rate was seen in Poland, at 5.2% as This percentage is relatively low due to the fact that some countries last year, followed by Benelux at 3.4%. France at 2.5% was just at the such as India (which represents nearly a third of our workforce) do not Group average. North America is reporting a significant increase linked collect data on the number of days of sick leave as such. In 2012, the to a different coverage with Sogeti US now included. Without Sogeti, rate of absenteeism for sickness in the sample was 2.5% a decrease the ratio (1.7%) is very similar to last year (1.6%). WORKFORCE NUMBER OF WORK-RELATED ACCIDENTS/NUMBER OF HEADCOUNT 2011-2012 0.95% 2011 0.67% 2012 0.57% 0.58% 0.57% 0.48% 0.48% 0.37% 0.21% 0.11% 0.05% ca d ies lux rop e co S c ciﬁ ia TA an outh eri an ntr ne roc Ind L rel Eu Pa TO Am &I ou Be Mo d L er iarth cc al ntr nd ati n E As m rdi n A ur me ope No do Ce ea ing No nc dK nd ric ite ya Fra a an Un rm Ge The coverage interval for the above data increased from 58.9% in 2011 ■ safe Handling, Use & disposal of Hazardous Substances & PPE, to 77.3% in 2012 linked to India where several units are now tracking ■ emergency Procedures, this indicator. In 2012, the Group recorded 461 work-related accidents ■ guidelines on Capgemini employees working on client sites. a ratio of 0,48% accidents of headcount in scope, of which 44% were in France on account of the regulations in force relating to the reporting Numerous modules are available on line to employees on health and of information. The majority of these work-related accidents were safety matters and as part of our catalog we have a module called accidents during the home/workplace journey. Well Being Essentials addressing a variety of topics such as health challenges, work-life balance, healthy eating, fitness, grief & loss, etc. No work-related death occurred in the Group in 2012 (GRI LA7). Our offices around the world have introduced initiatives to promote Health and safety in the workplace employee wellbeing including: Health and safety in the workplace is an important feature of human ■ work-life balance programs, including home-working (as in France resources and facilities management. Fortunately, the Group’s with two agreements signed in 2011 for home-working and for businesses do not involve high-risk activities. Health and safety professional equality between men and women and parenthood), responsibilities are nevertheless taken very seriously and the company ■ stress management, has established specific processes and measures. At a minimum across ■ improvement of employee-manager relationships, the Group we abide by all local Health and Safety legal requirements. ■ better working conditions. Our Health and Safety policies are focused on information, instruction and training covering: New learning & development modules provide work-life balance programs covering issues such as “stress and vitality”, “conflict ■ accidents, First Aid and Work Related Health Issues, prevention” and health. ■ disability, 76 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset In France, Health and Safety Committee (HSC) are set by locations or Mobility business units. Their main objective is to analyze situations that might have an impact on the work force: moving projects, working at clients’ sites, safety regarding offices or working conditions stress. Actions and COUNTRY OF ORIGIN decisions are reviewed and taken in quarterly meetings and whenever needed, extraordinary meetings might be called. HSC may decide to Others 19% India 40% drive surveys or studies if deemed necessary, to help the management improve working conditions and security matters. To strengthen all the actions set up in Capgemini France related to Health and Safety at work, a new agreement has been signed in November 2012. UK 5% In Capgemini North America, safety and well-being of the employees is Netherlands 7% integrated to the way in which they do business. They strive to maintain low injury rates as a key measure of the duty of care with a goal of France 8% achieving fewer occupational health and safety incidents. They evaluate incidents, trends and patterns that may indicate the need for additional USA 9% Germany 12% potential workplace safety controls. Our workforce is actively involved in the development of a positive health and safety culture through ongoing training as part of our Cigna EAP Program including training in Wellness, Stress management, Prevention of harassment/violence, etc. DESTINATION 3 As in North America, other countries have an Employee Assistance Program (including India). Conducting audit on Health and safety environment is another activity periodically realized (India, UK…) USA 14% Mobility and risk management UK 11% Others 43% We continue to note a significant increase in cross-border assignments and travel across the globe as a result of both globalization and our delivery model. While geographical mobility whether at country or France 10% international level is encouraged by the Group, and most often follows a request by the employee, we need to ensure the physical safety of India 8% our employees traveling to potentially high-risk countries. Through our Germany 8% Sweden 6% Risk Management procedures, Capgemini Group is selective on which countries/locations our employees can work. In countries where there are greater risks for our employees, Capgemini has steps in place To facilitate mobility within each country, intranet sites list available to protect them and such travels are subject to strict rules and must positions. This offers the opportunity for jobs to be filled by existing be approved in advance. If trouble breaks out in a country where the employees prior to being advertised outside the Company. Group’s employees are present, Capgemini’s repatriation procedure and specific insurance covers limit, as far as possible, the risks faced by its employees. Specific training courses and advice are provided by INVESTING IN LEARNING AND DEVELOPMENT its international mobility-support service provider. In 2010, e-learning training was launched and in 2012 some 9,200 employees completed Training policy at least one training module on business travel safety. A geo-localization General learning policy tool has also been set up to identify where our employees are when they are traveling. Additionally, there is an information system which The value of a consulting and IT services company lies in the quality of provides travel alerts when necessary, as well as practical advice on its intellectual capital. In an industry characterized by rapid technological local culture and customs in the countries our employees visit. change and changing patterns of work, it is essential for employees to keep their knowledge and skills up-to-date and in line with client and For professionals involved in overseas assignments or considering an market needs. Likewise, new staff joining the Group is keen to leverage international career, useful information is provided on the Group intranet and build on their knowledge and to gain rewarding professional sites together with relevant rules and procedures. The coverage interval experience. Personalized development plans are therefore designed for the data below is 87% of year-end headcount. In 2012 30,450 during annual performance interviews and reviewed at least once a year. business trips were made outside the normal country of work, of which 40% originated in India. The main destinations for these foreign trips were North America (14%), France (10%) and the United Kingdom (11%). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 77 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset Furthermore, operating units undertake a systematic and iterative review The Group continued to develop its on-line training courses, increasing of the capabilities required for their businesses and their portfolios of by more than 93% over the year, or 1.41 million hours. This channel training offerings in order to keep pace with current and future market now represents 33% of total training hours. needs. Capgemini is committed to the continuing development of all employees, personally and professionally, with the aim of creating and % OF VIRTUAL OUT OF TOTAL LEARNING HOURS (IN MILLION) maintaining a fully competent and motivated workforce with core skills aligned to its present and future business requirements. In providing such development opportunities, we enhance our ability to achieve individual, team and corporate goals. The fundamental strategy of competency development draws on 4.25 mh various approaches: 3.87 mh ■ standard training programs, 3.52 mh ■ virtual classrooms, 2.88 mh ■ mentoring systems, ■ e-learning, ■ on-line books, ■ knowledge Centers, video and on-line TV, 11% 15% 19% 33% ■ on-the job training, 2009 2010 2011 2012 ■ easily accessible databases for knowledge sharing, ■ management of professional interest communities, Virtual learning Classroom learning ■ forums and team rooms, ■ KM 2.0 communities, blogs and wikis. A culture of sharing and networking is vital if knowledge is to be used The Group’s on-line learning management system MyLearning, open and transmitted. Innovation and collaboration are also required. to all employees, is used for informal and just-in-time learning but also register for more formal, structured learning events. MyLearning Sustained focus on training and competency development contains all the Group programs and, for many regions, local curricula. Overall, close to 110,000 ; employees were trained in 2012, up 8% The catalog of courses includes a range of training options to suit compared with the previous year taking the total volume of training different learning styles, including e-learning, books, on-line mentoring, hours to 4.25 million ;. test-preps, on-line examinations, language courses, live virtual training sessions and meetings, and classroom teaching. Classroom instruction is provided either at local training centers, through external suppliers, or % OF UNIQUE EMPLOYEE TRAINED OUT OF TOTAL HEADCOUNT at the Group University. The Group University ; 125,110 The quality of services provided to our clients is dependent upon the 119,707 excellence and motivation of our teams. We therefore invest in the 108,698 development of our employees our most precious asset from their hiring and at every stage of their career. Our University consequently 90,156 plays a key role in the quality of the Group’s products and its competitiveness. The University’s vision is to be the partner of the Group’s continual 88% 85% transformation and competitiveness. Its mission is to: 78% 71% ■ develop the competency and capabilities of our people that are essential to Group priorities and strategies, ■ partner the business to deploy content on Capgemini’s specific know-how and to industry standards, 2009 2010 2011 2012 % of Unique Employee Trained Headcount Total 78 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset ■ create next generation learning that challenges and supports More than 20,400 employees (+36% vs. 2011) were trained at one of the participants while creating a network within and across our our specialist centers (Les Fontaines in France, Hyderabad in India and communities, Chicago in the United States) or locally in the different countries in which ■ rely on our rich history and benchmark with best-in-class learning the Group is present, representing 1.1 million hours of training (a growth organizations to guarantee proven excellence. of 50% vs. 2011). The Global Learning Business Partner Team, founded in 2010 In terms of training delivered by the Group University: 43% was followed composed of the Learning & Development (L&D) Executives of the SBU by employees to develop capabilities specific to their role, 33% on the and Key Countries led by the Business-to-Learning Department of the Group strategic Alliance partners, 12% on Sectors and Service Lines, University worked together to transform the L&D function even further 9% on Leadership and Integration and the remaining 3% on industry by achieving five shared priorities defined for 2012: standards and others. ■ increase the use of more cost competitive “productive time” The Certification process learning programs; the percentage of virtual learning hours went up from 19% in 2011 to 33% in 2012. More appetite for virtual Internal certification learning was created (up from 45% to 52% according to the 2012 This in-house peer review process enables employees to appraise Global Employee Survey). A Framework was also constructed for colleagues’ skills on the basis of precise and clearly identified criteria “Facilitated Virtual Learning Journeys” and applied to 4 programs such as experience gained, knowledge sharing, use of in-house tools (ITIL, PMI, LAP, SAP). The roll out started in H2 and these programs and methods, mentoring and leadership. were already delivered to over 4,000 employees in the Group, ■ contribute to growth and productivity with shorter and more powerful The process has three objectives, namely: 3 integration programs for freshers with high impact from the very ■ to create strong and recognized professional-interest communities first day. A common on boarding fresher program was started by sharing information, knowledge and skills in specific areas, in collaboration with India, France, UK and North America and ■ to ensure blended distribution and graduated progression of skills, rolled out in H2. Already 300 freshers participated in the program, both for in-house and client service requirements, which is delivered in India. Apart from being fast client ready, the ■ to create, in the process, the win-win situation of ensuring fresher understands the importance of Rightshore© from day one, competitive edge for both the Group and its employees, thereby the power of our multi cultural company and how to offer global increasing their “employability”. solutions to our clients, For a number of years the Group has run internal certification programs, ■ support the Group 2015 ambition to win in the Champions primarily for project managers, architects, software engineers and League by globalizing the learning offerings to create one way of network engineers. working. Set up a categorization framework based on L&D Industry Standards (ASTD) to earmark which local learning programs should Nearly 2,200 engagement managers (a 25% increase year on year), be transformed into global offerings. As a result, the volume of 500 architects, 4,544 software engineers and 322 network engineers University learning hours went up from 32% to 48% in 2012, had either obtained or reconfirmed an internal certification by end-2012. We also have an SAP product certification program focusing on new ■ improve control and reporting on L&D metrics via MyLearning and joiners in our Sap practices, on mass certification programs and on Group reporting tools resulting in an increase in usage of MyLearning specific initiatives, with on line access to learning material to support which went up from 70% in 2011 to 78% in 2012 driving the the program. Training programs are developed jointly with the Group cost per participant and per learning hour down by 37% and 6% University to support the a consistent deployment of methods and respectively, content around these different topics. ■ work more closely with the Business, HR and Finance resulting in a real Collaborative Planning and Budgeting Exercise to steer our External certification investments on Business priorities with the right delivery mix. The Group has a longstanding external certification policy enhanced by Key Group University figures on-line learning programs that enable study for external certification, including on-line mentoring. Employees may apply for the following In 2012, more than 101,200 Capgemini employees (81% of our external certification: Microsoft, IBM, Oracle, Sun Microsystems, Cisco, workforce) took part in training schemes as part of the training path Linus Professional Institute, Six Sigma (Green and Black Belts), Project defined by the Group, using various channels. The volume of training Management Institute (PMI), and ITIL. provided by the University was over 2 million hours, representing 48% of total learning taken in the Group. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 79 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset Center certification our passion for service to clients, people and technology. The Group’s commitment to Diversity and Inclusion is embodied in our Code of Centers of excellence around the world continue to develop and Business Ethics. We have come a long way in developing our global strengthen the Group’s ability to support a distributed and increasingly presence through the efforts of our employees from many different global delivery model. Relevant external certification combined with communities across the world. our internal certification programs support these objectives. More than 80 Capgemini centers, including Accelerated Delivery Centers, Capgemini has created a Global Charter to highlight and focus our Application Management Services Centers, Infrastructure Management proactive employee engagement initiatives in Diversity and Inclusion. Service Centers, Business Process Outsourcing Centers, and Technical We are committed to: Excellence Centers now have some form of certification. Centers in 1. fostering the diverse make-up of our workforce in all locations where India, the United States, Canada, France, the United Kingdom, Belgium, we offer services, and at all levels; the Netherlands, Germany, Switzerland, Poland, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Norway, Denmark, Finland and China have ISO certifications 2. increasing awareness of and training in Diversity and Inclusion for our including ISO 9001/ISO 9001-2008. Many centers have CMM/CMMI® employees through multiple communication channels to ensure we (Capability Maturity Model Integration) certification, which is specific involve, and inform them of our actions and results; to the applications development business. In India the centers of 3. continuing to build an inclusive work environment based on Mumbai, Kolkata, Pune, Hyderhabad, Chenai and Bangalore, as well meritocracy; hiring the best people for the roles we offer, and as that of the Asturias in Spain and the OS AM business in the United mentoring, training, and supporting whenever possible to help Kingdom have achieved the highest level CMM and CMMI® certification individuals realise their full potential; (level 5). At least 17 other centers in France, the Netherlands, Spain, 4. wherever possible, considering any aspects of Diversity and Italy, Finland, Argentina, Canada, the United Kingdom and the United Inclusion in our employment and procurement decisions, and Sates have received level 2 or 3 certifications. All BPO centers are ISO involving our elected employee representatives with the design and 9000 certified and IIP accredited, a measure of the global production implementation of employment policies where appropriate; capability, economies of scale and flexibility to adapt to changes in 5. engaging with our clients, partners and suppliers to ensure there is demand. an understanding of our values and clear expectations from those that work with us; EQUALITY OF CHANCES 6. including in our business reviews criteria designed to measure progress made by Capgemini entities or Business Units, as regards Diversity and Social inclusion – Our strategic advantage Diversity and Inclusion; With more than 125,000 employees in more than 40 countries 7. including questions on Diversity and Inclusion in our annual representing 120 nationalities, Capgemini is proud of its wide cultural employee survey, and reviewing any changes as required as a result diversity. Diversity has many facets including gender, disability, ethnicity, of employee feedback; age and lifestyle. We view diversity as both a strategic advantage and 8. including in our Annual Report information on our progress with an ongoing challenge. Diversity and Inclusion: actions taken, best practices across our By creating an international platform, it helps us better understand the Group, and results. global market and to adapt to the communities in which we operate. These statements of intent reflect in detail Capgemini’s vision for In 2011 we produced our Global charter for Diversity and Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion for the Group. We are determined to take to formalise our active promotion of the principles of diversity in our action on this on-going journey, harnessing the power and benefit of employment practices. Our aim is to encourage individuals from diverse what makes each and every employee unique, and celebrating our backgrounds who are innovative, enthusiastic, culturally aware and multicultural and diverse workforce. We know this will enhance the committed to delivering a truly collaborative experience to our clients. employee experience around the Group, create greater opportunities for our business and affirm Capgemini’s status as a preferred global Global Diversity & Inclusion Charter employer. Ever since the formation of the Capgemini Group in 1967, Diversity and We make every effort to adapt to different needs and to enable people Inclusion has been an important part of our employee culture; shaping to work with us under a wide range of personal circumstances. In a how we operate and work with our stakeholders, suppliers and clients number of countries, where allowed, employee data is monitored around the world. according to criteria such as socio-cultural group, age group and For Capgemini, Diversity and Inclusion means attracting, developing disability, etc. Diversity performance indicators are also included in the and retaining the best people in the market, who share our values and annual HR audit. 80 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset Measures taken on gender diversity ■ direct recruitment of women and internal talent development, Today, for a global organization like ours, gender diversity is much more ■ the scheduling of networking events and master classes to coincide than a question of fairness. It is a competitive advantage. Being an with lunch time, rather than after work. employer of choice for talented men and women is vital if we are to The signing of the “Charte de la Diversité dans l’Entreprise” (French unleash the full power of our Group and deliver the best results for our corporate diversity charter) by Capgemini and Sogeti, and their active clients. In 2012, our focus on the value of gender diversity promises to participation in “IMS Entreprendre pour la Cité”, an organization once again be truly global. Capgemini entities from around the world are responsible for promoting the charter to increase diversity in France. celebrating their women’s achievements throughout the week of 9th of Monitoring is carried out at the Group level to better assess and March with special events and portraits showcasing their local women understand the situation of women within the Group, in compliance with role models. applicable legislation, i.e. the percentage of females recruited, leaving In recent years, Capgemini has implemented a number of initiatives and promoted. intended to promote the advancement of women within the This showed that females represented 31% of total recruitments (rate organization, including: of coverage of 92.4% in 2012), a 1.3 points improvement versus ■ the creation of women’s networks in North America, the UK, India, 2011 which contributed to the rise in the percentage of women in Belgium, Australia, Spain, Italy, France and the Netherlands, the workforce at end-2012 driven by Asia Pacific, Central Europe and ■ the development of the India Women’s Council to address the Soutthern Europe/Latin America regions, while Benelux further declined challenges women face in the workplace, tap into the female talent to a low 17%. pool, and serve as a knowledge-sharing and networking forum, 3 ■ the initiation of the Women’s Leadership Development pilot program to provide skill-based training, mentoring, and on-the-job coaching to develop the future leaders of Capgemini, 2012 2011 2010 Recruits % of female % of female % of female North America 28.0% 28.4% 23.3% UK & Ireland 24.9% 24.0% 28.0% Nordic countries 30.1% 32.9% 26.9% Benelux 17.0% 20.5% 20.9% Germany and Central Europe 47.5% 45.8% 45.2% France and Morocco 23.6% 22.3% 20.9% Southern Europe and Latin America 43.7% 41.1% 40.6% Asia-Pacific 29.5% 27.7% 26.6% TOTAL 31.0% ; 29.7% 28.1% Nevertheless, the turnover rate for females was marginally higher (+1.7 points) while the overall turnover rate rose by just 0,7 points (at equivalent scope to hires) than for the total population and during the same period. increased slightly faster, moving from 15.9% in 2010 to 17.6% in 2012 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 81 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset Female attrition 2012 2011 2010 North America 12.0% 12.6% 15.2% UK & Ireland 12.4% 9.6% 11.0% Nordic countries 17.5% 18.2% 15.6% Benelux 11.6% 13.9% 8.7% Germany and Central Europe 20.0% 23.6% 17.4% France and Morocco 11.4% 13.0% 8.2% Southern Europe and Latin America 16.8% 17.3% 14.2% Asia-Pacific 23.0% 23.6% 24.8% TOTAL 17.6% ; 18.3% 15.9% PROPORTION OF WOMEN IN TOP EXECUTIVE POSITIONS PER OPERATING management talent pool. We are also leveraging local leadership UNIT through continuing education, mentoring by senior executives, and increased visibility in order to acquire a better gender-balanced ViceThe proportion of women in top executive positions had increased at President community. December 31, 2012: The largest countries within the Group have women’s councils and 21.0% networks in place with a focus on recruitment, retention, leadership and 19.0% communication. 17.8% 17.3% 17.5% 15.1% Measures taken to favor social inclusion of disabled people 14.2% 13.9% 14.6% In France, since 1995, an active employment policy of people with 12.7% 12.8% disabilities has been launched. In 2005, a specific program in charge 10.7% 9.7% of managing actions in favor of inclusion on disabled people has been created and called “mission handicap”. On October 31st, 2012 a new agreement has been signed with employee representatives, which aims at increasing employability rate of disabled people through apprenticeships. This three years agreement is applicable until end of 2015. These actions are financed by an annual budget of 4.8 million Euros. The agreement has five key axes: Un ited ■ an engagement on improving the employability rate of disabled A N Kin mer orth gd i Ge rm an No om ca rdi Irelan cc & ou ntr ies d people through a specific recruiting and onboarding policy. The ya nd Be objective is to increase the disabled employability rate from 1.64% Fra ntraCe l n e lux nc e a Euro nd M pe an Sout oroc d L he ati rn E o c nA u me op As ica iar e Pa r ciﬁ c to 2.4% in 2015. The recruiting staff expands its sourcing by participating in forums, through consultation of specialized sites and To tal a Ind 20 i To tal 20 12 To 11 tight collaboration with associations, tal 20 10 To tal 20 09 ■ the development of apprenticeships for disabled people which will Following a decline in the proportion of females in the highest executive represent 23% of the total budget: Besides welcoming trainees and grades in 2010, this indicator has returned to growth of 0.3 points apprenticeships, the Group developed partnerships with Centers in 2011 and 0.9 pt in 2012, but nevertheless remains lower than the of Professional Rehabilitation and schools specialized in educating total percentage of females, all grades combined, within the Company. disabled people. Inside the company, these apprentices are The continuing growth of Group headcount in countries with a low supported by voluntary and certified guardians. Furthermore, within percentage of female engineers weighs on the overall percentage the framework of the project CapSH, Capgemini assists Bac+2/3 (although the proportion of women engineers in these countries is level students by financing their studies to enable them to acquire higher than the market average). a master degree, At the end of 2012, 17% of employees who had been promoted to ■ sustainable employment for disabled people: As 80% of disabilities the role of “Vice-President” were female, a percentage slightly lower arise in the course of life, Capgemini commits to support employees than last year. We have a clear picture of our female talent pool in such a situation. Permanently disabled employees can benefit thanks to talent reviews which are undertaken throughout the Group from ad-hoc working conditions or from a financing aid for and which range from interviews with the Group CEO of the most the acquisition or the customization of a vehicle or for specific talented employees to reviews which take place at the Business Unit equipments (prostheses), level. All Business Units are asked to ensure that they build a female 82 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset ■ facilitate indirect employment through sub-contractors who employ have tied up with social institutions that are helping us create the right disabled people with in particular a partnership with the GESAT kind of environment to hire these candidates. This will hopefully provide network which handles the electronic management of all our staff a large employment platform to people who are facing a challenge of files, limited opportunities in the marketplace. They worked primarily with the ■ raising awareness through broader communication to reduce association “Diversity and Equal Opportunity Centre” (DEOC) who has stereotypes and improve understanding. provided consulting services to review the HR and recruitment policies to ensure they are non discriminatory. They have also helped auditing Capgemini France supports also several initiatives/partners facilitating the infrastructure to ensure accessibility for various disabilities. the occupational integration of disabled workers, or helping to break handicap linked stereotypes such as: For recruitment, Capgemini India has participated in two job fairs organized by Cheshire Disability Trust and Ability Foundation. We ■ Tadeo and Signes for deaf or hearing impaired people, have shortlisted 35 candidates with disabilities for further evaluation. ■ Accede to support access to the web for visually handicapped “Enable India” helped us in checking the accessibility of IRW (Integrated people, recruitment work-list, our internal recruitment portal) using JAWS ■ Capgemini is a founding member of Hanploi which in particular (screen reader software) and found it accessible. Now they are helping developed a web site Hanploi.com dedicated to handicapped us identify candidates with visual impairment who can be trained on people, IRW and Naukri & Monster (India’s leading job portals) and then can be ■ Arpejeh which aim is to improve and promote the training, the employed for resume sourcing and interview scheduling roles. qualification and the employment of young disabled persons. Additionally Capgemini India has plan to work with NGO’s namely In India, Capgemini has started an inclusivity initiative for disabled National Association for the Blind (NAB), Samarthanam, Mitrya Jyoti, 3 candidates to tap this talent pool. They are taking necessary steps to The Association of People with Disability on the recruitment and training provide appropriate infrastructure to these people at our premises and side. WORKFORCE NUMBER OF PEOPLE IN THE GROUP WITH A DISABILITY 2010-2012 524 2010 2011 2012 308 242 55 66 50 2 6 4 ca d s x c ia ntr elu G o cc S ciﬁ an outh an eri rel ie Be Ce erm oro Pa Ind Am &I ou n ntr an dM d L er As rth cc al y a ati n E iam rdi Eu nd an n A ur No do ing No rop nc me ope e e ric dK Fra a Unite The coverage interval for the data above is 91% of year-end headcount. Measures against discrimination The coverage has improved due to launching new programs in 2012 for In all countries of operation, the group complies with local labor disabled persons in India and as a result 66 people are now identified. In legislation and international labor regulations. In our working practices, 2012, data indicated that the Group employed 1,257 disabled, of which we are committed to ensuring that: 42% in the United Kingdom and 25% in France. This is 333 people more than in 2010 as a result of India programs but also programs ■ talented individuals from different backgrounds are recruited and described above. retained, ■ individuals are shown respect and treated fairly, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 83 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset ■ our working environment is free from bullying or harassment, the appraisal process, the company can ensure the professional ■ employees are encouraged to keep a good balance between work development and promotion of all employees and respect for equal and private life, opportunities. ■ the health and well-being of our people is supported, The Performance and Development process is driven by regular meetings between the employee and the evaluator, conducted in ■ a sound and fair working environment where staff can grow and relation to assignments. The mentoring system has been set up in a develop is provided. number of entities to allow employees to benefit from an outside view Capgemini will not tolerate any form of discrimination in the workplace and career management advice from more experienced colleagues on any grounds. Discrimination can take two forms direct and indirect. throughout their careers. The GCM sets out expectations and skills Direct discrimination occurs when someone is treated less favorably, descriptions for each grade, which are used for setting objectives, for example on grounds of their gender, race, age, disability, religion or evaluation and preparing for promotion. The development priority areas sexual orientation. Indirect discrimination occurs when a condition or of the skills dimensions differ for each grade, giving guidance on areas rule is applied which disqualifies a large proportion of one group from an where employees should focus. activity and there is no genuine reason for imposing that condition, In all countries of the Group, there is a “grievance escalation process” which Workforce percentage of employees having had a performance and enable employees who are feeling that they are being discriminated career review in 2011-2012 against can escalate their complain using this process. The claim will be The coverage interval for the data below is 97% of year-end headcount. investigated fully and disciplinary action could be taken if discrimination is proven. In 2011 and 2012, 91% of the workforce concerned had undergone an annual performance review. Some regions are further ahead than Personal development and appraisals others in this area, such as Europe and North America (due in particular A key challenge for a services company such as Capgemini is to change in the scope with the addition of Sogeti US), where the figure to guarantee a consistent and transparent process of individual is close to 100% (with the exception of the Benelux countries where performance assessment based on a set of clearly-defined and coverage is weakest at 74%). Latin America is close to the Group level explained criteria. By establishing a clear framework to guide while India is only at 84% 100% 100% 98% 98% 96% 95% 91% 91% 84% 74% 2011 2012 ca d ies lux G o cc S ciﬁ c ia TA an outh an eri rel ntr ne Ce erm oro Pa Ind TO L Am &I ou Be ntr an dM d L er As rth cc al y a ati n E iam rdi Eu nd an n A ur No ing do No rop nc me ope e e ric dK Fra a ite Un 84 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset SOCIAL DIALOG AND INFORMATION PROCESS The success of three global campaigns around diversity, the environment, and corporate citizenship demonstrated the importance Dialog and communication at the heart of our relationships employees attach to these themes, and to the Company’s reputation in these areas. Capgemini believes effective communication is a precondition for an open and honest culture, and for the involvement and engagement of A communications channel dedicated to the Group’s Vice-Presidents employees. It is also essential for effective knowledge dissemination, helps foster team spirit and communication amongst this community. sharing success and creating a sense of belonging within teams, at The Executive series comprises a monthly newsletter, The Executive both the Group and local level. Summary, ad-hoc communications via The Executive Link, and a dedicated space on the intranet, The Executive Corner. VPs also 2012 saw the launch of a single global intranet, Talent, with all local receive real-time external communications to the market or the press. sites housed on the same platform to offer a consistent user experience For special events such as acquisitions or Company results, VPs and increase connectivity within the Company. The new Talent site are sent a specific document summarizing the key messages and a brings more relevant information, contains numerous social elements “Communications Pack” containing the key information to be passed (our internal social media tool Yammer is fully embedded), and enables on to their teams. personalization-the MyDesk area enjoys 75,000 profiles. Every day, through news published at global and local levels, Talent showcases the To ensure consistency, and protect the Group’s image across commercial dynamism of the teams, the excellence of delivery, and the the different means of communication (newsletters, opinion polls, best Group practices, tools, and innovations. It is the channel by which messages, etc.), production tools and templates provide the the Group’s strategic directions and priorities are communicated, as well various elements of the Group’s graphics chart, allowing editors to as those of the operating entities. Short video messages are regularly concentrate on the content. To constantly improve the quality of internal 3 posted on the platform to bring top executives closer to employees. communications, virtual and on-site classrooms sessions on editorial techniques and best practices in journalism were carried out by internal In 2012, Talent registered 33 million connections. In addition to the communications professionals. website, a daily summary of local and international news, the Talent News Alert, is sent to 6,000 subscribers and a weekly digest of global The annual satisfaction survey showed that the level of employee news to all Capgemini employees every Friday. satisfaction with communications and the distribution of information remains broadly unchanged (VPs were more satisfied than average). Our internal social media tool Yammer continued to grow and Employees believe the “Capgemini team spirit” is particularly important, now boasts over 42,000 profiles, with some 20% active users. and that it is linked to the Company’s ethical values, its image, and the Communications teams leverage Yammer to communicate, exchange, fighting spirit that characterizes the Group. and guide employees towards other content sources. The business units’ social networking sites are also proving popular, with the Communication at the heart of employee transfers Consulting Services site registering 3,000 members and Sogeti 10,000 Maintaining the involvement and satisfaction of existing employees is members. The most popular discussion themes focus on technology, only part of the communications challenge. Winning the hearts and innovation and mobility opportunities within the Company. minds of the many people who join the Company each year as part Physical and virtual events were also accompanied by internal of an outsourcing deal or an acquisition is vital to the success of any communications to ensure that messages and tools were aligned. transition process. All efforts are made to facilitate access to Group tools and channels, and ensure that newcomers quickly feel part of A multichannel internal campaign, “Have la niaque”, was held to the Group. nurture a common fighting spirit (“la niaque” in French) across the Group in order to boost performance and drive results. Through a Two-way communication and employee involvement highly interactive website and eye-catching visuals featuring Capgemini At the heart of Capgemini’s communications philosophy is a Group team members, the campaign invited employees to share best commitment to two-way communication. While informal dialog is always business practices and, at the same time, create a personalized poster encouraged, understanding the engagement and satisfaction levels of to illustrate them. Embraced by all businesses across all continents, the employees is also formally sought through the annual Group Employee campaign enjoyed 40,000 visits to its website, with 2,000 posters being Survey process. The survey stands like one of the best management created. Numerous local initiatives and events highlighted the business tool to understand the complexity of our organization as well its benefits of “la niaque”, while recruitment and onboarding programs specificities in term of Business models, management & leadership, relayed the importance of the “niaque culture” within the Group. cultural differences, and sensitivity to the local or global landscape. Following an initial video blog and poster entry by Group Chairman and CEO Paul Hermelin, many senior managers and executive committee Since the very first global edition in 2006, our Global Employee Survey members joined their teams in sharing best practices, recording short is run across all Capgemini entities worldwide on a yearly basis. video testimonials, and mobilizing their networks to adopt the right behavior. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 85 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.2 Our people, a key Group asset In 2012, a total of 104,338 employees from Capgemini and Sogeti were The company also supports dialog with unions or other employee eligible to participate at the Group Employee Survey. 76,919 employees representatives through the processes provided for under local then agreed to participate. The survey was fully web based and was legislation, regulations and agreements. The IWC has a dedicated available in 12 languages. 10 survey versions (CORE Capgemini, intranet site to give all Group employees open access to IWC CORE Sogeti, Capgemini Canada, Capgemini Consulting, Capgemini information. Germany, Capgemini Italy, Capgemini Spain, Capgemini Swed./Norw./ In 2012, the 22 member countries were invited to four ; plenary Fin, Sogeti Netherlands and Sogeti Nordic) were proposed to our meetings including two which were organized by Group Management employees and were built around 83 close ended questions, 1 open in “Les Fontaines”, in the presence of Paul Hermelin, Group CEO, and comments question. Each close ended question has a market standard two organized by delegates in Antwerp and Utrecht. Constructive and 5-point scale: 1 (Strongly Disagree) to 5 (Strongly Agree) positive discussion took place on various topics such as Group strategy, In 2012, the Employee Survey has reached a good level of process IP management, career and employability and pyramid management. maturity. The Survey process is now well accepted by the employees In addition to these four meetings, the Board met monthly to progress and generally recognized by all managers as a managerial steering the actions points from these meetings or to discuss topics related to tool. Main difference to previous surveys was the fact that almost all monthly activity. Businesses had deployed visible action plans based from 2011 survey In addition to the IWC, the labor dialog is organized locally through feed-back. ad-hoc employee representative bodies managed in several European At the end, the 2012 Group Employee Survey reported a 73% of countries through an information/consultation process and leading to participation rate with an outstanding increase of +11 percentage signing agreements following a negotiation process. For example in points to 2011. Moreover the Survey follow-up has been the 2012 France 3 agreements have been signed to specify the roles and the largest increase item, overall +13 percentage points measured on the mission of the representative bodies within the French UES in regard to question: “I have been adequately informed about the results of the the social, professional and/or business impact of the various subjects. Employee Survey 2012 and actions have been taken in response to the This negotiation culture led to sign 3 new agreements in 2012: one survey findings”. on inclusion and disabled employees, one on profit sharing and one related to night shift and on-call period ;. The tracking mechanism for More than 230 Engagement Champions got trained by the Group and such agreements will be put in place across the Group where relevant are now coordinated by their SBU Champions Leaders. Their role is in 2013. In countries where the social dialog is not governed by local to further analyze the local results to support their local managers and regulations, the management of labor relations is done in a proactive leaders to better leverage the findings. A new calendar and a new manner by engaging with employees to understand and alleviate their dynamic has been put in place based on the 2012 results in order to issues (the Global Employee Survey being a key tool in this matter) accelerate and keep the momentum everywhere: for the very first year, the major part of the business units published their local action plan in The emphasis on transparent dialogue with employee representatives is December. particularly important in difficult economical times. In 2012, Capgemini conducted two restructuring plans, one in Spain and one in the Employee representation and social dialog Netherlands. Both plans were discussed in-depth and negotiated with Capgemini also demonstrates its commitment to formal two-way our employees representatives. dialog through its approach to employee representation. The company The Spanish operation launched the Social Plan at the end of the first upholds the laws of representation and recognizes the importance of Quarter in 2012 in which 243 people, equal to 6% of the total staff, got constructive dialog between employees and management in shaping made redundant. This number is the combination of 227 redundancies key decisions affecting the running of the Group. and 56 voluntary leavers. The Social Plan was agreed with the In 2001, the International Works Council (IWC) was set up as the official Employee’s representatives, and all redundant people were included in representative body of the Group. It enables employee representatives an Outplacement Program. to bring employee interests directly to the attention of Group The Dutch operation launched the Social Plan in the middle of 2012. It management and, in return, to be directly informed by management was the start of a major turnaround program going significantly beyond of plans for the Company and the impact of such plans on employees. headcount reduction. A variety of actions were agreed with the Central Since 2004, Capgemini has gone beyond European legislation on Dutch Work Council. Firstly, a headcount reduction of 350 employees works councils and opened IWC meetings to members from nonof which a significant proportion came out of management functions. European countries, including North America and India, creating a truly Secondly, a calibration program of the salaries of all employees against globally representative body. In 2011, through its policy of including the their market value with salary re-alignment completed where necessary. major non-European countries in the work of the Committee, the IWC Finally, a major reskilling and training program was commenced. welcomed a representative from Brazil. In 2012, a total of 22 countries are represented on the IWC, namely Austria, Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Hungary, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, Norway, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Spain, Sweden and the UK, in addition to North America, India and Brazil. 86 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.3 STAKEHOLDERS AND THE ENVIRONMENT 3.3.1 Perimeter and themes PERIMETER undertaken in order to determine which indicators should be included in this report. All Grenelle indicators are listed in the table in section 3.5 Following the introduction of the Grenelle II legislation (article R.225including both those reported and an explanation of those not reported. 105-1 of the French Commercial Code), a process of analysis was 3.3.2 Our stakeholders OUR CLIENTS this often goes hand in hand with reduced carbon emissions. Therefore, considering sustainability principles through our service offerings The OTACE client satisfaction policy ensures clients can meet the rising demands of regulation, competition, rising operational costs and mounting scrutiny upon the consumption 3 Our client relationship management process, known as OTACE (On of resources. Time and At or Above Client Expectations) is a key factor underpinning our strong client relationships. Under OTACE Reporting, clients are Details of our service offerings can be accessed on our website at: requested to specify their expectations from our services based on a http://www.capgemini.com/services-and-solutions/challenges/ set of indicators relating to the following: corporate-responsibility-sustainability/overview/ ■ type of service required, ■ nature of the working relationship, Merlin Data Center ■ knowledge sharing. As an outsourcing provider, we ensure that when clients outsource all their operations to us, we can proactively mitigate the risk of increasing We document and analyze these indicators with clients to produce emissions through our sustainable data centres and implementing ratings that are reviewed according to an agreed schedule. Green IT as well as by reducing our own internal impacts by employing OTACE provides an indication of strengths and areas for improvement, energy efficient technologies in our offices and focusing on reducing as well as a deeper understanding of client satisfaction on individual business travel. projects. In 2012, nearly 4000 client engagements were monitored Based on state-of-the-art technology, Merlin was considered the most using OTACE. The results showed that 95% of projects were delivered sustainable data center in the world when it opened in 2010 to ensure on time (4% up on 2011 results) and 92% met or exceeded customer client’s systems are run as efficiently as technologically possible with expectations, with an average client satisfaction of 4.3 out of 5. reduced emissions (based on their own in-house systems). In 2011, it Our client focus and our Collaborative Business Experience is the won the Data Centre Dynamics Leaders’ Green Data Centre Award, and essence of the way we work with our clients. Client satisfaction and the Uptime Institute’s Green IT Award for data centre design. It was also their appreciation of the value we bring in contributing to making their a runner up in The Guardian’s 2011 Sustainable Business Awards, and businesses successful and sustainable is essential to our business. This a finalist in the 2011 Business Green Leader’s awards. In 2012 it was is reflected in how our people feel: in our 2012 Global Employee Survey, approved by the EU Institute for Energy and Transport for meeting the 91% of people strongly agreed that they “feel personally responsible for requirement of the EU Code of Conduct for Data Centers in recognition their client’s satisfaction.” of our reduction of energy consumption in a cost-effective manner without hampering the mission critical function of the data center Sustainability at the center of client offerings Further information is available from: Clients are increasingly expecting their suppliers to help address http://www.capgemini.com/merlin sustainability challenges, for example, to minimize their environmental impacts. As a provider of business transformation services we believe BPO Sustainability Services that we are well positioned to help clients with these challenges. Managing sustainability performance is increasingly critical for our As an IT service provider we have an opportunity to help clients with clients, which also raises the requirement for systems and processes to their own carbon challenges in terms of the advice that we offer and capture complex and comprehensive data sets. Our Business Process solutions that we design and deliver. We also recognize that operational Outsourcing (BPO) Services provide such systems covering both data efficiency is a key factor in ensuring longevity for our clients and that REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 87 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment management and energy, carbon and sustainability reporting. Such ■ preserving the confidentiality of supplier information, systems are essential for well-informed management decisions on ■ managing supplier risk, carbon management and energy reduction. Our outsourced service for ■ ensuring supplier contracts have effective clauses corresponding to Energy, Carbon & Sustainability Data Management and Reporting can our Sustainable Procurement Principles, accommodate all global protocols and emission factors. ■ maintaining the appropriate commercial relationships with suppliers. The BPO service is powered by CA ecoSoftware from CA Technologies, one of the world’s leading software as a service (SaaS) sustainability Supplier diversity and equality is encouraged: we aim to allow qualified management tools. The service provides an efficient, cost effective, high small and minority businesses the opportunity to receive a share of our quality management, analysis and reporting service, leaving the client business. Our “eco-system” approach with major clients aims to foster free to focus on its sustainability strategy and improvement projects. this and level the entry barrier where practical. Further information is available from: http://www.capgemini.com/ Contractors’ and suppliers’ staff are expected to work according to the carbonaccounting same CSR & sustainability standards as our own employees; in tandem, we treat contractors and suppliers with the same Health & Safety and Diversity standards as our own employees. Smart Energy Services—Experience Reduces Risk During 2012, the Capgemini Group competition laws policy was rolled Capgemini’s Smart Energy Services (SES) provides the full spectrum out. The Capgemini Procurement team is committed to comply with of smart metering, smart grid and smart analytics solutions through all applicable competition and anti-trust laws and regulations. All team leveraging best practices developed over the last 10 years working members have been trained and have acknowledged the correct alongside the world’s leading utilities. We are helping over 43 million procedures in relation to the way we should professionally and correctly utility customers by delivering sustainable energy efficiency and manage our supplier base. environmental solutions—transforming utility operations and the customer experience. Our commitment is strong with more than 8,400 professionals dedicated to the utility sector. Our sustainable procurement principles More information is available at http://www.capgemini.com/smartenergy. Capgemini expects its suppliers to conduct their relationships with us and any of our clients and commercial partners on a fair and ethical basis and in compliance with our core principles of sustainability. These OUR SUPPLIERS AND BUSINESS PARTNERS principles apply both to the products and services provided, to the Capgemini’s commitment to supplier relationships is reflected in its suppliers’ activities and, where appropriate, to their downstream supply comprehensive set of guidelines on the ethics of purchasing and the chains. selection of suppliers. Our core principles are: 1. Human rights – Respect for human rights when dealing with Purchasing activities suppliers’ stakeholders in a broad sense, e.g., team members, In our purchasing activities, we are conscious of environmental issues clients, suppliers, shareholders and communities. Suppliers should and impacts, social impacts, human rights, and anti-bribery and support the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. corruption. The ten key principles of the United Nations Global Compact They must avoid the use of equipment in violation of these rights or guide our activities throughout our business. This means that we are the manufacture or transfer of arms to oppressive regimes. committed to ensuring that we only work with suppliers who respect 2. Respect for national, international, regional and local applicable the appropriate ethical policies and human rights. laws We recognize that customs, traditions and local practices Capgemini has set out “Guidelines on Ethical Procurement” and wishes may differ. Nevertheless, as a minimum, we require our suppliers to develop long-term, sustainable relations with selected suppliers. to respect local, national and international laws including, in Should a supplier fail to respect these ethical guidelines, Capgemini is particular, all environmental, health and safety and labor laws. We then entitled to cancel the contract without compensation. expect suppliers to support International Labor Organization core conventions on labor standards. Our procurement procedures involve: 3. No forced or compulsory labor – Our suppliers must not use forced, ■ treating suppliers fairly, bonded or compulsory labor and employees must be free to leave ■ selecting vendors based on value, performance, price and their employment after reasonable notice. Employees must not be sustainability, required to lodge deposits, money or papers with their employer. ■ providing justifiable and transparent selection decisions, 88 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment 4. No child labor – We refuse to accept the use of child labor in the Sustainable procurement in practice supply chain: Capgemini continues to implement its “Sustainable Procurement in • no one should be employed who is below the legal minimum age for Partnership” project. This reviews every category of goods and services employment in the country, procured from suppliers, in order to identify key areas of sustainability • children (below the age of 18) must not be employed for any work risk and related opportunities for improvement. “Risk” in this context that is hazardous or inconsistent with their personal development. refers to whether the product or service being procured has the 5. Equality and diversity – We refuse to accept unlawful discrimination potential to make a material impact on our sustainability performance of any kind in working relations and we expect diversity to be and commitments; or whether it is subject to legislation, particularly promoted. Suppliers should not discriminate in hiring, compensation, environmental legislation. access to training, promotion, and termination of employment or The project encompasses: retirement. ■ a review of our supplier base in terms of risk and extent of 6. Employee well-being and development – Where applicable, suppliers expenditure, should give consideration to flexible working conditions to foster a ■ a more detailed survey of prioritized suppliers to assess supplier work/life balance and the personal development and training of team performance compared with sustainability principles; if required, members. agreeing appropriate improvement activities with prioritized 7. Disciplinary practices – Employees must be treated with respect and suppliers, and dignity. Any physical or verbal abuse, harassment, threats and/or ■ assessing all new suppliers, who are required to complete a other forms of intimidation are prohibited. sustainability questionnaire. 3 8. Freedom of association – Insofar as permissible by the relevant laws, A detailed survey is carried out and our suppliers are expected to respect should be given for freedom of association. comply with our Core Principles of Sustainability. In 2008, the Group’s 9. Health and safety – A safe and healthy working environment for all Procurement Officers agreed to complete a risk and expenses employees must be provided in accordance with the international assessment of all key suppliers. The program was implemented in our standards, laws and regulations. This includes making sure that largest countries in 2009 and supplier assessments have now covered adequate facilities, training and access to safety information are 88% of worldwide purchasing expenses. Some 4,293 suppliers were or provided. Any policies, procedures and guidelines must be adhered are currently being analyzed. Following this analysis, 215 suppliers ; to. Where suppliers work on Capgemini premises, or on behalf of have been delisted or reclassified. There are additionally 222 suppliers Capgemini – such as for the use, handling, transport or disposal who are participating in a resolution program to bring them to the of hazardous materials or the disposal of electronic equipment – required standards. they must confirm that they understand their obligations. They must also confirm that they have management processes and controls in The following risk criteria have been identified to ensure that a more place, and agree, whenever applicable, to be fully responsible for detailed assessment of new suppliers can be undertaken if required; any liability arising from their actions. these criteria are extensive and include: 10.Confidentiality and intellectual property – We require our suppliers, ■ Excessive use of scarce, or non-renewable natural resources, and contractors and their team members to preserve the confidentiality ■ Standards and specifications for particular categories of spending of any information to which they have access in accordance with (for example, procurement of energy from renewable resources, applicable laws. We also expect them to protect any intellectual recycled paper), supply chains utilizing low-cost countries where the property belonging to Capgemini, its clients, suppliers and/or primary supplier has not assessed and managed risk appropriately. individuals. Capgemini also aims as far as possible to undertake all procurement 11.Refusal of bribery and corruption in business practices. (real estate, equipment, business travel) in accordance with its 12.Environmental impacts – We continue to focus on reducing our environmental policies and guidelines. This has been embedded into environmental risks and impacts, and on improving our overall standard contracts since 2007, with the option of terminating a contract environmental performance. In particular, we are working to reduce in the case of non-compliance. our negative impacts in a quantifiable way. The areas concerned are: During recent years, the Group has signed strategic alliances with • carbon emissions, diverse leading suppliers in order to maintain its dependence and • waste and its elimination, guarantee its services in the long-term. In 2012, Group purchases from its top ten suppliers totaled €845 million. The number one, top five • efficient use of natural resources (such as energy, water and raw and top ten suppliers represented 3.06%, 6.49% and 8.23% of Group materials in general), revenues respectively. • protection of biodiversity, • minimizing the release of harmful emissions into the environment, measured by appropriate checks (operational and technical). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 89 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment ACTIONS IN THE COMMUNITY Another channel of employment generation is to focus on identifying specific technologies like “the Oyster Program” in India which provides Social and economical impact of our business regarding training at our cost to identified students before hiring them on our rolls, employment post successful completion of the training. This not only creates fresh employment but also creates a talent pool of candidates with niche With again more than 30,000 recruits in 2012, Capgemini has an skills in the market. important social and economical impact in most of the countries of the Group and is acting as a key employer locally. For all these employment programs, Capgemini has received several awards in 2012 such as in Poland (“TOP 200, 2012 edition More than 40% of the total recruits are young graduates from highlyCompany with the greatest employment growth”, “TOP 200, reputed technology schools and business schools, thus creating 2012 edition, the best IT place to work in Poland”…), in Italy (Top employment or replacing positions for more than 12,000 new Employer for three years in a row), or in Belgium (Top employer graduates annually. In most countries, partnerships with Universities or in 2012). Schools are signed and many actions and job fairs are organized in Management and Engineering Schools like in France (ESEO, Telecom Relation and dialogue with Communities Paris, INSA Rennes), India, North America, and UK. In Latam countries such as Chili, Brazil, Guatemala and Argentina, Capgemini generates Capgemini remains as firmly committed to the social aspects of a major impact in the labor market, recruiting employees with little sustainability as we are to the environmental, and recognize our or no work experience, offering students the opportunity to obtain responsibility to the communities in which we operate. Our longevity their first job and acquire experience in a global company, one of the depends in part on our support of these communities and the interest biggest problems in these countries being accessibility to education. of our employees at local, national and international levels In France, many communications and job fairs are set up with major Capgemini actively encourages its employees at all levels to get involved universities to explain the Group career and professional paths (in 2012, in the communities where they live and work. We channel our time, 3 partnerships have been signed to strengthen the relations between energy and creativity into having a positive impact through partnerships universities and the Group Capgemini in Aix-Marseille, Cergy Pontoise with various foundations, volunteering, pro bono work, fundraising and and Paris Est Val de Marne). In UK, Capgemini has been recruiting in also by awarding funding, where appropriate. Joining forces to help high numbers of young people during 2012 (over 50% of external hires) others strengthens team spirit, improves communication skills and through apprenticeships and graduate programs which is positive in procures a better understanding of the communities around us. assisting youth unemployment, in particular in Midlands where youth Our focus on community projects is very much aligned to our corporate unemployment is high. purpose and values. We recognize our responsibility to contribute to the In regions such as North America, India or Asia Pacific, Capgemini talent and skills of the wider population. Our fundamental community creates employment in certain specific development focused areas. philosophy is to support skills for the future, education and inclusion. In North America, Capgemini recruiting standard practice is to hire as We acknowledge that diversity is a source of richness and competitive much as possible to our hub office locations, as well as to locations advantage so our aim is to support diversity and nurture future talent where we have large projects (as opposed to more remote locations in all its forms. We operate in communities across the world both from where we have no pipeline of work). our network of offices and from our client and RightshoreTM sites. Our In India, two of our potentially biggest campuses are situated in community strategy therefore focuses on local, national and global semi-urban special economic zones identified by the Government of initiatives. India. These campuses located near Chennai and Pune respectively Our intention is to provide as many opportunities as we can for our contribute to the development of the local economy by providing employees and to engage in activities for which they have passion and commercial and employment opportunities to the local populace. commitment. Additionally, we align and embed our community program Additionally, India has commenced operations with three tier cities such with our business activities and client work to ensure sustainability. We as Trichy and Trivandrum thereby widening the spread of Capgemini measure and share this with our people, our community partners and within the country. our clients through communication vehicles such as our externally In Asia-Pacific, Capgemini has an impressive regional footprint with published Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Report, our presence in Singapore, Hong-Kong, Malaysia, Taiwan, Philippines, internet site and our internal Talent intranet or Global Employee Survey. China, Vietnam and Japan. In line with our localization strategy, in most To maintain our focus and promote a standardized approach we began of these countries, the majorities are locals and are managed by a local work on a global community policy in 2012 which will be rolled out to all management team. With this focus on localization, Capgemini has been our group operations starting in 2013. able to contribute to build employability in these local markets and in some of them we have been able to demonstrate our commitment through a long term presence (more than 15 years in Taiwan). 90 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment Our global Naandi initiative Some Naandi initiatives within the Group Our partnership with the Naandi Foundation and its Nanhi Kali Initiative ■ Capgemini UK has now opened 10 Hamari school libraries in (focused on supporting young girls through their school education) has schools attended by Nanhi Kali girls, providing them with access to a direct positive community impact in India; it is also aligned with and a wide choice of books, newspapers and educational documents supports our CSR & sustainability strategy. In 2012, we sponsored managed by a full-time librarian. In the summer of 2012, we reduced just under 10,000 girls in India by means of schemes and initiatives our corporate sponshorship of individual Nanhi Kali girls introducing across the Group. We are still the largest corporate sponsor of Nanhi instead the Last Lap program supporting smaller groups of girls Kali internationally and the second largest for the foundation overall. in their penultimate year of school and with aspirations to go onto Nanhi Kali has been officially adopted in the framework of CSR and further education. Support is given to see them through their final sustainability by 13 Group countries with Capgemini Italy the latest to school leaving exams by providing extra exam coaching, skills launch an initiative in 2012. building sessions, and an opportunity to get some work experience with our Capgemini India business. France 35 ■ Capgemini UK Aspire continued the adoption of a school in Italy 24 Mumbai thanks to fund-raising efforts which to date have generated Denmark 208 £20,000 from the sale of samosas at the ASPIRE offices. This Netherlands 801 funding enables Naandi to provide basic academic knowledge to Norway 1 789 underprivileged children from the slum in which the school is located Germany 411 and to encourage them to continue their education. North America 102 Holding 141 ■ Capgemini Norway supported a client in opening a further 10 3 Australia 260 Hamari school libraries in Mumbai and continues to back project India 1 499 Finland 300 Nanhi Kali as its global CSR initiative. ■ Capgemini India opened up the Nanhi Kali sponsorship scheme to all 40,000 employees across India, and is supporting Capgemini UK UK 1 993 in delivering the Last Lap program and providing volunteers for the Sweden 1 584 UK’s Business in the Community (BITC) Give and Gain day. ■ The Group holding company is continuing to sponsor one Nanhi Kali student for a year for every 1,000 e-cards sent from a platform set up by the Group’s Internal Communications department. In 2012 the opening date of the platform was brought forward in line with Number of girls sponsoring the UN’s International Girl Child day, celebrated across Capgemini Country 2011 2012 countries supporting Naandi. Norway 5,038 1,789 ■ Capgemini Germany registered Naandi as a charity, launching Holding / France 115 176 www.naandi.de to encourage people outside Capgemini to become Australia 261 260 involved with this program and to make Project Nanhi Kali more Finland 333 300 widely known through social networking sites. UK 2,899 1,993 ■ Capgemini Belgium fundraises for Naandi through employee driven activities. Sweden 1,808 1,584 ■ Capgemini Italy began supporting Project Nanhi Kali, bringing the India 1,844 1,499 total number of Capgemini countries supporting Naandi to 13. USA 46 102 Germany 170 411 Netherlands 723 801 Denmark 155 208 Italy 24 TOTAL 13,392 9,147 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 91 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment CAPGEMINI GROUP AND THE NAANDI FOUNDATION Norway Sweden Finland Naandi Norway Sponsoring 1,584 girls Sponsoring 300 girls sponsoring 1,789 girls Germany Sponsoring 411 girls Denmark with www.nandi.de Sponsoring 208 girls opening up sponsorship to externals North America Sponsoring 102 girls United Kingdom India Opened a further 3 school Employee sponsorship scheme libraries and sponsoring open to all 40,000 employees. 1,993 girls Sponsoring 1,499 girls Netherlands Sponsoring 801 girls Capgemini Group (Paris) Sponsoring 176 girls Italy Launched in 2012, Australia sponsoring 24 girls Now in its 5th year of supporting Naandi, Australia sponsors 260 girls, funded through staff donations and Capgemini Group is the 2nd Largest Corporate Sponsor of the Naandi Nanhi Kali Program fundraising efforts – currently sponsoring almost 10,000 girls in India PlaNet Finance Initiative In addition, in late 2011, Capgemini launched a dedicated website, in association with PlaNet Finance’s microcredit platform MicroWorld, to Our local professional services company, Sogeti, has enjoyed promote the growth of micro-credit in less advanced countries. This a partnership with PlaNet Finance an international non-profit site provides a secure platform that enables individuals to finance organization, set up to reduce poverty in the world through the micro-entrepreneurs’ projects around the world through on-line development of micro-finance – since PlaNet Finance’s creation in loans to projects that have been validated from a socially responsible 1998. This partnership has made a significant contribution to reducing perspective. poverty for a number of people. So far Capgemini’s involvement has led to over 1,000 Capgemini and Sogeti’s support for PlaNet Finance goes beyond financial aid. It Sogeti team members lending €40,000 to 700 projects. This initiative includes technological expertise and critical IT systems support, has also helped build awareness on how to help others in ways other enabling PlaNet Finance to invest more time and money in micro-finance than donating money, i.e. giving a “hand up”, rather than simply a “hand initiatives. Sogeti manages PlaNet Finance’s computer system by out”. hosting computer applications including intranet, electronic messaging, and on-line training, and provides services related to human resources. 92 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment Summary of donations made Country Donations Programs India 42,472 € WeKare society 125k€ RSE (50 k€ Cercle Passeport, 20k€ IMS Entreprendre pour la cité/ Etude stereotypes, 15k€ Ims Entreprendre/Défis Mecenova, 15 k€ Partenariat Fondation Yann Arthus Bertrand) 167k€ France 292,480 € mission handicap 64 k€ CERVO/promotional Articles, 12k€ EMC forum, 12k€ Several Sports, 10k€ Kessler NL 194,300 € foundation, 10k€ Leerstoel, 10k€ NVZD UK 127,217 € United Way, Naandi Foundation, Ninos de lagos Charles Tillman Foundation, Feed my Starving Children, Regina Dominican High School, Foundation North America 76,866 € for the Carolinas, CWFW, American India Foundation, N Power Charlotte Largest operations sub total 733,335 € Landsindsamlingen 2012, Naandi, Red Barnet Capgemini Italy 95k€ Planet Finance, 15 k€ SANT’ANDREA TERRE VICINE E LONTANE Naandi Capgemini Spain Fundación Adecco (145k€), 3 FCSD (Fundación Catalana Síndrome de Down) (50k€), Fundación Roig Alfonso-Mercadona (20k€), FUNDAL (Fundación para el Deporte de Alcobendas) (20k€) Other Europe sub total 548,035 € CADIN (Centro de Apoio ao Desenvolvimento Infantil) Asia and Australia sub total 9,999 € Latin America sub total 5,010 € 25k€ Foundation Make A Wish, 30 k€ Foundation St. Opkikker, 11k€ Foundation Kinderen Kankervrij, Sogeti 85,234 € NY Marathon GRAND TOTAL 1,381,613 € France includes the donations for Sogeti France. to work on development projects, to stimulate business and entrepreneurship and to work towards a sustainable future together. Other Europe includes Denmark, Italy, Norway, Spain, Sweden, Portugal, Germany, Finland, Poland, Czech Republic. Capgemini North America partnered with Habitat for Humanity. The partnership has given our employees an opportunity to make a Asia and Australia includes Asia Pacific and Australia. difference in their local communities and get involved. Latin America includes Chile and Guatemala. Capgemini Poland has been working together with Siemacha Sogeti includes Sogeti Netherlands and Sogeti Germany. Association for over 3-years running successful knowledge sharing sessions, workshops for youth leaders, company visits, recruitment Highlights of national and local initiatives within the Group shows and training and our annual charitable theatre performance. In France, Capgemini and Sogeti partner with an organization called “Nos Quartiers ont des Talents”, which helps young graduates from In Guatemala we continue to support Niños del Lago (NDL: Children disadvantaged areas find gainful employment. Approximately 40 Sogeti of the Lake). We launched a special committee of Good-Will employees, some of whom are members of the executive committee, Ambassadors, a group of employees that will help progress specific mentor graduates each year. activities and provide local leadership to engage with other employees and spread the word about getting involved in the communities in which Capgemini UK continues to make a difference to young people through they operate. Each initiative will support a different organisation that our national partnership with The Prince’s Trust. Our employees have supports children in need. multiple opportunities to get involved where they live and work, through volunteering, mentoring, client hospitality, pro-bono work and taking We apply Capgemini’s core values of freedom and respect in our part in challenges. In 2012 UK employees helped raise over £25,000. communities by encouraging and enabling our local teams to support the causes that inspire them. In recent years, our community activities WeKare, a Community initiative for Capgemini India employees, is have included: currently operational at our sites across India. Under the WeKare banner ■ b uilding classrooms for children with Down’s syndrome in we partner with 50+ organizations across 3 major cities working in the areas of education, environment and employment. Guatemala, ■ supporting urgent relief efforts for earthquake victims in Chile, as well Capgemini Netherlands partnered with SIFE (Students in Free as flood victims in Queensland Australia and Northern Brazil, Enterprise), an organization providing students with the opportunity REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 93 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment ■ organizing charity, sporting and cultural events across North America considered best practice and our priorities in each area. The Global with the help of the United Way, Analyst Relations Team builds relationships with key market analysts ■ providing financial support to restore Santa Maria ad Cryptas, a and provides them with information on Capgemini. In addition, it informs historic church in Abruzzo that was damaged by earthquake employees about the analysts’ opinions of the Company. Further details on the many initiatives in this field can be accessed using the link below: Analysts, financial indexes and the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) http://www.capgemini.com/about/corporateresponsibility/ A report by independent analysis firm Verdantix identified Capgemini as a “Specialist” supplier of sustainable technology services. This Green Sponsoring and partnership approach Quadrant® report provides a detailed fact-based comparison of 17 Group company sponsorship of sports, cultural, social, educational of the leading sustainable technology service providers globally. The or business events, either occasional or recurring, forms part of analysis is based on interviews with 15 buyers representing firms with Capgemini’s communication and marketing with customers and other revenues of $331 billion, supplier responses to a 52 point questionnaire stakeholders. Sponsorship is different from charitable donations, as its and detailed supplier interviews. Companies in the Specialist quadrant purpose is to promote and strengthen the Group brands and impact. are characterized by in-depth capabilities in focused technology areas, To ensure that a sponsorship serves its intended business purpose, it broad portfolios of emerging sustainable technology services and must be pre-approved and it should comply with applicable laws and internal sustainability programs. Capgemini scored “Best in class” for be aligned with Group’s “Seven Values”, policies and Code of Business data center efficiency, with the following commentary: “through its Ethics. Merlin data center in the UK, Capgemini has developed one of the Regarding sponsorship, the Group has established a longstanding world’s most sustainable and energy efficient data centers”. partnership with the rugby community especially in France due to: In the same report, Verdantix also acknowledged our expertise in smart ■ An alignment of values and team spirit, metering and noted “Capgemini scores Best in Class for its smart meter expertise with over 15.7 million meters deployed and 1.7 million meters ■ The quality of the relationship which can be developed with clients under management in both Europe and North America”. around this theme, ■ The strong local implementation which reinforces the link with the This year we were once again included in the FTSE4Good index and regional communities, were among the Top 250 companies on the 2012 Newsweek Green Ranking. The top global companies on this list were selected from ■ A positive image. thousands of companies for their positive environmental impact and for It is the Group’s policy not to make, directly or indirectly through a third their environmental management. Capgemini were awarded a ranking of party, any cash or in-kind contribution to any political organization. 95 out of a 100 putting us just outside the sector leaders. In certain circumstances, the Group wishes to have a positive impact The 2012 Carbon Disclosure Project results showed that Capgemini on the communities in which it operates and where Group company was given a disclosure score of 78 out of 100 (compared to the average employees live. As a major global player, it works with national and of 48 across 2400 participating organisations), which for the first time international organizations on community projects ensuring that: allowed CDP to award a performance banding (a C compared to ■ the charitable organization’s goals are compatible with the Group’s the average of D) for our environmental performance. This included “Seven Values” and our Code of Business Ethics and our Corporate a greenhouse gas emissions inventory where data was available, for Social Responsibility policy, our offices, data centers, travel and hotel usage in addition to climate change management strategy statements, governance and stakeholder ■ the organization is a legitimate charitable organization. engagement. Capgemini UK currently hold Platinum status in the annual Business in RATING AGENCIES the Community (BitC) Corporate Responsibility Index which is a leading Capgemini respond to and engage with a number of independent voluntary corporate responsibility benchmark, in the UK. BitC measures corporate responsibility and sustainability analysts and financial the way sustainability has been integrated across our business and our rating agencies. We take seriously external analysis of our CSR and degree of positive impact. The index is then used to drive best practices sustainability performance and welcome measurement by reputable for sustainability across the UK business for year-on-year improvement. third parties. This gives us a clearer vision of our position in relation to 94 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment 3.3.3 The Group and the environment Capgemini recognizes that even though we do not manufacture CAPGEMINI GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY products, the services we provide and business activities in which we STATEMENT are engaged, can still adversely impact the environment. We appreciate Capgemini is one of the world’s foremost providers of consulting, that our growth as a business will depend in part on our ability to technology and outsourcing services. Our business activities are recognize the limits of the environment in which we operate and our delivered from both our own network of offices and data centers as well ability to alter our business model accordingly. as at our clients’ sites. We also understand that we can make a significant contribution to This policy statement applies to all offices and data centers managed by minimizing environmental impacts, not only through the way we manage Capgemini, all employees, and suppliers retained by Capgemini. our own business, but also in the way we assist our stakeholders to reduce their environmental impacts. Although we do not manufacture products, we recognize that our business activities do have impacts on the environment and we are The Group has therefore committed to minimize its negative impacts in committed to continually improving our environmental performance. the areas most relevant to its business, to comply with any legal and other relevant requirements involving the environmental impacts of its We are committed to identifying and complying with all legal and other operations, and to permanently improve the environmental performance relevant requirements relating to the environmental impacts of our of its operations. operations, and to the prevention of pollution through the adoption of ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management Systems are in place appropriate controls. 3 in our operations in the UK, Netherlands, Belgium, Portugal and Brazil. Specifically, we expect the operations in the countries we operate to: This currently accounts for around 20% of our global population. The 1. have a full understanding how to quantify and track our implementation of the Group Environment Policy will facilitate activities environmental impacts (at a minimum, our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) within the remaining countries to address ISO14001 requirements. A Emissions) in line with our statutory reporting requirements, Group wide EMS Guidance Document commenced its roll out in 2012 to ensure each country has the tools and correct best practice guidance 2. identify energy saving initiatives within our portfolio of offices to to increase our global coverage. reduce the Group’s energy consumption and associated carbon footprint, We are committed to identifying and complying with all local and 3. drive energy efficiency initiatives in our Data Centers, international legal and other relevant requirements relating to the environmental impacts of our operations and to the prevention of 4. implement initiatives to minimize travel (and in particular Air Travel), pollution through the adoption of appropriate controls. without disrupting our ability to meet the demands of our clients, 5. implement initiatives to reduce the amount of waste we generate, and to maximize the percentage of our waste which is recycled, GROUP ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY 6. have procurement processes which ensure that our suppliers The Group environment policy signed in 2011 by the CEO, Paul provide products and services which help us to achieve our Group Hermelin, sets out the expectations for all countries. This policy environmental policy, particularly in relation to carbon emissions, statement reinforces our commitment to environmental compliance and reducing energy consumption, and minimizing waste. the continual improvement of environmental performance across our global operations, specifically in the areas of energy, business travel and Performance against our objectives and targets, and this Environmental waste. The policy roll out commenced in 2012 ;. Policy, will be reviewed at least annually. Signed: Paul Hermelin Position: Chief Executive Officer REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 95 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment IDENTIFICATION OF KEY ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS While local variations may exist across our group operations, our key material environmental impacts are show in the table below. Key Environmental aspects Aspects and impacts applicable to the Capgemini business Energy Our main environmental impact comes from the consumption of electricity, gas and oil to light, heat and power our offices and data centers. Data centers are particularly energy intensive due to the high level of IT equipment to be housed, powered and cooled. As an example around 56% of the electricity we use in our UK operations is consumed by the data centers alone. Travel The business travel we undertake, including journeys by road, rail, air, and from staying in hotels all consume fossil fuels, contributing greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and impacting climate change. Tackling this is a major challenge for our industry, which is reliant on the mobility of its people in order to utilize their skills and experience in serving our customers worldwide. We continue to take advantage of opportunities created by technology such as video conferencing supported by a virtual “meet and greet” concierge service. We have also improved or introduced some collaborative tools to facilitate remote working and allow a greater flexibility. These combined capabilities give our employees access to a wider range of alternative options to travel and will enable us to set and achieve global travel emission reduction targets in the future. In many countries we also address the issue of emissions from company car fleets through approaches such as set emission caps or by promoting hybrid vehicles. Waste Much of the waste that the Group produces is generated from office consumables and packaging. Capgemini aims to minimize the amount of waste that is sent to landfill by providing recycling facilities in key offices. We also try to engage our people and work with key suppliers to reduce the overall amount of waste in the business, generated by its daily operations. We ensure that all electronic equipment is recycled in accordance with local laws. HIGHLIGHTS ■ In partnership with the Goodplanet foundation, Capgemini has founded the French translation of the 2011 report of the Worldwatch ■ Capgemini has been a signatory of the United Nation’s Global Institute (a North American independent interdisciplinary research Compact – Caring for Climate since its inception in 2007. organization created in 1975 and Goodplanet is an environmental ■ In 2012 Capgemini UK retained Ecomanagement and Assurance non-profit organization). Scheme (EMAS) re-registration of its UK Environmental statement, ■ Capgemini became a member of the “Comité 21” in June 2011. the highest European level of assurance for its environment “Comité 21” is a network of sustainable development practitioners program. Capgemini UK is currently the only company in its sector and was created after the Rio Summit in 1994. The mission of to currently hold EMAS registration. The statement is available online “Comité 21” is to create conditions for exchange and partnerships at: http://www.uk.capgemini.com/resources/capgemini-uk-plcbetween its members who come from all sectors. environmental-statement-for-2011. ■ In July 2010 Capgemini’s UK Chairman was one of several European ■ Capgemini signed the 5th in a series of Communiqués on Climate business leaders to sign a joint declaration to EU institutions and Change in 2012, organized by the Prince of Wales’s Corporate ministers, calling for a 30% target for cutting carbon emissions as Leaders Group on Climate Change. Capgemini is also signed up part of increasing Europe’s climate ambition. This was covered by to the preceding four. This Communiqué calls for “clear, transparent the FT, the BBC and Le Monde, among others. and unambiguous price on carbon emissions” to enable businesses to respond. This follows our support of the previous Cancun (2010), Copenhagen (2009), Poznań (2008), and Bali (2007) Communiqués. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE ■ Capgemini are signatories to the Guadalajara ICT declaration for A critical part of driving environmental performance improvements is Transformative Low-carbon Solutions. This urged governments the ability to accurately and robustly measure environmental data. To at the Cancun summit in 2010 to use the power of ICT as part provide the necessary high quality data, a global Carbon Accounting of the mechanism for transitioning to low a carbon economy, and and Sustainability Reporting system is currently being deployed to proposed the creation of a workstream on developing low-carbon provide standardized data collection, monitoring and management. ICT solutions. 96 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment This robust approach to environmental data collection and reporting Where data is unavailable, as was sometimes the case for water and is also essential for meeting corporate reporting obligations such as some modes of transport, the data has been deliberately excluded. the French Grenelle II legislation at Group level, and the British Carbon Further disclosure about the scope of data available and extrapolations Reduction Commitment legislation for Capgemini UK. employed is presented in footnotes under the data tables. As well as facilitating mandatory reporting, the deployed carbon accounting approach, which is based upon monthly data gathering, KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS provides timely information enabling the identification of potential Capgemini’s largest countries in France, India, the United Kingdom, savings (in terms of both emissions and cost). This approach has the Netherlands and North America (comprising of operations in both already realised significant cost and emissions savings in terms of Canada and the United States of America) represent around 70 percent energy and business travel in Capgemini UK, the first country where of Capgemini’s global headcount. The combined carbon emissions of the system has been fully rolled out. Capgemini UK has also achieved these operations amount to 280,337 tons of CO2e (calculated in most Eco-Management and Audit Scheme (EMAS) Registration for its cases by using the conversion factors and methodology recommended Environmental Statement the only company in its sector to date. by UK Government’s Department of Environment, Farming and Rural The full Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Reporting system is Affairs (DEFRA)). Where country specific conversion factors have been currently being rolled out globally starting in 2012 with our largest identified as more accurate, these factors have been used (e.g. ADEME countries by headcount (France, Netherlands, North America and factors for certain French data including emissions from urban heating). India). Combined with the UK, these countries account for [70] percent The carbon footprint tables below include the emissions associated of global headcount. During 2013 the system is being deployed in a further 10 countries to improve our global coverage. with our use of gas, diesel, electricity (in both data centers and offices), urban heating, steam, cooling and business travel. As water usage 3 The Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Reporting system is now also is not currently regarded as a significant environmental aspect for being provided to clients as a managed service. Capgemini, it has been excluded. However, water consumption data is included as part of the carbon accounting system roll out, which will allow us to identify consumption areas where there may be a more METHODOLOGY significant impact from our use of water, for example in cooling systems. Given that the full global Carbon Accounting and Sustainability Capgemini’s consumption of paper and the generation of waste along Reporting system is currently being rolled out, the maturity of with the amount recycled is not detailed within this report as the current environmental reporting varies across the Group. At the time of data data gathering practices differ significantly between countries. A smaller collation for the 2012 Annual Report only the data for Capgemini UK number of countries (for example: the UK and the Netherlands) have was available directly from the Carbon Accounting system. All other more robust data sets enabling the success of waste reduction and countries performed specific data gathering exercises to collate recycling initiatives to be measured. For example, the UK generated the data presented. Furthermore, in presenting the following tables a total of 270 tons of general waste (excluding hazardous waste) of environmental data it has been necessary to make a number of across its facilities in 2012 with a recycling rate of 69%. Although waste assumptions. Where only partial data is available, extrapolation has productions are reported locally in certain countries (for example: the been employed to estimate the total annual impacts. This extrapolation UK), as the waste volume available for most other countries is based has in many cases included November and December of 2012 where on estimated values, it was decided that the resulting emissions full annual data-sets were unavailable at the time of data preparation. In calculations were unlikely to be representative and have therefore not rare cases, up to 6 months data had to be extrapolated (travel by plane been reported. Table 1 shows the energy consumption and carbon in Netherlands) emissions associated with Capgemini’s and Sogeti’s operations in The extrapolations have included in particular: France, India, Netherlands, United Kingdom and North America (United ■ estimating 2012 data based upon available 2011 data (according to States of America and Canada) together. Where available the data for documented methodologies related to differing circumstances and Capgemini and Sogeti it is shown separately. For India and France the covering all aspects of energy, travel and waste data), data for Capgemini and Sogeti is showed combined. ■ estimating emissions data based on available cost data (employing assumptions such as the cost per kwh for electricity and gas; and cost per liter of diesel or per km of travel). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 97 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment TABLE 1: OVERALL CARBON EMISSIONS – INDIA, FRANCE, UNITED KINGDOM, NETHERLANDS AND NORTH AMERICA Energy Travel Waste MwH Emissions in Tons CO2e in tonnes Business Total Data Electricity Travel Emissions Waste Energy Centre Office Urban Business (Hotels inc. Hotels (NonCountries (All sources) Gas Diesel Electricity Electricity Heating Travel nights only) (Tons CO2e) Hazardous) India Capgemini & Sogeti 88,845 NA 7,174 NA 74,010 NA 30,677 6,782 111,860 507 France Capgemini & Sogeti 67,438 31 48 3,102 2,539 187 21,454 4,697 27,361 0 UK Capgemini 66,752 448 63 26,616 6,731 NA 14,722 3,376 48,580 271 UK Sogeti 115 0 0 NA 60 NA 298 46 358 0 Netherlands Capgemini 27,592 563 16 6,518 3,436 0 21,157 581 31,690 245 Netherlands Sogeti 1,167 0 0 44 444 NA 115 0 604 0 North America Capgemini & Sogeti 85,224 387 44 28,477 3,309 0 27,665 5,758 59,882 452 TOTAL LARGEST OPERATIONS 337,132 1,429 7,345 64,757 90,529 187 116,089 21,240 280,337 1,474 ; excluding hotel nights 259,097 ; NOTES 6. Travel: In Capgemini India and UK, emissions associated with taxi journeys have been included. 1. North America: The majority of data for North America (including USA and Canada) have been extrapolated based upon available 7. Sogeti: The data for India and France contain the Sogeti operations 2011 data. within those countries. For UK and NL the values were available separately and reported as such. No Sogeti data were available in 2. Energy: Given the nature of our business, many of Capgemini’s North America. offices have large server rooms. These are not considered to be data centers but their presence should be taken into consideration 8. Table key: NA (not applicable) denotes areas where data is not when comparing the energy usage of our offices against those in available because the source is not used. For example: there is no other sectors. urban heating in the UK. 3. Travel: Emission factors as produced by the Carbon Neutral 9. Table key: 0 denotes areas where data was not available. Company have been used to calculate the emissions associated The emissions reported for Capgemini India have risen significantly with hotel nights in all countries. It was identified during the external compared to those reported in the 2011 Annual Report. This is due Grenelle II audit, that these factors, when applied outside the UK, primarily to greater data coverage for the Indian operations. In 2011, the may be too high with the result that the figures presented above are Indian energy data were limited to Capgemini’s operations in Mumbai, likely to be higher than reality. As more appropriate emission factors Bangalore and Kolkata. The 2012 figures include information from 33 could not be obtained, the figures have been reported as calculated separate facilities in nine Indian cities. The 2012 figures for India also but with total emissions from hotel stays also shown separately. It is include travel data where limited travel data was previously available. acknowledged that the figures represent a likely worse case and the Overall emissions reported for Capgemini France have also risen since methodology employed will be reviewed for future reports. those reported in 2011. This is due to the a more comprehensive data 4. Travel: In some countries, for example France and North America, gathering exercise having been undertaken in 2012 leading to more the number of nights is estimated. complete view of overall emissions. 5. Travel: In Capgemini Netherlands emissions data associated with travel includes personal car use as well as business mileage as it could not be separated. 98 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.3 Stakeholders and the environment Despite the addition of four new sites in this year’s data set, the Environment data have also been collected from Capgemini’s emissions for Capgemini UK fell in 2012 by 4 percent reflecting the onoperations in Australia, Austria, Belgium, Brazil, Chile, China (including going impact its established Sustainability Program has had working Hong Kong), Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, Germany, Guatemala, towards a series of publically stated environmental improvement Hungary, Italy, Mexico, Norway, Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Romania, targets. These 2014 targets, set in 2008, include: Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, and Vietnam as well as Sogeti operations in Belgium, Finland, Luxemburg, Spain, and Sweden. ■ reducing overall emissions (excluding data-center emissions) by 20%, Initial data gathering suggests that the combined emissions of these ■ improving data-center efficiency by 20%, operations amounted to an estimated 57,993 tons of CO2e in 2012. The headcount of these operations equates to 27 percent of the Group ■ reducing travel related emissions by 30%, and by headcount. ■ eliminating waste to landfill. Combining, this indicative figure with the largest operations gives an Further details can be found at: overall estimated emissions figure for Capgemini Group of 338,330 tons http://www.uk.capgemini.com/about-us/csr_sustainability/environment/ of CO2e (hotel nights included). This figure gives an indicative coverage our_performance/ of 97 percent of the Group by headcount (corresponding to 317,090 tons of CO2e hotel nights excluded). 3 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 99 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.4 INDEPENDENT EXTERNAL ANALYSIS Statutory Auditors’ attestation of disclosure and limited assurance report on a selection of human resources, environmental and societal information (Year ended December 31st, 2012) explanation is given in accordance with the third paragraph of Article R. 225-105 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditor’s review and Decree no. 2012-557 dated 24 April 2012 (Attestation of report issued in the French language and is provided solely for the disclosure), convenience of English speaking readers. The review report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law ■ to provide limited assurance on whether the qualitative and and professional auditing standards applicable in France. quantitative information selected by Cap Gemini S.A. (1) and identified by the ; symbol (the “Data”) is fairly presented, in all material To the Board of Cap Gemini S.A. respects, in accordance with the Guidelines (Limited assurance Pursuant to your request and in our capacity as Statutory Auditors of report). Cap Gemini S.A., we hereby report an attestation of disclosure of the We called upon our Corporate Social Responsibility experts to assist us consolidated human resources, environmental and societal information in the performance of our work. presented in the management report issued for the year ended December 31st, 2012 in accordance with the requirements of Article 1. Attestation of disclosure L. 225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). We have also performed the review described below for the purpose of Our engagement was performed in accordance with professional enabling us to express limited assurance on a selection of indicators, standards applicable in France: identified by the ; symbol. ■ we compared the Information presented in the management report with the list as provided for in Article R. 225-105-1 of the French MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY Commercial Code (Code de commerce), ■ we verified that the Information covered the consolidated perimeter, The Board is responsible for the preparation of the management report namely the entity and its subsidiaries within the meaning of Article including the consolidated human resources, environmental and societal L. 233-1 and the controlled entities within the meaning of Article information (the “Information”) in accordance with the requirements L. 233-3 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), of Article R. 225-105-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), presented as required by the entity’s internal reporting ■ in the event of the omission of certain consolidated Information, we standards (the “Guidelines”) and available at the entity’s premises. A verified that an appropriate explanation was given in accordance summary of the Guidelines is presented in the report in the chapter with Decree no. 2012-557 dated 24 April 2012. “Corporate Social Responsibility & Sustainability”. On the basis of our work, we attest that the required Information is disclosed in the management report. OUR INDEPENDENCE AND QUALITY CONTROL 2. Limited assurance report on a selection of Data Our independence is defined by regulatory requirements, the Code of Ethics of our profession (Code de déontologie) and Article L. 822Nature and scope of the work 11 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce). In addition, We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE 3000 we maintain a comprehensive system of quality control including (International Standard on Assurance Engagements) and French documented policies and procedures to ensure compliance with professional guidance. ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We performed the following procedures to obtain a limited assurance that nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the selected qualitative and quantitative Data and identified by the STATUTORY AUDITORS’ RESPONSIBILITY ; symbol in the management report are not fairly presented, in all It is our role, on the basis of our work: material respects, in accordance with the Guidelines. A higher level of assurance would have required us to carry out more extensive work. ■ to attest whether the required Information is presented in the management report or, if not presented, whether an appropriate (1) Quantitative information: Direct energy consumption by primary energy source, Greenhouse gas emissions, Average workforce broken down by geographical area, age, gender, Number of hires and attrition, Breakdown of part time workforce and fixed working hours, Number of IWC meetings, Number of training hours and employees trained, Percentage of women in hires and attrition, Number of suppliers delisted or reclassified after an analysis of their CSR performance, Number of employees trained in the anti-corruption policies and procedures. Qualitative information: statements related to the environmental policy, the summary of collective agreements and the Group University. 100 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.4 Independent external analysis Regarding the selected quantitative Data, our work consisted in the ■ we performed tests of detail based on sampling, consisting in following: verifying the calculations made and reconciling the data with the supporting documents. ■ we assessed the suitability of the Guidelines as regards their relevance, completeness, neutrality, understandability and reliability, The sample thus selected represents 52% of the workforce, 100% of taking into consideration, where applicable, the good practices in societal Data, and between 34% to 100% of the selected environmental the sector, Data. ■ we verified that the Group had set up a process for the collection, Concerning the qualitative Data, we conducted interviews and reviewed compilation, processing and control of the Data to ensure its the related documentary sources in order to corroborate this information completeness and consistency. We examined the internal control and assess its fairness. and risk management procedures related to the preparation of the Data, CONCLUSION ■ we conducted interviews with those responsible for human resources, environmental and societal reporting. Based on our work described in this report, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Data identified by the At the level of the consolidating entity and the controlled entities, we ; symbol are not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance implemented analytical procedures and, based on sampling, verified the with the Guidelines. calculations and the consolidation of this information. At the level of the entities (1) (the “Entities”) that we selected based on their business, their contribution to the consolidated indicators, their 3 location and a risk analysis: ■ we conducted interviews to verify that the procedures were correctly applied, The Statutory Auditors Paris La Défense and Neuilly-sur-Seine, 22 February 2013 French original signed by: KPMG Audit PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Department of KPMG S.A. Philippe Arnaud Jacques Pierre Thierry Raes Serge Villepelet Partner in charge of the Climate Partner Partner responsible of the Partner Change & Sustainability Services Corporate Social Responsibility Department (1) Cap Gemini France S.A.S., Capgemini UK Plc., Capgemini India Private Ltd and Capgemini Business Services (for the environmental Data), Capgemini India Private Ltd (for the human resources Data). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 101 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.5 GRENELLE CORRELATION TABLE The following Grenelle II table details the indicators included in the legislation and the extent to which Capgemini has reported. Explanations for not reporting against any indicator are also included. HR data indicators Y/N  Explanation a) Employment Total headcount; Distribution of employees by gender, age and geographical area See pages 70 to 72 Recruitments and redundancies See pages 73 and 86 Remunerations and their evolution See pages 73 to 74 b) Work organization Working time organization See pages 74 to 75 Absenteeism See pages 75 to 76 c) Labor relations Organization of social dialogue including information procedures, consultation and negotiation with the See pages 85 to 86 employees Summary of collective agreements See pages 85 to 86 d) Health and safety Occupational health and safety conditions See pages 76 to 77 Summary of collective agreements signed with trade unions or the representatives of the company health See pages 76 to 77 and safety committee Occupational accidents, including accident frequency and severity rates, and occupational diseases See page 76 e) Training Policies implemented regarding training See pages 77 to 79 Total number of training hours See pages 78 and 79 f) Equal opportunity Measures implemented to promote gender equality See pages 80 to 82 Measures implemented to promote employment and integration of disabled people See pages 82 to 83 Policy against discrimination See pages 83 to 84 g) Promotion and compliance with ILO fundamental conventions relative to: The freedom of association and recognition of the right to collective bargaining See page 68 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation See page 68 The elimination of all forms of forced labor See page 68 The abolition of child labor See page 68 102 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3 3.5 Grenelle correlation table Environmental indicators Y/N Explanation a) General environmental policy The organization of the company to integrate environmental See pages 95 to 96 issues and, if appropriate, the assessments and certification process regarding environmental issues Information and training measures for employees regarding the See pages 95 to 96 protection of the environment Resources allocated to prevention of environmental risks and Due to the nature of our activities, our impact is mostly linked to pollution associated carbon emisisons. Hence the most relevant indicator has been identified as Greenhouse Gas Emissions and to the set of actions implemneted to reduce and optimize energy resources and sustainable resources in general Amount of the environmental risks provisions and guarantees, As above unless such information is likely to cause serious prejudice to the company in an ongoing litigation b) Pollution and waste management Measures of prevention, reduction or repair of discharges As above into the atmosphere, water and soil, impacting severely the environment Measures regarding waste prevention, recycling and disposal See page 96 3 Consideration of noise and of any other activity specific pollution As themes 3,4 and 5 c) Sustainable use of resources Water consumption As water usage is not a significant environmental aspect for Capgemini, Water supply adapted to the local constraints it has been excluded from the data tables. The Group roll out of our carbon accounting system requires the inclusion of water consumption at which time it can be identified if the water used in cooling systems (especially in our data centers) is significant Consumption of raw materials and measures implemented to Due to the nature of our business we do not consume raw materials improve efficiency in their use Energy consumption and measures implemented to improve Energy consumption is broken down by geographical area (p. 98) energy efficiency and renewable energy use Land usage As there is very little land or ‘green’ space at our office loactions for which we have responsibility, data relating to the use of land is not available and not considered applicable d) Climate Change Greenhouse gas emissions GHG emissions for a limited scope Adaptation to consequences of climate change we evaluate the risks in terms of energy costs. The aim going foward is to set reduction targets globally e) Biodiversity protection Measures implemented to protect and conserve the biodiversity As there is very little land or ‘green’ space at our office loactions for which we have responsibility, data relating to the use of land is not available and not considered widely applicable REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 103 3 Capgemini, its values, employees and corporate social responsibility 3.5 Grenelle correlation table Social and communities indicators Y/N Explanation a) Territorial, economic and social impact of the company activity: Regarding regional employment and development See page 90 On the local populations See page 90 b) Relations with stakeholders, including associations of integration, educational institutes, associations for the protection of the Environment, consumers organization and local populations Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders See pages 90 to 94 Actions of partnership and sponsorship See pages 90 to 94 c) Subcontractors and suppliers Integration of social and environmental issues into the company procurement policy See pages 88 to 90 Importance of subcontracting and consideration, in the relationship with See pages 88 to 90 subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility d) Fair business practices Action implemented against corruption See pages 67 to 68 Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety Due to the nature of our activities, we are not faced with consumers and are not building products which may impact health or security of consumers e) Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights Other actions implemented to promote Human Rights See pages 67 to 68 104 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.1 COMMENTS ON THE CAPGEMINI GROUP 4.3 COMMENTS ON THE CAP GEMINI S.A. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 106 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 174 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over Income statement 174 the past year 106 Balance sheet 174 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated Appropriation of earnings 175 financial statements and outlook for 2013 109 Share capital and ownership structure 175 4.2 CONSOLIDATED 4.4 CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 112 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 176 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 112 4.4.1 Balance sheet at December 31, 2011 and 2012 176 4.2.2 Statement of income and expense recognized 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended in equity 113 December 31, 2011 and 2012 178 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of financial position 114 4.4.3 Notes to the financial statements 179 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash flows 115 4.4.4 Statutory Auditors’ report on the financial 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 116 statements 195 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated for the year ended December 31, 2012 117 agreements and commitments 197 4.2.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 172 4.5 OTHER FINANCIAL AND ACCOUTING INFORMATION 198 4.5.1 Five-year financial summary 198 4.5.2 Subsidiaries and investments 199 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 105 4 Financial information 4.1 COMMENTS ON THE CAPGEMINI GROUP CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 4.1.1 General comments on the Group’s activity over the past year The business slowdown observed at the end of 2011 continued through consolidation of Prosodie. Excluding this change in Group structure, the year, although contrasting trends between geographic areas were the decline in revenues is mainly attributable to Consulting Services noticeable: North American and Asian markets remained buoyant, while (-15.2%) and Sogeti (-2.4%). The Technology Services and Outsourcing the European market slowed considerably. businesses reported nearly stable revenues. The operating margin in France in 2012 is €171 million (7.8% of revenues), compared with The Group foresaw this slowdown and successfully demonstrated €187 million in 2011. its ability to improve margins in a sluggish market. Capgemini Group reported revenues of €10,264 million, up 5.9% on published figures for North America reported revenues of €2,101 million in 2012 (20.5% last year and even 1.2% like-for-like (that is at constant Group structure of the Group total), up 16.4% (7.0% like-for-like, with the difference and exchange rates) – the difference between these two growth rates due to the appreciation of the US dollar against the euro). As in 2010 being attributable to the appreciation of the US dollar and pound and 2011, growth in this region was driven by the dynamism, on a likesterling against the euro and the full-year consolidation of Prosodie, for-like basis, of the Consulting Services (+8.5%), Technology Services acquired mid-2011. (+10.6%) and Sogeti (+9.4%) businesses, while the Outsourcing Services business remained almost stable reporting growth of 0.9%. The operating margin rate for 2012 is 7.7%, up 0.3 points on 2011 The North America operating margin in 2012 is €186 million (8.8% of (7.4%) and in line with the objective announced at the beginning of revenues), compared with €159 million in 2011. North America became 2012. Despite a significant increase in restructuring costs (€168 million the leading contributor to Group operating margin in 2012. in 2012 compared with €81 million in 2011), the operating profit for the year is €601 million, bringing the operating margin to 5.9% compared The United Kingdom and Ireland reported revenues of €2,104 million with 6.1% in 2011. in 2012 (20.5% of the Group total), up 8.1% (0.9% like-for-like). The difference between these two rates is primarily due to the appreciation The net financial expense is €100 million (compared with €105 million of the pound sterling against the euro. This near stability in terms of in 2011). The income tax expense is €140 million, compared with organic growth is due to strong growth in Technology Services (organic €101 million in 2011, which benefitted from the positive impact of a growth of 14.7%) offset by a 2.1% fall (but for a greater business net remeasurement of the US deferred tax balance in the amount of volume) in Outsourcing Services. This downturn in Outsourcing Services €76 million. Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is due to reduced business activity in the public sector, as foreseen is €370 million, down 8% on the profit of €404 million realized in 2011. from the end of 2011. The operating margin is €163 million (7.7% of The Group generated “organic free cash flow (1)” of €496 million during revenues, representing an increase in the operating margin rate of 0.6 the year, up significantly on the €164 million measured in 2011. This points on 2011). figure includes cash inflows of €100 million recognized in advance on Benelux suffered a slump in activity of 11.7%, reporting revenues of 2013, relating in particular to certain accounts receivable. However, €1,118 million. Revenues were not stabilized until the end of 2012, due even restated for this cash relating to 2013, the Group’s performance in to weakness across all sectors and for the businesses, of Technology terms of free cash flow generation remains highly satisfactory. Services in particular. A reorganization and major restructuring program was implemented during the year to adapt the cost structure and OPERATIONS BY MAJOR REGION reposition the service offer. The operating margin is €80 million. This France just retained its number one spot among the Group’s regions is down on the €94 million generated in 2011, although a significant in terms of revenues (€2,181 million, or 21.3% of the Group total), upturn was observed in the second half of the year thanks to the reporting an increase of 2.0% (and a fall of 2.1% like-for-like). The vigorous decisions taken during the summer. difference between these two rates is primarily due to the full-year (1) “Organic free cash flow” is equal to cash flow from operations less acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets (net of disposals) and adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost (as presented in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows). 106 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.1 Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated results The Southern Europe and Latin America region reported total OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS revenues of €1,029 million (10% of the Group total), up 2.9% on last Technology Services (40% of Group revenues) remains the Group’s year (1.3% like-for-like). The operating margin is €35 million (3.4% of powerhouse, reporting revenue growth of 3.5% like-for-like. The revenues), compared with €30 million in 2011. utilization rate improved further to an average of 80.7% over the four The Nordic countries (Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Finland) quarters, compared with 79% last year. The upward trend in prices reported total revenues of €714 million (7.0% of the Group total), observed at the end of 2011 was confirmed in 2012, with a slight rise up 12.4% on 2011 (9.0% like-for-like). These figures confirm the over the period in “onshore” prices. At 7.9%, the operating margin rate continued strong business performance in this region and particularly is up 1.1 points on 2011. that of Technology Services which reported growth of over 10% and Outsourcing Services (also 40% of Group revenues) reported revenue Outsourcing Services (which accounts for 15% of activity in this region), growth of 0.5% like-for-like. The operating margin rate remained virtually up close to 30%. The operating margin of this region is €52 million stable at 7.6%, despite the drop in profitability of a major public sector (representing an operating margin rate of 7.2%) up 13% on 2011. contact in the United Kingdom, in line with forecasts. The Germany/Central Europe region (Switzerland, Austria and Local Professional Services (Sogeti) is the third largest Group Eastern European countries) also enjoyed above Group average growth: business, generating 15% of total Group revenues. It reported a 1.3% revenues totaled €658 million, up 5.2% on 2011 (4.8% like-for-like), fall in revenues, like-for-like. This decrease was due to a downturn in and represented 6.4% of total Group revenues. Once again, the rapid business in France and Benelux, the two main countries where Sogeti development of Outsourcing Services (up 15.6%), drove overall growth operates. The utilization rate was held at a satisfactory level (82.5%) and in this region. The operating margin is €58 million (8.8% of revenues, prices improved slightly over the period. The operating margin rate is up 1.9 points on 2011), confirming this region’s return to profitability. 10.4%, down 0.5 points on 2011. Finally, the Asia-Pacific region (€359 million, 3.5% of Group revenues) Consulting Services (5% of Group revenues) reported a 3.6% fall continued its strong growth (+29.3% and +20.1% like-for-like, with the in revenues, like-for-like. This decrease was mainly due to a slump in increase in the various regional currencies accounting for most of the business in France (-15%) and Benelux (-11%), despite substantial difference between these two rates). The operating margin (€111 million, growth reported by other countries (+14% in Germany/Central Europe, compared with €83 million in 2011) cannot be compared directly to revenues, as only sales to local clients are recognized in this region, with +9% in North America and +5% in United Kingdom/Ireland). The utilization rate fell 3 points on average over the year to 65.5%. The 4 internal sub-contracting revenues for clients belonging to other Group operating margin rate is 11.2%, compared with 12.0% in 2011. regions generally recorded in the accounts of the region which invoices the client; however, part of the margin realized with certain clients of Utilization rates (like-for-like), which measure the share of working other regions is recorded in the accounts of the Asia-Pacific region, hours (excluding legal holidays or leave) worked by productive salaried which obviously reduces the profitability of the source regions. personnel (see the table below) benefited over the year from the following trends: an increase in the Technology Services utilization rate to a record high; a Local Professional Services rate that remains highly favorable, despite a slight down; a fall in Consulting Services due to lower utilization rates, particularly in the French and Dutch markets. The utilization rate is not monitored for Outsourcing Services as it is not representative of performance trends. 2011 2012 Quarterly utilization rates Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Consulting Services 68 71 67 68 65 67 63 67 Technology Services 79 78 79 80 80 80 82 81 Local Professional Services 82 84 84 83 82 83 83 82 HEADCOUNT ■ 31,870 additions, comprising 31,101 new hires (including over 13,000 in India) and 769 transfers during the year in connection At December 31, 2012, the total Group headcount was 125,110 with acquisitions or employee transfer clauses contained in certain compared with 119,707 one year earlier. This 5,403 increase in Outsourcing Services contracts, employee numbers (+4.5%) reflects: REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 107 4 Financial information 4.1 Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated results ■ 26,467 departures comprising: On March 19, 2012, Capgemini signed an outsourcing contract with • 20,764 resignations (17% of the average headcount for the fiscal Rolls-Royce, a world-leading provider of power systems and services year), for use on land, at sea and in the air. Signed by the Group’s UK subsidiary (Capgemini UK plc), this contract has an initial term of three • 164 transfers outside the Group following business divestments or years and an option to extend to five years. Acting as service integrator, at the end of certain Outsourcing Services contracts, Capgemini will ensure the smooth running of IT services provided to • 5,539 layoffs and unsuccessful trial periods. Rolls-Royce by a large number of vendors in 50 countries. Rolls-Royce will thereby benefit from the centralized control of its IT combined with ORDER BOOK greater flexibility. New orders recorded totaled €10,084 million, a level very close to that On April 4, 2012, Zurich selected Guidewire Software® as the provider recorded last year (€10,122 million). After a relatively weak third quarter, of a new claims handling platform for its UK general insurance division. the book-to-bill ratio for Consulting Services, Technology Services and This multi-annual project aims to transform Zurich claims processing, Sogeti recovered significantly to 1.16 in the fourth quarter of 2012. reduce costs, and improve the customer experience. On June 5, 2012, Capgemini Australia was selected by ANZ Group SIGNIFICANT EVENTS OF 2012 to carry out software testing and provide environment management services (Managed Services). This five-year contract highlights the 2012 was primarily marked by two events that profoundly changed the dynamism of investment aimed at achieving a leading position in the governance of the Group: most promising markets, investments known as “growth initiatives” and ■ the first was Serge Kampf’s decision (announced to the Board of including the Testing offering. Directors’ Meeting of April 4, 2012) not to go to the end of his term On July 2, 2012, CPM Braxis announced the signature of an agreement of office as he expressly reserved the right when his term of office with Caixa Participações (CaixaPar), the public investment arm of Caixa was renewed, Economica Federal, for the acquisition by CaixaPar of a 22% stake in ■ the second was the acceptance by this same Board of Directors the share capital of CPM Braxis through the purchase of shares and Meeting of April 4, of Serge Kampf’s proposal to reunify the functions subscription to a capital increase. CPM Braxis was thus confirmed as of Chairman and Chief Executive Officer (separate since 2002) and the preferred IT supplier to Caixa Economica Federal (Caixa) for the appoint Paul Hermelin as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from next ten years. the day he ceased to occupy these functions. On July 4, 2012, Capgemini signed a major contract with Bayer Thus, after chairing all the Company’s shareholders’ meetings – Business Services, the global competence center for IT and ordinary, extraordinary and combined – since 1967, Serge Kampf business services for Bayer, a chemicals and pharmaceuticals group passed the torch of chairman to Paul Hermelin, who had been Chief headquartered in Germany. Under this five-year contract, Capgemini will Executive Officer for exactly ten years. provide application development and infrastructure services. Capgemini Operationally, the other significant events of 2012 in chronological order will take over the operations of Bayer Business Services’ IT service were: center in Mumbai, India, which employees close to 550 people. On March 7, 2012, Capgemini and its subsidiary Sogeti, launched a On July 4, 2012, Capgemini signed a contract with the Norwegian new global service line, “Mobile Solutions” to assist clients design and Department for Employment and Social Affairs (NAV) to manage and implement an effective mobile strategy. Capitalizing on its consulting develop its content management system, known as “Arena”. This sixand technology experience and its global reach, the Capgemini Group year service contract for the management of the applications life cycle seeks to assume the role of “enterprise mobility orchestrator”. Using in(Applications Services) is estimated to be worth €26 million. house methodologies and industrialized services, Capgemini offers with On September 4, 2012. Capgemini signed an IT infrastructure services “Mobile solutions” a comprehensive range encompassing all aspects of contract with the German electronics group, Media-Saturn, Europe’s mobility, providing a response to the growing needs of companies. With leading consumer electronics retailer. Capgemini will host the data “Mobile Solutions” Capgemini aims to generate own revenues in excess centers and deliver infrastructure services for more than 900 sites of €400 million by 2015. located in 16 countries in Europe and Asia where the company is On March 13, 2012, Capgemini North America signed an IT present. infrastructure services agreement with the Department of Information On September 6, 2012, Capgemini announced the extension of its Resources (DIR) of the State of Texas. This six-year, €96 million global alliance with Salesforce.com, the cloud computing leader, via a agreement is one of the largest IT infrastructure services contracts tojoint rapid growth program. While Capgemini has been implementing date for Capgemini in North America. Salesforce solutions since 2007, this agreement signals a global approach with dedicated leadership and mutual investment in a joint 108 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.1 Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated results go-to-market strategy to drive successful customer experiences in the has a deep knowledge of the Group’s operations. He enjoys a strong cloud. The initiative has a duel aim: to grow the respective business working experience of the Group’s main businesses and has worked in volume of both companies over the next two years and aid the rising many countries and particularly the UK and the US where he lived for number of organizations seeking to transform their businesses into more than 15 years. social enterprises. The partnership is global in scope with a focus On December 14, 2012, Capgemini became the global strategic on initial core markets including France, the Netherlands, the Nordic partner for all IT services for Varroc Lighting Systems. Varroc Lighting countries, North America and the United Kingdom. Systems is a global manufacturer of automotive exterior lighting On September 18, 2012. Capgemini signed a five-year contract to products of Indian origin, headquartered in the United States and transform the IT services of E.ON, one of the world’s largest private formed from the sale of a division of the US equipment manufacturer, energy companies. Estimated at close to €50 million, this project covers Visteon, to the Varroc group in March 2012. Under this contract worth three areas: application lifecycle services for Business Information over €20 million, Capgemini will implement and host a new SAP Management, the SAP® Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) environment until the end of the second quarter of 2013. Capgemini will application and industrialized software development. also provide all group entities with ongoing Application Management Services (AMS), hosting, help desk support and the resale of SAP On October 4, 2012. Capgemini announced that the 6 million shares licenses and maintenance services. offered for subscription to employees under the second international employee share ownership plan were fully subscribed. On December 19, 2012. Unilever appointed Capgemini as one of its global strategic suppliers under its “Partner to Win” program. Unilever On December 13, 2012. Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive also awarded Capgemini a five-year outsourcing contract worth over Officer of Capgemini, appointed Aiman Ezzat as Group Chief Financial €100 million, continuing its seven-year relationship. Capgemini will Officer. He succeeded Nicolas Dufourcq. Having assessed internal continue to assist Unilever in the southern hemisphere with its “Record and external candidates with several Board members, Paul Hermelin to Report operations” and global intercompany processes, and will informed the Board of Directors of his decision and received its provide services on a global scale in the Access Control reporting and unanimous support during its meeting on Wednesday, December 12 in monitoring sectors. Paris. With nearly 20 years’ experience within Capgemini, Aiman Ezzat 4 4.1.2 Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated ﬁnancial statements and outlook for 2013 CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT An analysis of costs by function reveals that: Consolidated revenues total €10,264 million for the year ended ■ the cost of services rendered increased €459 million to December 31, 2012, up 5.9% on published figures for 2011 (1.2% like€7,884 million, giving a gross margin of 23.2% (compared with for-like). Operating expenses total €9,477 million, up 5.5% on 2011. 23.4% in 2011), An analysis of costs by nature reveals: ■ selling costs increased 6.4% to €794 million, remaining stable in proportion to revenues at 7.77%, ■ an increase of €372 million (+6.4%) in personnel costs, in line with ■ general and administrative expenses (€799 million) fell 1.2% and the increase in the average headcount (121,829 employees in 2012 now represent 7.8% of revenues compared with 8.3% in 2011 and compared with 114,354 in 2011, +6.5%). “Offshore” recruitment 9.2% in 2010. continued in 2012, particularly in India: at December 31, 2012, the Asia-Pacific region comprised 44,794 employees (36% of the The operating margin reached €787 million and represents 7.7% of total headcount) compared with 39,097 employees (33%) one year revenues (compared with €713 million and 7.4% of revenues last year). previously, an increase of 15%, Other operating income and expenses represent an overall net ■ a decrease of 1.3 points in the “purchases/sub-contracting” account expense of €186 million in 2012 compared with €118 million last year. (21.7% of revenues compared with 23.0% last year), This €68 million increase was mainly due to the increase in restructuring ■ an 8.2% increase in travel expenses: at €423 million, travel expense costs which rose from €81 million to €168 million. represent 4.1% of revenue, a percentage somewhere between that Operating profit is €601 million and represents 5.9% of revenues, recorded in 2011 (4.0%) and 2010 (4.2%), and compared with €595 million and 6.1% of revenues last year. ■ an increase of 4.3% in rent and local taxes (3.3% of revenues, stable The net financial expense is €100 million in 2012 (including purely on last year). notional expenses of €18 million), down €5 million on last year. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 109 4 Financial information 4.1 Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated results The income tax expense is €140 million (compared with €101 million ■ a net increase in other intangible assets (€38 million) including in last year), including a current income tax expense of €158 million particular the aforementioned allocation and a net decrease in (€129 million in 2011) and deferred tax income of €18 million (compared property, plant and equipment (€5 million), with €28 million in 2011). The effective tax rate is 28.2% in 2012 (20.6% ■ an increase in deferred tax assets of €39 million, in 2011). The low effective tax rate in 2011 was due to the recognition ■ a decrease in other non-current assets of €21 million. of US deferred tax assets in the amount of €76 million (USD 105 million). Operating receivables (accounts and notes receivable) totaled Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company is €2,538 million at December 31, 2012, compared with €2,685 million at €370 million in 2012, down 8.4% on the profit of €404 million realized December 31, 2011, down slightly by 5.5%. in 2011. Earnings per share is €2.29 (-11.6%) based on 161,770,362 shares outstanding at December 31, 2012, compared with €2.59 in Accounts receivable net of advances from clients, amounts billed fiscal year 2011. in advance and excluding capitalized costs on projects, totaled €1,807 million at December 31, 2012, compared with €1,909 million at December 31, 2011 and represented 63 days annual revenue CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL (compared with 70 days at December 31, 2011). POSITION Non-current liabilities decreased €40 million at December 31, 2012 Equity attributable to owners of the Company totaled (to €2,714 million from €2,754 million last year), chiefly due to: €4,493 million at December 31, 2012, up €237 million on December 31, 2011. This increase was mainly due to: ■ a decrease of €103 million in other non-current liabilities, following the transfer to other current liabilities of the initial put option granted ■ profit for the year of €370 million, to CPM Braxis minority shareholders in the amount of €104 million, ■ the share capital increase of €153 million (net of issue costs) ■ a decrease in deferred tax liabilities of €20 million, following the implementation of the international employee share ■ partially offset by an increase of €86 million in provisions for pensions ownership plan, ESOP 2012, and other post-employment benefits, following a net actuarial loss partially offset by: of €111 million in 2012 recognized mainly in the United Kingdom ■ the payment to shareholders of the 2011 dividend (€1 per share) of and Canada and due to the decrease in discount rates applied to €154 million in total, obligations at December 31, 2012, net of the increase in the value ■ the recognition in equity of actuarial losses on provisions for of plan assets. pensions and other post-employment benefits, net of deferred tax, Current liabilities decreased €570 million at December 31, 2012 (to of €59 million, €3,407 million from €3,977 million last year), chiefly due to: ■ the decrease in reserves (attributable to the owners of the Company) ■ a decrease of €603 million in short-term borrowings mainly due to of €37 million primarily due to the recognition of an additional put the redemption of the remaining OCEANE 2005 bonds on January 2, option granted to Caixa Participações following its acquisition of a 2012 for €400 million and the repayment of CPM Braxis loans in the 22% stake in CPM Braxis in June 2012, net of the impact of the amount of €105 million and commercial paper issued by Cap Gemini change in the Group’s percentage holding (from 61.1% to 55.8%) S.A. in the amount of €90 million, as a result of the CPM Braxis share capital increase subscribed by ■ a decrease of €37 million in advances from clients and deferred Caixa Participações, income, ■ the decrease in translation reserves of €39 million. ■ an increase of €69 million in other current liabilities, mainly following Non-current assets increased €15 million on December 31, 2011, the transfer to short-term liabilities of the initial put option granted mainly due to: to CPM Braxis minority shareholders in the amount of €104 million, ■ a decrease of €66 million in goodwill following the definitive allocation offset by the fair value remeasurement of derivatives in the amount to customer relationships and other intangible assets of €44 million of €26 million. of the acquisition price of companies purchased in 2011 and Operating liabilities, consisting mainly of accounts payables and translation losses on goodwill balances denominated in US dollar related accounts, amounts due to members of personnel and accrued and pound sterling (€33 million), net of goodwill recognized in the taxes (other than on income), are mainly stable at €2,335 million at period on the acquisition of DTWO Solutions (renamed Capgemini December 31, 2012. Japan KK) of €11 million, 110 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.1 Comments on the Capgemini group consolidated results Consolidated net cash and cash equivalents totaled €872 million ■ payment of the 2011 dividend of €154 million, at December 31, 2012, compared with €454 million at December 31, ■ net cash outflows/inflows on acquisitions/disposals of companies 2011. This increase of €418 million was mainly due to: during the period in the amount of €32 million, ■ organic free cash flow generated in 2012 of €496 million (compared ■ a net outflow of €24 million in respect of treasury share transactions. with €164 million in 2011) comprising: • cash generated by operating activities of €709 million; the cash OUTLOOK FOR 2013 flow from operations (€777 million) was increased by a reduction in working capital requirements (€52 million) and decreased by the After taking into account the decreased revenue of our Aspire contract payment of current income tax (€120 million), (with HMRC) and the Group focus on reducing dilutive business, the Group forecasts organic revenue growth for 2013 in line with 2012. • interest paid of €41 million, In addition, the Group expects an operating margin rate in excess • and acquisitions net of disposals of intangible assets and property, of 8.3% before amortization of intangible assets acquired through plant and equipment of €172 million, business combinations (i.e. over 8.0%, as reported until now). ■ a share capital increase of €153 million following the issue of new shares under the ESOP employee share ownership plan, Cumulated organic free cash flow for the period 2012-2013 should be between €750 million and €800 million. ■ the receipt of a payment from Caixa Participacões S.A on the acquisition of a stake in CPM Braxis S.A., by subscribing to a share capital increase in the amount of BRL121 million (€49 million), 4 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 111 4 Financial information 4.2 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.2.1 Consolidated income statement 2010 2011 2012 in millions of euros Notes Amount % Amount % Amount % Revenues 3 8,697 100 9,693 100 10,264 100 Cost of services rendered (6,631) (76.2) (7,425) (76.6) (7,884) (76.8) Selling expenses (680) (7.8) (746) (7.7) (794) (7.7) General and administrative expenses (799) (9.2) (809) (8.3) (799) (7.8) Operating expenses 4 (8,110) (93.2) (8,980) (92.6) (9,477) (92.3) Operating margin 587 6.8 713 7.4 787 7.7 Other operating income and expense 5 (98) (1.2) (118) (1.3) (186) (1.8) Operating profit 489 5.6 595 6.1 601 5.9 Net finance costs 6 (54) (0.6) (65) (0.7) (55) (0.5) Other financial income and expense 6 33 (0.4) (40) (0.4) (45) (0.4) Net financial expense (87) (1.0) (105) (1.1) (100) (1.0) Income tax expense 7 (124) (1.4) (101) (1.0) (140) (1.4) Share of profit of associates (1) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 278 3.2 389 4.0 360 3.5 Attributable to: Owners of the company 280 3.2 404 4.2 370 3.6 Non-controlling interests (2) (15) (0.2) (10) (0.1) EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) Basic earnings per share 8 1.83 2.63 2.37 Diluted earnings per share 8 1.74 2.49 2.25 112 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.2 Statement of income and expense recognized in equity in millions of euros Notes 2010 2011 2012 Exchange differences 158 9 (44) Remeasurement of hedging derivatives, net of deferred tax 9 (41) 14 Actuarial gains and losses on defined benefit pension plans, net of deferred tax 13-20 (101) (224) (59) Other income and expense 1 (2) TOTAL INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY 67 (256) (91) Profit for the year (reminder) 278 389 360 If this income and expense recognized in equity had been recognized in profit or loss, profit for the year would have been as follows 345 133 269 Attributable to: Owners of the company 347 149 284 Non-controlling interests (2) (16) (15) 4 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 113 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.3 Consolidated statement of ﬁnancial position December 31, December 31, December 31, in millions of euros Notes 2010 2011 2012 Goodwill 10 3,201 3,768 3,702 Intangible assets 10 169 154 192 Property, plant and equipment 11 499 547 542 Deferred taxes 13 891 1,020 1,059 Other non-current assets 14 115 119 98 Total non-current assets 4,875 5,608 5,593 Accounts and notes receivable 15 2,371 2,685 2,538 Current tax assets 40 55 70 Other current receivables 16 306 370 351 Cash management assets 17 71 73 75 Cash and cash equivalents 17 2,305 2,223 2,023 Total current assets 5,093 5,406 5,057 TOTAL ASSETS 9,968 11,014 10,650 December 31, December 31, December 31, in millions of euros Notes 2010 2011 2012 Share capital 1,246 1,246 1,294 Additional paid-in capital 2,875 2,875 2,976 Retained earnings and other reserves (87) (269) (147) Profit for the year 280 404 370 Equity (attributable to owners of the Company) 4,314 4,256 4,493 Non-controlling interests (7) 27 36 Total equity 4,307 4,283 4,529 Long-term borrowings 17 1,102 1,135 1,131 Deferred taxes 13 178 183 163 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits 20 804 1,099 1,185 Non-current provisions 21 13 15 16 Other non-current liabilities 22 279 322 219 Total non-current liabilities 2,376 2,754 2,714 Short-term borrowings and bank overdrafts 17 210 702 99 Accounts and notes payable 23 2,305 2,340 2,335 Advances from customers and billed in advance 15 576 661 624 Current provisions 21 53 48 48 Current tax liabilities 61 89 95 Other current payables 24 80 137 206 Total current liabilities 3,285 3,977 3,407 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,968 11,014 10,650 114 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.4 Consolidated statement of cash ﬂows in millions of euros Notes 2010 2011 2012 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 280 404 370 Non-controlling interests (2) (15) (10) Depreciation, amortization and impairment of fixed assets 10-11 176 188 228 Net charges to provisions (2) (33) (39) Gains and losses on disposals of assets 5 13 (14) Expenses relating to share subscriptions, share grants and stock options 16 17 15 Net finance costs 6 54 65 55 Income tax expense 7 124 101 140 Unrealized gains and losses on changes in fair value and other (23) 3 32 Cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax (A) 628 743 777 Income tax paid (B) (52) (104) (120) Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance (85) (140) 96 Change in capitalized costs on projects (16) 5 9 Change in accounts and notes payable 3 (81) (26) Change in other receivables/payables 25 (74) (27) Change in operating working capital (C) (73) (290) 52 NET CASH FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES (D=A+B+C) 503 349 709 Acquisitions of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 10 -11 (144) (158) (183) 4 Proceeds from disposals of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 11 3 11 (133) (155) (172) Cash outflows on business combinations net of cash and cash equivalents acquired (218) (554) (24) Net proceeds on disposals of companies and operations 1 (8) Net proceeds/payments relating to deposits and long-term investments (13) 11 (1) Cash outflows on cash management assets (71) (2) (2) Dividends received from investments 1 1 1 (300) (544) (34) NET CASH FROM (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES (E) (433) (699) (206) Proceeds from issues of share capital 46 153 Proceeds from issues of share capital subscribed by non-controlling interests 34 49 Dividends paid (122) (154) (154) Net proceeds/payments relating to treasury share transactions (1) (7) (24) Proceeds from borrowings 17 10 817 22 Repayments of borrowings 17 (367) (381) (685) Interest paid 6 (32) (53) (66) Interest received 6 21 23 25 NET CASH FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES (F) (445) 279 (680) NET DECREASE IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (G=D+E+F) (375) (71) (177) Effect of exchange rate movements on cash and cash equivalents (H) 85 (12) (31) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF YEAR (I) 17 2,597 2,307 2,224 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF YEAR (G+H+I) 17 2,307 2,224 2,016 Cash flows for the period are discussed in Note 18 – Cash flows. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 115 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.5 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Consolidated Total income and retained expense recognized Equity Additional earnings in equity (attributable NonNumber Share paid-in Treasury and other Translation to owners of controlling Total in millions of euros of shares capital capital shares reserves adjustments Other the Company) interests (1) equity At January 1, 2010 154,177,396 1,233 2,842 (79) 729 (235) (277) 4,213 4,213 Dividends paid out for 2009 (122) (122) (122) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 1,592,966 13 33 15 61 61 Adjustments to the put option granted to CPM Braxis minority shareholders and changes in percentage interest (185) (185) (5) (190) Treasury shares (2) 2 Transactions with shareholders 1,592,966 13 33 (2) (290) (246) (5) (251) Income and expense recognized in equity 158 (91) 67 67 Profit for the year 280 280 (2) 278 At December 31, 2010 155,770,362 1,246 2,875 (81) 719 (77) (368) 4,314 (7) 4,307 Dividends paid out for 2010 (154) (154) (154) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 7 10 17 17 Adjustments to the put option granted to CPM Braxis minority shareholders and changes in percentage interest (64) (64) 50 (14) Treasury shares (3) (3) (6) (6) Transactions with shareholders 4 (211) (207) 50 (157) Income and expense recognized in equity 10 (265) (255) (1) (256) Profit for the year 404 404 (15) 389 At December 31, 2011 155,770,362 1,246 2,875 (77) 912 (67) (633) 4,256 27 4,283 Dividends paid out for 2011 (154) (154) (154) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership 6,000,000 48 101 12 7 168 168 Adjustments to the put option granted to CPM Braxis minority shareholders and changes in percentage interest (37) (37) 24 (13) Treasury shares (27) 3 (24) (24) Transactions with shareholders 6,000,000 48 101 (15) (181) (47) 24 (23) Income and expense recognized in equity (39) (47) (86) (5) (91) Profit for the year 370 370 (10) 360 At December 31, 2012 161,770,362 1,294 2,976 (92) 1,101 (106) (680) 4,493 36 4,529 (1) Non-controlling interests in CPM Braxis acquired on October 6, 2010. 116 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.6 Notes to the consolidated ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 Note 1 Accounting policies 117 Note 17 Net cash and cash equivalents 144 Note 2 Changes in group structure 125 Note 18 Cash ﬂows 148 Note 3 Revenues 126 Note 19 Derivative instruments and currency Note 4 Operating expenses by nature 126 and interest rate risk management 150 Note 5 Other operating income and expense 127 Note 20 Provisions for pensions Note 6 Net ﬁnancial expense 128 and other post-employment beneﬁts 153 Note 7 Income tax expense 128 Note 21 Current and non-current provisions 158 Note 8 Earnings per share 129 Note 22 Other non-current liabilities 158 Note 9 Equity 130 Note 23 Accounts and notes payable 158 Note 10 Goodwill and intangible assets 137 Note 24 Other current payables 159 Note 11 Property, plant and equipment 138 Note 25 Operating segments 159 Note 12 Asset impairment tests 139 Note 26 Number of employees 166 Note 13 Deferred taxes 140 Note 27 Off-balance sheet commitments 166 Note 14 Other non-current assets 142 Note 28 Related-party transactions 168 Note 15 Accounts and notes receivable 142 Note 29 Subsequent events 168 Note 16 Other current receivables 143 Note 30 List of the main consolidated companies by country 169 4 NOTE 1 Accounting policies The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, B) New standards and interpretations applicable in 2012 2012 and the notes thereto were approved by the Board of Directors on February 20, 2013. The consolidated financial statements become a) New standards, amendments and interpretations of mandatory definitive after their approval by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, application (published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, entered into scheduled for May 23, 2013. effect on January 1, 2012) The accounting policies applied by the Group are unchanged on ACCOUNTING BASIS those applied for the preparation of the 2011 consolidated financial statements, with the exception of new standards, amendments and interpretations which entered into effect on January 1, 2012. A) IFRS standards-base These standards, amendments and interpretations of mandatory effect Pursuant to European Commission Regulation no. 1606/2002 of did not impact the Group financial statements. July 19, 2002, the 2012 consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with international accounting standards (IFRS, b) New standards, amendments and interpretations not adopted International Financial Reporting Standards) issued by the International early (published by the IASB, endorsed by the EU, not yet in effect at Accounting Standards Board (IASB), endorsed by the European Union January 1, 2012) at December 31, 2012 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union. In June 2011, the IASB published amendments to IAS 19, Employee Benefits, which include, in particular, the requirement to measure The Group also takes account of the positions adopted by Syntec the expected return on plan assets on a standardized base (using Informatique, an organization representing major consulting and the discount rate used to measure the obligation), impacting the net computer services companies in France, regarding the application of financial expense. In addition, the impact of past services costs will be certain IFRSs. recognized in profit or loss in the year of the plan amendment and/or the arrival of new participants. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 117 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The suppression of the “corridor” method by the amendment will not Investments in companies which the parent company directly or impact the Group financial statements, as net actuarial gains and losses indirectly controls jointly with a limited number of other shareholders of the period are already recorded in the amount of the provision for are accounted for by the method of proportionate consolidation. This pensions through income and expense recognized in equity. method consists of consolidating the income and expenses, assets and liabilities of jointly-controlled companies on a line-by-line basis, based If IAS 19 revised had been adopted early at January 1, 2012, the impact on the Group’s percentage interest in their capital. of using the same discount rate to measure the return on plan assets as used to measure the obligation would have been an expense of Investments in associates over whose management the parent €25 million for the Group as a whole. company directly or indirectly exercises significant influence, without however exercising full or joint control, are accounted for by the equity The potential impact of the adoption of IFRS 10, Consolidated Financial method. This method consists of recording the Group’s share in profit Statements, IFRS 11, Joint Arrangements and IFRS 12, Disclosure of for the year of the associate in the Income Statement. The Group’s Interests in Other Entities, applicable from January 1, 2014, is currently share in net assets of the associate is recorded under “Other nonbeing assessed. The adoption of IFRS 13, Fair Value Measurement, current assets” in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. applicable from January 1, 2013, will have no impact on the consolidated financial statements. Details of the scope of consolidation are provided in Note 30 – List of the main consolidated companies by country. c) New standards, amendments and interpretations not yet endorsed (published by the IASB, not yet endorsed by the EU, not yet in effect All consolidated companies prepared their accounts at December 31, at January 1, 2012) 2012 in accordance with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. The Group did not elect to adopt early the standards, amendments, Inter-company transactions are eliminated on consolidation, as well as and interpretations published by the IASB but not yet endorsed by the inter-company profits. European Union at December 31, 2012 or in effect at January 1, 2012. The Group does not control any special purpose entities that have not been consolidated. C) Use of estimates The preparation of financial statements involves the use of estimates B) Foreign currency translation and assumptions which may have an impact on the reported values of The consolidated financial statements presented in this report have assets and liabilities at the period end or on certain items of either the been prepared in euros. net profit or the income and expenses recognized directly in equity for The Consolidated Statements of Financial Position of subsidiaries the year. Estimates are based on economic data and assumptions which denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at yearare likely to vary over time and are subject to a degree of uncertainty. end rates of exchange with the exception of equity accounts, which They mainly concern revenue recognition on fixed-price contracts are carried at their historical values. Income statements denominated accounted for on a percentage-of-completion basis, recognition of in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the average rates of deferred tax assets, measurement of the recoverable amount of assets, exchange for the year. However, for certain material transactions, it may pensions and other post-employment benefit obligations, the fair value be relevant to use a specific rate of exchange. Differences arising from of derivatives, and current and non-current provisions. translation at these different rates are recognized directly in equity under “Translation reserves” and have no impact on the Income Statement. OVERVIEW OF THE MAIN ACCOUNTING POLICIES Exchange differences arising on monetary items which form an integral ADOPTED BY CAPGEMINI GROUP part of the net investment in foreign subsidiaries are recognized in equity under “Translation reserves” for their net-oftax amount. A) Consolidation methods Exchange differences on receivables and payables denominated in The accounts of companies directly or indirectly controlled by the parent a foreign currency are recorded in operating income or expense or company are fully consolidated. The parent company is deemed to financial income or expense, depending on the type of transaction exercise control over an entity when it has the power to govern the concerned. financial and operating policies of the entity so as to obtain benefits from its activities. 118 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The exchange rates used to translate the financial statements of the Group’s main subsidiaries into euros are as follows: Average exchange rates Year-end exchange rates 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Australian dollar 0.69368 0.74193 0.80599 0.76458 0.78598 0.78666 Brazilian real 0.42919 0.43031 0.39963 0.45082 0.41392 0.36988 Canadian dollar 0.73312 0.72716 0.77867 0.75330 0.75672 0.76121 Chinese renminbi yuan 0.11155 0.11130 0.12336 0.11408 0.12257 0.12164 Indian rupee 0.01652 0.01544 0.01458 0.01676 0.01455 0.01378 Norwegian krona 0.12492 0.12832 0.13380 0.12789 0.12897 0.13609 Polish zloty 0.25039 0.24340 0.23909 0.25221 0.22432 0.24546 Pound sterling 1.16610 1.15272 1.23338 1.16252 1.19717 1.22534 Swedish krona 0.10485 0.11079 0.11491 0.11095 0.11221 0.11652 Swiss franc 0.72483 0.81181 0.82968 0.80160 0.82264 0.82836 US dollar 0.75513 0.71920 0.77827 0.75301 0.77286 0.75792 C) Consolidated income statement ■ share of profit of associates, Income and expenses are presented in the Consolidated Income ■ share of non-controlling interests. Statement by function to reflect the specific nature of the Group’s business more accurately. Operating expenses are broken down into D) Earnings per share the cost of services rendered (corresponding to costs incurred for the execution of client projects), selling expenses, and general and Earnings per share are measured as follows: 4 ■ basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit or loss administrative expenses. attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted average These three captions represent ordinary operating expenses which are number of ordinary shares outstanding during the period, excluding deducted from revenues to obtain operating margin, one of the main treasury shares. The weighted average number of ordinary shares Group business performance indicators. outstanding is adjusted by the number of ordinary shares bought Operating profit is obtained by deducting other operating income and back or issued during the period and is calculated by reference to expenses from operating margin. Other operating income and expenses the date of redemption or issue of shares during the year, include the charge resulting from the deferred recognition of the fair ■ diluted earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit or value of shares and stock options granted to employees, and nonloss attributable to owners of the Company by the weighted recurring revenues and expenses, notably impairment of goodwill, average number of ordinary shares outstanding as used to capital gains or losses on disposals of consolidated companies or calculate basic earnings per share, both items being adjusted, businesses, restructuring costs incurred under a detailed formal plan where appropriate, for the effects of all potential dilutive financial approved by the Group’s management, the cost of acquiring and instruments corresponding to (i) stock subscription options, (ii) integrating companies acquired by the Group, and the effects of bonds convertible/exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini curtailments and settlements relating to defined benefit pension plans. shares, (iii) redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants, (iv) performance shares and (v) free share grants. Profit for the year is then obtained by taking into account the following items: E) Recognition of revenues and the cost of services rendered ■ net finance costs, including interest on borrowings calculated using The method for recognizing revenues and costs depends on the nature the effective interest rate, less income from cash, cash equivalents of the services rendered: and cash management assets, ■ other financial income and expense, which primarily correspond to a) Time and materials contracts the impact of remeasuring financial instruments at fair value when Revenues and cost of services are recognized as services are rendered. these relate to items of a financial nature, disposal gains and losses and the impairment of investments in non-consolidated companies, b) Long-term fixed-price contracts net interest costs on defined benefit pension plans, exchange Revenues, including systems development and integration contracts, gains and losses on financial items, and other financial income and are recognized using the “percentage-of-completion” method. Costs expense on miscellaneous financial assets and liabilities calculated are recognized as they are incurred. using the effective interest rate, ■ current and deferred income tax expense, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 119 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements c) Outsourcing contracts Acquisition-related costs are expensed in the Income Statement in the Revenues from outsourcing agreements are recognized over the term of year incurred in “Other operating expenses”. the contract as the services are rendered. When the services are made Goodwill is not amortized but tested for impairment at least annually, or up of different components which are not separately identifiable, the more frequently when events or changes in circumstances indicate that related revenues are recognized on a straight-line basis over the term it may be impaired. of the contract. b) Intangible assets The related costs are recognized as they are incurred. However, a portion of costs incurred in the initial phase of outsourcing contracts Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted (transition and/or transformation costs) may be deferred when they are ownership basis, as well as software and solutions developed internally specific to a given contract, relate to future activity on the contract and/ and which have a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future or will generate future economic benefits, and are recoverable. These results, are capitalized and amortized over three to five years. costs are allocated to work-in-progress and any reimbursement by the The capitalized costs of software and solutions developed internally are client is recorded as a deduction from the costs incurred. costs that relate directly to their production, i.e. the salary costs of the When the projected cost of the contract exceeds contract revenues, a staff that developed the relevant software. loss to completion is recognized in the amount of the difference. Finally, on certain business combinations, where the nature of the Revenues receivable from these contracts are recognized in the customer portfolio held by the entity and the nature of the business Consolidated Statement of Financial Position under “Accounts and performed should enable the entity to continue commercial relations notes receivable” when invoiced to customers and “Accrued income” with its customers as a result of efforts to build customer loyalty, when they are not yet invoiced. Advances from customers and billed in customer relationships are valued in intangible assets and amortized advance are included in current liabilities. over the known term of contracts held in portfolio at the acquisition date. F) Goodwill and intangible assets G) Property, plant and equipment a) Goodwill and business combinations The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment is recorded Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. in assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and Under this method, the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities corresponds to the historical cost of these items, less accumulated assumed are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date and may depreciation and any impairment. No items of property, plant and be adjusted during the 12 months following this date. equipment have been revalued. Buildings owned by the Group are Goodwill represents the excess of the acquisition price over the net fair measured based on the components approach. value of the identifiable assets and liabilities assumed of the acquiree Subsequent expenditure increasing the future economic benefits (revalued net assets). Where an acquisition confers control with associated with assets (costs of replacing and/or bringing assets into remaining non-controlling interests (acquisition of less than 100%), the compliance) is capitalized and depreciated over the remaining useful Group elects either to recognize goodwill on the full amount of revalued lives of the relevant assets. Ongoing maintenance costs are expensed net assets, including the share attributable to non-controlling interests as incurred. (full goodwill method) or on the share in revalued net assets effectively Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the estimated acquired only (partial goodwill method). useful lives of the relevant assets. It is calculated based on acquisition When a business combination with non-controlling interests provides for cost less any residual value. the grant of a put option to these non-controlling interests, an operating Property, plant and equipment are depreciated over the following liability is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position estimated useful lives: in the amount of the estimated exercise price of the put option granted to non-controlling interests, through a reduction in reserves. Changes in this put option resulting from any changes in estimates or the unwinding Buildings 20 to 40 years of the discount will also be recognized through reserves. Any additional Fixtures and fittings 10 years acquisitions of non-controlling interests are considered a transaction Computer equipment 3 to 5 years with shareholders and, as such, identifiable assets are not remeasured Office furniture and equipment 5 to 10 years and no additional goodwill is recognized. Vehicles 5 years When the cost of a business combination is less than the fair value of Other equipment 5 years the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, the difference is recognized immediately in the Income Statement. Residual values and estimated useful lives are reviewed at each period end. 120 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The sale of property, plant and equipment gives rise to disposal gains proceeds from sales of treasury shares are taken directly to equity, net and losses corresponding to the difference between the selling price of the tax effect, so that the gain or loss on the sale has no impact on and the net carrying amount of the relevant asset. the Income Statement for the period. H) Asset impairment tests K) Deferred taxes Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with a definite Deferred taxes are: useful life are tested for impairment when there is an indication at the ■ recorded to take account of temporary differences between the period end that their recoverable amount may be less than their carrying carrying amounts of certain assets and liabilities and their tax basis, amount. Goodwill is tested for impairment at least once a year. ■ recognized in income or expenses in the Income Statement, in The impairment test consists of assessing the recoverable amount of income and expense recognized in equity, or directly in reserves in each asset or group of assets generating cash flows that are separate the period, depending on the underlying to which they relate, from the cash flows generated by other assets or groups of assets ■ measured taking account of known changes in tax rates (and (cash-generating units or CGU). The cash-generating units identified by tax regulations) adopted or practically adopted at the year-end. the Group are the geographic areas. Adjustments for changes in tax rates to deferred taxes previously The recoverable amount is defined as the higher of the fair value less recognized in the Income Statement, in income and expense costs to sell of the cash-generating unit and its value in use: recognized in equity or directly in reserves are recognized in the ■ fair value is the amount obtainable in an arm’s length transaction and Income Statement, in income and expense recognized in equity is determined with reference to the price in a binding agreement or or directly in reserves, respectively, in the period in which these the market price in recent and comparable transactions, changes become effective. ■ value in use is based on the discounted future cash flows to be Deferred tax assets are recognized when it is probable that taxable derived from these cash-generating units. profits will be available against which the recognized tax asset can be utilized. The amount recognized is based on 10-year plans, taking The value in use of each cash-generating unit is measured using the account of the probability of realization of future taxable profits. The discounted future cash flow method, based on the various assumptions carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each period end. used in the budget procedure and the three-year plan extrapolated over This amount is reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that 4 a period of five years, including growth and profitability rates considered additional taxable profit will be available against which to offset all or reasonable. Discount rates (based on the weighted average cost of part of the deferred tax asset to be utilized. Conversely, the carrying capital) and long-term growth rates for the period beyond five years amount of deferred tax assets will be increased when it becomes are based on the average of a representative sample of projections probable that additional taxable profit will be available. by financial analysts who use these indicators to value the Group. When the recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is less than its Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if, the subsidiaries carrying amount, the impairment loss is deducted from goodwill to the have a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against extent possible and charged to operating profit under “Other operating current tax liabilities, and when the deferred taxes relate to income taxes expenses.” levied by the same taxation authority. I) Leases L) Financial instruments Leases that do not transfer to the Group substantially all the risks and Financial instruments consist of: rewards incidental to ownership are classified as operating leases, and ■ financial assets, including certain other non-current assets, accounts give rise to lease payments expensed as incurred over the lease term. receivable, certain other current receivables, cash management However, when the Group assumes substantially all of the risks and assets and cash and cash equivalents, rewards incidental to ownership, the lease is classified as a finance ■ financial liabilities, including longand short-term borrowings and lease and is recognized as an asset at the lower of the fair value of the bank overdrafts, certain accounts payable, and certain other current leased asset and the present value of future minimum lease payments, payables and non-current liabilities. with the related obligation recorded in liabilities within borrowings. The asset is depreciated over the period during which it is expected to be a) Recognition of financial instruments used by the Group and the obligation is amortized over the lease term. Financial instruments are recognized at inception and on subsequent Deferred tax is recognized as appropriate. dates in accordance with the methods described below. These methods draw on the following interest rate definitions: J) Treasury shares ■ the coupon interest rate or coupon, which is the nominal interest Cap Gemini shares held by the Company or by any consolidated rate on borrowings, companies are shown as a deduction from equity, at cost. Any REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 121 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements ■ the effective interest rate, which is the rate that exactly discounts the b) Derivative instruments estimated cash flows through the expected term of the instrument, Derivative instruments mainly comprise forward foreign exchange or, where appropriate, a shorter period to the net carrying amount contracts and interest rate swaps. of the financial asset or liability at initial recognition. The effective interest rate takes into account all fees paid or received, transaction Derivative instruments are initially recognized at fair value. Except as costs, and, where applicable, premiums to be paid and received, described below in the case of instruments designated as cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of derivative instruments, estimated ■ the market interest rate, which reflects the effective interest rate based on market rates or data provided by bank counterparties, are recalculated at the measurement date based on current market recognized in the Income Statement at the period end. parameters. When cash flow hedges are eligible for hedge accounting, changes Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are initially recognized in the in the fair value of the hedging instruments are recognized firstly in Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at their initial fair value. “Income and expense recognized in equity” and subsequently taken The subsequent measurement of financial assets and liabilities is to operating profit when the hedged item itself impacts the Income based on either their fair value or amortized cost depending on their Statement. classification in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Financial assets measured at amortized cost are subject to impairment c) Financial instrument classification and fair value hierarchy tests as soon as there are indicators of a loss in value. Any loss in value Financial instruments valued at fair value after initial recognition, that is recognized in the Income Statement. is financial instruments at fair value through the Income Statement, The fair value of a financial instrument is the amount for which an asset available-for-sale assets and derivative instruments, can be classified could be exchanged, or a liability settled, between knowledgeable, according to the following three fair value levels: willing parties in an arm’s length transaction. ■ Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical Amortized cost corresponds to the initial carrying amount (net of financial assets or liabilities, transaction costs), plus interest calculated using the effective interest ■ Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices in active markets, that are rate, less cash outflows (coupon interest payments and repayments of observable either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from principal, and redemption premiums where applicable). Accrued interest prices), (income and expense) is not recorded on the basis of the financial ■ Level 3: inputs that are not based on observable market data. instrument’s nominal interest rate, but on the basis of its effective interest rate. Financial instruments (assets and liabilities) are derecognized when the related risks and rewards of ownership have been transferred, and when the Group no longer exercises control over the instruments. Subsequent Financial assets Notes Classification measurement Fair value hierarchy Shares in non-consolidated Available-for-sale assets Stock market price / companies 14 (fair value through equity) Fair value 1/3 internal valuation Deposits and long-term receivables 14 Loans and receivables Amortized cost n/a Long-term investments 14 Fair value through the Income Statement Fair value 1 Market value (net asset value) Present value of future cash Asset derivative instruments 19 Fair value through the Income Statement Fair value 2 flows (ECB fixing) Accounts receivable (net of provisions) 15 Loans and receivables Amortized cost n/a Other short-term receivables 16 Loans and receivables Amortized cost n/a Cash management assets 17 Fair value through the Income Statement Fair value 1 Market value (net asset value) Cash and cash equivalents 17 Fair value through the Income Statement Fair value 1 Market value (net asset value) Subsequent Financial liabilities Notes Classification measurement Fair value hierarchy Bonds 17 Liabilities carried at amortized cost Amortized cost n/a Finance lease obligations 17 Liabilities carried at amortized cost Amortized cost n/a Other borrowings 17 Liabilities carried at amortized cost Amortized cost n/a Present value of future Liability derivative instruments 19 Fair value through the Income Statement Fair value 2 cash flows (ECB fixing) Accounts payable 23 Liabilities carried at amortized cost Amortized cost n/a Other liabilities 22-24 Liabilities carried at amortized cost Amortized cost n/a Bank overdrafts 17 Fair value through the Income Statement Fair value 1 Market value (net asset value) 122 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements M) Net cash and cash equivalents Gains or losses on the curtailment or settlement of defined benefit pension plans are recognized in “Other operating income” or “Other Cash and cash equivalents presented in the Consolidated Statement operating expenses.” of Cash Flows consist of short-term investments and cash at bank less bank overdrafts, and also include the fair value of hedging instruments The impact of discounting pension benefit obligations as well as the relating to these items. expected return on plan assets is recorded net in “Other financial income” or “Other financial expense.” Net cash and cash equivalents comprise cash and cash equivalents as defined above, and cash management assets, less shortand Actuarial gains and losses correspond to the effect of changes in long-term borrowings. Account is also taken of the impact of hedging actuarial assumptions and experience adjustments (i.e. differences instruments when these relate to borrowings. Cash management between projected actuarial assumptions and actual data) on the assets, the characteristics of which do not strictly satisfy the criteria for amount of the defined benefit obligation or the value of plan assets. cash equivalents, are presented separately in the Statement of Financial They are recognized in full in “Income and expense recognized directly Position. in equity” in the year in which they arise. N) Pensions and other post-employment benefits O) Incentive instruments and employee share ownership a) Defined contribution plans a) Instruments granted to employees Defined contribution plans are funded by contributions paid by Stock options employees and Group companies to the organizations responsible for managing the plans. The Group’s obligations are limited to the payment Stock options have been granted to certain Group employees entitling of such contributions which are expensed as incurred. The Group’s them to purchase Cap Gemini shares over a period of five years, at a obligation under these plans is recorded in “Accounts and notes strike price set when the options are granted. payable”. Defined contribution plans are operated in most European Stock options were measured at fair value, corresponding to the value countries (France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Germany and of the benefit granted to the employee at the grant date. The fair value Central Europe, Nordic countries, Italy and Spain), in the United States of stock options is calculated using the “Black & Scholes” model, which and in the Asia-Pacific region. incorporates assumptions concerning the option strike price and term, 4 the share price at the grant date, implicit share price volatility and the b) Defined benefit pension plans risk-free interest rate. The expense recognized took into account staff Defined benefit pension plans consist of either: attrition rates for eligible employee categories which are reviewed each ■ unfunded plans, where benefits are paid directly by the Group and year. the related obligation is covered by a provision corresponding to This amount was recognized in “Other operating expenses” in the the present value of future benefit payments. Estimates are based Income Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with on regularly reviewed internal and external assumptions. These a corresponding adjustment to equity. unfunded plans correspond mainly to retirement termination payments and healthcare assistance, Performance and continued employment conditions ■ funded plans, where the benefit obligation is covered by external Performance shares are granted to a certain number of Group funds. Group contributions to these external funds are made in employees, subject to performance and continued employment accordance with the specific regulations in force in each country. conditions. Share grants become definitive after a vesting period of two Obligations under these plans are determined by independent actuaries or four years, depending on the geographic location of the subsidiaries using the projected unit credit method. Under this method, each period employing the beneficiaries. of service gives rise to an additional unit of benefit entitlement and each The shares are measured at fair value, corresponding to the value of the of these units is valued separately in order to obtain the amount of the benefit granted to the employee at the grant date. Group’s final obligation. The fair value of shares subject to external performance condition The resulting obligation is discounted by reference to market yields on is calculated using the “Monte Carlo” model, which incorporates high quality corporate bonds, of a currency and term consistent with the assumptions concerning the share price at the grant date, implicit currency and term of the post-employment benefit obligation. share price volatility, the risk-free interest rate, the expected dividend For funded plans, only the estimated funding short-fall is covered by a yield and market performance conditions applied. The fair value of provision. shares subject to internal performance and/or continued employment conditions is calculated using a model in compliance with IFRS 2, which Current and past service costs corresponding to an increase in the incorporates assumptions concerning the share price at the grant date, obligation are recorded within operating expenses, respectively on an share transfer restrictions, the risk-free interest rate and the expected as-incurred basis in the period and over the residual vesting period of dividend yield. the relevant rights. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 123 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The expense recognized also takes into account staff attrition rates for ■ the opportunity gain reflecting the possibility granted to employees eligible employee categories, which are reviewed each year, and internal to benefit from market terms and conditions identical to those of performance conditions (non-market conditions). the Group. This amount is recognized in “Other operating expenses” in the Income In certain countries where the introduction of leveraging through Statement on a straight-line basis over the vesting period, with a an Employee Savings Mutual Fund (Fonds Commun de Placement corresponding adjustment to equity. Entreprise) or directly in the name of the employee is not possible, the employee share ownership plan (ESOP) includes a Stock Appreciation b) Instruments proposed to employees Rights (SAR) mechanism. The benefit offered by the Group corresponds to the amount of the discount on the share subscription price. Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants were proposed to P) Provisions employees and corporate officers of the Group. They confer entitlement A provision is recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial to subscribe for Cap Gemini shares at a strike price determined at their Position at the year-end if, and only if, (i) the Group has a present date of acquisition by the employees and corporate officers of the obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event; (ii) it is Group. The exercise period commences from the date of listing of the probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits BSAAR warrants on the Euronext Paris market and terminates on the will be required to settle the obligation; and (iii) a reliable estimate can be seventh anniversary of the issue date. made of the amount of the obligation. Provisions are discounted when The issue price of these BSAAR warrants is equal to their market value the impact of the time value of money is material. and no benefit granted to beneficiaries is recognized in the consolidated financial statements of the Company. Q) Consolidated statement of cash flows Employee savings plan The Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows analyzes the year-on-year change in cash flows from operating, investing and financing activities. Leveraged employee share ownership plans offering the possibility to subscribe for shares at a discounted preferential rate have been set Foreign currency cash flows are translated into euros at the average up by the Group. When determining the IFRS 2 expense measuring exchange rate for the year. Exchange gains or losses resulting from the the benefit granted to employees, the Group adjusts the amount of the translation of cash flows relating to foreign currency assets and liabilities discount granted by the Group to employees on the subscription price at the year-end exchange rate are shown in “Effect of exchange rate based on the following two items: movements on cash and cash equivalents” in the Statement of Cash Flows. ■ the cost of the non-transferability of shares granted to employees during a period of five years. This cost is measured taking account R) Operating segments of the five-year lock-in period. It corresponds to the cost of a twostage strategy under which the market participant enters into Group Management analyzes and measures activity performance: a forward sale effective at the end of the five-year lock-in period ■ in the different businesses (Consulting Services, Technology and simultaneously borrows the amount necessary to buy a share Services, Local Professional Services and Outsourcing Services), available for immediate transfer. This borrowing is financed with ■ in the geographic areas where the Group is present. the proceeds from the forward sale of the share and the dividends received during the lock-in period. This cost is calculated based on The business analysis enables the transversal management and the following assumptions: monitoring of resources and service production in 2012 in the seven strategic business units, unchanged on 2011, and therefore the roll-out • the subscription price is set by the Chairman and Chief Executive of uniform expertise and know-how in all countries and regions. Officer pursuant to the powers delegated by the Board of Directors. This subscription price is equal to the average Cap Gemini share The geographic analysis enables management to monitor the price, adjusted for volume, during the twenty trading days preceding performance: the decision of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, to which ■ of commercial development: it focuses on trends in major contracts a discount is applied, and clients in Group markets across all its businesses. This • the grant date is the date at which employees are fully informed of monitoring seeks to coordinate the service offering of the different the specific characteristics and terms and conditions of the offer and businesses in the territories, given their considerable interaction and particularly the subscription price, to measure the services rendered. These analyses are performed • the loan rate granted to employees and used to determine the by Group Management within the Coordination Committee of the cost of the non-transferability of shares, is the rate at which a geographic area, which brings together the business managers bank would grant a consumer loan repayable on maturity without operating in a given area, allocation, to a private individual with an average risk profile, for a term corresponding to the term of the plan; 124 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements ■ at operational and financial level: management of treasury and S) Exchange gains and losses on inter-company transactions support services, the operating investment and financing policies The results and financial position of a foreign subsidiary are included in and the acquisition policy are decided and implemented by the Group’s consolidated financial statements after the elimination of geographic area. inter-company balances and transactions. However, a foreign exchange This led the Group to present its segment reporting for the 8 geographic gain or loss arising on an inter-company monetary asset or liability (e.g. areas grouping together the countries where it is located. an inter-company receivable denominated in a currency different to the Costs relating to operations and incurred by Group holding companies functional currency of the subsidiary) cannot be eliminated. Such foreign on behalf of geographic areas are allocated to the relevant segments exchange gains and losses are recognized in the Income statement or either directly or on the basis of an allocation key. Items not allocated in Income and expense recognized directly in equity, if the underlying correspond to headquarter expenses. forms an integral part of the net investment in the foreign operation (e.g. a loan with no fixed maturity). Inter-segment transactions are carried out on an arm’s length basis. The fair values of hedging instruments relating to inter-company In addition to the operating margin, the performance of operating operating transactions performed as part of the centralized segments is measured based on an operating margin which excludes management of currency risk in the parent company are eliminated. the amortization and impairment of intangible assets recognized in business combinations. This indicator enables the measurement and comparison of the operating performance of operating segments, irrespective of whether their business results from internal growth of the operating segment or external acquisitions. NOTE 2 Changes in group structure ACQUISITIONS / DISPOSALS IN FISCAL YEAR 2012 Certain circumstances relating to regulatory changes or specific The Group acquired DTWO Solutions (renamed Capgemini Japan KK), a commercial failings by one or other of the parties, may lead to the early 4 exercise of the put or call options at certain dates. Japan-based IT consulting and software company for a consideration of €11 million (35 employees) and sold its shares in its captive reinsurance In return, Caixa Participacões S.A. granted Capgemini Group reciprocal subsidiary Capgemini Reinsurance Company S.A. for €100 million. call options. At December 31, 2012, Capgemini Group held 55.8% of the share ENTRY OF A PARTNER INTO CPM BRAXIS AND CHANGE capital. IN PERCENTAGE OF INTEREST On May 25, 2012, Caixa Econômica Federal, the fourth largest Brazilian OVERVIEW OF MAJOR ACQUISITIONS IN PREVIOUS bank, entered into the share capital of CPM Braxis S.A. through its FISCAL YEARS subsidiary Caixa Participacões S.A. Following completion of this transaction, Caixa Participacões S.A. CS Consulting held a 22% stake in CPM Braxis S.A. as a result of two simultaneous On February 4, 2011, the Group finalized the acquisition of 100% of transactions: the share capital of CS Consulting for a cost of €49 million. Based in Germany, the company specializes in the migration of core banking ■ a share capital increase of BRL 121 million (€49 million) through the systems as well as the implementation of business intelligence solutions. subscription of ordinary shares, At December 31, 2012, recognized goodwill totaled €41 million. ■ the buyback of non-controlling interests in the amount of BRL 200 million (€80 million). Artésys The shares held by Caixa Participacões S.A. are covered by a put On March 30, 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital option exercisable between July and December 2022, recognized in of Artésys for a cost of €31 million. A Paris-based IT service provider, liabilities through a reduction in reserves (attributable to owners of the Artésys is a French leader in the design of infrastructure solutions. At Company). December 31, 2012, recognized goodwill totaled €31 million. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 125 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Prosodie AIVE Group On July 29, 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital of the On August 31, 2011, the Group acquired 100% of the share capital Prosodie group for a cost of €376 million. A Cloud Computing player, the of AIVE (in Italy) for a total consideration of €40 million. AIVE is an Prosodie group specializes in the management of telecommunication, Italian leader in the IT service sector in Italy and this acquisition internet and payment transaction flows for major clients. It operates in enables Capgemini to complete its systems integration and applicative France and Europe. At December 31, 2012, recognized goodwill totaled maintenance offering. At December 31, 2012, recognized goodwill €331 million, after the allocation of €35 million, net of deferred tax, to totaled €32 million, after the allocation of €5 million, net of deferred tax, customer relationships and the prepayment platform. to customer relationships and licenses. NOTE 3 Revenues 2010 2011 2012 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % North America 1,665 19 1,805 19 2,101 20 France 1,931 22 2,138 22 2,181 21 United Kingdom and Ireland 1,912 22 1,945 20 2,104 21 Benelux 1,314 16 1,266 13 1,118 11 Southern Europe and Latin America 599 7 1,000 10 1,029 10 Nordic countries 543 6 635 7 714 7 Germany and Central Europe 534 6 626 6 658 6 Asia-Pacific 199 2 278 3 359 4 REVENUES 8,697 100 9,693 100 10,264 100 The year-on-year increase in revenues in 2012 was 5.9%, based on the year-end Group structure and exchange rates, compared with 1.2% on a like-for-like basis (constant Group structure and exchange rates). NOTE 4 Operating expenses by nature 2010 2011 2012 % of % of % of in millions of euros Amount revenues Amount revenues Amount revenues Personnel costs 5,193 59.7 5,816 60.0 6,188 60.3 Travel expenses 370 4.2 391 4.0 423 4.1 5,563 63.9 6,207 64.0 6,611 64.4 Purchases and sub-contracting expenses 2,042 23.5 2,231 23.0 2,227 21.7 Rent and local taxes 282 3.2 324 3.3 338 3.3 Amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations 21 0.2 25 0.3 37 0.3 Other charges to depreciation, amortization and provisions and proceeds from asset disposals 202 2.4 193 2.0 264 2.6 OPERATING EXPENSES 8,110 93.2 8,980 92.6 9,477 92.3 In France, the Group receives Research Tax Credit income that is deducted from operating expenses (purchases and sub-contracting expenses) in the amount of €23 million (€42 million in 2011), including €6 million in respect of projects costs expensed in prior years (€27 million in 2011). 126 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements BREAKDOWN OF PERSONNEL COSTS in millions of euros Note 2010 2011 2012 Wages and salaries 4,138 4,583 4,890 Payroll taxes 1,008 1,183 1,236 Pension costs related to defined benefit pension plants and other post-employment benefit expenses 20 47 50 62 PERSONNEL EXPENSES 5,193 5,816 6,188 NOTE 5 Other operating income and expense in millions of euros Note 2010 2011 2012 Restructuring costs (71) (81) (168) o/w Workforce reduction (44) (74) (151) o/w Real estate assets streamlining (19) (4) (14) o/w Rightshoring (8) (3) (3) Integration cost relating to acquired companies (11) (9) (9) Acquisition-related costs (4) (7) (2) Expenses relating to share subscriptions, share grants and stock options 9 (16) (17) (18) Other operating expenses (2) (4) (11) Total operating expenses (104) (118) (208) 4 Other operating income 6 22 Total operating income 6 22 OTHER OPERATING INCOME AND EXPENSE (98) (118) (186) RESTRUCTURING COSTS Fiscal year 2012 restructuring costs primarily concern workforce reduction measures and the streamlining of real estate assets, particularly in the Netherlands and France. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 127 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 6 Net ﬁnancial expense in millions of euros Note 2010 2011 2012 Income from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets 20 23 25 Interest on borrowings (42) (54) (62) Net finance costs at the nominal interest rate (22) (31) (37) Impact of amortized cost on borrowings (32) (34) (18) Net finance costs at the effective interest rate (54) (65) (55) Net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans 20 (28) (25) (26) Exchange losses (gains) on financial transactions 2 2 (8) Currency derivative instruments on financial transactions (2) (4) 6 Other (5) (13) (17) Other financial income and expense (33) (40) (45) o/w financial income 22 64 42 o/w financial expenses (55) (104) (87) NET FINANCIAL EXPENSE (87) (105) (100) Net finance costs mainly comprise: ■ interest on bank loans in Brazil, the Asia-Pacific region and France of €7 million (€18 million in 2011). ■ income from cash, cash equivalents and cash management assets of €25 million, In other financial income and expense, currency derivative instruments on financial transactions mainly concern fair value gains and losses on ■ the coupons on OCEANE bonds convertible/exchangeable into new currency swaps hedging inter-company loans granted by Capgemini UK or existing Cap Gemini (OCEANE 2009) of €20 million (€24 million Plc. to the parent company and an inter-company loan granted by the in 2011, including €4 million in respect of OCEANE 2005 bonds), parent company to Capgemini North America Inc. plus an amortized cost accounting impact of €17 million (€34 million in 2011, including €18 million in respect of OCEANE 2005 bonds), The increase in the net interest cost on defined benefit pension plans ■ the coupons on the 2011 bond issue of €26 million (€2 million in is analyzed in Note 20 – Provisions for pensions and other post2011), plus an amortized cost accounting impact of €1 million, employment benefits. ■ interest on finance leases of €8 million, primarily in the United Kingdom, Brazil, the United States and France (€8 million in 2011), NOTE 7 Income tax expense in millions of euros Note 2010 2011 2012 Current income taxes (71) (129) (158) Deferred taxes 13 (53) 28 18 INCOME TAX EXPENSE (124) (101) (140) 128 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The difference between the French standard rate of income tax and the effective Group tax rate can be analyzed as follows: 2010 2011 2012 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Profit before tax 402 490 501 Standard tax rate in France (%) 34.4 36.1 36.1 Tax expense at the standard rate (138) 34.4 (177) 36.1 (181) 36.1 Difference in tax rates between countries 9 (2.3) 16 (3.3) 16 (3.1) Impact of: Deferred tax assets not recognized on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising in the period (9) 2.3 2 (0.3) 1 (0.2) Net recognition of deferred tax assets on temporary differences and tax loss carry-forwards arising prior to January 1 24 (6.1) 67 (13.6) 33 (6.4) Utilization of previously unrecognized tax loss carry-forwards 6 (1.5) (1) 0.1 8 (1.6) Adjustments to prior years 9 (2.3) (10) 2.0 8 (1.6) Minimum income tax charge (38) 9.3 (45) 9.2 (51) 10.2 Permanent differences and other items 13 (2.9) 47 (9.6) 26 (5.2) ACTUAL TAX EXPENSE (124) 30.9 (101) 20.6 (140) 28.2 Effective rate of income tax 30.9% 20.6% 28.2% 4 The low effective rate of income tax in 2011 was due to the recognition Minimum income tax charges primarily consist of the Corporate Valueof US deferred tax assets in the amount of €76 million (USD 105 million) Added Contribution (Cotisation sur la Valeur Ajoutée des Enterprises, (see Note 13 – Deferred tax). CVAE) in France, equity taxes in the United States and the regional tax on productive activities (IRAP) in Italy. NOTE 8 Earnings per share BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE 2010 2011 2012 Profit for the year (in millions of euros) 280 404 370 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 152,979,307 153,595,650 155,795,618 BASIC EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) 1.83 2.63 2.37 The year-on-year increase in the average number of shares between At December 31, 2012, instruments considered dilutive for the purpose 2011 and 2012 is mainly due to the issue in September 2012 of of calculating diluted earnings per share include: 6 million shares under the employee share ownership plan (ESOP ■ shares to be delivered to foreign employees under the 2009 and 2012), net of movements in treasury shares. 2010 performance share plans, the number of which is now definitive (289,500 shares under the 2009 plan and 623,620 shares DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE under the 2010 plan). At December 31, 2012, these share grants are only subject to the continued employment of the beneficiaries Diluted earnings per share are calculated by assuming conversion into at the delivery date, ordinary shares of all dilutive instruments outstanding at the period end. The average share price in 2012 was €30.28. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 129 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements ■ the 187,702 shares falling within the scope of the free share plan These bonds are convertible at any time until the seventh business open to all French employees, the terms of which were approved day preceding January 1, 2014, when they will be redeemable at by the Board of Directors on July 25, 2012 and available for par. allocation. This share grant is subject to the continued employment Conversely, the following financial instruments are not considered of beneficiaries in 2014, dilutive: ■ all 1,003,500 shares available for grant under the performance share ■ employee stock options, as the average price of ordinary shares plan, the terms of which were approved by the Board of Directors during the period is inferior to the strike price of the options, on December 12, 2012. Achievement of the performance condition was not validated at the fiscal year end given the plan grant date, ■ the Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR), as the aggregate of the €34 strike price and €3.22 issue premium ■ the 16,911,765 “OCEANE 2009” convertible bonds issued on is higher than the average market price of the Cap Gemini share in April 20, 2009 as the €24 million interest expense recorded (net of 2012. taxes) on the bonds is lower per bond than basic earnings per share. in millions of euros 2010 2011 2012 Profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 280 404 370 Finance cost savings linked to the conversion of debt instruments, net of tax (1) 37 23 24 Diluted profit for the year attributable to owners of the Company 317 427 394 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) Weighted average number of ordinary shares 152,979,307 153,595,650 155,795,618 Adjusted for “OCEANE 2005” convertible/exchangeable bonds (weighted average) 11,810,809 “OCEANE 2009” convertible/exchangeable bonds (weighted average) 16,911,765 16,911,765 16,911,765 Performance shares that can be granted 537,320 1,207,035 2,104,322 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (diluted) 182,239,201 171,714,450 174,811,705 Diluted earnings per share (in euros) 1.74 2.49 2.25 (1) Only OCEANE 2009 convertible bonds are taken into account as they are the only bonds considered dilutive. NOTE 9 Equity FEATURES OF INCENTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE The Group has no contractual or constructive obligations to purchase SHARE OWNERSHIP or settle the options in cash. In the event of a notice of authorization of a takeover bid for some or all A) Stock option plans of the Company’s shares published by Euronext, option holders would At the May 12, 2005 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of be entitled, if they so wish, to exercise all of their remaining unexercised Directors was given a 38-month authorization to grant stock options to options immediately. certain Group employees on one or several occasions. 130 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The main features of this plan and the bases of calculation are set out in the table below: 2005 Plan Maximum number of options to be granted 6,000,000 Date options first granted under the plan October 1, 2005 Deadline for exercising stock options after their grant date (based on progressive tranches) 5 years Subscription price (as a %) of the average share price over the 20 stock market trading days preceding the grant date 100% Subscription price (per share and in euros) of the various stock option grants 40.5 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2011 1,715,500 Number of new stock options granted during the year Plan expired (1) Number of options forfeited or cancelled in 2012 1,576,000 Number of options exercised in 2012 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2012 139,500 (1) Residual weighted average life (in years) 0.42 (1) Last stock options granted on June 1, 2008 at a price of €40.50. Summary 2005 Plan Grant dates October 1, 2005 October 1, 2006 April 1, 2007 October 1, 2007 June 1, 2008 Number of shares initially granted 1,915,500 2,067,000 400,000 1,932,500 219,000 Of which granted to executive corporate officers 50,000 50,000 Subscription price (per share and in euros) of the various 4 stock option grants 30 43 55 44 40.5 Share price at the grant date 32.59 41.84 57 42.98 43.37 Number of shares subscribed at December 31, 2012 1,295,306 1,100 Principal market conditions at the grant date Volatility 27.4-29.4% 32.4-35.9% 31.7-32.7% 34.8-35.7% 41.2-42.3% Average length of the option exercise period (in years) 3-4.25 3-4.25 3-4.25 3-4.25 3-4.25 Risk-free interest rate 2.3-2.7% 3.55-3.58% 4.14-4.15% 4.09-4.14% 4.26-4.35% Expected dividend rate 1% 1% 1.50% 1.50% 2.30% Non-market conditions Employee presence within the Group at the exercise date Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Other No No No No No Pricing model used to calculate stock option fair values Black & Scholes Range of fair values (in euros) 7.6-9.4 10.7-11.7 14.5-17.1 10.6-12.6 13.5-15.3 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2012 139,500 B) Performance share plan the first share plan and 18 months for the second and third share plans subject to performance and continued employment conditions. The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of April 17, 2008, April 30, On March 5, 2009, October 1, 2010 and then on December 12, 2012, 2009 and then May 24, 2012, authorized the Board of Directors to the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list grant shares to a certain number of Group employees, on one or of beneficiaries of the three plans. several occasions and within a maximum period of 12 months for REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 131 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The main features of these plans are set out in the table below: Summary 2009 Plan 2010 Plan 2012 Plan Maximum number of shares to be granted 1% of the share capital on the 1% of the share capital on the 1.5% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ date of the Board of Directors’ date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of decision i.e. a maximum of decision i.e. a maximum of 1,458,860 shares 1,557,703 shares 2,426,555 shares Total number of shares granted 1,148,250 (1) 1,555,000 (4) 1,003,500 (7) Date of the Board of Directors’ decision March 5, 2009 October 1, 2010 December 12, 2012 Performance assessment dates At the end of the first and At the end of the first and second At the end of the first and second second calendar years following years following the grant date years following the grant date the grant date Vesting period 2 years and ½ month as from Two years as from the grant date Two years as from the grant date the grant date (France) or 4 years (France) or four years as from the (France) or four years as from the and ½ month as from the grant grant date (other countries) grant date (other countries) date (other countries) Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date Two years, or five years in the Two years, or five years in the (France only) event of departure from the event of departure from the Group during the two years Group during the two years following the vesting date following the vesting date 4 years Number of shares at December 31, 2011 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions 311,625 1,458,000 Of which corporate officers (2) (5) Number of shares subject to performance and presence conditions granted in 2012 1,003,500 Of which corporate officers 50,000 (7) Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 22,125 483,871 Number of shares definitively granted at December 31, 2012 350,509 Number of shares at December 31, 2012 that may be definitively granted under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions 289,500 (3) 623,620 (6) 1,003,500 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 23.3 37.16 33.15 Main market conditions at the grant date Volatility 42.70% 42.80% 25.80% Risk-free interest rate 1.40% 1.67% 0.35% 0.98% Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% Other conditions Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Yes Monte Carlo for performance Monte Carlo for performance shares with external (market) shares with external (market) conditions conditions Black & Scholes for shares Monte Carlo for performance granted without conditions shares or with internal performance Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares Black & Scholes for free shares conditions Range of fair values (in euros) Free shares (per share and in euros) 20.7 21.9 32.32 32.96 n/a Performance shares (per share and in euros) 16.51 17.53 21.54 21.97 14.35 28.67 Of which corporate officers 17.53 n/a 17.92 (1) Of which 64,750 shares granted without performance conditions (5.6% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total), (2) Currently no performance shares granted, (3) Balance on the “foreign” plan that may be granted on March 5, 2013, subject to conditions of presence, (4) Of which 124,000 shares granted without performance conditions (8% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total), (5) No performance shares were granted in 2010, (6) Balance on the “foreign” plan that may be granted in October 2014, subject to conditions of presence, (7) Grant subject to performance conditions only. 132 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements a) Performance conditions of the 2009 plan • is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if the The exact number of shares vesting at the end of the vesting period relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is higher than or equal is equal to the maximum number of shares initially granted, multiplied to 110% of the basket. by a percentage (from 0% to 100%) corresponding to the chosen Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini share is performance measurement criteria. in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only 60% of the initial allocation will be granted compared with 80% under the first plan. The performance of the Cap Gemini share, measured over the first two years, compared with the average performance of a basket of ten The external performance condition accounts for 70% of the grant securities of listed companies, measured over the same period and calculation. representative of the Group’s business sector in at least five countries The calculation for the period concerned leads, at the share delivery in which the Group is firmly established, will ultimately condition the date, to the grant of 55% of the maximum number of shares initially vesting of the shares. defined in respect of external performance conditions. The definitive allocation depends on the relative performance of the Cap The fair value of shares subject to external performance conditions was Gemini share in relation to the basket of comparable securities. In each adjusted for a discount calculated in accordance with the Monte Carlo period, the number of shares that ultimately vests: model, together with a discount for non-transferability for the shares ■ is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the granted in France. performance of the Cap Gemini share is equal to 90% of the basket, Internal performance condition ■ varies on a straight-line basis between 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a predefined schedule, where the performance The internal performance condition is based on the progression in the of the Cap Gemini share is between 90% and 110% of the basket, 2011 audited and published operating margin of Capgemini Group ■ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if the compared with the 2010 operating margin at constant Group structure performance of the Cap Gemini share is higher than or equal to and exchange rates. 110% of the basket. The performance calculation was therefore performed following The definitive calculation led to the grant of 50% of performance shares approval of the 2011 accounts, by comparing the percentage increase initially allocated (including shares granted solely subject to continued in the 2011 audited and published operating margin with the 2010 4 employment conditions), representing a maximum allocation of 534,750 audited and published operating margin at constant Group structure shares, of which 489,750 shares could finally be granted. and exchange rates. Based on the percentage increase calculated in this way: b) Performance conditions of the 2010 plan ■ no shares would have been granted in respect of the internal In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, 2009 performance condition if the increase in the operating margin thus regarding the inclusion of an internal and external performance condition calculated was less than 12%, when granting performance shares, the Board of Directors decided to ■ the number of shares that ultimately vested would have been: add an internal condition to the external condition initially planned. • equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated for an External performance condition increase between 12% and 13.5%, The external performance condition is calculated in the same way as • equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated for an under the first plan, except for the grant thresholds which have been increase between 13.5% and 15%, tightened compared with the first plan. As such: • equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated for an ■ no shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini share increase greater than or equal to 15%. during the period in question is less than 90% of the average The internal performance condition accounts for 30% of the grant performance of the basket of securities over the same period, calculation. ■ the number of shares that ultimately vests: The year-on-year increase in the operating margin at constant Group • is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the structure and exchange rates was 15.6%. Accordingly, shares granted performance of the Cap Gemini share is at least equal to 90% of at the share delivery date in respect of the internal performance the basket, condition shall equal 100% of the number of shares initially defined. • is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the c) Performance conditions of the 2012 plan performance of the Cap Gemini share is equal to 100% of the The following internal and external performance conditions apply: basket, • varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and between External performance condition 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a predefined The external performance condition is calculated in a similar way as schedule, where the performance of the Cap Gemini share is under the second plan (2010 plan). between 90% and 100% of the basket in the first case and 100% and 110% of the basket in the second case, It accounts for 50% of the total amount granted. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 133 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Internal performance condition The internal performance condition accounts for 50% of the total amount granted. The internal performance condition is based on the generation of Organic Free Cash Flow over a three-year period encompassing fiscal years 2012 to 2014. Accordingly, C) Free share plan ■ no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance At the May 24, 2012 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash Flow over Directors was given an 18-month authorization to grant to certain Group the reference period is less than €750 million, employees, on one or several occasions, performance shares subject only to a condition of presence. This authorization was partially used ■ 100% of the initial internal grant will become definitive if Organic Free and the terms and conditions of the grant and the list of beneficiaries Cash Flow of €1 billion or more is generated. (employee members of the Capgemini Economic and Social Unit, Unité The fair value of shares subject to internal performance conditions Economique et Sociale, in France) were set by the Board of Directors is calculated assuming 100% realization and will be adjusted where meeting of July 25, 2012. necessary in line with effective realization of this condition. A discount for non-transferability is also applied for the shares granted in France. The main features of this plan are set out in the table below: Summary 2012 Plan Maximum number of shares to be granted 1.5% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of 2,336,554shares, of which a maximum of 15% granted without performance conditions Total number of shares granted 202,538 (1) Date of the Board of Directors’ decision July 25, 2012 Continued employment condition only (employee presence within the Group at the Grant condition assessment date vesting date) Two years as from the grant date (France only) Vesting period Democratic plan Number of shares subject to continued employment conditions granted during the year 202,538 Number of options forfeited or canceled during the year 14,836 Number of shares at December 31, 2012 that may be definitively granted under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions 187,702 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 26.3 Main market conditions at the grant date Risk-free interest rate 0.88% Expected dividend rate 3.00% Fair value in euros (per share) 20.22 (1) i.e. 8.6% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). This transaction, which aims to develop employee share ownership, D) International employee share ownership plan – ESOP 2012 enabled all employees of French companies with at least three months Pursuant to the 8 th and 9 th resolutions adopted by the Combined seniority at the grant date to receive shares and to become Cap Gemini Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011, the Group set up an employee shareholders at the end of the vesting period. More than 20,000 share ownership plan (ESOP 2012) in the second half of 2012. This plan employees were concerned by this share grant, representing a total was open to all employees in the 19 countries where the Group has of 202,538 shares and with a differentiated share allocation based on had permanent activities for over two years and where the headcount annual salary (four categories): the lowest paid employees received exceeds 500 employees. Under the plan, a minimum length of service of 12 shares, while the highest paid employees received 4 shares. three months was required at August 30, 2012, acquired consecutively 134 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements or not since January 1, 2012. This leveraged plan offered employees On September 27, 2012, the Group issued 6,000,000 new shares the possibility of subscribing at a discounted preferential rate and, via a reserved for employees with a par value of €8, representing a share bank which secured and supplemented the investment so that the total capital increase of €153 million net of issue costs (€1.6 million). amount invested represented ten times the personal contribution of the Paul Hermelin subscribed for Cap Gemini shares in the amount of employee, potentially generating a greater capital gain than would have €44,460.49 via the Capgemini Employee Savings Mutual Fund (Fonds been the case had it been calculated based solely on the employee’s Commun de Placement enterprise, FCPE). personal contribution. In return, the employee waives a portion of any In those countries where the set-up of an FCPE has been possible, increase in the price of shares subscribed on his behalf, as well as the IFRS 2 expense is nil, as the cost of non-transferability to the dividends and other financial rights that could be paid on these shares participant is greater than the total discount at the date of grant plus throughout the entire term of the plan. In addition, the shares will be the opportunity gain. The IFRS 2 expense is attributable to the Stock unavailable for a period of five years (except for cases of early release Appreciation Rights (SAR) mechanism for employees in countries where covered by plan rules in accordance with applicable legislation). the introduction of leverage through an FCPE or directly in the name of This employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2012) includes a 15% the employee is not possible or relevant. discount. Under the delegation of authority granted by the Board of It should also be noted that a decrease of 0.5 point in the employee Directors, the subscription price was set at €25.76 by the Chairman financing rate would not impact the IFRS 2 expense, as the nonand Chief Executive Officer on August 27, 2012. This price corresponds transferability cost remains greater than the total discount at the grant to the average Cap Gemini share price adjusted for volumes observed date. This is also true of an increase of 0.5 point in the retail/institutional over the twenty stock market trading days preceding the Chairman and rate volatility difference, as the cost of non-transferability is greater than Chief Executive Officer’s decision, less a 15% discount. the total discount at the date of grant plus the opportunity gain. The table below presents the main features of the ESOP 2012 employee share ownership plan, the amounts subscribed and the pricing assumptions (excluding SAR): 2012 Plan 4 Plan characteristics Grant date August 27, 2012 Plan maturity (in years) 5 Base price (in euros) 30.3 Subscription price (in euros) 25.76 Par value discount (as a %) 15.00% Total discount at the grant date (as a %) (a) 12.88% Amount subscribed by employees (in millions of euros) 15.5 Total amount subscribed (in millions of euros) 154.6 Total number of shares subscribed 6,000,000 Pricing assumptions Employee financing rate 6.66% 5-year risk-free interest rate 0.97% Repo and reverse repo rates 1.00% Retail rate / institutional rate volatility difference 5.60% Cost of non-transferability to the participant (as a %) (b) 25.77% Opportunity gain (as a %) (c) 2.37% (1) Total cost for the Group (as a %) (a-b+c) 0% (1) The expense is nil as the cost of non-transferability to the participant is greater than the total discount at the date of grant plus the opportunity gain. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 135 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements E) Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants of the issue date. The warrants will be listed on July 23, 2013. Between (bons de souscription et / ou d’acquisition d’actions July 23, 2009 and the date the warrants are admitted to trading on Euronext Paris, they may not be exercised or transferred except under remboursables – bsaar) (reminder 2009) the conditions specified in the issue agreement (namely in the event During 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by employees and of a takeover bid for Cap Gemini shares). The issue was disclosed in corporate officers of the Group (at a price of €3.22 per warrant). The a prospectus approved by the AMF on May 14, 2009 under reference exercise period commences the date of listing of the BSAAR warrants number 09-140. on the Euronext Paris market and terminates on the seventh anniversary IMPACT OF INCENTIVE INSTRUMENTS AND EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP PLANS The expense recognized in “Other operating expenses” in respect of incentive instruments and employee share ownership plans described above (including payroll taxes and employer contributions) and the residual amount to be amortized breaks down as follows: 2010 2011 2012 Residual Residual Residual amount to be amount to be amount to be in millions of euros Note Amount amortized Amount amortized Amount amortized Stock option plans 7 2 1 1 1 Performance share plans 9 38 16 25 15 27 Free share plans 1 2 Employee share ownership plan ESOP 1 Expense relating to share subscriptions, share grants and stock options 5 16 40 17 26 18 29 TREASURY SHARES AND MANAGEMENT OF SHARE treasury shares is deducted from equity, changes in the share price do CAPITAL AND MARKET RISKS not impact the Consolidated Income Statement. The Group does not hold any shares for financial investment purposes The Group’s capital management strategy is designed to maintain a and does not have any interests in listed companies. strong capital base in view of supporting the continued development of its business activities and delivering a return to shareholders, while However, at December 31, 2012, under its share buyback programs adopting a prudent approach to debt as evidenced by the use of the the Group holds: debt-to-equity ratio as a key performance indicator. At December 31, ■ 202,944 treasury shares following the implementation of a liquidity 2010, 2011 and 2012, the Group had a positive net cash position. In agreement (the associated liquidity line amounts to €7 million), order to preserve and control the structure of its capital, the Group can pursuant to the related share buyback program described in a issue new shares, buy back its own shares or adjust the dividend paid prospectus published on May 19, 2012, to shareholders. ■ 1,448,741 treasury shares representing 0.9% of the share capital at December 31, 2012, purchased between January 17 and 25, CURRENCY RISK AND TRANSLATION GAINS AND LOSSES 2008, at an average price of €34.48, representing a decrease of ON THE ACCOUNTS OF SUBSIDIARIES WITH A FUNCTIONAL 351,009 shares on December 31, 2011 following their allocation to CURRENCY OTHER THAN THE EURO beneficiaries of performance shares under the 2010 performance share plan, Regarding risks arising on the translation of the foreign currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, as a substantial proportion of ■ 920,098 treasury shares, representing 0.6% of the share capital the Group’s consolidated revenues are generated in the UK and the purchased on December 27, 2012 under the forward share US (20% and 17% respectively at December 31, 2012), fluctuations purchase agreement entered into on November 21, 2012, for a in the pound sterling and the US dollar against the euro may have an total consideration of €30 million. These shares were purchased for impact on the consolidated financial statements. The negative impact cancellation, on translation reserves is mainly due to the depreciation of the US dollar to which must be added, 151,223 treasury shares held under the against the euro during 2012. contractual holding system for key employees of the Ernst & Young The Group does not hedge risks arising on the translation of the foreign American consulting business who joined the Group in 2000. currency accounts of consolidated subsidiaries whose functional At December 31, 2012, the value of these treasury shares was currency is not the euro. The main exchange rates used for the deducted from consolidated equity in the amount of €92 million. preparation of the financial statements are presented in Note 1-B – In view of the small number of treasury shares held, the Group is not Accounting policies: Foreign currency translation. therefore exposed to significant equity risk. Finally, as the value of 136 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 10 Goodwill and intangible assets Other Customer Licenses and intangible in millions of euros Goodwill relationships software assets Total GROSS At January 1, 2010 2,800 131 125 162 3,218 Translation adjustments 122 9 7 3 141 Acquisitions / Increase 16 4 20 Internal developments 7 7 Disposals / Decrease (28) (4) (10) (42) Business combinations 330 52 31 16 429 Other movements (1) (2) (3) At December 31, 2010 3,251 164 173 182 3,770 Translation adjustments 25 (2) (3) 20 Acquisitions / Increase 22 22 Internal developments 6 6 Disposals / Decrease (15) (4) (19) Business combinations 547 9 22 5 583 Other movements (4) 2 3 1 At December 31, 2011 3,819 173 199 192 4,383 Translation adjustments (33) (6) (3) 1 (41) Acquisitions / Increase 11 27 7 45 Internal developments 21 21 4 Disposals / Decrease (7) (7) Business combinations (44) 45 3 14 18 Other movements 5 (1) 4 At December 31, 2012 3,753 212 224 234 4,423 ACCUMULATED AMORTIZATION AND IMPAIRMENT (1) At January 1, 2010 50 65 101 136 352 Translation adjustments 3 6 2 11 Amortization and impairment 20 18 10 48 Disposals (28) (4) (8) (40) Business combinations 20 10 30 Other movements (1) (1) At December 31, 2010 50 60 140 150 400 Translation adjustments 1 (2) (1) Amortization and impairment 25 21 9 55 Disposals (14) (4) (18) Business combinations 18 2 20 Other movements 1 4 5 At December 31, 2011 51 86 163 161 461 Translation adjustments (3) (3) 2 (4) Amortization and impairment 33 26 14 73 Disposals (5) (5) Business combinations 1 1 Other movements 3 3 At December 31, 2012 51 116 184 178 529 NET At December 31, 2010 3,201 104 33 32 3,370 At December 31, 2011 3,768 87 36 31 3,922 At December 31, 2012 3,702 96 40 56 3,894 (1) Goodwill is subject to impairment only. The decrease in goodwill in 2012 primarily follows the finalization of acquisition price allocations in respect of 2011 acquisitions to customer relationships and/or other intangible assets and goodwill. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 137 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 11 Property, plant and equipment Land, buildings, fixtures and Computer in millions of euros fittings equipment Other PP&E Total GROSS At January 1, 2010 459 423 132 1,014 Translation adjustments 14 22 10 46 Acquisitions / Increase 66 80 23 169 Disposals / Decrease (16) (105) (4) (125) Business combinations 34 89 15 138 Other movements (23) (5) 12 (16) At December 31, 2010 534 504 188 1,226 Translation adjustments (6) (10) (10) (26) Acquisitions / Increase 53 111 26 190 Disposals / Decrease (10) (44) (5) (59) Business combinations 25 38 8 71 Other movements (3) 5 (10) (8) At December 31, 2011 593 604 197 1,394 Translation adjustments (5) (9) (5) (19) Acquisitions / Increase 39 100 37 176 Disposals / Decrease (21) (72) (20) (113) Business combinations Other movements (1) (13) 1 (13) At December 31, 2012 605 610 210 1,425 ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND IMPAIRMENT At January 1, 2010 200 295 98 593 Translation adjustments 5 16 5 26 Depreciation and impairment 41 74 14 129 Disposals (14) (94) (4) (112) Business combinations 12 82 7 101 Other movements (14) (3) 7 (10) At December 31, 2010 230 370 127 727 Translation adjustments (9) (5) (14) Depreciation and impairment 44 72 17 133 Disposals (8) (42) (4) (54) Business combinations 19 30 5 54 Other movements (1) 1 1 1 At December 31, 2011 284 422 141 847 Translation adjustments (1) (8) (2) (11) Depreciation and impairment 50 86 19 155 Disposals (19) (64) (18) (101) Business combinations Other movements (7) (7) At December 31, 2012 314 429 140 883 NET At December 31, 2010 304 134 61 499 At December 31, 2011 309 182 56 547 At December 31, 2012 291 181 70 542 138 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Property, plant and equipment purchased under finance lease Net (in millions of euros) 2010 2011 2012 At January 1 153 157 183 Translation adjustments 3 1 Acquisitions / Increase 49 60 41 Disposals / Decrease (6) (1) (3) Depreciation and impairment (45) (39) (44) Business combinations 4 6 Other movements (1) (1) (5) At December 31 157 183 172 NOTE 12 Asset impairment tests GOODWILL PER CASH-GENERATING UNIT The cash-generating units adopted by the Group correspond to geographic areas representing the Group’s major markets and the main lines of development and strategic investment. December 31, 2010 Gross ImpairNet carrying December 31, 2011 Gross ImpairNet carrying December 31, 2012 Gross ImpairNet carrying 4 in millions of euros value ment amount value ment amount value ment amount North America 599 (6) 593 636 (6) 630 624 (6) 618 France 658 (1) 657 1,086 (2) 1,084 1,042 (2) 1,040 United Kingdom and Ireland 515 515 533 533 541 541 Benelux 796 (12) 784 800 (12) 788 798 (12) 786 Southern Europe and Latin America 270 270 289 289 261 261 Nordic countries 158 158 162 162 164 164 Germany and Central Europe 214 (31) 183 258 (31) 227 257 (31) 226 Asia-Pacific 41 41 55 55 66 66 GOODWILL 3,251 (50) 3,201 3,819 (51) 3,768 3,753 (51) 3,702 This goodwill was tested for impairment at December 31, 2012 in line Group long-term growth and discount rates are based on the average with the Group procedure for verifying the value of such assets. of a representative sample of projections by financial analysts who use these indicators to value the Group. In 2012, with the exception of Value in use is measured using the discounted future cash flow method Brazil, the Group used estimates produced by 11 financial analysts, and based on the following main assumptions: of whom 9 were already included in the group of 11 financial analysts ■ number of years over which cash flows are estimated: five years, called on in 2011. The change in discount rates arises from the three based on data taken from the budget process for the first year components used for the calculation: the risk-free rates, the risk and from the three-year strategic plan for the next two years, with premium and the volatility of the Cap Gemini share price in relation to extrapolation of this data for the remaining period, changes in its listed market (“beta”). ■ long-term growth rate used to extrapolate to perpetuity final year No impairment losses were recognized at December 31, 2012 as a estimated cash flows: 2.1% (2.1% in 2011) and 4.0% for Brazil result of these impairment tests. (4.0% in 2011), ■ discount rate: 8.7% for North America, 8.9% for the United Kingdom, 12.0% for Brazil and 9.8% for the rest of the Group (respectively 8.0%, 8.1%, 13.0% and 9.5% in 2011). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 139 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements An analysis of the calculation’s sensitivity to a combined change in the ■ +/0.5 point in the discount rate, following key assumptions: ■ +/0.5 point in the long-term growth rate, ■ +/2 points in the revenues growth rate for the first five years, did not identify any recoverable amounts below the carrying amount ■ +/1 point in the operating margin rate for the first five years, for a cash-generating unit. NOTE 13 Deferred taxes RECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAXES A) Change in deferred tax assets Provisions for US pensions and Other Tax loss amortizable other postdeductible Total carry-forwards goodwill and employment temporary deferred in millions of euros Note excl. the US tax losses benefits differences tax assets At January 1, 2010 537 115 141 94 887 Business combinations 7 1 8 Translation adjustments 3 8 8 4 23 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (45) (9) 2 (52) Deferred tax expense recognized in equity 26 (1) 25 At December 31, 2010 502 123 166 100 891 Business combinations 1 1 2 Translation adjustments 9 5 (2) 12 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (34) 76 (3) (8) 31 Deferred tax expense recognized in equity 70 14 84 At December 31, 2011 469 208 239 104 1,020 Translation adjustments (4) 1 (1) (4) Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement (28) (2) 34 4 Deferred tax expense recognized in equity 7 52 (13) 39 At December 31, 2012 441 204 290 124 1,059 a) Deferred tax assets arising from tax loss carry-forwards (excluding annual amortization charge was deducted from US tax profits and the the United States) resulting tax loss carried forward for a period of 20 years. Recognized tax loss carry-forwards (excluding the United States) At December 31, 2012, the cumulative amount of US tax losses, total €441 million at December 31, 2012. They include tax losses of including the amortization charges referred to above, totaled €385 million attributable to the France tax group. € 2,675 million (USD 3,529 million). b) US deferred tax assets arising from amortizable goodwill and tax These tax loss carry-forwards do not include future amortization losses charges deductible for tax purposes of €468 million (USD 617 million). The acquisition of Ernst & Young’s North American consulting business Recognized deferred tax assets are unchanged at December 31, in 2000 gave rise to the amortization for tax purposes, over a period of 2012 compared with December 31, 2011 and total €204 million 15 years, of the difference between the acquisition price of the business (USD 269 million). and the tax base of the assets and liabilities acquired. Since 2000, the 140 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Unrecognized deferred tax assets at December 31, 2012 amount to ■ potential deferred tax on all future amortization charges deductible €1,022 million (USD 1,348 million) comprising: for tax purposes in respect of the goodwill referred to above, calculated on a tax base of €468 million (USD 617 million) and at a ■ potential deferred tax on all tax losses carried forward at tax rate of 39%, December 31, 2012, calculated on a tax base of €2,675 million (USD 3,529 million) and at a tax rate of 39%, ■ less deferred tax assets recognized at December 31, 2012 of €204 million (USD 269 million). B) Change in deferred tax liabilities Total Tax-deductible Other taxable deferred goodwill Customer Amortized temporary tax in millions of euros Note amortization relationships cost of bonds differences liabilities At January 1, 2010 49 20 20 64 153 Business combinations 17 1 18 Translation adjustments 2 1 4 7 Deferred tax expense recognized in the Income Statement 7 (5) (9) 15 1 Deferred tax expense recognized in equity (1) (1) At December 31, 2010 51 33 11 83 178 Business combinations 1 1 Translation adjustments 1 (1) Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 7 (2) (8) (1) 14 3 4 Deferred tax recognized in equity 1 1 At December 31, 2011 50 26 10 97 183 Business combinations 17 4 21 Disposals and other movements (1) (24) (24) Translation adjustments (1) (2) 1 (2) Deferred tax recognized in the Income Statement 7 1 (10) (5) (14) Deferred tax recognized in equity (1) (1) At December 31, 2012 50 31 5 77 163 (1) Including a negative amount of €29 million relating to the disposal of Capgemini Reinsurance Company S.A. UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2010 2011 2012 Tax loss carry-forwards, excluding the United States 318 196 238 US deferred tax on amortizable goodwill and tax loss carry-forwards 1,053 1,063 1,022 Deferred tax on other temporary differences 135 133 170 UNRECOGNIZED DEFERRED TAX ASSETS 1,506 1,392 1,430 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 141 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements EXPIRY DATES OF TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (TAXABLE BASE) 2010 2011 2012 At December 31 (in millions of euros) Amount % Amount % Amount % Y+1 11 12 3 Y+2 11 11 4 Y+3 5 1 8 Y+4 7 9 14 Y+5 30 1 13 1 20 1 Beyond 5 years 4,544 99 4,601 99 4,744 99 TAX LOSS CARRY-FORWARDS (taxable base) 4,608 100 4,647 100 4,793 100 NOTE 14 Other non-current assets At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2010 2011 2012 Shares in associates 3 Shares in non-consolidated companies 1 4 1 Deposits, receivables and other long-term investments 88 74 68 Derivative instruments 19 5 1 Pension plans with funding surpluses 20 3 Other 18 41 25 OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS 115 119 98 In 2012, shares in associates concern O2C Pro LLC (€3 million) Deposits and other long-term investments consist mainly of security acquired by Capgemini Technologies LLC as part of the acquisition deposits and guarantees relating to leases and “aides à la construction” of the activities of Vengroff, Williams and Associates in 2011. This (building aid program) loans in France, as well as escrow accounts company was not previously consolidated. guaranteeing tax and employee-related disputes in CPM Braxis. NOTE 15 Accounts and notes receivable At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2010 2011 2012 Accounts receivable 1,447 1,710 1,543 Provisions for doubtful accounts (14) (11) (12) Accrued income 821 871 900 Accounts and notes receivable excluding capitalized costs on projects 2,254 2,570 2,431 Capitalized costs on projects 117 115 107 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES RECEIVABLE 2,371 2,685 2,538 142 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Total accounts receivable and accrued income net of advances from customers and billed in advance, can be analyzed as follows in number of days: At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2010 2011 2012 Accounts and notes receivable excluding capitalized costs on projects 2,254 2,570 2,431 Advances from customers and billed in advance (576) (661) (624) TOTAL ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE NET OF ADVANCES FROM CUSTOMERS AND BILLED IN ADVANCE 1,678 1,909 1,807 In number of days’ annual revenues (1) 66 70 63 (1) In 2010 and 2011, this ratio is adjusted to take account of the impact of entries into the scope of consolidation. In 2012, Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. and Capgemini AGED ANALYSIS OF ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE America, Inc. assigned to a financial institution, without recourse, The low bad debt ratio (0.7% at December 31, 2012) reflects the fact receivables in the total amount of €25 million (unchanged for 2011) and that most invoices are only issued after the client has validated the €11 million (USD 15 million) respectively. services provided. As these receivables were assigned with transfer of credit risk as At end-2012, past due balances totaled €466 million, representing defined by IAS 39, they were derecognized in the Statement of Financial 30.5% of accounts receivable less provisions for doubtful accounts. Position at December 31, 2012. The breakdown is as follows: > 30 days in millions of euros < 30 days and < 90 days > 90 days Net accounts receivable 291 111 64 As a % of accounts and notes receivable, net of provisions 4 for doubtful accounts 19.0% 7.2% 4.2% Past due balances concern accounts receivable from customers which major clients and the sheer diversity of the other smaller clients help are individually analyzed and monitored. limit credit risk. The economic environment could impact the business activities of the Group’s clients, as well as the amounts receivable from these clients. However, the Group does not consider that any of its CREDIT RISK clients, business sectors or geographic areas present a significant risk The Group’s largest client, a major British public body, contributes of non-collection that could materially impact the financial position of around 9% of Group revenues (9% in 2011 and 10% in 2010), while the Group as a whole. the second-largest client accounts for just 2%. The top 10 clients collectively account for 22% of Group revenues. The solvency of these NOTE 16 Other current receivables At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2010 2011 2012 Social security and tax-related receivables, other than income tax 126 171 162 Prepaid expenses 119 154 152 Derivative instruments 19 22 12 6 Other 39 33 31 OTHER CURRENT RECEIVABLES 306 370 351 At December 31, 2012, “Social security and tax-related receivables, The portion of research tax credit receivables available for offset against other than income tax” include research tax credit receivables in France the current income tax expense is recorded in Current tax assets in in the amount of €45 million (€53 million at December 31, 2011). the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position in the amount of €35 million. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 143 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 17 Net cash and cash equivalents At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2010 2011 2012 Cash management assets 71 73 75 Short-term investments 1,912 1,877 1,610 Cash at bank 393 346 413 Asset/liability derivative instruments on cash items 8 10 (1) Bank overdrafts (liability) (6) (9) (6) Cash and cash equivalents 18 2,307 2,224 2,016 Bonds (1,001) (1,036) (1,053) Obligations under finance leases (88) (96) (76) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities (8) (2) (2) Other borrowings (5) (1) Long-term borrowings (1,102) (1,135) (1,131) Bonds (24) (422) (22) Obligations under finance leases (51) (51) (54) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities (85) (209) (15) Other borrowings (44) (11) (2) Short-term borrowings (204) (693) (93) Borrowings (1,306) (1,828) (1,224) Derivative instruments on borrowings (9) (15) 5 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,063 454 872 CASH MANAGEMENT ASSETS The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. They may be redeemed before this date at the initiative of the Company, subject Cash management assets consist of capitalization contracts with to certain conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly insurance companies (Generali and AG2R la mondiale). These contracts concerning the minimum redemption price. Bondholders may request may be cancelled by the Company at any time without penalty. the early redemption of all or part of their bonds in the event of a change in control of the Company, provided this change in control is CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS accompanied by a downgrading of the Company’s financial rating. At December 31, 2012, cash equivalents mainly consist of money Early repayment may be requested at the initiative of a majority market mutual funds (FCP and SICAV), certificates of deposit and term of bondholders, subject to the occurrence of certain events and bank deposits, paying interest at standard market rates. particularly failure to pay sums due in respect of the bond issue or to comply with other obligations set out in the documentation (beyond any “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default (in excess of a minimum BORROWINGS threshold), liquidation, dissolution or sale of all of the Company’s assets. A) Bonds An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini’s credit rating would not constitute an early repayment event. a) 2011 Bond issue Furthermore, Cap Gemini has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini performed a euro bond issue passu with all other bonds issued by the Company. maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all rights from November 29, 2011. b) “OCEANE 2009” convertible bonds The total amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising 5,000 On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini issued bonds convertible/exchangeable bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The bonds bear interest into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing on January 1, 2014 at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing to 6.50% in the event of a (“OCEANE 2009”). Bondholders enjoy all rights from April 20, 2009. down-grading of Cap Gemini’s credit rating. The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under reference number 11-546. 144 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements The total amount of the issue was €575 million, comprising 16,911,765 c) “OCEANE 2005” convertible bonds and redemption bonds with a nominal value of €34 each, resulting in an issue premium On June 16, 2005, Cap Gemini issued bonds convertible/exchangeable of 35% compared with the Company benchmark share price. The into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing on January 1, 2012 bonds bear interest at 3.5% per year. They may be converted at (“OCEANE 2005”). Bondholders enjoyed all rights from June 24, 2005. any time commencing April 20, 2009 and are redeemable at par on January 1, 2014 if not converted. The terms and conditions of this issue After redeeming a total of 2,350,000 bonds in a number of transactions were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on April 8, 2009 in November 2011 for an amount of €99 million, Cap Gemini redeemed under reference number 09-084. the remaining 9,460,810 OCEANE 2005 bonds on January 2, 2012 for a total amount of €396 million. IMPACT OF BONDS ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 2010 2011 2012 OCEANE OCEANE OCEANE OCEANE 2011 OCEANE 2011 2005 2009 2005 2009 Bond 2009 Bond At December 31 (in millions of euros) bonds bonds bonds bonds issue bonds issue Equity component 40 64 40 64 n/a 64 n/a Debt component at amortized cost 480 545 400 561 497 576 499 Effective interest rate 4.8% 6.8% 4.8% 6.8% 5.5% 6.8% 5.5% Interest expense recognized in the Income Statement for the period 21 35 22 36 2 37 27 Nominal interest rate 1% 3.5% 1% 3.5% 5.3% 3.5% 5.3% Nominal interest expense (coupon) 4 20 4 20 2 20 26 4 FAIR VALUE OF BONDS 2010 2011 2012 OCEANE OCEANE OCEANE OCEANE 2011 OCEANE 2011 2005 2009 2005 2009 Bond 2009 Bond At December 31 (in millions of euros) bonds bonds bonds bonds issue bonds issue Fair value 488 582 400 578 511 586 557 Market rate 2.2% 3.1% n/a 3.2% 4.7% 1.6% 2.2% B) Obligations under finance leases Earliest date Latest Effective December 31, in millions of euros of leases expiry date interest rate 2012 3-month Euribor Buildings (Universite Capgemini Les Fontaines) October 2002 July 2014 +0.75% 17 Computer equipment and other fixed assets July 2003 December 2017 6.57% 113 OBLIGATIONS UNDER FINANCE LEASES 130 Of which long-term obligations 76 Of which short-term obligations 54 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 145 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements C) Draw-downs on banks and similar facilities An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini’s credit rating would have no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The other main At December 31, 2012, draw-downs on banks and similar facilities terms and conditions of the credit facility, in particular with respect primarily consist of draw-downs on credit facilities in China to the to certain financial ratios, are detailed in Note 27 Off balance sheet amount of €13 million. commitments. D) Syndicated credit facility obtained by Cap Gemini This credit facility was not drawn at December 31, 2012. On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini signed a €500 million multi-currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks, maturing on January 13, EFFECTIVE INTEREST RATE (EIR) 2016. In 2012, the effective interest rate on the Group’s average outstanding The initial margin on this credit facility is 0.90%. This margin may be borrowings was 6.4% (6.5% in 2011). At December 31, 2012, 98% of adjusted upwards or downwards according to the credit rating of Cap the Group’s borrowings are at fixed rates (compared with 92% at endGemini The facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 2011) and the remainder is at floating rates. The increase in fixed-rate 35% of the margin (i.e. 0.315%), that may be increased to 40% if Cap borrowings in 2012 is due to the repayment of floating-rate borrowings Gemini’s rating falls. by CPM Braxis. At December 31, 2012 Euro US dollar Pound sterling Other Total EIR Amount EIR Amount EIR Amount Amount Amount % M€ % M€ % M€ M€ M€ “OCEANE 2009” bonds 6.8% 576 576 2011 Bond issue 5.5% 499 499 Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities 17 17 Obligations under finance leases 4.1% 45 7.2% 13 5.4% 59 13 130 Other borrowings n/a 1 1 2 BORROWINGS 1,120 14 59 31 1,224 146 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS BY MATURITY on contractual nominal interest rates 3.5% and 5.25%, respectively and AT REDEMPTION VALUE on the assumption that the bonds would be redeemed in full at maturity. The contractual cash flows associated with “Obligations under finance The amounts indicated below correspond to the undiscounted value leases” represent contractual repayments of the liability. of future contractual cash flows. Future cash flows relating to the “OCEANE 2009” bonds and the 2011 bond issue were estimated based Contractual Carrying Contractual Less than Beyond in millions of euros maturity amount cash flows 1 year 1 to 2 years 2 to 5 years 5 years At December 31, 2012 Cash management assets 2013 75 75 75 Cash and cash equivalents 2,016 2,016 2,016 n/a n/a n/a “OCEANE 2009” bonds 2014 (576) (615) (20) (595) 2011 Bond issue 2016 (499) (603) (26) (26) (551) Obligations under finance leases 2013 to 2017 (130) (138) (58) (45) (35) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities 2013 to 2015 (17) (17) (15) (1) (1) Other borrowings 2013 (2) (2) (2) Borrowings (1,224) (1,375) (121) (667) (587) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a 5 NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 872 716 1,970 (667) (587) At December 31, 2011 4 Cash management assets 2012 73 73 73 Cash and cash equivalents 2,224 2,224 2,224 n/a n/a n/a “OCEANE 2005” bonds 2012 (400) (400) (400) “OCEANE 2009” bonds 2014 (561) (635) (20) (20) (595) 2011 Bond issue 2016 (497) (631) (2) (26) (603) Obligations under finance leases 2012 to 2017 (147) (153) (56) (45) (52) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities 2012 to 2014 (211) (211) (209) (1) (1) Other borrowings 2012 to 2014 (12) (12) (11) (1) Borrowings (1,828) (2,042) (698) (93) (1,251) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a (15) NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 454 255 1,599 (93) (1,251) At December 31, 2010 Cash management assets 2011 71 71 71 Cash and cash equivalents 2,307 2,307 2,307 n/a n/a n/a “OCEANE 2005” bonds 2012 (480) (504) (4) (500) “OCEANE 2009” bonds 2014 (545) (656) (20) (20) (616) Obligations under finance leases 2011 to 2015 (139) (149) (55) (40) (54) Draw-downs on bank and similar facilities 2011 to 2012 (93) (93) (85) (8) Other borrowings 2011 to 2015 (49) (49) (44) (4) (1) Borrowings (1,306) (1,451) (208) (572) (671) Derivative instruments on borrowings n/a (9) NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 1,063 927 2,170 (572) (671) REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 147 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND LIQUIDITY RISK NET CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AND CREDIT RISK The financial liabilities whose repayability could expose the Group to Financial assets which could expose the Group to a credit or liquidity risk are mainly the convertible bonds (“OCEANE 2009”) and the counterparty risk mainly consists of financial investments: in accordance 2011 bond issue. with Group policy, cash balances are not invested in equity-linked products, but in (i) negotiable debt securities (certificates of deposit), To manage the liquidity risk that may arise upon financial liabilities (ii) term deposits, (iii) capitalization contracts or (iv) short-term becoming due and payable, the Group has implemented a conservative money market mutual funds, subject to minimum credit rating and financing policy mainly based on: diversification rules. ■ prudent use of debt leveraging, coupled with limited use of any At December 31, 2012, short-term investments totaled €1,610 million clauses that could lead to early repayment of borrowings, and comprise mainly (i) money market mutual funds meeting the criteria ■ maintaining a high level of available funds at all times (€2,098 million defined by the AMF for classification in the “monetary category”; and (ii) at December 31, 2012), which could be increased by a multinegotiable debt securities maturing within three months or immediately currency syndicated line of credit of €500 million (undrawn to date), available, issued by highly rated companies or financial institutions ■ actively managing the due dates of financial liabilities in order to limit (minimum rating of A2/P2 or equivalent). Consequently, these shortthe concentration of borrowings maturities, term investments do not expose the Group to any material credit risk. ■ using diverse sources of financing, allowing the Group to reduce its reliance on certain categories of lenders. NOTE 18 Cash ﬂows At December 31, 2012, cash and cash equivalents totaled NET CASH FROM (USED IN) OPERATING ACTIVITIES €2,016 million (see Note 17 – Net cash and cash equivalents), down In 2012, net cash from operating activities totaled €709 million €208 million on December 31, 2011 (€2,224 million). Excluding the (compared with €349 million in 2011) and resulted from: impact of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents of €31 million, this decrease is €177 million. Cash flow impacts are shown ■ cash flows from operations before net finance costs and income tax in the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. in the amount of €777 million, ■ payment of current income taxes in the amount of €120 million, ■ a decrease in working capital requirements, generating a positive cash impact of €52 million. 148 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Changes in working capital requirements (WCR) and the reconciliation with the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position are as follows: Statement of Cash Working capital requirement components Neutralization of items Flows (Consolidated Statement of Financial Position) with no cash impact items Reclassifications (2) and Impact Foreign changes December 31, December 31, Net Non-WCR of WCR Income exchange in Group in millions of euros Notes 2011 2012 impact items (1) items impact impact structure Amount Accounts and notes receivable, excl. capitalized costs on projects 15 2,570 2,431 139 139 (8) 4 135 Capitalized costs on projects 15 115 107 8 1 9 Advances from customers and billed in advance 15 (661) (624) (37) (37) (2) (39) Change in accounts and notes receivable and advances from customers and amounts billed in advance 110 110 (9) 4 105 Accounts and notes payable (Accounts payable) 23 (944) (921) (23) (23) 2 (5) (26) Change in accounts and notes payable (23) (23) 2 (5) (26) Other non-current assets Other current receivables 14 16 119 370 98 351 21 19 (6) (7) 15 12 (1) 9 (4) (12) (43) 2 (26) 4 Other non-current liabilities 22 (322) (219) (103) 92 (11) 3 4 15 11 Accounts and notes payable (excluding accounts payable) 23 (1,396) (1,414) 18 18 5 (1) 22 Other current payables 24 (137) (206) 69 (86) (17) 1 (20) (36) Change in other receivables/ payables 24 (7) 17 11 6 (61) (27) CHANGE IN OPERATING WORKING CAPITAL 104 11 (1) (62) 52 (1) Consolidated Statement of Financial Position items explaining cash flows relating to investing and financing activities and the payment of the income tax expense are not included in working capital requirements, (2) The Reclassifications heading mainly includes changes relating to the current and non-current reclassification of certain accounts and notes receivable and payable and changes in the position of certain tax and employee-related receivables and payables in assets or liabilities, or recognition, without impacting cash, through an item not classified in working capital requirements. NET CASH FROM (USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES ■ the €8 million negative impact of the sale of Capgemini Reinsurance Company S.A. The main components of net cash used in investing activities of €206 million (compared with €699 million in 2011) reflect: NET CASH FROM (USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES ■ cash outflows of €124 million (including disposal proceeds of €11 million) primarily relating to acquisitions of computer hardware Net cash outflows as a result of financing activities totaled €680 million for client projects or the partial renewal of IT installations and the (compared with a cash inflow of €279 million in 2011) and mainly renovation, extension and refurbishment of office space (see Note 11 comprised: – Property, plant and equipment), ■ the €153 million share capital increase following the issue of new ■ cash outflows of €48 million relating to acquisitions of intangible shares under the ESOP share ownership plan, assets, net of disposals, mainly involving software for customer ■ the receipt of €49 million from Caixa Participacões on the entry of projects or for internal use and internally generated intangible assets, Caixa Econômica Federal into the share capital of CPM Braxis S.A. ■ cash outflows of €24 million on business combinations, net of cash through the subscription of a share capital increase in the amount and cash equivalents acquired, including primarily the acquisition of BRL121 million, of DTWO Solutions (renamed Capgemini Japan KK) in Japan for ■ payment of the 2011 dividend of €154 million, €11 million, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 149 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements ■ a cash outflow of €396 million on the redemption in full of OCEANE ■ a cash outflow of €62 million in respect of repayments of obligations 2005 bonds in January 2012, under finance leases, ■ a cash outflow of €105 million on the repayment of CPM Braxis ■ interest paid net of interest received of €41 million, borrowings, ■ a net cash outflow of €24 million in respe ct of treasury share ■ a cash outflow of €90 million on the repayment of commercial paper transactions. issued by Cap Gemini, NOTE 19 Derivative instruments and currency and interest rate risk management CURRENCY RISK MANAGEMENT ■ fees paid to the parent company by subsidiaries whose functional currency is not the euro. As the majority of these flows are hedged, A) Exposure to currency risk and Currency risk the impact of changes in exchange rates on the Income Statement management policy is not significant. c) Currency risk and hedging of other non-current liabilities a) Currency risk and hedging operating transactions The Group has hedged its gross exposure to currency risk (euro against The growing use of offshore production centers located in India, in brazilian real) on the call-put option maturing in 2013 held respectively Poland and in Latin America, exposes the Group to currency risk with by Capgemini Group and the other shareholders of CPM Braxis over the respect to some of its production costs. share capital not yet held by the Group. The Group implements a policy aimed at minimizing and managing these currency risks, due in the majority to internal flows with India. d) Sensitivity to currency risk The definition of the hedging policy and the management of operational A 10% fluctuation in the pound sterling-euro exchange rate would currency risk is now primarily centralized at Group level, and the trigger a corresponding 2.1% change in revenues and 2.3% change later relies on periodic reporting by subsidiaries of their exposure to in operating margin. Similarly, a 10% fluctuation in the US dollar-euro currency risk over the coming 1 to 3 years. On this basis, the parent exchange rate would trigger a corresponding 1.7% change in revenues company acting as an internal bank, grants since 2012 internal currency and a 2% change in operating margin. guarantees to subsidiaries and enters into currency hedges with its bank counterparties, primarily through forward foreign exchange contracts. B) Hedging derivatives These hedging transactions are generally recorded in accordance with Amounts hedged at December 31, 2012 using forward buy and sale cash flow hedges accounting rules. foreign exchange contracts, mainly concern the parent company with respect to the centralized management of currency risk on operating b) Currency risk and hedging financial transactions transactions and inter-company financing transactions. To a lesser The Group is exposed to the risk of exchange rate fluctuations in extent, they concern the subsidiary Capgemini India Private Ltd. for respect of: sub-contacting activities performed during the period for other regions ■ inter-company financing transactions, mainly within the parent of the Group and not paid as of December 31, 2012. company: as inter-company lending and borrowing is systematically hedged (in particular using forward buy and sale foreign exchange contracts), the impact of changes in exchange rates on the Income Statement is negligible, 150 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements At December 31, 2012, the euro-equivalent value of forward buy and sale foreign exchange contracts breaks down by transaction type and maturity as follows: > 6 months and in millions of euros < 6 months < 12 months > 12 months Total Operating transactions 406 413 458 1,277 Of which fair value hedge 49 49 cash flow hedge 357 413 458 1,228 Financial transactions fair value hedge 438 438 Transactions on other non-current liabilities cash flow hedge 124 124 TOTAL 844 537 458 1,839 Hedges contracted in respect of operating transactions in India mainly Hedges contracted in respect of financial transactions primarily concern comprise forward contracts to purchase and sell foreign currency the parent company in the amount of €438 million at December 31, maturing between 2013 and 2016 with an aggregate equivalent 2012. They mainly comprise hedged inter-company loans for value of €1,277 million (€572 million at December 31, 2011). The €432 million (€570 million at December 31, 2011) and correspond to hedges were chiefly taken out in respect of transactions in Indian loans denominated in pound sterling, Australian dollar, US dollar and rupee (INR 39,129 million), US dollar (USD 439 million), Polish Mexican peso. zloty (PLN 1,004 million), pound sterling (GBP 50 million) and euro Hedges contracted in respect of other non-current liabilities concern (€35 million). the parent company. They mainly comprise forward foreign exchange The maturities of the hedges range from 2 months to 3 years and the contracts with a nominal value of BRL 335 million (€124 million), main counterparties are the parent company (for a euro-equivalent value maturing in October 2013. of €1,165 million) and Capgemini India Private Ltd. (for a euro-equivalent The Group’s total exposure to currency risk on its consolidated 4 value of €96 million). assets and liabilities is €832 million and €746 million, respectively, Pursuant to the implementation of the centralized management of at December 31, 2012, These exposures mainly concern the currency risk on operating transactions, at the end of the year the parent company in connection with inter-company Group financing Group terminated hedging contracts in India covering transactions transactions and to a lesser degree, Cap Gemini India Private Ltd. as in US dollar (USD 226 million), euro (€98 million) and pound sterling part of its internal sub-contracting activity. (GBP 47 million). Simultaneously, the parent company contracted hedges of an equivalent nominal amount. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 151 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements C) Fair value of hedging derivatives At December 31 (in millions of euros) Notes 2010 2011 2012 Other non-current assets 14 5 1 Other current receivables 16 22 12 6 Other non-current liabilities 22 (2) (15) (9) Other current payables 24 (10) (51) (25) Fair value of hedging derivatives 15 (54) (27) relating to: – operating transactions 16 (49) (31) – financial transactions (1) (5) 4 Hedging derivative counterparty recognized in equity at December 31 (on operating transactions) 11 (44) (22) Change in the period in hedging derivatives recognized in equity 9 (55) 22 o/w amounts released to operating profit in respect of transactions performed (15) 3 33 o/w fair value of hedging derivatives relating to future transactions 24 (58) (11) The fair value of hedging derivatives and the hedging derivative interest rates would have an estimated €16 million negative impact on counterparty recognized in equity primarily concern hedges of interthe Group’s net finance costs for 2012 (€17 million in 2011 and 2010). company flows between India and other Group entities. C) Fair value of interest rate derivatives INTEREST RATE RISK MANAGEMENT An interest rate swap contract maturing in July 2014, covering 50% of a finance lease taken out by S.A.R.L. Immobiliere Les Fontaines A) Interest rate risk management policy (owner of Capgemini University) was entered into by the latter in 2003 for a residual notional amount of €9 million (liability of €17 million at The Group’s exposure to interest rate risk should be analyzed in light of December 31, 2012). Under the terms of the swap, S.A.R.L. Immobiliere its cash position: at December 31, 2012, the Group had €2,098 million Les Fontaines pays a fixed rate of 3.51% and receives 3-month Euribor in cash and cash equivalents, mainly invested at floating rates (or failing +0.75%. this, at fixed rates for periods of less than or equal to 3 months), and €1,230 million in gross indebtedness principally at fixed rates (98%) (see Note 17 Net cash and cash equivalents). The high proportion COUNTERPARTY RISK MANAGEMENT of fixed rate borrowings is due to the weight of bond issues in gross In addition, in line with its policies for managing currency and interest indebtedness. rate risks as described above, the Group also enters into hedging agreements with leading financial institutions. Accordingly, counterparty B) Exposure to Interest rate risk: sensitivity analysis risk can be deemed not material. At December 31, 2012, the Group’s Based on average levels of cash and cash equivalents and borrowings main counterparties for managing currency and interest rate risk are in 2012, a 100-basis point rise in interest rates would have a positive Barclays, BNP Paribas, CA CIB, HSBC, ING, Itau, JP Morgan, Natixis, impact of around €16 million on the Group’s net finance costs Santander, and Société Générale. (€17 million in 2011 and 2010). Conversely, a 100-basis point fall in 152 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 20 Provisions for pensions and other post-employment beneﬁts BREAKDOWN OF PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS A) Change in the obligation, plan assets and the expense recognized in the Income Statement in millions of euros Notes 2010 2011 2012 Present value of the obligation at January 1 2,112 2,548 3,027 Business combinations 8 Service cost 39 43 53 Past service cost 6 3 Interest cost 131 136 147 Effect of curtailments and settlements (2) Contributions paid by employees 6 6 7 Benefits paid to employees (76) (71) (95) Changes in actuarial gains and losses (1) 198 280 165 Translation adjustments 133 72 51 Other movements 1 2 4 Present value of the obligation at December 31 2,548 3,027 3,359 Fair value of plan assets at January 1 (1,417) (1,713) (1,898) Expected return on plan assets (103) (111) (121) 4 Effect of curtailments and settlements 2 Contributions paid by employees (6) (6) (7) Benefits paid to employees 68 66 83 Contributions paid (84) (93) (114) Changes in actuarial gains and losses (1) (71) 13 (54) Translation adjustments (97) (45) (32) Other movements (5) (9) (10) Fair value of plan assets at December 31 (1,713) (1,898) (2,153) Total net funding shortfall 835 1,129 1,206 Unrecognized past service costs (34) (30) (21) Net provision in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31 801 1,099 1,185 Funding surplus recognized in assets 14 (3) Provisions recognized in liabilities 804 1,099 1,185 EXPENSE FOR THE PERIOD RECOGNIZED IN THE INCOME STATEMENT Service cost 4 (39) (43) (53) Past service cost 4 (8) (8) (9) Interest cost 6 (131) (136) (147) Expected return on plan assets 6 103 111 121 TOTAL EXPENSE FOR THE PERIOD (75) (76) (88) (1) The change in actuarial gains and losses is recorded in “Income and expense recognized in equity”. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 153 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements B) Breakdown of the change by main beneficiary country United in millions of euros Kingdom Canada Other Total At December 31, 2010 Present value of obligations under funded plans 1,827 368 167 2,362 Fair value of plan assets (1,251) (341) (121) (1,713) Funding shortfall under funded plans 576 27 46 649 (1) o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity 398 75 13 486 Funding shortfall under unfunded plans 58 128 186 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 6 25 31 Total net funding shortfall 576 85 174 835 Unrecognized past service costs (34) (34) NET PROVISION IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 576 85 140 801 Funding surplus recognized in assets (3) (3) Provisions recognized in liabilities 576 85 143 804 At December 31, 2011 Present value of obligations under funded plans 2,187 425 180 2,792 Fair value of plan assets (1,428) (345) (125) (1,898) Funding shortfall under funded plans 759 80 55 894 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 619 141 20 780 Funding shortfall under unfunded plans 85 150 235 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 27 28 55 Total net funding shortfall 759 165 205 1,129 Unrecognized past service costs (30) (30) NET PROVISION IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 759 165 175 1,099 At December 31, 2012 Present value of obligations under funded plans 2,387 474 231 3,092 Fair value of plan assets (1,626) (389) (138) (2,153) Funding shortfall under funded plans 761 85 93 939 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 667 166 51 884 Funding shortfall under unfunded plans 95 172 267 o/w actuarial gains and losses recognized in equity (1) 29 46 75 Total net funding shortfall 761 180 265 1,206 Unrecognized past service costs (21) (21) NET PROVISION IN THE CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION 761 180 244 1,185 (1) Actuarial gains and losses are recorded in “Income and expense recognized in equity. The countries included in the “Other” column are France, Germany, Sweden, Italy, the United States, India, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Austria and Norway. These countries represent 21% of net provisions for pensions and other post-employment benefits in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. 154 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements MAIN ACTUARIAL ASSUMPTIONS A) Discount rate and salary inflation rate 2010 2011 2012 United % Kingdom Canada Other Discount rate 2.4 8.4 2.9 8.8 4.6 4.5 1.7 8.4 Salary inflation rate 1.0 7.0 1.5 10.0 3.9 3.3 1.5 8.0 In 2012, the benchmark indexes used to calculate discount rates were similar to those used in previous years. B) Plan assets and the expected and actual return on plan assets Expected return Actual return United United in millions of euros Amount % Kingdom Canada Other Kingdom Canada Other At December 31, 2010 Shares 1,015 59 8.0 8.5 3.0 8.7 12.8 16.3 8.6 8.8 0.9 13.5 Bonds 595 35 5.5 4.0 1.5 4.5 9.4 11.0 9.0 9.2 0.9 8.5 Real estate assets Cash and cash equivalents 71 3 4 3.8 1.0 3.0 3.9 0.8 3.0 1.3 (1.4) (1.3) 0.9 8.5 0.1 8.5 4 Other 29 2 3.8 5.9 0.9 24.3 TOTAL 1,713 100 At December 31, 2011 Shares 1,068 56 8.0 7.5 4.3 10.1 (5.7) (4.8) (4.1) (4.0) 1.5 3.3 Bonds 752 40 4.7 4.0 2.0 4.6 15.3 15.8 10.8 1.5 6.2 Real estate assets 3 6.5 3.0 4.0 1.5 3.0 Cash and cash equivalents 44 2 3.8 1.0 0.5 4.0 0.5 (1.2) (0.8) Other 31 2 (2.3) 9.4 0.9 9.4 TOTAL 1,898 100 At December 31, 2012 Shares 1,228 57 8.0 7.5 3.0 9.6 10.5 14.0 15.2 15.3 (1.2) 15.6 Bonds 845 39 4.6 4.0 1.9 4.6 7.9 8.1 4.5 (1.2) 8.4 Real estate assets 3 6.5 3.0 4.0 (1.2) 8.4 Cash and cash equivalents 34 2 3.8 1.0 0.0 7.0 (1.2) (1.0) Other 43 2 0.1 9.4 (1.2) 30.2 TOTAL 2,153 100 In the United Kingdom, expected rates of returns are validated by In Canada, expected rates of return are determined in accordance experts. For shares, the expected rate of return is based on a study of with a model based on economic data observable in financial markets a selection of leading companies in the United Kingdom which takes (assumptions on the profitability of shares and bonds, validated by account of the maturity of obligations hedged and forecast expected expert analyses). returns based on past trends. The expected rate of return on bonds is determined based on the discount rate used for the obligation, that is, the expected rate of return on corporate bonds rated AA. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 155 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements C) Employees covered by pension plans 2010 2011 2012 United At December 31 Kingdom Canada Other Total Current employees – accruing pensionable service 54,284 61,438 1,118 2,607 63,908 67,633 Former and current employees – not accruing pensionable service 12,014 11,879 8,461 231 1,921 10,613 Retirees 2,538 2,820 2,009 696 475 3,180 TOTAL 68,836 76,137 11,588 3,534 66,304 81,426 The increase in employees in 2012 is chiefly attributable to the The net impact of the interest cost (discounting of the obligation) expansion of Group operations in India. At December 31, 2012, a total and the expected return on plan assets was a financial expense of of 41,124 employees were eligible for these pension plans in India, €26 million (mainly concerning the United Kingdom for €13 million). compared with 35,932 employees at December 31, 2011. The increase in this financial expense in 2012 compared with 2011 (€1 million) was due to: ANALYSIS OF THE CHANGE IN PROVISIONS FOR PENSIONS ■ the increase in the fair value of plan assets as a result of the rise in AND OTHER POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS contributions paid by the Group and despite a decrease in expected rates of return across all regions. The overall impact was a decrease A) Change in regulatory context: pension reform in France in the net financial expense of €10 million, The pension reforms adopted in France and resulting in the lengthening ■ the favorable impact tied to the fall in interest rates in the majority of the period of activity, did not have a material impact on the amount of of regions was nonetheless more than offset by the increase in the retirement termination payments. net present value of obligations, particularly in the United Kingdom, resulting in an increase in the net financial expense of €11 million. B) Impact on the Income Statement: change in the service C) Impact on equity: change in actuarial gains and losses cost and the interest cost Actuarial gains and losses reflect increases or decreases in the present In 2012, the expense recognized in operating margin in respect of value of the obligation or the fair value of the related plan assets. the service cost and the past service cost is €62 million and mainly Actuarial gains and losses include (i) the impact of changes in actuarial concerns France (€20 million), Canada (€19 million) and the United assumptions and (ii) experience adjustments, reflecting differences Kingdom (€13 million). The increase in the service cost in 2012 between projected actuarial assumptions and what has actually compared with 2011 (€11 million) was mainly due to the decrease in occurred. discount rates between 2010 and 2011 in the majority of regions and particularly Canada and the United Kingdom and the increase in the workforce in India. 2010 2011 2012 United At December 31 (in millions of euros) Kingdom Canada Other Total Impact of changes in actuarial assumptions 186 306 59 44 57 160 Experience adjustments, o/w (59) (13) (25) (17) (7) (49) (1) Adjustment on liabilities 12 (26) 5 5 Adjustment on assets (2) (71) 13 (30) (17) (7) (54) IMPACT ON INCOME AND EXPENSE RECOGNIZED IN EQUITY 127 293 34 27 50 111 (1) +: increase in liabilities / -: decrease in liabilities, (2) -: increase in assets / +: decrease in assets. 156 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements a) Impact of changes in actuarial assumptions The €19 million increase in provisions for pensions for translation Changes in actuarial assumptions (essentially the discount rate and the adjustments, was due to the appreciation, in particular, of the pound expected rate of return on plan assets) generated an actuarial loss in sterling during the period (€18 million). 2012 of €160 million. This loss is attributable to changes in actuarial In the United Kingdom, the defined benefit section of the main assumptions between 2011 and 2012, particularly in Canada where the Capgemini UK Plc. pension plan terminated on March 31, 2008 for the discount rate dropped by 70 basis points. large majority of beneficiaries. In exchange, these individuals were given the opportunity to join the defined contribution section of this plan. In b) Experience adjustments addition, in accordance with the recommendations put forward by the Experience adjustments result from differences between projected UK Pensions Regulator, Capgemini UK Plc. has committed to fund the actuarial assumptions and what has actually occurred during the fiscal shortfall identified at the last three-year valuation by July 2018. year. The impact of experiences adjustments on the value of plan assets In accordance with local regulations, the non-renewal of certain was an actuarial gain of €54 million, as actual rates of return were higher contracts in full or in part could result in the Group paying additional than expected rates of return in the United Kingdom and Canada. post-employment benefits. D) Other impacts on the statement of financial position: contributions, benefits and translation adjustments SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS Contributions paid by the Group totaled €114 million in 2012, including A) Analysis of the sensitivity of the present value €71 million in the United Kingdom and €35 million in Canada. of the obligation in The United Kingdom and Canada Benefits paid to employees of €95 million mainly involved the United The impact of a change of 50 basis points in the discount rate and Kingdom (€35 million) and Canada (€38 million). the inflation rate on the present value of the obligation in the United Kingdom and Canada, which represent 88% of the total Group obligation at December 31, 2012, is presented below: 4 Impact Present value of obligation United United in millions of euros Kingdom Canada Kingdom Canada Present value of the obligation at December 31, 2012 2,387 569 Increase of 50 basis points in the discount rate (236) (51) 2,151 518 Decrease of 50 basis points in the discount rate 274 56 2,661 625 Increase of 50 basis points in the inflation rate 199 46 2,586 615 Decrease of 50 basis points in the inflation rate (206) (42) 2,181 527 B) Analysis of the sensitivity of healthcare assistance costs Consolidated Income Statement (service cost and interest cost) and an impact ranging from negative €16 million to positive €21 million in the Healthcare assistance costs exclusively concern Canada. For 2010, Consolidated Statement of Financial Position at December 31, 2012. 2011 and 2012, a change of 100 basis points in healthcare assistance cost trends would have an impact of plus or minus €2 million in the REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 157 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 21 Current and non-current provisions in millions of euros 2010 2011 2012 At January 1 49 66 63 Charge 42 34 34 Reversals (utilization of provisions) (8) (13) (27) Reversals (surplus provisions) (19) (31) (8) Other 2 7 2 At December 31 66 63 64 At December 31, 2012, current provisions (€48 million) and non-current Charges to provisions mainly concern outsourcing and technology provisions (€16 million) mainly concern risks relating to projects and services projects and tax and labor disputes. Reversals for the period contracts amounting to €47 million (€46 million at December 31, 2011) mainly reflect the favorable outcome of customer disputes. and risks relating to tax and labor disputes amounting to €17 million (unchanged for 2011). NOTE 22 Other non-current liabilities At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2010 2011 2012 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 68 61 51 Derivative instruments 19 2 15 9 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 189 219 127 Other 20 27 32 OTHER NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES 279 322 219 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies consist of earn-outs granted at the time of certain acquisitions and put options granted to Caixa Participacões in 2012 in the amount of €119 million (see Note 2 – Changes in Group structure). NOTE 23 Accounts and notes payable At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2010 2011 2012 Accounts payable 957 944 921 Accrued taxes other than on income 405 378 358 Personnel costs 924 1,002 1,041 Other 19 16 15 ACCOUNTS AND NOTES PAYABLE 2,305 2,340 2,335 158 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 24 Other current payables At December 31 (in millions of euros) Note 2010 2011 2012 Special employee profit-sharing reserve 21 18 21 Derivative instruments 19 10 51 25 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies 6 14 114 Other 43 54 46 OTHER CURRENT PAYABLES 80 137 206 Liabilities related to acquisitions of consolidated companies consist for shareholders following the acquisition of CPM Braxis in 2010 and €104 million of the initial put option (net of price adjustments and the exercisable between October 2013 and October 2015 (€198 million at impact of the unwinding of the discount) granted to remaining minority December 31, 2011 recorded in other non-current liabilities). NOTE 25 Operating segments As indicated in Note 1-R – Accounting policies: Operating segments, segment information is provided for the geographic areas presented below and complemented by information on revenues and operating margin for each of the Group’s four businesses. SEGMENT REPORTING BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA The Group has operations in the following eight geographic areas: 4 Geographic area Country North America Canada, United States France France, Morocco United Kingdom and Ireland Ireland, United Kingdom Benelux Belgium, Luxembourg, Netherlands Southern Europe and Latin America Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Guatemala, Italy, Mexico, Portugal, Spain Nordic countries Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden Germany and Central Europe Austria, Czech Republic, Germany, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Slovakia, Switzerland Asia-Pacific Australia, China, India, Japan, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 159 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements ANALYSIS OF THE INCOME STATEMENT BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot 2012 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated (1) Eliminations Total Revenues – external (2) 2,101 2,181 2,104 1,118 1,029 714 658 359 10,264 – inter-geographic area 82 179 121 53 44 22 138 636 (1,275) TOTAL REVENUES 2,183 2,360 2,225 1,171 1,073 736 796 995 (1,275) 10,264 Operating margin before amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations (2) 195 182 163 84 43 54 60 112 (69) 824 % of revenues 9.3 8.3 7.8 7.5 4.2 7.5 9.1 n/a 8.0 Amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations (2) (9) (11) (4) (8) (2) (2) (1) (37) OPERATING MARGIN (2) 186 171 163 80 35 52 58 111 (69) 787 % of revenues 8.8 7.8 7.7 7.2 3.4 7.2 8.8 n/a 7.7 OPERATING PROFIT 178 129 144 16 3 47 46 107 (69) 601 Net finance costs (55) Other financial income 42 Other financial expense (87) Income tax expense (140) Share of profit of associates (1) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 360 Non-controlling interests 10 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY 370 (1) Items that have not been allocated correspond to headquarter expenses, (2) Non-Group revenues generated under sub-contracting arrangements are recorded in the ordering region. As the operating margin rate is calculated based on these revenues, the margin for the Asia-Pacific area is not representative of its activities, which mostly consist of internal subcontracting carried out in India. 160 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot 2011 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated (1) Eliminations Total Revenues – external (2) 1,805 2,138 1,945 1,266 1,000 635 626 278 9,693 – inter-geographic area 78 162 125 52 41 26 132 537 (1,153) TOTAL REVENUES 1,883 2,300 2,070 1,318 1,041 661 758 815 (1,153) 9,693 Operating margin before amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations (2) 169 187 139 98 36 48 45 84 (68) 738 % of revenues 9.4 8.7 7.1 7.7 3.6 7.6 7.2 n/a 7.6 Amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations (2) (10) (4) (6) (2) (2) (1) (25) OPERATING MARGIN (2) 159 187 139 94 30 46 43 83 (68) 713 % of revenues 8.8 8.7 7.1 7.4 3.0 7.2 6.9 n/a 7.4 OPERATING PROFIT 153 153 124 62 11 42 36 82 (68) 595 Net finance costs (65) Other financial income 64 Other financial expense (104) Income tax expense (101) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 389 4 Non-controlling interests 15 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY 404 (1) Items that have not been allocated correspond to headquarter expenses, (2) Non-Group revenues generated under sub-contracting arrangements are recorded in the ordering region. As the operating margin rate is calculated based on these revenues, the margin for the Asia-Pacific area is not representative of its activities, which mostly consist of internal subcontracting carried out in India. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 161 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot 2010 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated (1) Eliminations Total Revenues – external (2) 1,665 1,931 1,912 1,314 599 543 534 199 8,697 – inter-geographic area 58 117 83 43 42 21 117 456 (937) TOTAL REVENUES 1,723 2,048 1,995 1,357 641 564 651 655 (937) 8,697 Operating margin before amortization of intangible assets recognized in business combinations (2) 97 127 150 131 21 38 49 62 (67) 608 % of revenues 5.8 6.6 7.8 10.0 3.5 7.0 9.2 n/a 7.0 Amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations (2) (11) (4) (2) (2) (1) (1) (21) OPERATING MARGIN (2) 86 127 150 127 19 36 48 61 (67) 587 % of revenues 5.2 6.6 7.9 9.7 3.1 6.6 9.0 n/a 6.8 OPERATING PROFIT 76 106 132 106 6 30 40 60 (67) 489 Net finance costs (54) Other financial income 22 Other financial expense (55) Income tax expense (124) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 278 Non-controlling interests 2 PROFIT ATTRIBUTABLE TO OWNERS OF THE COMPANY 280 (1) Items that have not been allocated correspond to headquarter expenses, (2) Non-Group revenues generated under sub-contracting arrangements are recorded in the ordering region. As the operating margin rate is calculated based on these revenues, the margin for the Asia-Pacific area is not representative of its activities, which mostly consist of internal subcontracting carried out in India. Analysis of depreciation, amortization and other expenses with no cash impact included in the operating margin United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot 2012 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated (1) Total Depreciation and amortization expense (32) (43) (38) (24) (30) (15) (16) (30) (228) (1) Net charge to provisions (1) (9) (6) (1) (5) (1) (4) (27) TOTAL (33) (52) (44) (25) (35) (16) (20) (30) (255) (1) This item includes net movements in provisions for doubtful accounts and current and non-current provisions. United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot 2011 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated (1) Total Depreciation and amortization expense (33) (29) (30) (21) (22) (12) (15) (26) (188) Net charge to provisions (1) 3 7 (11) 2 (3) (5) 5 (2) TOTAL (30) (22) (41) (19) (25) (12) (20) (21) (190) (1) This item includes net movements in provisions for doubtful accounts and current and non-current provisions. 162 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot 2010 (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated (1) Total Depreciation and amortization expense (35) (27) (28) (29) (11) (11) (13) (20) (174) Net charge to provisions (1) 10 (7) (11) 6 (1) (1) (5) (3) (12) TOTAL (25) (34) (39) (23) (12) (12) (18) (23) (186) (1) This item includes net movements in provisions for doubtful accounts and current and non-current provisions. Analysis of assets and liabilities by geographic area The location of assets corresponds to the location of the Group’s clients, except for outsourcing centers such as in India. United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and At December 31, 2012 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot (in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated Eliminations Total Assets by geographic area – external 1,076 1,993 1,138 1,092 825 390 469 370 64 7,417 – inter-geographic area 39 128 40 18 11 8 36 114 (394) TOTAL ASSETS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 1,115 2,121 1,178 1,110 836 398 505 484 64 (394) 7,417 Deferred tax assets 1,059 Current income tax receivable 70 4 Cash management assets 75 Cash and cash equivalents 2,023 Derivative instruments 6 TOTAL ASSETS 10,650 Liabilities by geographic area – external 615 1,021 1,351 305 616 206 248 230 7 4,599 – inter-geographic area 67 56 68 43 21 22 25 29 64 (395) TOTAL LIABILITIES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 682 1,077 1,419 348 637 228 273 259 71 (395) 4,599 Total equity 4,529 Deferred tax liabilities 163 Current income tax payable 95 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,230 Derivative instruments 34 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,650 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 163 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and At December 31, 2011 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot Elimina(in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated tions Total Assets by geographic area – external 1,154 2,081 1,184 1,146 857 380 464 314 51 7,631 – inter-geographic area 38 101 52 23 24 11 36 106 35 (426) TOTAL ASSETS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 1,192 2,182 1,236 1,169 881 391 500 420 86 (426) 7,631 Deferred tax assets 1,020 Current income tax receivable 55 Cash management assets 73 Cash and cash equivalents 2,223 Derivative instruments 12 TOTAL ASSETS 11,014 Liabilities by geographic area – external 607 1,053 1,388 336 554 207 218 186 7 4,556 – inter-geographic area 78 84 71 47 18 19 28 42 32 (419) TOTAL LIABILITIES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 685 1,137 1,459 383 572 226 246 228 39 (419) 4,556 Total equity 4,283 Deferred tax liabilities 183 Current income tax payable 89 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,837 Derivative instruments 66 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 11,014 United Southern Germany Kingdom Europe and At December 31, 2010 North and and Latin Nordic Central AsiaNot Elimina(in millions of euros) America France Ireland Benelux America countries Europe Pacific allocated tions Total Assets by geographic area – external 1,035 1,560 990 1,195 805 340 400 274 35 6,634 – inter-geographic area 41 69 47 22 15 7 26 77 22 (326) TOTAL ASSETS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 1,076 1,629 1,037 1,217 820 347 426 351 57 (326) 6,634 Deferred tax assets 891 Current income tax receivable 40 Cash management assets 71 Cash and cash equivalents 2,305 Derivative instruments 27 TOTAL ASSETS 9,968 Liabilities by geographic area – external 497 968 1,198 340 526 179 205 174 11 4,098 – inter-geographic area 81 72 43 45 17 21 20 21 6 (326) TOTAL LIABILITIES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 578 1,040 1,241 385 543 200 225 195 17 (326) 4,098 Total equity 4,307 Deferred tax liabilities 178 Current income tax payable 61 Borrowings and bank overdrafts 1,312 Derivative instruments 12 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 9,968 164 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Analysis of acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment At December 31 (in millions of euros) 2010 2011 2012 North America 31 18 21 France 22 33 32 United Kingdom and Ireland 50 46 33 Benelux 13 13 28 Southern Europe and Latin America 14 29 25 Nordic countries 14 20 23 Germany and Central Europe 15 17 18 Asia-Pacific 37 42 51 ACQUISITIONS OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 196 218 231 Total acquisitions of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment ■ “Technology Services” plans, designs and develops IT systems and reported in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position is different applications, from the figure provided in the Statement of Cash Flows (€183 million), ■ “Local Professional Services” provides assistance and support to which excludes acquisitions of assets held under finance leases internal IT teams within client companies, (€48 million). ■ “Outsourcing Services” manages all or part of a company’s IT or business process needs. SEGMENT REPORTING BY BUSINESS The Group’s services are organized into four businesses: 4 ■ “Consulting Services” helps to enhance the performance of organizations based on in-depth knowledge of client industries and processes, Breakdown of revenues by business 2010 2011 2012 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 511 6 515 5 500 5 Technology Services 3,610 42 4,020 41 4,147 40 Local professional services 1,418 16 1,518 16 1,528 15 Outsourcing services 3,158 36 3,640 38 4,089 40 REVENUES 8,697 100 9,693 100 10,264 100 Breakdown of operating margin by business 2010 2011 2012 in millions of euros Amount % Amount % Amount % Consulting Services 56 10.9 62 12.0 56 11.2 Technology Services 242 6.7 273 6.8 328 7.9 Local professional services 131 9.2 166 10.9 160 10.4 Outsourcing services 225 7.1 280 7.7 312 7.6 Not allocated (67) (68) (69) OPERATING MARGIN 587 6.8 713 7.4 787 7.7 Amortization of intangible assets acquired through business combinations 21 0.2 25 0.2 37 0.3 OPERATING MARGIN BEFORE AMORTIZATION OF INTANGIBLE ASSETS RECOGNIZED IN BUSINESS COMBINATIONS 608 7.0 738 7.6 824 8.0 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 165 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 26 Number of employees AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2010 2011 2012 Employees % Employees % Employees % North America 8,265 8 9,039 8 9,680 8 France 19,828 21 20,614 18 21,503 18 United Kingdom and Ireland 8,167 8 8,700 8 8,988 7 Benelux 10,877 11 10,508 9 9,815 8 Southern Europe and Latin America 9,863 10 15,505 14 16,648 14 Nordic countries 3,850 4 4,292 4 4,523 4 Germany and Central Europe 7,853 8 8,375 7 9,278 7 Asia-Pacific 28,696 30 37,150 32 41,228 34 Not allocated 172 171 166 AVERAGE NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 97,571 100 114,354 100 121,829 100 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA 2010 2011 2012 Employees % Employees % Employees % North America 8,667 8 9,505 8 9,608 8 France 20,107 18 21,571 18 21,574 17 United Kingdom and Ireland 8,515 8 8,977 7 8,964 7 Benelux 10,782 10 10,391 9 9,186 7 Southern Europe and Latin America 14,853 14 16,499 14 16,735 13 Nordic countries 4,012 4 4,538 4 4,504 4 Germany and Central Europe 7,928 7 8,962 7 9,581 8 Asia-Pacific 33,655 31 39,097 33 44,794 36 Not allocated 179 167 164 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES AT DECEMBER 31 108,698 100 119,707 100 125,110 100 NOTE 27 Off-balance sheet commitments OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS RELATING In addition, certain clients enjoy: TO GROUP OPERATING ACTIVITIES ■ limited financial guarantees issued by the Group and totaling €1,027 million at December 31, 2012 (€856 million and €631 million A) Commitments given on client contracts at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively), The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees for ■ bank guarantees borne by the Group and totaling €72 million at a number of major contracts. These include the contracts signed with December 31, 2012 (€81 million and €91 million at December 31, HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider Electric Industries, Euroclear, 2011 and 2010, respectively). the Metropolitan Police, Ontario Power Generation Inc., Environment Agency, Renault S.A. and The Secretary of State for Work & Pensions. 166 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements B) Commitments given on non-cancellable leases Vehicles and other Computer non-cancellable in millions of euros equipment Offices leases Total Y+1 7 180 66 253 Y+2 5 157 50 212 Y+3 2 126 28 156 Y+4 1 81 8 90 Y+5 63 63 Y+6 and beyond 96 96 December 31, 2012 15 703 152 870 December 31, 2011 22 651 145 818 December 31, 2010 32 633 140 805 Lease payments recognized in the Income Statement in 2012 totaled €320 million (€307 million and €267 million at December 31, 2011 and 2010, respectively). C) Other commitments given ■ the interest coverage ratio (the extent to which consolidated net finance costs are covered by consolidated operating margin) must Other commitments given total €110 million at December 31, 2012 be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 and June 30 of each (€121 million and €50 million in 2011 and 2010, respectively) and year (based on the 12 months then ended). comprise: At December 31, 2010, 2011 and 2012 the Group complied with these 4 ■ bank guarantees given to the tax authorities in connection with tax financial ratios. disputes in France, India and Spain, The credit facility agreement includes covenants restricting the ■ firm purchase commitments relating to goods or services in India Company’s ability to carry out certain operations. These covenants and France. also apply to Group subsidiaries. They include restrictions primarily relating to pledging assets as collateral, asset sales, mergers and similar D) Commitments received on client contracts transactions. Cap Gemini also committed to standard obligations, Pursuant to a contract signed in 2010, Capgemini Group received a including an agreement to maintain pari passu status. limited financial guarantee of €63 million from the client. C) Borrowings secured by assets OFF-BALANCE SHEET COMMITMENTS RELATING TO Some borrowings are secured by assets recorded in the Consolidated GROUP FINANCING Statement of Financial Position. At December 31, 2012, these related to finance leases for an amount of €127 million. A) Bonds With regard to the OCEANE 2009 bonds and the 2011 bond issue CONTINGENT LIABILITIES detailed in Note 17 – Net cash and cash equivalents, Cap Gemini has During 2012 and in previous fiscal years, some Group companies committed to standard obligations and particularly to maintain pari underwent tax audits leading in some cases to tax reassessments. passu status with all other negotiable bonds that may be issued by the A number of these reassessments have been challenged and some Company. litigation proceedings were in progress at the period end. In general, no provisions have been set aside for these disputes in the consolidated B) Syndicated credit facility obtained by Cap Gemini and not financial statements. drawn to date Cap Gemini has agreed to comply with the following financial ratios (as defined in IFRS) in respect of the credit facility disclosed in Note 17 – Net cash and cash equivalents: ■ the consolidated net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be less than 1 at all times, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 167 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 28 Related-party transactions ASSOCIATES ■ entities controlled or jointly controlled by a member of key management personnel, or over which he/she has significant Associates are equity-accounted companies over which the Group influence or holds significant voting rights. exercises significant influence. At December 31, 2012, O2C Pro LLC is the only company equity-accounted by the Group since its acquisition Moreover, since the acquisition of CPM Braxis on October 6, 2010, it in 2011. Transactions with this equity associate during 2012 were is worth noting that Bradesco S.A., a minority shareholder, is also the performed at arm’s length and were of immaterial volume. main client of CPM Braxis accounting for 37% of its revenues. OTHER RELATED-PARTIES GROUP MANAGEMENT COMPENSATION In 2012, no material transactions were carried out with: The table below provides a breakdown of the 2012 compensation of members of management bodies, encompassing the Group operating ■ shareholders holding significant voting rights in the share capital of management structure, present at each year-end (21 members in 2012 Cap Gemini, and 20 members in 2011) and the compensation and attendance fees ■ members of management, including Directors and non-voting paid to Directors and non-voting Directors. Directors, in thousands of euros 2010 2011 2012 Short-term benefits excluding employer payroll taxes (1) 18,306 16,253 18,242 O/w attendance fees to salaried Directors (2) 28 (3) O/w attendance fees to non-salaried Directors and non-voting Directors 699 722 683 Short-term benefits: employer payroll taxes 3,300 3,640 5,013 Post-employment benefits (4) 674 623 748 Share-based payment (5) 2,183 2,456 2,105 (1) Includes gross wages and salaries, bonuses, profit-sharing, attendance fees and benefits in kind, (2) Note that Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin waived receipt of their attendance fees in 2010, 2011 and 2012, (3) 13 in 2010, 13 in 2011 and 14 in 2012, (4) Including mainly statutory retirement termination payments, (5) Representing the annual expense relating to the granting of stock options and performance shares. NOTE 29 Subsequent events At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will between January 16 and February 14, 2013, via a contract with recommend a dividend payout to Cap Gemini shareholders of €1 per an authorized financial intermediary, 1,017,549 of its own shares share in respect of 2012. A dividend of €1 per share was paid in respect (representing 0.63% of the share capital at December 31, 2012) at an of fiscal years 2011 and 2010. average share price of €35.38, representing a total acquisition cost of €36 million. These shares were purchased for cancellation. Under the share buyback program authorized by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the Company purchased 168 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements NOTE 30 List of the main consolidated companies by country FC = Full consolidation EM = Equity method Consolidation Country Consolidated company at December 31, 2012 % interest Method ARGENTINA Capgemini Argentina S.A. 100.00% FC AUSTRALIA Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Australia Pty Ltd. 100.00% FC AUSTRIA Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 100.00% FC BELGIUM Capgemini Belgium N.V./S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Belgium S.A. 100.00% FC BRAZIL Capgemini Business Services Brasil – Assessoria Empresarial Ltda. 100.00% FC Consultoria de Gestao Gemini Ltda. 100.00% FC CPM Braxis ERP Tecnologia da Informação Ltda. 55.80% FC CPM Braxis Outsourcing S.A. 55.80% FC CPM Braxis S.A. 55.80% FC CANADA Capgemini Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Canada Inc. 100.00% FC Gestion Cap Gemini Quebec Inc. Inergi LP 100.00% 100.00% FC FC 4 New Horizon System Solutions LP 100.00% FC Société en Commandite Cap Gemini Quebec 100.00% FC CHILE Capgemini Business Services Chile Ltda. 100.00% FC CHINA Capgemini (China) Co. Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini (Hangzhou Co., Ltd) 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (Asia) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services (China) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini Hong Kong Ltd. 100.00% FC Praxis Technology Co.Ltd. 100.00% FC COLUMBIA Capgemini Colombia SAS 100.00% FC CZECH REPUBLIC Capgemini Czech Republic S.r.o. 100.00% FC DENMARK Capgemini Danmark AS 100.00% FC IBX Danmark AS 100.00% FC Sogeti Danmark AS 100.00% FC FINLAND Capgemini Finland Oy 100.00% FC IBX Finland Oy 100.00% FC Sogeti Finland Oy 100.00% FC REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 169 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidation Country Consolidated company at December 31, 2012 % interest Method FRANCE Cap Gemini Parent Company Sogeti Corporate Services S.A.S 100.00% FC Artesys S.A.S. 100.00% FC Backélite S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Consulting S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini OS Electric S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Service S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technology Services S.A.S. 100.00% FC Capgemini Université S.A.S. 100.00% FC Immobilière Les Fontaines S.A.R.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie S.A. 100.00% FC SCI Paris Etoile 100.00% FC Sogeti France S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech S.A.S. 100.00% FC Sogeti S.A.S. 100.00% FC GERMANY Capgemini Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 100.00% FC Capgemini Outsourcing Services GmbH 100.00% FC CS Consulting GmbH 100.00% FC I&S IT-Beratung & Service GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti Deutschland GmbH 100.00% FC Sogeti High Tech GmbH 100.00% FC GUATEMALA Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 100.00% FC HUNGARY Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 100.00% FC INDIA Capgemini Business Services (India) Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini India Private Ltd. 100.00% FC IRELAND Sogeti Ireland Ltd. 100.00% FC ITALY Aive BS S.p.A. 100.00% FC Aive BST S.p.A. 100.00% FC Aive S.p.A. 100.00% FC Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 100.00% FC EnterPrime Consulting S.p.A. 100.00% FC EnterPrime Finance s.r.l. 100.00% FC Realtà Informatica s.r.l. 100.00% FC JAPAN Capgemini Japan KK 100.00% FC LUXEMBOURG Capgemini Reinsurance International 100.00% FC Sogeti Luxembourg S.A. 100.00% FC MALAYSIA Capgemini Services Malaysia Sdn Bhd 100.00% FC MEXICO Capgemini Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 100.00% FC MOROCCO Capgemini Technology Services Maroc S.A. 100.00% FC 170 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidation Country Consolidated company at December 31, 2012 % interest Method NETHERLANDS Capgemini Educational Services B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Interim Management B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini N.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC Capgemini Retail Solutions B.V. 100.00% FC Sogeti Nederland B.V. 100.00% FC NORWAY Capgemini Norge AS 100.00% FC IBX Norge AS 100.00% FC Sogeti Norge AS 100.00% FC PHILIPPINES Capgemini Phillipines SBOS 100.00% FC POLAND Capgemini Polska Sp z.o.o. 100.00% FC PORTUGAL Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica S.A. 100.00% FC ROMANIA Capgemini Services Romania s.r.l. 100.00% FC IBX Software Development s.r.l. 100.00% FC SINGAPORE Capgemini Singapore Pte Ltd. 100.00% FC SLOVAKIA Capgemini Slovensko, S.r.o. 100.00% FC SPAIN Capgemini España, S.L. 100.00% FC Prosodie Ibérica 100.00% FC Sogeti España, S.L. 100.00% FC SWEDEN Capgemini AB (Sweden) 100.00% FC 4 Capgemini Sverige AB 100.00% FC IBX Group AB 100.00% FC Skvader Systems AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige AB 100.00% FC Sogeti Sverige Mitt AB 100.00% FC SWITZERLAND Capgemini Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC Sogeti Suisse S.A. 100.00% FC UNITED ARAB Capgemini Middle East FZ LLC 100.00% FC EMIRATES Thesys Technologies LLC 49.00% FC Thesys Technologies Middle East FZE 100.00% FC UNITED KINGDOM Capgemini Financial Services UK Ltd. 100.00% FC Capgemini UK Plc. 100.00% FC IBX UK Ltd. 100.00% FC Sogeti UK Ltd. 100.00% FC Strategic Systems Solutions Ltd. 100.00% FC UNITED STATES Capgemini America Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Business Services USA LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services Europe Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services International Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Financial Services USA Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Government Solutions LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini Japan Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini North America Inc. 100.00% FC Capgemini Technologies LLC 100.00% FC Capgemini US LLC 100.00% FC CPM Braxis USA Corporation 55.80% FC O2C Pro LLC 49.00% EM Sogeti USA LLC 100.00% FC VIETNAM Capgemini Vietnam co Ltd 100.00% FC REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 171 4 Financial information 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements 4.2.7 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements (Year ended December 31, 2012) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether qualified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the financial statements. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2012, on: ■ the audit of the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A., ■ the justification of our assessments, ■ the specific verification required by law. The consolidated financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. I. OPINION ON THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes verifying, on a test basis or by other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets and liabilities and of the financial position of the consolidated Group as at December 31, 2012, and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the European Union. II. JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matters: ■ Note 1-E to the consolidated financial statements sets out the methods used to account for revenues and costs related to long-term contracts. As part of our assessments, we ensured that the abovementioned accounting rules and principles adopted by your Group were properly applied and verified that the information provided in the note above was appropriate. We also obtained assurance that the estimates used were reasonable. ■ Goodwill of €3,702 million is carried in the consolidated balance sheet. The approach adopted by the Group as well as the accounting principles and methods applied to determine the value in use of these assets are described in Notes 1-H and 12 to the consolidated financial statements. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall. ■ Deferred tax assets amounting to €1,059 million are recorded in the consolidated balance sheet. Notes 1-K and 13 to the consolidated financial statements describe the methods used to calculate the value of these assets. As part of our assessments, we verified the overall consistency of the information and assumptions used to perform these calculations. These assessments were made in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. 172 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.2 Consolidated Financial Statements III. SPECIFIC VERIFICATION In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we have also verified the specific information required by law and given in the Group’s management report. We have no matters to report as to its fair presentation and its consistency with the consolidated financial statements. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 22, 2013 Paris La Défense, February 22, 2013 KPMG Audit PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 4 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 173 4 Financial information 4.3 COMMENTS ON THE CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Income statement The Company reported operating income for the year ended ■ expenses of €436 million, mainly comprising charges to provisions December 31, 2012 of €230 million (including €218 million in royalties for equity interests (€370 million), the interest expense on the 2009 received from subsidiaries) compared to €241 million last year (including convertible bond issue and the 2011 bond issue (€47 million) and €227 million in royalties). interest on loans from subsidiaries (€6 million). Operating profit is €174 million, compared with €190 million in 2011. This €99 million improvement in the net financial income (expense) year-on-year was mainly due to net reversals of provisions for equity Net financial income totaled €97 million (compared to a net financial interests (€71 million) and a reversal of the provision for treasury shares expense of €2 million in 2011) and reflects: (€16 million in 2012). ■ income of €533 million, mainly comprising reversals of provisions After a net non-recurring expense of €1 million compared with on equity interests of €441 million and dividends received from €14 million in 2011 and an income tax expense of €22 million subsidiaries of €43 million, (€3 million in 2011), the Company reported a net profit of €248 million, up €76 million on 2011 (€172 million). Balance sheet Net investments rose from €8,692 million last year to €9,145 million at External accounts payable of Cap Gemini S.A. total €0.5 million, 81% December 31, 2012. This €453 million increase is mainly attributable to: of which (€0.4 million) are not yet due. Group accounts payable total €4 million and are not yet due. ■ share capital increases by five European subsidiaries and one Singapore subsidiary in the amount of €507 million and €70 million Borrowings totaled €1,840 million at December 31, 2012, down respectively, primarily through a decrease in loans granted to two of €463 million compared with December 31, 2011. This decrease was these subsidiaries in the amount of €116 million, mainly due to: ■ a net decrease of €106 million in other loans granted to subsidiaries, ■ the redemption in January 2012 of the remaining 2005 OCEANE ■ net reversals of provisions for equity interests in the amount of convertible bonds in the amount of €400 million, €71 million, ■ the repayment of commercial paper issued by the Company in the ■ the increase in other long-term investments corresponding to amount of €90 million, treasury shares held by the company under the share buyback ■ the decrease in outstanding inter-company loans in the amount of program in the amount of €27 million. €109 million, Shareholders’ equity is €8,468 million, up €250 million on last year. ■ the €132 million increase in bank overdrafts on the accounts This increase essentially reflects the difference between: included in the Group’s cash pooling arrangement (Cash pooling ■ profit for 2012 (€248 million), international), for which the Company acts as the centralizing agent, offset in full by an opposite position of the same amount in the cash ■ the share capital increase reserved for employees of €153 million, and cash equivalents of the Company. net of costs, and Cash and cash equivalents net of borrowings totaled negative ■ the June 7, 2012 dividend payment of €1 per share on the €341 million at the end of 2012, compared with negative €690 million at 155,770,362 shares making up the Company’s share capital at December 31, 2011. This €349 million improvement was mainly due to: December 31, 2011, representing a total payment of €154 million (taking into account the 2 million treasury shares held by the ■ payments relating to share capital increases carried out by several Company at the dividend payment date). subsidiaries in the amount of €404 million, ■ payment of the 2011 dividend for €154 million, 174 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.3 Comments on the Cap Gemini S.A. Financial Statements ■ a decrease in current account advances to Group subsidiaries in the ■ the collection of brand royalties for €260 million, amount of €359 million, ■ the net repayment of loans granted to certain subsidiaries of ■ the share capital increase reserved for employees of €153 million, €48 million in 2012, net of costs, ■ dividends received from subsidiaries of €41 million. Appropriation of earnings During its meeting of February 20, 2013, the Board of Directors decided to recommend to the next Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting, the following appropriation of net profit for the year: Net profit for 2011 €247,759,001.72 Allocation to the legal reserve €0 i.e. a balance of €247,759,001.72 Retained earnings of previous years €405,440,151.48 i.e. Distributable earnings at December 31, 2012 of €653,199,153.20 This amount will be allocated to: – payment of a dividend of €1 euro per share: * €162,055,362.00 – retained earnings for the balance: €491,143,791.20 Giving a total of €653,199,153.20 4 This dividend of €1 for each of the 162,055,362 * shares bearing to retained earnings. Furthermore, pursuant to Article 243 bis of the dividend rights on January 1, 2012, will be fully eligible for the 40% French Tax Code, it is reminded that dividends paid over the past three tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code (Code fiscal years were as follows: Général des Impôts). Taking account of the recommendations of certain ■ €155,770,362.00 for 2011 (€1 per share), investors, and so as not to encourage security lending/borrowing transactions around the date of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, ■ €155,770,362.00 for 2010 (€1 per share), the Board of Directors proposes an ex-dividend date of Monday, ■ €123,341,916.80 for 2009 (€0.80 per share), June 3, 2013 and a dividend payment date of Thursday, June 6, 2013. all of these dividends were fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate set out in If, at the time of payment of the dividend, the Company still holds some Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code. of its own shares, the dividend amount for these shares will be allocated Share capital and ownership structure During 2012, the share capital was increased from €1,246,162,896 During the fiscal year: to €1,294,162,896 following the issue of 6,000,000 new shares ■ Amundi reported that it successively exceeded on May 29, 2012 subscribed pursuant to the share capital increase reserved for and then fell below on June 12, 2012 the 5% share capital and employees (international employee share ownership plan). voting rights threshold, Pursuant to Article L. 233-13 of the French Commercial Code (Code ■ Crédit Industriel et Commercial reported that it successively de commerce), the Board of Directors informs shareholders that, based exceeded on May 23, 2012 and then fell below on May 24, 2012 on notifications received, a single shareholder held more than 5% of the the 5% share capital and voting rights threshold, Company’s share capital and voting rights at the year end: the limited ■ Société Générale reported that it successively exceeded on liability company, Amundi Group, acting on behalf of the Capgemini September 28, 2012 and then fell below on October 1, 2012 the ESOP FCPE (French collective employee shareholder vehicle) which it 5% share capital and voting rights threshold. manages (international employee share ownership plan). * Amount/number of shares includes 285,000 shares to be issued and delivered on March 5, 2013 to non-French resident beneficiaries under the 2009 performance share plan and which rank for the 2012 dividend. The Board of Directors’ meeting of March 27, 2013 will adjust this amount/number of shares based on the continued employment of beneficiaries at March 5, 2013. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 175 4 Financial information 4.4 CAP GEMINI S.A. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4.4.1 Balance sheet at December 31, 2011 and 2012 ASSETS Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Depreciation, amortization and in thousands of euros Net Gross provisions Net Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 2,069 35,568 (33,499) 2,069 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 8,216,373 14,753,388 (5,888,162) 8,865,226 (1) Receivable from controlled entities 465,091 243,169 243,169 Securities held for portfolio management purposes 2 Other financial fixed assets (1) 10,294 36,789 (42) 36,747 NON-CURRENT ASSETS 8,694,053 15,069,138 (5,921,703) 9,147,435 Accounts and notes receivable (1) 71 (71) (1) Other receivables 57,841 45,450 45,450 Receivable from related and associated companies (1) 559,496 128,737 128,737 Miscellaneous receivables (1) 216 19 19 Marketable securities 1,273,888 1,029,304 (1,836) 1,027,468 Cash and cash equivalents 338,829 471,443 471,443 CURRENT ASSETS 2,230,269 1,675,025 (1,907) 1,673,118 Prepaid expenses (1) 1,708 1,350 1,350 Deferred charges 10,319 6,591 6,591 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 6 26 26 OTHER ASSETS 12,033 7,967 7,967 TOTAL ASSETS 10,936,355 16,752,130 (5,923,610) 10,828,519 (1) of which due within one year 746,120 249,203 249,090 176 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES in thousands of euros Dec. 31, 2011 Dec. 31, 2012 Share capital (fully paid-up) 1,246,163 1,294,163 Additional paid-in capital 5,717,403 5,818,094 Legal reserve 124,616 129,416 Other reserves 561,853 561,853 Retained earnings 387,513 405,440 Profit for the year 171,563 247,759 Tax-driven provisions 9,199 11,119 SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY 8,218,310 8,467,844 PROVISIONS FOR CONTINGENCIES AND LOSSES 6 26 Convertible bonds (2) 971,408 575,000 Eurobond issue 500,000 500,000 Bank loans and borrowings (2) 454,140 496,747 Payable to controlled entities (2) 376,692 267,942 4 BORROWINGS (2) 2,302,240 1,839,689 Accounts and notes payable (2) 4,003 3,433 Tax and social security liabilities (2) 2,764 2,815 Payable to related and associated companies (2) 408,362 514,234 Other payables (2) 425 475 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 245 3 OTHER LIABILITIES 415,799 520,960 TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,936,355 10,828,519 (2) of which due within one year 1,642,794 1,285,645 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 177 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 4.4.2 Income Statement for the years ended December 31, 2011 and 2012 in thousands of euros 2011 2012 Royalties 227,181 217,905 Reversals of depreciation, amortization and provisions, expense transfers 6,353 30 Other income 7,560 12,436 Total operating income 241,094 230,371 Other purchases and external charges 34,858 37,046 Taxes, duties and other levies 4,118 3,429 Depreciation and amortization 2,367 2,920 Charges to provisions 1,820 621 Other expenses 7,779 12,457 Total operating expenses 50,942 56,473 OPERATING PROFIT 190,152 173,898 Investment income (1) 48,749 42,600 Income from other marketable securities and amounts receivable on non-current assets (1) 7,662 5,464 Other interest income (1) 13,125 10,294 Reversals of provisions 19,587 457,330 Foreign exchange gains 5,112 13,890 Net proceeds on disposals of marketable securities 4,230 3,466 Total financial income 98,465 533,044 Depreciation, amortization and provisions relating to financial items 63,106 372,387 (2) Interest and similar expenses 31,609 53,166 Foreign exchange losses 5,354 10,842 Total financial expenses 100,069 436,395 NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) (1,604) 96,649 RECURRING PROFIT BEFORE TAX 188,548 270,547 Non-recurring income from operations 93 Non-recurring income from capital transactions 1,603 3,224 Total non-recurring income 1,696 3,224 Non-recurring expenses on operations 8,117 1,428 Non-recurring expenses on capital transactions 4,470 1,102 Exceptional depreciation, amortization and charges 3,132 1,920 Total non-recurring expenses 15,719 4,450 NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (14,023) (1,226) INCOME TAX EXPENSE (2,962) (21,562) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR 171,563 247,759 (1) of which income concerning related companies 63,014 53,901 (2) of which interest concerning related companies 3,952 5,295 178 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 4.4.3 Notes to the ﬁnancial statements I – ACCOUNTING POLICIES Marketable securities The annual financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012 Marketable securities are shown on the balance sheet at the lower of are prepared and presented in accordance with French accounting cost and net realizable value. The realizable value of listed securities rules and principles (as set out in the 1999 French chart of accounts), is based on the average share price in December. The realizable including the new accounting rules on assets introduced by the value of unlisted securities is based on their net asset value. At yearFrench Accounting Regulatory Committee (Comité de Réglementation end, accrued interest receivable or interest received in advance on Comptable) and applicable since January 1, 2005. The annual financial certificates of deposit and commercial paper is recognized in accrued statements are also prepared in accordance with the principles of income or prepaid income, respectively. prudence and accruals, and assuming that the Company is able to Capitalization contracts subscribed by the Company are also included continue as a going concern. in marketable securities. Items in the financial statements are generally measured using the historical cost method. Foreign currency transactions The Company’s main accounting policies are described below: Receivables, payables and cash and cash equivalents denominated in foreign currencies are translated into euros at the year-end exchange Intangible assets rate or at the hedging rate. Any differences resulting from the translation of foreign currency receivables and payables at these rates are included Computer software and user rights acquired on an unrestricted in the balance sheet under “Unrealized foreign exchange gains/losses”. ownership basis, as well as software developed for internal use which A provision for foreign exchange losses is set aside to cover any has a positive, lasting and quantifiable effect on future results, are unrealized losses. capitalized and amortized over a maximum period of three years. At year-end, the value of computer software and user rights is compared to their value in use for the Company. Receivables and payables Receivables are measured at their nominal amount, and a provision for 4 Financial fixed assets impairment set aside when their net realizable value falls below their net carrying amount. Unbilled payables are recognized excluding VAT. The gross value of equity interests and other long-term investments carried in the balance sheet comprises their acquisition cost, including any transaction fees. A provision for impairment is set aside when Tax consolidation the value in use falls below the acquisition cost. The value in use is The Company and French subsidiaries at least 95% owned by the calculated based on either the present value of discounted future Group have elected to file consolidated tax returns pursuant to cash flows adjusted for net debt, the Company’s share in net assets, Article 223 A of the French General Tax Code. Any tax savings realized or in certain cases with reference to the market value of comparable by the Group primarily on account of losses incurred by consolidated transactions. entities are treated as a gain for the Company in the period in which they arise. Treasury shares Treasury shares held by Cap Gemini S.A. as part of the liquidity Financial instruments agreement are recorded on the balance sheet within long-term Currency and interest rate positions are taken using financial instruments investments at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Realizable presenting minimum counterparty risk listed on organized markets or value is the average market price for Cap Gemini S.A. shares in over-the-counter. Gains and losses on financial instruments used in December. Other treasury shares held for other objectives of the share hedging transactions are recognized to match the gains and losses buyback program are recorded in listed shares. arising on the hedged items. The fair value of financial instruments, which is not recognized in the accounts of the Company, in accordance with French accounting principles, is estimated based on market prices or pricing data provided by banks. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 179 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements II – NOTES TO THE CAP GEMINI S.A. BALANCE SHEET AND INCOME STATEMENT 1. Non-current assets Gross value Gross value in thousands of euros (January 1) Increase Decrease (December 31) Intangible assets Trademarks, patents and similar rights 35,568 35,568 Sub-total 35,568 35,568 Property, plant and equipment 224 224 Sub-total 224 224 Financial fixed assets Equity interests 14,175,052 578,336 14,753,388 Receivable from controlled entities 465,091 136,872 (358,794) 243,169 Securities held for portfolio management purposes 2 (2) Other financial fixed assets 10,420 194,038 (167,669) 36,789 Sub-total 14,650,565 909,246 (526,465) 15,033,346 TOTAL NON-CURRENT ASSETS 14,686,357 909,246 (526,465) 15,069,138 Equity interests ■ a capital increase by a European subsidiary using an advance on Equity interests comprise shares in the Company’s subsidiaries. The capitalization of €103,850 thousand granted in 2011, main changes during the year reflect capital increases in Europe of ■ partial repayment of the loan granted to a Dutch subsidiary to help €506,850 thousand and in the Asia-Pacific region of €70,403 thousand. fund the acquisition of BAS BV in the amount of €99,500 thousand, ■ partial repayment of the loan granted to a Swedish subsidiary in the Receivable from controlled entities amount of €21,853 thousand. Amounts receivable from controlled entities consist of loans granted by the Company to subsidiaries primarily in North America (€162,400 Other financial fixed assets thousand), Europe (€53,341 thousand) and the Asia-Pacific region This account comprises: (€19,112 thousand). ■ treasury shares held under the liquidity agreement. This agreement The main changes in this heading reflect: relates to the share buyback program approved by the Combined ■ advances on capitalization of €58,190 thousand granted to a Shareholders’ Meeting on May 24, 2012. Accordingly, a total of Singapore subsidiary followed by a capital increase by capitalization 5,387,688 shares were acquired and 5,588,244 shares were sold of both this advance and the advance already granted at between January 1, 2012 and December 31, 2012. Cap Gemini December 31, 2011 for a total amount of €70,403 thousand, S.A. held 202,944 treasury shares at December 31, 2012 (403,500 at December 31, 2011), valued at €6,789 thousand, ■ a loan of €40,000 thousand granted to a Spanish subsidiary and its ■ 920,098 treasury shares with a value of €30 million acquired on repayment during the year, December 27, 2012 under the forward share purchase agreement ■ a loan of €15,500 thousand granted to a North American subsidiary entered into on November 21, 2012. These shares were purchased and the repayment of a loan of €14,201 thousand by another for cancellation. American subsidiary, 180 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 2. Depreciation, amortization and provisions for non-current assets Depreciation, Depreciation, amortization amortization and provisions and provisions in thousands of euros (January 1) Charge Reversal (December 31) Intangible assets Amortization of trademarks, patents and similar rights 33,499 33,499 Financial fixed assets Provisions for equity interests 5,958,679 370,483 (441,000) 5,888,162 TOTAL DEPRECIATION, AMORTIZATION AND PROVISIONS 5,992,178 370,483 (441,000) 5,921,661 In 2012, the charge to provisions for equity interests primarily concerns The provision reversal of €441,000 thousand concerns an American our Dutch subsidiary in the amount of €243,000 thousand and our subsidiary in the amount of €411,000 thousand and an Austrian Spanish subsidiary in the amount of €120,000 thousand. subsidiary in the amount of €30,000 thousand. 3. Marketable securities Marketable securities break down as follows at December 31, 2012: in thousands of euros Net asset value Nominal value Carrying amount Listed securities 4 Money market funds (SICAV) 395,949 395,942 395,942 Investment funds (FCP) 288,748 288,748 288,748 Treasury shares 48,164 50,000 48,164 Unlisted securities Certificates of deposit 100,000 100,000 100,000 Term deposits 119,600 119,600 119,600 Other marketable securities Capitalization contracts 75,014 75,014 75,014 TOTAL 1,027,475 1,029,304 1,027,468 Other marketable securities: two capitalization fund contracts were Capitalized interest at December 31, 2012 on these two contracts subscribed in July and August 2010 with leading insurance companies totaled €5,014 thousand. in Europe for €20,000 thousand and €50,000 thousand, respectively. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 181 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 4. Maturity of receivables at year-end in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less More than one year Non-current assets Receivable from controlled entities 243,169 37,763 205,406 Other financial fixed assets 36,789 36,789 Current assets Accounts and notes receivable 71 71 Income tax receivable 44,643 44,643 VAT receivable 807 807 Receivable from related companies 128,737 128,737 Miscellaneous receivables 19 19 Prepaid expenses 1,350 374 976 TOTAL 455,585 249,203 206,382 5. Deferred charges Amount at Amount at in thousands of euros January 1 Increase Amortization December 31 Issuance fees on syndicated credit facility, 2009 OCEANE bonds and 2011 Bond issue (1) 10,319 (3,728) 6,591 TOTAL 10,319 (3,728) 6,591 (1) Issuance fees on the syndicated credit facility, OCEANE 2009 bonds and 2011 Bond issue are amortized on a straight-line basis over the term of the debt. 6. Share capital and additional paid-in capital Number of Additional in thousands of euros shares Share capital paid-in capital At December 31, 2011 (par value of €8) 155,770,362 1,246,163 5,717,403 + Cash capital increase reserved for employees 6,000,000 48,000 106,560 Offset of share issue costs, net of tax (1,069) Charge to the legal reserve following the capital increase reserved for employees (4,800) At December 31, 2012 (par value of €8) 161,770,362 1,294,163 5,818,094 Capital increase reserved for employees, share issue costs and bank which secured and supplemented the investment so that the total charge to the legal reserve amount invested represented ten times the personal contribution of the Pursuant to the 8 th and 9 th resolutions adopted by the Combined employee, potentially generating a greater capital gain than would have Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011, the Group set up an employee been the case had it been calculated based solely on the employee’s share ownership plan (ESOP 2012) in the second half of 2012. This personal contribution. In return, the employee waives a portion of any plan was open to all employees in the 19 countries where the Group increase in the price of shares subscribed on his behalf, as well as has had activities for over two years and where the headcount exceeds dividends and other financial rights that could be paid on these shares 500 employees. Under the plan, a minimum length of service of three throughout the entire term of the plan. In addition, the shares will be months was required at August 30, 2012, acquired consecutively or unavailable for a period of five years (except for cases of early release not since January 1, 2012. This leveraged plan offered employees the covered by applicable regulations). possibility of subscribing at a discounted preferential rate and, via a 182 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements This employee share ownership plan (ESOP 2012) includes a 15% On September, 27, 2012, the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, discount. Under the delegation of authority granted by the Board of using the powers delegated to him, decided, concomitantly to the Directors, the subscription price was set at €25.76 by the Chairman capital increase, the offset of the related share issue costs against and Chief Executive Officer on August 27, 2012. This price corresponds the corresponding additional paid-in capital and the deduction from to the average Cap Gemini S.A. share price adjusted for volumes additional paid-in capital of the amount necessary to increase the legal observed over the twenty stock market trading days preceding the reserve to one-tenth of the new share capital amount. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer’s decision, less a 15% discount. On September 27, 2012, the Group issued 6,000,000 new shares 7. Stock option plans reserved for employees with a par value of €8, representing a share At the May 12, 2005 Combined Shareholders’ Meetings, the Board capital increase of €153 million net of issue costs (€1 million, net of tax). of Directors or Executive Board was given a 38-month authorization Mr. Paul Hermelin subscribed for Cap Gemini S.A. shares in the amount to grant stock options to certain Group employees on one or several of €44,460.49 via the Capgemini Employee Savings Mutual Fund. occasions. The main features of this plan in force at December 31, 2012 are set out in the table below: Summary 2005 Plan Date of Combined Shareholders’ Meeting May 12, 2005 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of options 6,000,000 Date options first granted under the plan October 1, 2005 Deadline for exercising stock options after their grant date (based on progressive tranches): 10% after 1 year; +20% after 2 years; +30% after 3 years; +40% after 4 years, up to 100%) 5 years Strike price as a % of the average share price over the 20 stock market trading days preceding the grant date 100% Strike price (per share and in euros) of the various stock option grants 40.5 4 Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2011 1,715,500 Number of new stock options granted during the year Plan expired (1) Number of options forfeited or cancelled in 2012 1,576,000 Number of options exercised in 2012 0 (2) Maximum number of shares to be issued on exercise of outstanding options at December 31, 2012 139,500 (1) Residual weighted average life (in years) 0.42 (1) Last stock options granted on June 1, 2008 at a price of €40.50. (2) No options were exercised in fiscal year 2012. The Group has no contractual or constructive obligations to purchase 8. Performance share plan or settle the options in cash. In the event of a notice of authorization of The Combined Shareholders’ Meetings of April 17, 2008, April 30, a takeover bid for all of the Company’s shares published by Euronext, 2009 and May 24, 2012 authorized the Board of Directors to grant option holders would be entitled, if they so wish, to exercise all of their shares to a certain number of Group employees, on one or several remaining unexercised options immediately. occasions and within a maximum period of 12 months for the first share plan and 18 months for the second and third share plans subject to performance and continued employment conditions. On March 5, 2009, October 1, 2010 and then on December 12, 2012, the Board of Directors approved the terms and conditions and the list of beneficiaries of the three plans. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 183 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements The main features of these plans are set-out in the table below: 2009 Plan 2010 Plan 2012 Plan Maximum number of shares to be granted 1% of the share capital on the 1% of the share capital on the 1.5% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ date of the Board of Directors’ date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of decision i.e. a maximum of decision i.e. a maximum of 1,458,860 shares 1,557,703 shares 2,426,555 shares Total number of shares granted 1,148,250 (1) 1,555,000 (4) 1,003,500 (7) Date of the Board of Directors’ decision March 3, 2009 October 1, 2010 December 12, 2012 At the end of the first and second At the end of the first and second At the end of the first and second Performance assessment dates years following the grant date years following the grant date years following the grant date Two years as from the grant date Two years as from the grant date 2 years and 1/2 month as from (France) or four years as from the (France) or four years as from the the grant date (France) or 4 years grant date (other countries) grant date (other countries) and 1/2 month as from the grant Vesting period date (other countries) Two years, or five years in the Two years, or five years in the event of departure from the event of departure from the Mandatory lock-in period effective as from the vesting date Group during the two years Group during the two years (France only) following the vesting date following the vesting date 4 years Number of shares at December 31, 2011 that may vest under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions 311,625 1,458,000 Of which corporate officers 0 (2) 0 (6) 0 Number of shares subject to performance and presence conditions granted in 2012 1,003,500 Of which corporate officers 50,000 (7) Number of shares forfeited or canceled during the year 22,125 483,871 Number of shares definitively granted at December 31, 2012 350,509 Number of shares at December 31, 2012 that may be definitively granted under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions 289,500 (3) 623,620 (5) 1,003,500 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 23.3 37.16 33.15 Main market conditions at the grant date: Volatility 42.70% 42.80% 25.80% Risk-free interest rate 1.40% 1.67% 0,35% 0,98% Expected dividend rate 3.00% 3.00% 3.00% Other conditions: Performance conditions Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Yes (see below) Employee presence within the Group at the vesting date Yes Yes Yes (Pricing model used to calculate the fair value of shares) Monte Carlo for performance Monte Carlo for performance Monte Carlo for performance shares shares with external (market) shares with external (market) Black& Scholes for free shares conditions conditions Black& Scholes for shares granted without conditions or with internal performance conditions Range of fair values in euros: Free shares (per share and in euros) 20.7 21.9 32.32 32.96 n/a Performance shares (per share and in euros) 16.1 17.53 21.54 21.97 14.35 28.67 Of which corporate officers 17.53 n/a 17.92 (1) Of which 64,750 shares granted without performance conditions (5.6% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total), (2) Currently no performance shares granted, (3) Balance on the “foreign” plan that may be granted on March 5, 2013, subject to conditions of presence, (4) Of which 124,000 shares granted without performance conditions (8% of the total) pursuant to the relevant resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total), (5) Balance on the “foreign” plan that may be granted in October 2014, subject to conditions of presence, (6) No performance shares were granted in 2010, (7) Grant subject to performance conditions only. 184 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements Performance conditions of the 2009 Plan Under these conditions, if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. The exact number of shares vesting at the end of the vesting period share is in line with that of the basket of comparable shares, only 60% is equal to the maximum number of shares initially granted, multiplied of the initial allocation will be granted compared with 80% under the by a percentage (from 0% to 100%) corresponding to the chosen first plan. performance measurement criteria. The performance of the Cap Gemini The external performance condition accounts for 70% of the grant S.A. share, measured over the first two years, compared with the calculation. average performance of a basket of ten securities of listed companies, The calculation for the period concerned leads, at the share delivery measured over the same period and representative of the Group’s date, to the grant of 55% of the maximum number of shares initially business sector in at least five countries in which the Group is firmly defined in respect of external performance conditions. established, will ultimately condition the vesting of the shares. The definitive allocation depends on the relative performance of the Cap Internal performance condition Gemini S.A. share in relation to the basket of comparable securities. In The internal performance condition is based on the progression in the each period, the number of shares that ultimately vests: 2011 audited and published operating margin of Capgemini Group ■ is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the compared with the 2010 operating margin at constant Group structure performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to 90% of the and exchange rates. basket, The performance calculation was therefore performed following ■ varies on a straight-line basis between 60% and 100% of the initial approval of the 2011 accounts, by comparing the percentage increase allocation, based on a predefined schedule, where the performance in the 2011 audited and published operating margin with the 2010 of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 110% of the audited and published operating margin at constant Group structure basket, and exchange rates. Based on the percentage increase calculated in ■ is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if the this way: performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is higher than or equal to ■ no shares would have been granted in respect of the internal 110% of the basket. performance condition if the increase in the operating margin thus The definitive calculation led to the grant of 50% of performance shares initially allocated (including shares granted solely subject to continued calculated was less than 12%, 4 ■ the number of shares that ultimately vested would have been: employment conditions), representing a maximum allocation of 534,750 • equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated for an shares, of which 489,750 shares could finally be granted. increase between 12% and 13.5%, Performance conditions and measurement of the 2010 Plan • equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated for an In accordance with the AMF recommendation of December 8, 2009 increase between 13.5% and 15%, regarding the inclusion of an internal and external performance condition • equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated for an when granting performance shares, the Board of Directors decided to increase greater than or equal to 15%. add an internal condition to the external condition initially planned. The internal performance condition accounts for 30% of the grant calculation. The year-on-year increase in the operating margin at External performance condition constant Group structure and exchange rates was 15.6%. Accordingly, The external performance condition is calculated in the same way as shares granted at the share delivery date in respect of the internal under the first plan, except for the grant thresholds which have been performance condition shall equal 100% of the number of shares initially tightened compared to the first plan. As such: defined. ■ no shares are granted if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. Performance conditions and measurement of the 2012 Plan share during the period in question is less than 90% of the average The following internal and external performance conditions apply: performance of the basket of securities over the same period, ■ the number of shares that ultimately vests: External performance condition • is equal to 40% of the number of shares initially allocated if the The external performance condition is calculated in a similar way as performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is at least equal to 90% under the second plan (2010 plan). of the basket, It accounts for 50% of the total amount granted. • is equal to 60% of the number of shares initially allocated if the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is equal to 100% of the Internal performance condition basket, The internal performance condition is based on the generation of • varies on a straight-line basis between 40% and 60% and between Organic Free Cash Flow over a three-year period encompassing fiscal 60% and 100% of the initial allocation, based on a predefined years 2012 to 2014. Accordingly: schedule, where the performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is between 90% and 100% of the basket in the first case and 100% ■ no shares will be granted in respect of the internal performance and 110% of the basket in the second case, condition if the cumulative increase in Organic Free Cash Flow over the reference period is less than €750 million, • is equal to 100% of the number of shares initially allocated if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini S.A. share is higher than or ■ 100% of the initial internal grant will become definitive if Organic Free equal to 110% of the basket. Cash Flow of €1 billion or more is generated, REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 185 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements The internal performance condition accounts for 50% of the total employees, on one or several occasions, performance shares subject amount granted. only to a condition of presence. This authorization was partially used and the terms and conditions of the grant and the list of beneficiaries 9. Free Share Plan were set by the Board of Directors meeting of July 25, 2012. At the May 24, 2012 Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of The main features of this plan are set out in the table below: Directors was given a 18-month authorization to grant to certain Group 2012 Plan Maximum number of shares to be granted 1.5% of the share capital on the date of the Board of Directors’ decision i.e. a maximum of 2,336,554 shares, of which a maximum of 15% granted without performance conditions Total number of shares granted 202,538 (1) Date of the Board of Directors’ decision July 25, 2012 Continued employment condition only (employee Grant condition assessment date presence within the Group at the vesting date) Two years as from the grant date (France only) Vesting period Democratic plan Number of shares subject to continued employment conditions granted during the year 202,538 Number of options forfeited or canceled during the year 14,836 Number of shares at December 31, 2012 that may be definitively granted under this plan in respect of shares previously granted, subject to performance and presence conditions 187,702 Number of shares definitively granted at December 31, 2012 Share price at the grant date (in euros) 26.3 Main market conditions at the grant date: Risk-free interest rate 0.88% Expected dividend rate 3.00% Fair value in euros (per share) 20.22 (1) i.e. 8.6% of the total authorized maximum granted without performance conditions, pursuant to the resolution (authorization capped at 15% of the total). This transaction, which aims to develop employee share ownership, employees were concerned by this share grant, representing a total enabled all employees of French companies with at least three months of 202,538 shares and with a differentiated share allocation based on seniority at the grant date to receive shares and to become Cap Gemini annual salary (four categories): the lowest paid employees received S.A. shareholders at the end of the vesting period. More than 20,000 12 shares, while the highest paid employees received 4 shares. 10. Change in shareholders’ equity at December 31, 2012 At December 31, Appropiation Other At December 31, in thousands of euros 2011 of profit for 2011 movements 2012 Share capital 1,246,163 48,000 1,294,163 Additional paid-in capital 5,717,403 100,691 5,818,094 Legal reserve 124,616 4,800 129,416 Other reserves 561,853 561,853 Retained earnings 387,513 17,927 405,440 Dividends paid 153,636 (153,636) Profit for the year 171,563 (171,563) 247,759 247,759 Tax-driven provisions 9,199 1,920 11,119 TOTAL 8,218,310 249,534 8,467,844 186 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements The appropriation of the net profit for 2011 led to the distribution on ■ additional paid-in capital in the amount of €106,560 thousand June 7, 2012 of a €1 dividend on each of the 155,770,362 shares pursuant to the aforementioned transaction. Issue costs, net of tax, making-up the share capital at December 31, 2011, for a total of of €1,069 thousand were offset against this balance and €4,800 €153,636 thousand. The amount not paid out on the 2,134,690 thousand was transferred to the legal reserve to bring it to one-tenth shares held by the Company on June 7, 2012 (€2,135 thousand) was of the new share capital balance at December 27, 2012, appropriated to retained earnings. ■ tax-driven provisions in the amount of €1,920 thousand, Other movements concern: corresponding to the accelerated tax depreciation of equity interests. ■ share capital in the amount of €48,000 thousand following the issue of 6,000,000 shares pursuant to the share issue reserved for employees (ESOP 2012), 11. Provisions for contingencies and losses Reversal Reversal Change in (utilized (surplus accounting At in thousands of euros At January 1 Charge provision) provision) policy Other December 31 Provisions for contingencies and losses – relating to foreign exchange losses 6 26 6 26 TOTAL 6 26 6 26 Charges during the period concern a provision for currency risks set the period concern a provision for currency risks recognized in 2011 in 4 aside in respect of unrealized foreign exchange losses on foreign the amount of €6 thousand. currency receivables and payables of €26 thousand. Reversals during 12. Bond issues and Convertible bonds in thousands of euros December 31, 2011 December 31, 2012 OCEANE 2005 – Principal 350,050 – Redemption premium 46,358 OCEANE 2009 575,000 575,000 2011 BOND ISSUE 500,000 500,000 TOTAL 1,471,408 1,075,000 A) “OCEANE 2005” convertible/exchangeable bonds issued on In November 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. redeemed a total of 2,350,000 June 16, 2005 bonds in a number of transactions for an amount of €99 million, at an On June 16, 2005, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ average price of €42.18 per bond. Redeemed bonds were cancelled exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing on pursuant to the provisions set-out in the prospectus. At December 31, January 1, 2012 (“OCEANE 2005”). Bondholders enjoy all rights 2011, 9,460,810 OCEANE 2005 bonds remained outstanding, from June 24, 2005. The total amount of the issue was €437 million, representing 80.1% of the number of bonds initially issued. comprising 11,810,810 bonds with a nominal value of €37 each. The On January 2, 2012, Cap Gemini S.A. redeemed the remaining bonds bore interest at 1% per year. They were convertible at any time 9,460,810 OCEANE 2005 bonds for a total amount of €396 million. from June 24, 2005 and redeemable at €41.90 per bond on January 1, 2012, representing 113.2% of their nominal value, if not converted. B) “OCEANE 2009” convertible/exchangeable bonds issued on Bondholders had until December 22, 2011 to exercise the option to April 20, 2009 convert or exchange their bonds for shares. The right to redemption On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini S.A. issued bonds convertible/ of the bonds (principal + premium) vested at this date. The terms and exchangeable into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing on conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the January 1, 2014 (“OCEANE 2009”). Bondholders enjoy all rights from AMF on June 16, 2005 under reference number 05-564. April 20, 2009. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 187 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements The total amount of the issue was €575 million, represented by C) Bond issued on November 29, 2011 16,911,765 bonds with a nominal value of €34 each, resulting in an On November 18, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. performed a euro bond issue issue premium of 35% compared to the Company benchmark share maturing on November 29, 2016. Bondholders enjoy all rights from price (weighted average share price between April 8 and the date on November 29, 2011 (2011 Bond issue). which the bond terms and conditions were finalized). The bonds bear interest at 3.5% per year. The total amount of the issue was €500 million, comprising 5,000 bonds with a nominal value of €100,000 each. The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on April 8, 2009 under reference number 09-084. The bonds bear interest at 5.25% per year, potentially increasing to 6.50% in the event of a down-grading of Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit Summary of the main terms and conditions of the “OCEANE 2009” rating. bond issue The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus approved by the AMF on November 25, 2011 under reference Conversion and/or exchange of the bonds for shares number 11-546. At any time between April 20, 2009 and the seventh business day preceding January 1, 2014. Summary of the main terms and conditions of the 2011 bond issue Redemption at maturity Redemption at maturity January 1, 2014 at par. The bonds are redeemable in full on November 29, 2016. Early redemption at the Company’s option Early redemption at the Company’s option ■ At any time, without limitation on price or quantity, by buying back all The bonds are redeemable at the Company’s option under certain or some of the bonds either on or off market or by means of a public conditions set out in the issue prospectus and particularly concerning buyback or exchange offer. the minimum redemption price. ■ Between April 20, 2012 and the seventh business day preceding January 1, 2014, all outstanding bonds may be redeemed at an Early redemption at the option of bondholders early redemption price equal to par, plus the interest accrued Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or part of their since the most recent interest payment date, if (i) the then current bonds in the event of a change in control of the Company, provided this conversion/exchange ratio multiplied by (ii) the arithmetic average change in control is accompanied by a downgrading of the Company’s of the opening prices quoted for the Company’s ordinary shares financial rating. on the Eurolist market of Euronext Paris S.A. over a period of 20 Early repayment consecutive trading days, exceeds 130% of such early redemption price. Upon early redemption, the bonds may be redeemed either At the initiative of a majority of bondholders, particularly in the event of a in cash or converted into Cap Gemini S.A. shares, at the option of failure to pay sums due or to comply with other obligations set out in the the bondholders. documentation (beyond any “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default (in excess of a minimum threshold), liquidation, dissolution or sale of all ■ At any time, for all outstanding bonds, if less than 10% of the bonds of the Company’s assets. are still outstanding. An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating would not Early redemption at the option of bondholders constitute an early redemption event. Bondholders may request the early redemption of all or part of their bonds in the event of a change in control of the Company. Pari passu status Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari passu Early repayment with all other bonds issued by the Company. At the initiative of a majority of bondholders, particularly in the event of a failure to pay sums due or to comply with other obligations set out in the 13. Bank loans and borrowings documentation (beyond any “grace” periods, if applicable), cross default Bank loans and borrowings total €496,747 thousand and comprise (in excess of a minimum threshold), liquidation, dissolution or sale of all (i) the balances on certain euro and foreign bank accounts used in of the Company’s assets, or delisting of the Company’s shares on the connection with the Group’s worldwide cash pooling arrangements in Eurolist market of Euronext Paris S.A. the amount of €470,156 thousand, fully offset by opposite balances An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating would not of the same amount presented in cash and cash equivalents of the constitute an early redemption event and would have no impact on the company, (ii) bank overdrafts in the amount of €3,728 thousand and (iii) applicable interest rate. accrued interest of €22,862 thousand. Pari passu status Cap Gemini S.A. has undertaken that the bonds will rank pari passu with all other bonds issued by the Company. 188 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements Syndicated credit facility obtained by Cap Gemini S.A. At December 31, 2012, the Group complied with these financial ratios. On November 14, 2005, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million multiThe facility agreement includes covenants restricting the Company’s currency credit facility with a bank syndicate maturing on November 14, ability to carry out certain operations. These covenants also apply to 2011 at the latest. Group subsidiaries. They include restrictions primarily relating to: On January 13, 2011, Cap Gemini S.A. signed a €500 million multi■ pledging assets as collateral, currency credit facility with a syndicate of 18 banks, maturing on ■ asset sales, mergers or similar transactions. January 13, 2016.The initial margin on this credit facility is 0.90%. Cap Gemini S.A. also committed to standard obligations, including an This margin may be adjusted upwards or downwards according to the agreement to maintain pari passu status. credit rating of Cap Gemini S.A. The facility is also subject to a fee on undrawn amounts equal to 35% of the margin (i.e. 0.315%), that may The agreement contains the usual provisions relating to early be increased to 40% if Cap Gemini S.A.’s rating falls. repayment, including for failure to pay sums due, misrepresentation or failure to comply with other obligations included in the agreement An upgrade or downgrade in Cap Gemini S.A.’s credit rating would have (subject to any applicable “grace” periods), cross defaults (in excess of no impact on the availability of this credit facility. The other main terms a minimum threshold), insolvency and bankruptcy proceedings, change and conditions of the credit facility, in particular with respect to certain of control, or changes which would have a significant negative impact financial ratios, remain unchanged. on the Group’s financial position. Cap Gemini S.A. has agreed to comply with the following financial ratios At December 31, 2012, this credit facility had not yet been drawn. (as defined in IFRS) in respect of this credit facility: ■ the net debt to consolidated equity ratio must be less than 1 at all times, ■ interest coverage must be equal to or greater than 3 at December 31 and June 30 of each year (based on the 12 months then ended). 14. Maturity of payables at year-end 4 in thousands of euros Gross amount One year or less More than one year Convertible bonds 575,000 575,000 Eurobond issue 500,000 500,000 Bank loans and borrowings – Bank overdrafts 3,728 3,728 – Bank overdrafts (Group cash pooling arrangement) 470,156 470,156 – Accrued interest 22,862 22,862 Sub-total 496,746 496,746 Group loans and borrowings – Payable to the Group 267,942 267,942 – Payable to related companies 514,234 514,234 Sub-total 782,176 782,176 Accounts and notes payable 3,433 3,433 Tax and social security liabilities 2,815 2,815 Other payables 475 475 TOTAL 2,360,645 1,285,645 1,075,000 Group loans of €267,942 thousand comprise: ■ two three-month revolving loans from Capgemini Deutschland GmbH and Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH for a total ■ a three-month revolving loan from Capgemini U.K. Plc. of €245,942 amount of €22,000 thousand. These loans were renewed on thousand. This loan was renewed on October 23, 2012 for an October 26, 2012, maturing January 28, 2013 and pay annual amount of £200 million, maturing January 23, 2013 and pays annual interest of 0.2010%. interest of 0.531250%. It is hedged by currency swaps (euro/pound sterling), REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 189 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 15. Accrued charges Accrued charges reported in the balance sheet can be analyzed as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Borrowings – Accrued interest 22,862 Other liabilities – Accounts and notes payable 3,433 – Tax and social security liabilities 2,815 – Other payables 475 TOTAL 29,585 16. Unrealized foreign exchange gains and losses on foreign currency receivables and payables Reported Reported Provision for in thousands of euros in assets in liabilities currency risks On other receivables/payables 26 3 26 TOTAL 26 3 26 17. Net finance income (expense) in thousands of euros Montant Provisions relating to financial items Charge (372,387) Reversal 457,330 Sub-total 84,943 Dividends 42,600 Sub-total 42,600 Other financial income and expense Net income from short-term investments 5,557 Loan income (capitalization contracts) 1,668 Revenue from loans, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements 11,994 Interest on borrowings, current accounts and Group cash pooling arrangements (5,587) Interest on “OCEANE” bonds (20,125) Interest on the Eurobond (26,656) Interest on issued commercial paper (789) Net foreign exchange losses (net) 3,048 Other (6) Sub-total (30,896) NET FINANCE INCOME (EXPENSE) 96,649 Additions to provisions for financial items of €372,387 thousand Provision reversals of €457,330 thousand primarily concern reversals primarily concern provisions for impairment of equity interests in the of provisions for impairment of equity interests in the amount of amount of €370,483 thousand, relating to a Dutch subsidiary for €437,000 thousand, relating to an American subsidiary in the amount €243,000 thousand, a Spanish subsidiary for €120,000 thousand and of €411,000 thousand and an Australian subsidiary in the amount of a French subsidiary for €6,338 thousand. €30,000 thousand and the reversal of a provision on treasury shares in the amount of €16,324 thousand. 190 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements The dividends of €42,600 thousand correspond to dividends received Net income from short-term investments (€5,557 thousand) is the result during the period by the Company from French, Hungarian, Portuguese, of investments during 2012 in money market funds (SICAV) for €2,100 and Polish subsidiaries. thousand, investment funds (FCP) for €1,370 thousand and certificates of deposit for €2,091 thousand. 18. Net non-recurring income in thousands of euros Amount Proceeds on asset disposals 10 Net proceeds on disposals of treasury shares under the liquidity agreement 2,112 Sub-total 2,122 Exceptional provisions (1,920) Other (1,428) Sub-total (3,348) NET NON-RECURRING INCOME (EXPENSE) (1,226) 19. Income tax expense additional tax consolidation gain of €339 thousand in respect of 2011. Cap Gemini S.A. would have recognized a theoretical income tax In France, Cap Gemini S.A. is the parent company of a French tax expense of €34,838 thousand were it not part of the tax consolidation consolidation group comprising 22 companies. In 2012, Cap Gemini group. Tax losses carried forward by Cap Gemini S.A. amounted to S.A. recognized an income tax expense of €21,746 thousand, after taking account of the positive impact of tax consolidation and an €1,001,394 thousand at December 31, 2012. 4 Breakdown of the income tax expense Income tax expense in thousands of euros Net profit before tax at 34.41% Recurring profit before tax 270,547 93,092 Net non-recurring income (expense) (1,226) (422) Accounting profit for the year before tax 269,321 92,670 Tax differences (62,882) (21,637) Tax credit – Training / family / patronage tax credit – Research tax credit Offset of tax losses carried forward (103,720) (35,689) Withholding tax (506) Tax consolidation of subsidiaries (13,277) INCOME TAX EXPENSE 21,562 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 191 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements Impact of tax-driven valuations in thousands of euros Amount Profit for the year 247,759 Income tax expense (net) 21,562 Profit before tax 269,321 Change in tax-driven provisions: – Accelerated depreciation (2,438) Other tax-driven valuations Nil PROFIT EXCLUDING TAX-DRIVEN VALUATIONS (BEFORE TAX) 266,883 Change in deferred tax liabilities Deferred tax on temporary differences (in thousands of euros) Current year amount Prior year amount Non-deductible provisions ■ organic sales tax 396 371 Provisions for contingencies and losses ■ provision for foreign exchange losses 26 6 Net asset value differences on UCITS 7 0 Unrealized foreign exchange gains 3 245 Unrealized foreign exchange losses 6 26 Remeasurement differences on receivables and payables and fair value measurement of derivatives 41,301 0 TOTAL 41,740 649 Rate of tax on temporary differences 34.43% 34.43% DEFERRED TAX 14,371 223 Deferred tax assets ■ deferred tax depreciation ■ tax losses carried forward 1,001,394 1,105,067 ■ long-term capital losses DEFERRED TAX 344,780 380,475 III – OTHER INFORMATION 20. Off-balance sheet commitments a) Commitments given to subsidiaries Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted by Cap Gemini S.A. to its subsidiaries at December 31, 2012 can be analyzed as follows: in thousands of euros Amount Financial items 204,497 Operating items 982,067 Tax items 15,060 TOTAL 1,201,624 192 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements Guarantees, deposits and comfort letters granted to subsidiaries c) Financial instruments in respect of financial items provide them with access to local cash facilities in the form of credit lines. Total draw-downs on these credit Currency hedges / Derivative instruments lines at December 31, 2012 amounted to €27,617 thousand. At December 31, 2012, the values of external currency derivative instruments negotiated in respect of foreign currency denominated b) Other commitments internal financing arrangements, primarily break down as follows: The Group has provided performance and/or financial guarantees for ■ five euro/US dollar swap with a positive value of €3,538 thousand for a number of major contracts. These include the contracts signed with HM Revenue & Customs, Schneider Electric Industries, Euroclear, the a nominal amount of USD 230 million (€174 million), Metropolitan Police Force, Ontario Power Generation Inc., Environment ■ a euro/pound sterling swap with a negative value of €579 thousand Agency, Renault S.A. and The Secretary of State for Work and Pensions for a nominal amount of GBP 200 million (€245 million), Cap Gemini S.A., together with all of its subsidiaries and any entities ■ a euro/Australian dollar swap with a positive value of €13 thousand which it directly or indirectly owns more than 50%, are insured for the for a nominal amount of AUD 13 million (€10.33 million). financial implications of any civil or professional liability claims that may At December 31, 2012, external currency derivatives hedging brand be filed against them as a result of their activities. The insurance is part royalties invoiced to subsidiaries had a positive value of €137 thousand of a worldwide program comprising a number of policies taken out and mainly concerned the Australian dollar, pound sterling, US dollar with leading insurance companies. The terms and conditions of this and Canadian dollar. insurance program (including maximum coverage) are regularly reviewed At December 31, 2012, external currency derivatives instruments and adjusted to reflect changes in revenues, business activities and entered into pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group level, had risk profiles. The program’s largest policy, amounting to €30 million, is a net negative value of €4,292 thousand. reinsured with a consolidated captive reinsurance subsidiary. At December 31, 2012, off-balance sheet commitments given to Cap Gemini S.A. granted a financial guarantee in connection with the subsidiaries on internal currency derivative instruments entered into agreement signed on May 25, 2004 with France Telecom to transfer the pursuant to the pooling of currency risk at Group level, had a positive management of part of the latter’s telecommunications network for a value of €40,675 thousand. term of eight years, renewed on January 1, 2012 for a term of 6 years. 4 21. Related companies in thousands of euros Amount Balance sheet items Equity interests 14,753,388 Receivable from controlled entities 243,169 Payable to controlled entities 267,942 Related companies ■ receivable 128,737 ■ payable 514,234 Income Statement items Investment income 42,600 Income on Group loans 5,464 Other interest income 5,837 Interest expense 5,295 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 193 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 22. Dilution tied to the Redeemable share subscription 24. Subsequent events or purchase warrants (BSAAR) ■ At the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, the Board of Directors will At December 31, 2012, the 2,999,000 redeemable share subscription recommend a dividend payment of €1 per share in respect of 2012. or purchase warrants (BSAAR) are not dilutive as the aggregate of the ■ Under the share buyback program authorized by the Ordinary €34 strike price and €3.22 issue premium is higher than the average Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the Company purchased market price of the Cap Gemini share in 2012. between January 16 and February 14, 2013, via a contract with If all these redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants an authorized financial intermediary, 1,017,549 of its own shares (BSAAR) were exercised, the dilutive impact at December 31, 2012 (representing 0.63% of the share capital at December 31, 2012) at would be 1.82% after exercise. an average share price of €35.38, representing a total acquisition cost of €36 million. These shares were purchased for cancellation. 23. Consolidating company 25. Remuneration of members of the Board of Directors Cap Gemini S.A. is the consolidating company for the Capgemini The total amount of attendance fees paid to Directors and nonGroup. voting directors in 2012 is €749,000€ (or €666,800 after deduction of withholding tax for non-resident beneficiaries). 26. Fees paid to the statutory auditors and members of their network in thousands of euros Amount Statutory audit of the consolidated and separate financial statements 1,054 Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement 58 Sub-total 1,112 Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory services Other Sub-total TOTAL 1,112 194 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 4.4.4 Statutory Auditors’ report on the ﬁnancial statements (Year ended December 31, 2012) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in French and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. The Statutory Auditors’ report includes information specifically required by French law in such reports, whether qualified or not. This information is presented below the opinion on the financial statements and includes an explanatory paragraph discussing the auditors’ assessments of certain significant accounting and auditing matters. These assessments were considered for the purpose of issuing an audit opinion on the financial statements taken as a whole and not to provide separate assurance on individual account captions or on information taken outside of the financial statements. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In compliance with the assignment entrusted to us by your Annual General Meeting, we hereby report to you, for the year ended December 31, 2012, on: ■ the audit of the accompanying financial statements of Cap Gemini S.A., ■ the justification of our assessments, ■ the specific verifications and information required by law. The financial statements have been approved by the Board of Directors. Our role is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. 4 I. OPINION ON THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS We conducted our audit in accordance with professional standards applicable in France. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes verifying, on a test basis or by other selection methods, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. In our opinion, the financial statements give a true and fair view of the Company’s financial position and its assets and liabilities at December 31, 2012, and of the results of its operations for the year then ended in accordance with the accounting rules and principles applicable in France. II. JUSTIFICATION OF OUR ASSESSMENTS In accordance with the requirements of Article L.823-9 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the justification of our assessments, we bring to your attention the following matter: Equity interests as reported in the balance sheet amounted to €8,865 million at December 31, 2012. The accounting rules and methods used to determine the value in use of these investments are described in Note I to the financial statements. As part of our assessments, we verified whether the approach applied was correct and that the assumptions used and resulting valuations were consistent overall. These assessments were made in the context of our audit of the financial statements taken as a whole, and therefore contributed to the opinion we formed which is expressed in the first part of this report. III. SPECIFIC VERIFICATIONS AND INFORMATION In accordance with professional standards applicable in France, we have also performed the specific verifications required by law. We have no matters to report to you as to the fair presentation and consistency with the financial statements of the information given in the management report of the Board of Directors and in the documents addressed to the shareholders with respect to the financial position and the financial statements. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 195 4 Financial information 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements Concerning the information disclosed pursuant to Article L.225-102-1 of the French Commercial Code on the compensation and benefits paid to corporate officers and any other commitments made in their favor, we have verified its consistency with the financial statements or the information used as a basis for preparing the financial statements and, where appropriate, with the elements gathered by your Company from companies controlling your Company or controlled by it. Based on these procedures, we attest to the accuracy and fairness of such information. In accordance with the law, we have verified that the management report contains the appropriate disclosures concerning the identity of shareholders and holders of voting rights. The Statutory Auditors, Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 22, 2013 Paris La Défense, February 22, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 196 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.4 Cap Gemini S.A. financial statements 4.4.5 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments (Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the ﬁnancial statements for the year ended December 31, 2012) This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments that is issued in the French language and is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking readers. This report on regulated agreements and commitments should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. It should be understood that the agreements reported on are only those provided by French corporate law (Code de Commerce) and that the report does not apply to those related party transactions described in IAS 24 or other equivalent accounting standards. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as statutory auditors of your Company, we hereby report to you on regulated agreements and commitments. The terms of our engagement require us to communicate to you, based on information provided to us, the principal terms and conditions of those agreements and commitments brought to our attention or which we may have discovered during the course of our audit, without expressing an opinion on their usefulness and appropriateness or identifying such other agreements and commitments, if any. It is your responsibility, pursuant to Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), to assess the interest involved in respect of the conclusion of these agreements and commitments for the purpose of approving them. Our role is also to provide you with the information stipulated in Article R.225-31 of the French Commercial Code relating to the implementation during the past year of agreements and commitments previously approved by the shareholders’ meeting, if any. We conducted the procedures we deemed necessary in accordance with the professional guidelines of the French National Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) relating to this engagement. These procedures consisted in agreeing the information provided to us with the relevant source documents. 4 Agreements and commitments submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting We hereby inform you that we have not been advised of any agreement or commitment authorized during the year to be submitted to the approval of the Shareholders’ Meeting pursuant to Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Code. Agreements and commitments previously approved by Shareholders’ Meeting Pursuant to Article R.225-30 of the French Commercial Code, we have been informed that the following agreements and commitments, previously approved by Shareholders’ Meetings of prior years, have remained in force during the year. Type: Supplementary collective defined benefit pension scheme set up by the company in favor of certain senior executives regarded as having made a significant and lasting contribution to the Group’s development. Purpose and terms: On December 13, 2006, the Board of Directors authorized the creation of a collective defined benefit pension scheme in favor of certain senior executives of the Group, enabling them to obtain, upon their retirement, a supplementary pension that may not exceed 40% of their reference earnings. The beneficiary’s total cumulative pension benefits may not exceed 50% of the reference earnings which are capped at 60 times the annual ceiling for social security. Messrs. Serge Kampf and Paul Hermelin have been registered as beneficiaries of this plan. During 2012, these corporate officers did not receive any compensation pursuant to this agreement. The statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, February 22, 2013 Paris La Défense, February 22, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Département de KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 197 4 Financial information 4.5 OTHER FINANCIAL AND ACCOUTING INFORMATION 4.5.1 Five-year ﬁnancial summary (in thousand of euros) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 I SHARE CAPITAL AT YEAR-END Share capital 1,166,760 1,233,419 1,246,163 1,246,163 1,294,163 Number of common shares outstanding 145,844,938 154,177,396 155,770,362 155,770,362 161,770,362 Maximum number of future shares to be created: ■ through exercise of equity warrants 8,696,637 9,655,432 9,079,500 6,484,125 5,242,822 ■ through conversion fo convertible bonds 20,830,416 32,583,691 28,722,575 26,372,575 16,911,765 II OPERATIONS AND RESULTS OF THE CURRENT YEAR Operating revenue 202,017 198,567 201,567 241,094 230,370 Operating revenue and financial revenue 382,207 297,617 278,822 339,560 763,415 Income before taxes, amortization and provisions 240,322 213,622 208,598 225,363 189,839 Income tax (29,419) (27,418) (15,740) 2,962 21,562 Net income / (losses) 259,605 224,022 136,889 171,563 247,759 Distributed income 145,845 123,342 155,770 155,770 161,770 III EARNINGS PER SHARE (in euros) Earnings after taxes, but before amortization and provisions 1.85 1.56 1.44 1.43 1.04 Net earnings 1.78 1.45 0.88 1.10 1.53 Dividend per share 1.00 0.80 1.00 1.00 * 1.00 IV EMPLOYEE DATA Average number of employee during the year Cap Gemini S.A. does not have any employees Total payroll Total benefits * Subject to approval by the Combined shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013. 198 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Financial information 4 4.5 Other financial and accouting information 4.5.2 Subsidiaries and investments Other Book value shareholof shares ders’equity (including Number Loans & net income % of shares advances Guarantees 2012 (in millions of euros) Capital for the year) interest owned Gross Net granted given Revenue Dividends SUBSIDIARIES Capgemini North America Inc. 1 3,015 100.00% 982,000 6,618 2,778 159 76 1 CGS HOLDINGS Ltd 650 1 100.00% 558,777,061 721 721 Gemini Consulting Holding Ltd 0 9 100.00% 1,083 23 23 Capgemini Oldco Ltd 13 27 100.00% 1,033,938,858 801 264 Capgemini AB (Suède) 3 341 100.00% 25,861 387 387 9 Capgemini NV (Benelux) 2 297 100.00% 21,582,376 1,467 996 15 Capgemini Business services BV 0 2 100.00% 485 19 19 Capgemini Shared Services BV 0 0 100.00% 1,053 3 3 Capgemini Deutschland Holding GmbH 129 8 95.59% 3 629 629 Capgemini Consulting Österreich AG 0 5 100.00% 36,791 54 22 15 Capgemini Suisse AG 0 3 100.00% 500 45 30 68 56 Capgemini Polska Sp Z.o.o (Pologne) 4 31 100.00% 129,160 25 25 162 15 Capgemini Magyarorszag Kft 0 1 100.00% 1 2 2 5 1 capgemini Czech Republic s r o 1 1 98.77% 21,255 8 8 10 4 Capgemini France S.A.S. 89 657 100.00% 5,713,954 1,324 1,324 6 Capgemini Technology Services Maroc 3 2 99.99% 329,996 3 3 18 SOGETI N.V./S.A. 1 (1) 99.99% 11,449 1 SOGETI S.A.S. 261 331 100.00% 52,106,876 754 754 29 25 Capgemini Italia S.p.A. 18 17 100.00% 3,575,000 543 50 10 17 154 Capgemini España S.L. (Sociedad Unipersonal) 32 1 81.38% 264,315 279 159 249 Capgemini Portugal, Serviços de Consultoria e Informatica, SA 8 4 100.00% 1,698,842 44 44 25 0 Capgemini Business Services Guatemala S.A. 1 (1) 99.80% 12,900,034 1 1 1 Capgemini Argentina S.A. 1 (1) 2.00% 126,369 0 0 2 Capgemini Asia Pacific Pte. Ltd. (Singapour) 94 (2) 100.00% 138,779,483 218 81 24 1 Capgemini Australia Pty Ltd (Australie) 150 (131) 100.00% 1,502,342 172 90 10 114 151 Capgemini Business Services (India) 0 31 99.90% 4,995 25 25 2 72 Capgemini Service S.A.S 8 (14) 100.00% 8,000,000 134 15 197 S.C.I. Paris Etoile 0 5 99.99% 9,999 48 31 2 2 Immobilière les Fontaines S.A.R.L 2 (13) 99.84% 1,004,628 52 52 25 7 Capgemini Université S.A.S. 0 0 100.00% 2,500 0 0 13 Capgemini Gouvieux S.A.S. 3 (3) 100.00% 210,000 3 3 22 Capgemini Consulting Cyprus Ltd 0 0 100.00% 101 0 0 0 CAP SOGETI 2005 332 (1) 100.00% 33,249,750 341 341 17 6 Capgemini Reinsurance International 20 100.00% 10,000 5 5 11 Other French compagnies nm nm nm nm 0 0 nm nm nm nm Other foreign compagnies nm nm nm nm nm nm nm nm INVESTMENTS As of December 31, 2012, investments held by Cap Gemini SA are not material REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 199 4 Financial information 200 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5 5.1 CAP GEMINI SHARE CAPITAL 202 5.4 EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS 210 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements 5.4.1 Share subscription options 210 and delegations of authority) 202 5.4.2 International employee shareholding system 210 5.1.2 Financial authorizations 204 5.4.3 Issue of redeemable share subscription 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding 205 or purchase warrants (BSAAR) 210 5.4.4 Performance share grant 211 5.2 CAP GEMINI AND THE STOCK MARKET 206 5.5 SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM 212 5.3 CURRENT OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE 209 5.5.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares 212 Changes in ownership structure 5.5.2 Authorization to cancel shares purchased over the past three years 209 under the buyback program 212 Shareholders’ agreements 209 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 201 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 CAP GEMINI SHARE CAPITAL 5.1.1 Share capital (amount, table of movements and delegations of authority) AMOUNT OF CAPITAL At December 31, 2012, the Company’s share capital amounted to €1,294,162,896, divided into 161,770,362 fully paid-up ordinary shares with a par value of €8 each. Shares may be held in either registered or bearer form, at the shareholder’s discretion. CHANGES IN THE COMPANY’S SHARE CAPITAL OVER THE PAST FIVE YEARS Additional paidNumber of Share capital in capital shares (in euros) (in euros) AT DECEMBER 31, 2007 145,425,510 1,163,404,080 5,525,119,409 Adjustment to issuance costs for shares issued in 2006 26,207 Share capital increase for cash: ■ shares issued on exercise of stock options 419,428 3,355,424 6,672,634 AT DECEMBER 31, 2008 145,844,938 1,166,759,504 5,531,818,250 Share capital increase for cash: ■ shares issued reserved for employees 5,999,999 47,999,992 117,479,980 ■ issue costs for shares reserved for employees (1,266,628) ■ shares issued on exercise of stock options 2,332,459 18,659,672 33,472,939 Subscription of redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) ■ issue of 2,999,000 warrants (BSAAR) 9,656,780 ■ warrant issue costs charged against additional paid-in capital (863,727) Allocation to legal reserve (6,490,802) AT DECEMBER 31, 2009 154,177,396 1,233,419,168 5,683,806,792 Share capital increase for cash: ■ shares issued on exercise of stock options 1,592,966 12,743,728 33,595,907 AT DECEMBER 31, 2010 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 AT DECEMBER 31, 2011 155,770,362 1,246,162,896 5,717,402,699 Share capital increase for cash: ■ shares issued reserved for employees 6,000,000 48,000,000 106,560,000 ■ issue costs for shares reserved for employees (1,068,864) Allocation to legal reserve (4,800,000) AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 161,770,362 1,294,162,896 5,818,093,835 202 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital DELEGATIONS OF AUTHORITY TO INCREASE The share capital issues that may be carried out pursuant to these THE SHARE CAPITAL delegations of authority, would be offset against the following ceilings: Pursuant to the delegations of authority given to the Board of Directors ■ a maximum aggregate par value amount of €185 million, or by the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the Board approximately 14% of the share capital, and an aggregate issuance was granted a 26-month authorization (expiring July 24, 2014) to: amount of €1.25 billion for all issues performed without pre-emptive subscription rights, that is (i) issues performed by way of a public ■ increase the share capital by capitalizing reserves, offering or private placement at a price at least equal to the weighted ■ issue ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the average price of the Company’s shares during the three trading days Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt preceding the date on which the price is set, potentially reduced by instruments, with pre-emptive subscription rights, a discount of up to 5%, and (ii) issues as payment for contributions ■ issue ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the in kind made to the Company or shares tendered to any public Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt exchange offering launched by the Company, instruments, without pre-emptive subscription rights, in the form of ■ a maximum aggregate par value amount of €500 million and an a public offering or a private placement, aggregate issuance amount of €3.5 billion for all issues of securities ■ increase the amount of issues if the requests for shares exceed the granting access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right number of shares on offer, up to 15% of the initial issue and at the to allocation of debt instruments, with or without pre-emptive same price as for the initial issue (“Greenshoe” options), subscription rights. ■ issue shares and/or securities granting access to the Company’s Over-allotment options (“Greenshoe” options) will of course be included share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments, as in these ceilings. payment for shares tendered to a public exchange offer made by Finally, readers are reminded that: the Company or contributions in kind to the Company of shares or securities granting access to the Company’s share capital. ■ in the event of a share capital issue in the form of a public offering with cancellation of pre-emptive subscription rights, the Board of The overall limits on the amounts of the issues that could be decided Directors would have the power to provide for a priority right for pursuant to the delegations of authority given to the Board were set at: shareholders, during the period and by the methods it deems fit, ■ a maximum par value amount of €1.5 billion for share capital ■ should the Board of Directors use one or other of these delegations increases paid up by capitalizing reserves, of authority, the Statutory Auditors will issue a special report for the ■ a maximum par value amount of €500 million for share capital attention of the Shareholders’ Meeting. increases with pre-emptive subscription rights, and a maximum of Your Board of Directors did not use any of these delegations of authority €3.5 billion in total issuance amounts, in 2012. As these delegations of authority are valid until July 24, 2014, ■ a maximum par value amount of €185 million for share capital the Board did not consider it necessary to request their renewal at the increases without pre-emptive subscription rights, and a maximum next Shareholders’ Meeting. 5 of €1.25 billion in total issuance amounts, A table summarizing the delegations of authority and powers granted ■ a maximum aggregate par value amount of €500 million and an by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting to the Board of Directors with aggregate issuance amount of €3.5 billion for securities granting regard to share issues is provided hereafter. access to the Company’s share capital or granting a right to allocation of debt instruments. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 203 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital 5.1.2 Financial authorizations AUTHORIZATIONS GRANTED BY THE COMBINED SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS TO ISSUE SHARE CAPITAL The following table summarizes (pursuant, to Article L.225-100 of the French Commercial Code) authorizations still in effect and those that have expired since the last Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. Maximum amount Authorization Used during Type of securities (in euros) (1) (2) date Expiry date the fiscal year a) Ordinary shares paid up by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, reserves, profit or other eligible amounts 1.5 billion (par value) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 No b) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right to allocation 500 million (par value) of debt instruments, with PSR 3.5 billion (issue amount) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 No c) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right to an 185 million (par value) allocation of debt instruments without PSR, public offer 1.25 billion (issue amount) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 No d) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right to an allocation of debt instruments without PSR, private 185 million (par value) placement 1.25 billion (issue amount) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 No e) Ordinary shares or shares combined with securities granting access to the share capital of the Company, as payment for contributions in kind to the Company 10% of the share capital 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 No f) Ordinary shares and/or securities granting access to the share capital of the Company, or granting a right to an allocation of debt instruments, as payment for shares tendered to a public 185 million (par value) exchange offer made by the Company 1.25 billion (issue amount) 05/24/2012 07/24/2014 No Ordinary shares issued within the scope of the international employee share ownership plan: g) members of Group savings plans 48 million (par value) (2) 05/26/2011 07/26/2013 Yes h) not restricted to members of Group savings plans, but subject to similar conditions 16 million (par value) (2) 05/26/2011 11/26/2012 Yes i) Ordinary shares without PSR (French Corporate Savings Act) 12 million (par value) 05/27/2010 07/27/2012 No j) Redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) 8 million (par value) 05/26/2011 11/26/2012 No PSR = Pre-emptive Subscription Rights. (1) Recap of overall limits: ■ a maximum par value amount of €500 million and a maximum issue amount of €3.5 billion for all issues with and without pre-emptive subscription rights, ■ including a maximum par value amount of €185 million and a maximum issue amount of €1.25 billion for all issues without pre-emptive subscription rights, ■ issues performed pursuant to g), h), i) and j) above are not included in these overall limits. (2) Total share capital issues decided pursuant to g) and h) are capped at a maximum par value amount of €48 million. USE OF AUTHORIZATIONS DURING THE FISCAL YEAR Pursuant to the authorizations detailed in g) and h) above, the Board of Directors’ meeting of February 15, 2012 decided in principle a share capital increase reserved for employees and eligible corporate officers of the Company and its subsidiaries (ESOP 2012 Plan). Accordingly, the share capital of the Company was increased by €48,000,000 on September 27, 2012 through the issue of 6 million new shares with a par value of €8 each. OTHER EXISTING FINANCIAL AUTHORIZATIONS Maximum amount Authorization Type of securities (in euros) date Expiry date Performance shares 1.5% of the share capital 05/24/2012 11/24/2013 204 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5 5.1 Cap Gemini share capital The Board of Directors used this authorization twice in 2012: The Board of Directors also used this authorization at the beginning of 2013: ■ on July 25, 2012, the Board of Directors granted a total of 202,538 shares subject to a condition of presence but not ■ on February 20, 2013, the Board of Directors granted a total of performance to all employees of French companies with over three 1,209,100 shares to a certain number of employees of French and months seniority, non-French companies, subject to conditions of performance and ■ on December 12, 2012, the Board of Directors granted a total of presence. 1,003,500 shares to a certain number of employees of French and A new authorization will be presented to the Combined Shareholders’ non-French companies, subject to conditions of performance and Meeting of May 23, 2013 for the grant of performance shares up to a presence. maximum amount of 1% of the share capital in accordance with the conditions set out on section 5.4.4 page 211. 5.1.3 Other share equivalents outstanding STOCK OPTION PLANS BONDS CONVERTIBLE/EXCHANGEABLE INTO NEW The main features of the May 12, 2005 plan, valid for a period of 38 OR EXISTING CAP GEMINI SHARES (OCEANE) months and under which 139,500 options may still be exercised, are On April 8, 2009, Cap Gemini issued bonds convertible/exchangeable summarized in the tables on page 183 of this registration document. into new or existing Cap Gemini shares, maturing on January 1, 2014 (OCEANE 2009). The total amount of the issue was €575 million, represented by 16,911,765 bonds with a nominal value of €34 each. PERFORMANCE SHARE PLANS The terms and conditions of this issue were set out in the prospectus The mean features of these plans are summarized in the tables on approved by the AMF on April 8, 2009 under reference number 09-084. pages 183 to 186 of this registration document, it being noted that: ■ at the end of the four-year period, the number of shares vested REDEEMABLE SHARE SUBSCRIPTION OR PURCHASE under the first plan led to the grant of 285,000 shares on March 5, WARRANTS (BSAAR) 2013 to non-French beneficiaries, During fiscal year 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by ■ at the end of the two-year period, under the second plan, the employees and corporate officers of the Group at a price of €3.22 per definitive calculation led to the vesting of only 68.5% of performance warrant. This issue was disclosed in a prospectus approved by the AMF shares initially granted, that is, after including shares granted without on May 14, 2009 under reference number 09-140.The warrants may performance conditions, 350,509 shares vested to beneficiaries not be exercised or transferred during a four-year period commencing 5 tax-resident in France and a maximum of 623,620 shares vested July 22 , 2009, except under the conditions specified in the issue to foreign beneficiaries subject to their continued presence in the agreement (primarily in the event of a takeover bid for Cap Gemini Group on the termination of the plan on October 1, 2014 (see also shares). The warrants will be listed and traded on the Euronext Paris § 5.4.4). market between July 22, 2013 and July 20, 2016. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 205 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.2 CAP GEMINI AND THE STOCK MARKET At December 31, 2012, the share capital of Cap Gemini S.A. comprised Cap Gemini shares are included in the CAC 40 and the Euronext 100 161,770,362 shares (ISIN code: FR0000125338). Cap Gemini shares indexes and the Dow Jones STOXX and Dow Jones Euro STOXX. are listed on the “Euronext Paris” market (compartment A) and are Between January 1 and December 31, 2012, the Cap Gemini share eligible for the SRD deferred settlement system of the Paris Stock price on “Euronext Paris” increased from €25.075 to €32.860. Exchange. The increase in the number of shares between 2011 and 2012 followed the issue in September 2012 of 6 million shares under the International Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP 2012). CAP GEMINI S.A. SHARE OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE AT DECEMBER 31, 2012 (based on a shareholder survey) Non-French French Board members Individual institutional institutional Treasury shares and Group employees shareholders investors investors 9.8% 27.4% 7.0% 54.2% 1.6% CAP GEMINI S.A. Capgemini Sogeti Consulting Services Technology Services Local Professional Services Outsourcing Services 206 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5 5.2 Cap Gemini and the Stock Market STOCK MARKET CAPITALIZATION 7.0 From January 2011 to March 2013 6.5 In billions of euros 6.0 5.5 5.0 4.5 4.0 Source: Bloomberg. 3.5 3.0 majan feb . . g. oc no de p. t. v. c. g. oc no p. t. ap march jun ril y au se majan fev ap marchy . . ril au sede jan feb v. c. . . juley jun jul e y ma rch 2011 2012 2013 SHARE PERFORMANCE 42 CAP GEMINI: 1.6% From December 31, 2010 CAC 40: -1.9% 40 to March 28, 2013 STOXX Europe 600: 6.5% In euros 38 36 34 32 30 28 5 26 24 Source: Reuters. 22 011 011 011 011 011 011 011 012 012 012 012 012 012 013 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 /2 31 28 30 30 31 31 31 29 30 30 31 31 31 28 12 / 02 / 04 / 06 / 08 / 10 / 12 / 02 / 04 / 06 / 08 / 10 / 12 / 02 / NUMBER OF TRADES PER MONTH 40 From January 2011 to March 2013 In millions of shares 35 30 25 20 Source: Bloomberg. 15 10 jan . . feb rch ril ma y g. p. t. v. c. jan. mafev rch . g. p. t. v. c. ap jun jule au se oc no de ap ril au se oc no de jan feb . ma y ma jun jul y e y ma rch. 2011 2012 2013 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 207 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.2 Cap Gemini and the Stock Market SHARE PRICE AND TRADING VOLUME The following table presents an analysis of trading in the Company’s shares over the last 24 months: Trading volume Share price (in euros) Number of shares Value Number of Average (millions Month trading days High Average Low Total (daily) of euros) April 11 19 41.920 41.193 40.185 17,614,638 927,086 725.6 May 11 22 42.035 40.269 38.410 21,987,998 999,454 890.8 June 11 22 40.650 38.297 36.930 23,244,209 1,056,555 888.9 July 11 21 41.105 38.398 33.945 24,565,135 1,169,768 923.1 August 11 23 35.015 28.870 25.700 37,381,516 1,625,283 1,081.4 September 11 22 28.285 25.175 22.545 27,868,496 1,266,750 701.0 October 11 21 29.490 26.648 21.980 24,103,558 1,147,788 634.5 November 11 22 28.920 26.699 24.165 24,373,839 1,107,902 651.2 December 11 21 28.190 25.512 23.665 16,111,732 767,225 410.7 January 12 22 28.595 26.255 24.035 18,798,849 854,493 489.1 February 12 21 33.230 30.740 27.925 21,867,590 1,041,314 670.9 March 12 22 34.500 33.398 31.445 18,582,046 844,638 628.3 April 12 19 34.015 30.225 27.430 22,013,813 1,158,622 664.1 May 12 22 30.425 28.391 26.815 19,986,185 908,463 568.1 June 12 21 29.200 27.716 25.235 24,256,840 1,155,088 663.2 July 12 22 30.540 27.705 25.630 24,854,682 1,129,758 686.9 August 12 23 31.480 30.094 29.060 14,952,972 650,129 447.8 September 12 20 33.735 31.955 29.120 17,846,312 892,316 570.9 October 12 23 33.435 31.918 30.770 18,353,342 797,971 584.5 November 12 22 33.400 31.685 30.480 17,096,205 777,100 540.1 December 12 19 34.565 33.245 32.025 12,113,053 637,529 403.3 January 13 22 36.945 34.701 32.700 20,397,938 927,179 708.6 February 13 20 38.565 36.410 35.000 15,888,993 794,450 583.8 March 13 20 39.005 37.664 35.150 16,834,288 841,714 631.8 Source: Bloomberg. DIVIDENDS PAID BY CAP GEMINI Distribution of dividends In % of Number of Dividend Year ended December 31 In millions net income shares per share 2008 € 146 33% 145,844,938 €1.00 2009 € 123 69% 154,177,396 €0.80 2010 € 156 56% 155,770,362 €1.00 2011 € 156 39% 155,770,362 €1.00 2012 € 162 44% 161,770,362 * €1.00 * Recommended dividend submitted to the Annual Shareholders' Meeting of May 23, 2013 2013 PROVISIONAL FINANCIAL CALENDAR First quarter 2013 revenue: May 2, 2013 This provisional calendar is provided for information purposes only and First half 2013 results: July 25, 2013 may be subject to subsequent amendments. Third quarter 2013 revenue: November 7, 2013 2013 Results: February 13, 2014 208 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5 5.3 CURRENT OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE The ownership structure at December 31, 2012 is presented below. No ■ BNP Paribas Asset Management disclosed that it had raised and reduced shares carry double voting rights. At December 31, 2012, Cap Gemini its interest on numerous occasions (10 in total) above and below the held 2,571,783 of its own shares. threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights. On the most recent occasion, it reduced its interest below the 1% threshold, At December 31, 2012, there were 1,634 holders of registered shares. ■ Crédit Suisse disclosed that it had raised and reduced its interest on Based on information received by the Company during the year, one numerous occasions (6 in total) above and below the threshold of shareholder held more than 5% of the Company’s share capital and voting 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights. On the most rights at the year-end: the limited liability company, Amundi Group, acting on recent occasion, it reduced its interest below the 1% threshold, behalf of the Capgemini ESOP FCPE (French collective employee shareholder vehicle) which it manages (international employee share ownership plan). ■ CM-CIC Asset Management disclosed that it had reduced its interest below the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting In accordance with Article 10 of the Company’s bylaws, the companies listed rights, below made the following disclosures to the Company during the fiscal year: ■ Amundi Asset Management disclosed that it had reduced its interest below ■ Manning & Napier Advisors, LLC disclosed that it had raised its interest the threshold of 4% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights, above the threshold of 2% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights, ■ HSBC Holdings Plc disclosed that it had raised its interest above the ■ UBS AG disclosed that it had raised and reduced its interest on threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights, numerous occasions (5 in total) above and below the threshold of ■ Caisse des Dépôts et Consignations disclosed that it had reduced 1% of the Company’s share capital and voting rights. On the most its interest below the threshold of 1% of the Company’s share capital recent occasion, it reduced its interest below the 1% threshold, and voting rights. Shares held by members of the Board of Directors represent 3.2% of the Company’s share capital. Changes in ownership structure over the past three years At December 31, 2010 At December 31, 2011 At December 31, 2012 5 Number of % Share % votingNumber of % Share % votingNumber of % Share % votingshares capital rights shares capital rights shares capital rights Serge Kampf 5,518,156 3.5 3.5 5,365,904 3.4 3.4 4,897,492 3.0 3.0 Paul Hermelin 202,048 0.1 0.1 227,048 0.1 0.1 227,048 0.1 0.1 Public (1) (bearer + registered) 142,377,580 91.4 91.4 142,745,303 91.7 91.7 143,391,840 88.6 88.6 Employee shareholders 5,497,578 3.6 3.6 5,228,857 3.4 3.4 10,682,199 6.6 6.6 (2) Treasury shares 2,175,000 1.4 1.4 2,203,250 1.4 1.4 2,571,783 1.6 1.6 Own shares TOTAL 155,770,362 100 100 155,770,362 100 100 161,770,362 100 100 (1) Including share capital held by managers. (2) At December 31, 2012, Cap Gemini S.A. held 2,571,783 of its own shares acquired under the share buyback program. In accordance with French corporate law, these shares are stripped of voting rights. The Company does not hold any “own shares” other than those classified as treasury shares. Based on a study of identifiable bearer shares carried out at December 31, 2012, the Company has 4,479 identifiable holders of bearer shares holding at least 500 shares. No shares carry double voting rights. Shareholders’ agreements There are no shareholder agreements or pacts in force. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 209 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.4 Employee Shareholders 5.4 EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS 5.4.1 Share subscription options The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 12, 2005 authorized the The Board of Directors would also remind shareholders that in the event Board of Directors to grant stock options to employees of the Group of a notice of authorization of a takeover bid or exchange offer for some and its French and non-French subsidiaries, during a period of 38 or all of the Company’s shares published by Euronext, holders of stock months commencing May 12, 2005 and therefore expiring July 12, options will be entitled, if they so wish, to exercise all of their remaining 2008, conferring entitlement to subscribe to a total of 6 million shares. unexercised options immediately without waiting for the end of the lockThis authorization represented the sixth stock option plan implemented in period specified at the time of grant. by the Company. During the past year, no shares were subscribed under this plan, it No stock options were therefore granted by the Board of Directors in being noted that no shares may be subscribed under the first, second, 2012. third, fourth or fifth plans for which the subscription periods expired on November 1, 1995, April 1, 1999, April 1, 2002, December 1, 2006 and March 31, 2010, respectively. 5.4.2 International employee shareholding system On February 15, 2012, the Board of Directors decided in principle September 27, 2012, having taken due note of the certificate issued (based on the 8 th and 9 th resolutions adopted by the Combined by the custodian attesting to the receipt of funds corresponding to the Shareholders’ Meeting of May 26, 2011) to increase the share capital of share subscription reserved for employees, he decided to increase the Company through the issue of up to a maximum of 6 million shares the share capital from €1,246,162,896 to €1,294,162,896 (creation of reserved for eligible employees and corporate officers of the Company 6 million new shares with a par value of €8). and its subsidiaries (ESOP 2012) and delegated to the Chief Executive Pursuant to the provisions of Article L.225-102 of the French Officer the necessary powers for the performance of these share issues. Commercial Code, the Board of Directors informs you that employees Accordingly, in a decision of August 27, 2012, the Chairman and Chief and corporate officers who subscribed to this operation (ESOP 2012) Executive Officer set the subscription dates and the subscription price and the operation in 2009 (ESOP 2009) under a Capgemini Group for the shares to be issued: €25.76, representing the average price Company Savings Plan, together held 6.6% of the Company’s share of the Cap Gemini share over the twenty stock market trading days capital at December 31, 2012. preceding the date of the decision (€30.30) less a 15% discount. On 5.4.3 Issue of redeemable share subscription or purchase warrants (BSAAR) We would remind you that the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of will be listed on the stock market between July 22, 2013 and July 20, April 17, 2008 authorized the Board of Directors to grant Redeemable 2016. Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants (BSAAR) to employees and We would also remind you that the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting corporate officers of the Company and its subsidiaries. of May 26, 2011 authorized the Board of Directors, for a period of 18 During 2009, 2,999,000 warrants were subscribed by employees months, to issue Redeemable Share Subscription or Purchase Warrants and corporate officers of the Group (at a price of €3.22 per warrant). (BSAAR) to employees and corporate officers of the Group up to a Between July 22, 2009 and the date the warrants are admitted to maximum of one million shares (approximately 0.62% of the share trading on Euronext Paris, they may not be exercised or transferred capital at December 31, 2012), representing a maximum par value except under the conditions specified in the issue agreement (namely in amount of €8 million. This authorization was not used in fiscal years the event of a takeover bid for Cap Gemini S.A. shares). The warrants 2011 or 2012. 210 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5 5.4 Employee Shareholders 5.4.4 Performance share grant The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 authorized to beneficiaries tax-resident in France becomes definitive; this period the Board of Directors to allocate performance shares to employees therefore expired on October 1, 2012 (the vesting period is four years and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French for beneficiaries not tax resident in France, expiring October 1, 2014). subsidiaries, during a period of 18 months commencing May 24, 2012 The internal performance condition (representing 30% of the definitive and expiring November 24, 2013. The number of shares allocated grant) was achieved in full and the external performance condition (existing and to be issued) must not exceed 1.5% of the share capital (representing 70% of the definitive grant) was achieved 55%. 350,509 at the date of the Board of Directors’ decision to allocate such shares shares therefore vested on October 1, 2012. (this maximum number of shares being referred to hereafter by the letter Pursuant to the aforementioned authorization granted by the “N”). Up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these performance shares may Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012, the be allocated to executive corporate officers of the Company, it being Board of Directors decided on February 20, 2013 to grant specified that in this case, the shares may not be transferred by their 1,209,100 performance shares to 368 talented and high-potential beneficiary until the end of the beneficiary’s term of office. managers. Accordingly, the three share grants performed pursuant to By exception, and for an amount not exceeding 15% of “N”, shares may the May 24, 2012 authorization (on July 25, 2012, December 12, 2012 be allocated to employees of the Company and its French and nonand February 20, 2013) represent a total of 1.5% of the share capital, in French subsidiaries – excluding members of the Group Management line with the maximum percentage set by the authorization now lapsed. Board – without performance conditions. Desirous to continue its motivation policy and involving employees and On July 25, 2012, pursuant to this authorization, the Board of Directors managers in the development of the Group, the Board of Directors is decided the allocation of a total of 202,538 shares without performance seeking an authorization to grant performance shares, existing or to be conditions to all employees of French companies within the scope of issued, and comprising internal and external performance conditions, the Capgemini UES (1). The shares will be delivered to beneficiaries at during the coming 18 months, with in the case of shares to be issued, the end of a two-year vesting period beginning July 25, 2012. the waiver by shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor of the beneficiaries of the grants, up to a maximum share capital On December 12, 2012, pursuant to the same authorization, the Board percentage reduced from 1.5% to 1%. The performance conditions are of Directors decided the allocation of a total of 1,003,500 performance detailed in the draft tenth resolution presented for shareholders’ vote shares to 118 “Team One” managers, 13 members of the Executive today. Committee (excluding Paul Hermelin) and Paul Hermelin who will be required to hold the vested shares until the end of his term of office. The The resolution limits to 10% the maximum number of shares that may Board also decided to increase from two to four years the minimum be granted to executive corporate officers, currently the Chairman and holding period for vested shares following the vesting period for Chief Executive Officer, who would be required to hold such shares for beneficiaries tax-resident in France. a period defined by the Board of Directors at the time of grant. 5 Finally, it is noted that pursuant to the authorization granted by the The resolution also authorizes the Board of Directors to grant up to 15% Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 30, 2009, the Board of the maximum number of shares to Group employees, other than of Directors allocated a total of 1,555,000 performance shares on members of the general management team (the Executive Committee), October 1, 2010. These performance shares were allocated subject without performance conditions. to a two-year vesting period at the end of which the share allocation (1) UES – Unité économique et sociale (Economic and Social Unit). REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 211 5 Cap Gemini and its shareholders 5.5 SHARE BUYBACK PROGRAM 5.5.1 Authorization to buy back the Company’s shares Shareholders are reminded that last year, the Ordinary Shareholders’ ■ grant shares to employees and corporate officers, on the terms and Meeting renewed the authorization granted to the Company to buy by the methods provided for by law, in particular in connection with back its shares. This authorization was used in 2012 in connection with the grant of performance shares or the set-up of a company savings the liquidity agreement entered into on February 15, 2010. The purpose plan or an international employee share ownership plan, of this agreement is to improve the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share ■ grant shares to holders of securities conferring entitlement to the and stabilize the share price. In 2012, a total of 5,387,688 shares were capital of the Company upon exercise of the rights attached thereto purchased on behalf of Cap Gemini S.A., at an average price of €30.45 in accordance with the applicable regulations, per share, representing 3.33% of the share capital at December 31, ■ purchase shares to be retained with a view to remitting them in 2012. During the same period, 5,588,244 Cap Gemini shares were the future in exchange or payment for potential external growth sold at an average price of €30.00 per share, representing 3.45% of transactions, the share capital at December 31, 2012. At the year-end, the liquidity account balance comprised 202,944 treasury shares (0.13% of the ■ cancel some or all of the shares purchased subject to the adoption share capital) and approximately €7 million. of the ninth resolution included in the agenda of the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013. Furthermore, after transferring 351,009 shares to employees and corporate officers during the year under the Group free share The Board of Directors is therefore seeking an authorization for the grant program, the Company held 1,448,741 of its own shares at Company to buy back shares representing up to 10% of its share December 31, 2012, representing 0.90% of the share capital held capital, during a period of 18 months. The total amount of such following share buybacks performed between January 17 and 25, 2008 purchases may not exceed €970 million and the maximum authorized at an average share price of €34.48. unit purchase price is €55 per share, these purchases taking place within the scope of: Finally, on December 27, 2012, the Company bought back 920,098 of its own shares (for cancellation), representing 0.57% of the share capital ■ Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial Code (which at December 31, 2012, at an average share price of €32.60. also authorize the Board of Directors to cancel some or all of the shares purchased, representing up to 10% of its share capital by Overall, the Company therefore held 2,571,783 of its own shares at 24-month period), December 31, 2012, representing 1.59% of the share capital and a total ■ European Regulation No. 2273 of December 22, 2003 that came value of €84,508,789, based on the closing price of the Cap Gemini into effect on October 13, 2004. share at this date of €32.86. Pursuant to the law, a description of the share buyback program will be As the authorization granted by the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of published prior to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting. May 24, 2012 is only valid for 18 months, we are asking shareholders to replace it with a similar authorization to allow the Company to: ■ manage the secondary market and encourage the liquidity of the Cap Gemini share within the scope of a liquidity agreement, 5.5.2 Authorization to cancel shares purchased under the buyback program The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 2012 authorized the dilution resulting from the September 2012 issue of 6 million shares Board of Directors to cancel on one or several occasions at its sole under the international employee share ownership plan. discretion, all or some of the treasury shares held by the Company Shareholders are asked today to renew for a period of 24 months the pursuant to Article 225-209 of the French Commercial Code and to authorization granted to the Board of Directors to cancel shares bought reduce the share capital accordingly. This authorization was not used back up to a maximum of 10% of the share capital by 24-month period, in fiscal year 2012. this share capital amount being adjusted for any transactions performed It should be noted, however, that the Board of Directors, using the after the date of the Combined Shareholders Meeting. aforementioned delegation, cancelled 1,937,647 shares during its meeting of February 20, 2013, with a view to partially neutralizing the 212 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 6 Text of the draft resolutions presented by the Board of Directors to the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 6.1 RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED 6.3 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS 218 AT THE ORDINARY Statutory Auditors’ report on the cancellation SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING 214 of shares bought back by the Company 218 Statutory Auditors’ report on the authorization 6.2 RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) AT THE EXTRAORDINARY to employees and corporate officers 219 SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING 216 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 213 6 Text of the draft resolutions The English language version of these resolutions is a free translation from the original which was prepared in French. All possible care has been taken to ensure that the translation is an accurate presentation of the original. In the event of discrepancies, the French language version shall prevail. 6.1 RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED AT THE ORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING First resolution Fourth resolution Approval of the 2012 Company ﬁnancial statements Net income appropriation and dividend The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, after having read the following: approves the recommendations of the Board of Directors to appropriate the profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 as follows: ■ the management report of the Board of Directors, ■ the Chairman’s report, and ■ net profit for the year €247,759,001.72 ■ the Statutory Auditors’ report on their audit of the Company financial ■ no allocation to the legal reserve statements, as it is fully funded approves the Company financial statements for the year ended i.e. a balance of: €247,759,001.72 December 31, 2012, that show profit for the year of €247,759,001.72, and gives discharge to the Board of Directors for its management of the ■ retained earnings of previous years €405,440,151.48 Company’s business during the year. i.e. distributable earnings of: €653,199,153.20 ■ allocated to: Second resolution • payment of a dividend of €1 per share €162,055,362.00 Approval of the 2012 consolidated ﬁnancial statements • retained earnings for the balance €491,143,791.20 giving a total of: €653,199,153.20 The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and It should be noted that the dividend, set at €1 for each of the after having read the following: 162,055,362 shares bearing dividend rights on January 1, 2012, will be ■ the Group management report of the Board of Directors for 2012, and fully eligible for the 40% tax rebate referred to in Article 158.3.2 of the ■ the Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial French Tax Code (Code Général des Impôts). statements, The ex-dividend date will be June 3, 2013 and the dividend will be approves the consolidated financial statements for the year ended payable from June 6, 2013. If, at the time of payment of the dividend, December 31, 2012, that show net profit for the year of €370 million. the Company holds some of its own shares, the dividend for these shares will be added to retained earnings. Pursuant to Article 243 bis of the French Tax Code, dividends paid over Third resolution the past three fiscal years were as follows: €155,770,362 for 2011 (€1 per share); €155,770,362 for 2010 (€1 per share) and €123,341,916.80 Regulated agreements for 2009 (€0.80 per share). All of these dividends were fully eligible for The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with the 40% tax rebate set out in Article 158.3.2 of the French Tax Code. quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings and after having read the Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements governed by Article L.225-38 of the French Commercial Fifth resolution Code (Code de commerce), records that no such agreement has been entered into during the past year. Renewal of the term of ofﬁce as director of Mr. Daniel Bernard At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority 214 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Text of the draft resolutions 6 6.1 Resolutions presented at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four-year period company savings plan or an international employee share ownership the term of office as director of Mr. Daniel Bernard, which expires at plan, the close of this meeting. This new term of office will therefore expire ■ remit the shares thus purchased to holders of securities granting at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the access to the Company’s share capital upon exercise of the rights financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2016. attached thereto, in accordance with applicable regulations, ■ purchase shares to be retained with a view to remitting them in the future in exchange or payment for potential external growth Sixth resolution transactions, ■ cancel the shares thus purchased subject to adoption of the ninth Renewal of the term of ofﬁce as director of resolution included in the agenda of this Combined Shareholders’ Mr. Bernard Liautaud Meeting. At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Combined The acquisition, disposal and transfer transactions described above Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority may be carried out by any method in accordance with applicable laws rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four-year period and regulations – including through the use of derivative instruments or the term of office as director of Mr. Bernard Liautaud, which expires at by means of a block purchase or transfer of shares – and be carried out the close of this meeting. This new term of office will therefore expire at any time, except during public offers for Company shares. at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2016. The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting: ■ resolves that the total amount of purchases may not exceed €970 million and that the maximum unit purchase price may not Seventh resolution exceed €55 per share with a par value of €8. In the event of a share capital increase paid up by capitalizing additional paid-in capital, Renewal of the term of ofﬁce as director of reserves, profit or other amounts and allocating shares without Mr. Pierre Pringuet consideration during the period of validity of this authorization At the recommendation of the Board of Directors, the Combined (as well as in the event of a stock-split or reverse stock-split), the Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with quorum and majority maximum unit purchase price will be adjusted based on the ratio of rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, renews for a four-year period the number of shares issued and outstanding before the transaction the term of office as director of Mr. Pierre Pringuet, which expires at to this number after the transaction, and the above maximum the close of this meeting. This new term of office will therefore expire number of shares will be adjusted based on the ratio of the number at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the of shares issued and outstanding after the transaction to this financial statements for the year ending December 31, 2016. number before the transaction, ■ resolves that the maximum number of shares that may be acquired under this resolution may not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital at any time. It is specified, however, that: Eighth resolution • within the context of this authorization, the number of treasury Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of shares should be taken into account to ensure that the Company eighteen months, to enable the Company to buy back does not own, at any time, over 10% of the number of shares issued its own shares within the limit of a number of shares and outstanding at that date, 6 equal to a maximum of 10% of the share capital, a • the number of treasury shares to be tendered in payment or total maximum amount of €970 million and a maximum exchange in the context of a merger, de-merger or contribution may purchase price of €55 per share not represent more than 5% of the share capital, and In accordance with Articles L. 225-209 et seq. of the French Commercial • that when shares are bought back to encourage liquidity under the Code and with European Commission Regulation No. 2273/2003 of conditions defined in the General Regulations of the French Financial December 22, 2003, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting voting in Markets Authority (Autorité des Marchés Financiers), the number of accordance with quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ shares taken into account in the calculation of the 10% limit is the Meetings and after having read the Board of Directors’ report authorizes number of shares purchased, less the number of shares sold during the Company – for the reasons and subject to the terms and conditions the authorization period. detailed below – to buy back its own shares. The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting gives full powers to the Board This authorization is given to allow the Company, if required, to: of Directors (including the power of delegation subject to applicable law) to: ■ manage the secondary market and share liquidity through an investment services provider within the scope of a liquidity ■ decide and implement this authorization, agreement in accordance with the AMAFI ethics charter recognized ■ place any and all buy and sell orders and enter into any and all by the AMF, agreements, in accordance with applicable regulations, ■ award shares to employees and/or corporate officers (on the terms ■ carry out any and all filings and other formalities, in particular the and by the methods provided by law), in particular in connection keeping of registers of share purchases and sales, and generally do with a plan involving the allocation of shares without consideration, a whatever is necessary. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 215 6 Text of the draft resolutions The Board of Directors will detail in its annual report to the Combined of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes the authorization given Shareholders’ Meeting all transactions carried out under this in the ninth resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting authorization, which is given for a period of 18 months as from the date of May 24, 2012. 6.2 RESOLUTIONS PRESENTED AT THE EXTRAORDINARY SHAREHOLDERS’ MEETING Ninth resolution in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ Authorization to the Board of Directors, for a period of report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report: twenty-four months, to cancel shares acquired by the 1. authorizes the Board of Directors subject to the achievement Company under the share buyback programs of the performance targets defined in paragraph 4 of the present In accordance with the provisions of Article L. 225-209 of the French resolution and for a number of shares with a par value of €8 not Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting – voting exceeding 1% of the share capital at the date of the decision (this in accordance with quorum and majority rules for Extraordinary maximum number of shares being referred to hereafter by the letter Shareholders’ Meetings, and after having read the Board of Directors’ “N”) to allocate shares of the Company (existing or to be issued), report and the Statutory Auditors’ special report – authorizes the Board to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French of Directors to cancel, on one or several occasions at its sole discretion, and non-French subsidiaries, all or some of the Cap Gemini shares held by the Company pursuant 2. resolves that up to a maximum of 10% of “N”, these performance to Article 225-209, provided that the aggregate number of shares shares may also be allocated, in accordance with applicable laws, cancelled in any given period of 24 months does not exceed 10% of to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and the Deputy Chief the Company’s share capital adjusted for any transactions performed Executive Officers of the Company, it being specified that in this after the date of this Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and to reduce case, the Board of Directors will, in accordance with applicable laws, the share capital accordingly. decide the portion of shares that must be held by each individual until the end of his/her term of office; The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting gives full powers to the Board of Directors to use the authorization given in this resolution, deduct from 3. resolves that these performance shares will only vest at the end of a additional paid-in capital or any distributable reserves the difference vesting period (the “Vesting Period”): between the purchase price of the cancelled shares and their par a) of at least two years, in which case the beneficiary will be value, allocate the portion of the legal reserve that becomes available required to hold the shares for an additional minimum period of as a result of the capital reduction, amend the bylaws and carry out all two years from the date on which they vest, or, necessary formalities. b) of at least four years, in which case there will be no minimum This authorization is granted for a period of 24 months as from the date holding requirement. of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes the authorization given in The Board of Directors may decide between the above two options the tenth resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting and apply them alternately or concurrently, depending on regulatory of May 24, 2012. provisions in force in the country of residence of the beneficiaries. However, the shares will vest before the expiry of the above periods and with no minimum holding period in the event of the death or Tenth resolution incapacity of the beneficiary, corresponding to a Category 2 or 3 disability in France, as defined in Article L. 341-4 of the French Authorization to be given to the Board of Directors, for Social Security Code (Code de la Sécurité Sociale), a period of eighteen months, to allocate performance 4. resolves that the exact number of shares vesting to beneficiaries at shares, existing or to be issued, to employees and the end of the Vesting Period, compared with the total number of corporate ofﬁcers of the Company and its French and shares (“Initial Allocation”) indicated in the allocation notice sent to non-French subsidiaries, up to a maximum of 1% of the beneficiaries will be equal to: Company’s share capital (with, in the case of shares i) for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, multiplied to be issued, the waiver by shareholders of their preby the percentage of achievement of the chosen external emptive subscription rights in favor of the beneﬁciaries performance target, it being specified that: of the allocations) ■ unless the Board of Directors subsequently makes a duly In accordance with Articles L. 225-197-1 et seq. of the French reasoned decision to the contrary, the performance target to Commercial Code, the Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting be met in order for the shares to vest will be the performance 216 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Text of the draft resolutions 6 6.2 Resolutions presented at the Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of the Cap Gemini share measured over a minimum two-year Allocation for a cumulative organic free cash flow between period compared to the average performance, measured these two limits; it being understood that organic free cash over the same period, of a basket of at least five shares of flow is defined as cash flow from operations less acquisitions listed companies operating in the same sector as the Group (net of disposals) of intangible assets and property, plant and in a minimum of five countries in which the Group is firmly equipment, adjusted for flows relating to the net interest cost established (France, the United States, India, etc.), (as presented in the consolidated statement of cash flows), ■ this relative performance will be measured by comparing 5. resolves that by exception, and for an amount not exceeding 15% the stock market performance of the Cap Gemini share of “N”, shares may be allocated to employees of the Company with the average share price performance of the companies and its French (within the meaning, particularly, of Article L. 225comprising the basket over the same period, such that: 197-6, paragraph 1, of the French Commercial Code) and foreign • the number of shares that will ultimately vest: subsidiaries, excluding members of the general management team (the Executive Committee) without performance conditions, – will be equal to 50% of the Initial Allocation of shares if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is at 6. takes due note that this authorization involves the waiver by least equal to 110% of the basket, shareholders of their pre-emptive subscription rights in favor of beneficiaries of performance shares if the allocation concerns shares – will vary between 30% and 50% of the Initial Allocation to be issued, if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is between 100% and 110% of the average performance 7. gives powers to the Board of Directors to implement this of the basket, with an additional 2% of shares vesting authorization (including the power of delegation subject to applicable for each tenth of a point between these limits, law), and in particular to: – will be equal to 30% of the Initial Allocation of shares ■ set the share allocation date, if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is ■ draw up one or more list(s) of beneficiaries and the number of equal to 100% of the basket, shares allocated to each beneficiary, – will vary between 20% and 30% of the Initial Allocation ■ decide, in the event that transactions are carried out before the if the relative performance of the Cap Gemini share is shares vest that affect the Company’s issued capital, whether between 90% and 100% of the average performance to adjust the number of the shares allocated in order to protect of the basket, with an additional 1% of shares vesting the rights of the beneficiaries and, if so, define the terms and for each tenth of a point between these limits, conditions of such adjustment, • no shares will vest in respect of this half of the Initial ■ perform, where the allocations concern shares to be issued, the Allocation of shares subject to this external performance necessary share capital increases by capitalization of reserves condition, if, over the period used as the reference for the and/or additional paid-in capital of the Company when the shares calculation, the performance of the Cap Gemini share is ultimately vest, set the dates from which shares bear dividend less than 90% of the average performance of the basket rights, deduct from reserves and/or additional paid-in capital of securities over the same period, of the Company the amounts necessary to increase the legal ii) for half, the number of shares of the Initial Allocation, multiplied reserve to 10% of the new share capital amount following these by the percentage of achievement of the chosen internal share capital increases and amend the bylaws accordingly, performance target, it being specified that: ■ carry out all formalities and, more generally, to do whatever is ■ unless the Board of Directors subsequently makes a duly reasoned decision to the contrary, the performance necessary. This authorization is granted for a period of 18 months as from the date 6 target to be met in order for the shares to vest will be the of this Shareholders’ Meeting and supersedes the authorization given amount of audited and published organic free cash flow for in the nineteenth resolution adopted by the Combined Shareholders’ the three-year cumulative period from January 1, 2013 to Meeting of May 24, 2012. December 31, 2015, excluding Group payments to make up the shortfall on its defined benefit pension funds, ■ no shares will vest in respect of this half of the Initial Allocation Eleventh resolution of shares subject to this internal performance condition, if the cumulative organic cash flow for the three fiscal years is less Powers to carry out formalities than €850 million, The Combined Shareholders’ Meeting, voting in accordance with ■ the number of shares that will ultimately vest will be equal to quorum and majority rules for Ordinary Shareholders’ Meetings, 50% of the Initial Allocation if the cumulative organic cash authorizes the bearer of a copy or extract of the minutes of this meeting flow for the three fiscal years is at least €1.1 billion and will to execute all filing, publication and other formalities required under vary on a straight-line basis between nil and half of the Initial French law. REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 217 6 Text of the draft resolutions 6.3 STATUTORY AUDITORS’ REPORTS Statutory Auditors’ report on the cancellation of shares bought back by the Company Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 – Ninth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in accordance with Article L. 225-209 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce) relating to the cancellation of shares bought back by the Company, we hereby present our report with our comments on the reasons for and terms of the proposed capital decrease. Shareholders are asked to grant the Board of Directors for a 24-month period commencing the date of this Shareholders’ Meeting, full powers to cancel the shares acquired under the Company’s share buyback program pursuant to the provisions of the aforementioned article, provided that the aggregate number of shares cancelled in any given 24-month period does not exceed 10% of the Company’s share capital. We performed the procedures we considered necessary with regard to the professional standards of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) applicable to such transactions. These procedures consisted in verifying that the reasons for and terms of the proposed capital decrease, which does not undermine shareholder equality, comply with applicable legal provisions. We have no comments to make on the reasons for and terms and conditions of the proposed capital reduction. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 8, 2013 Paris La Défense, April 8, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner 218 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Text of the draft resolutions 6 6.3 Statutory Auditors’ reports Statutory Auditors’ report on the authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate ofﬁcers Combined Shareholders’ Meeting of May 23, 2013 – Tenth resolution This is a free translation into English of the Statutory Auditors’ report issued in the French language and is provided solely for English speaking readers. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional auditing standards applicable in France. To the Shareholders, In our capacity as Statutory Auditors of your Company and in accordance with Article L.225-197-1 of the French Commercial Code (Code de commerce), we hereby present our report on the authorization to grant free shares (existing or to be issued) to employees and corporate officers of the Company and its French and non-French subsidiaries, as submitted to you for approval. Based on its report, the Board of Directors is asking for authorization, for an 18-month period, to perform free grants of existing shares or shares to be issued. The Board of Directors is responsible for preparing a report on this transaction which it wishes to perform. Our role is to express our comments, if any, on the information presented on the proposed transaction. The Board of Directors’ report states that the grant of existing shares or shares to be issued to employees of Cap Gemini S.A. and its French and foreign subsidiaries, will be subject to the achievement of performance targets and a maximum number of shares with a par value of €8 not exceeding 1.5% of the share capital. It also states that the grant of shares to corporate officers of Cap Gemini S.A. will be limited to 10% of the aforementioned amount. We performed the procedures we considered necessary with regard to the professional standards of the French Institute of Statutory Auditors (Compagnie Nationale des Commissaires aux Comptes) applicable to such transactions. These procedures primarily consisted in verifying that the proposed terms and conditions presented in the Board of Directors’ report comply with applicable legal provisions. We have no comments to make on the information presented in the Board of Directors’ report on the proposed authorization to grant free shares. The Statutory Auditors Neuilly-sur-Seine, April 8, 2013 Paris La Défense, April 8, 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit KPMG Audit 6 Division of KPMG S.A. Serge Villepelet Edouard Sattler Jean-Luc Decornoy Jacques Pierre Partner Partner Partner Partner REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 219 6 Text of the draft resolutions 220 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Additional information 7 7.1 LEGAL INFORMATION 222 7.2 GROUP MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE 225 7.1.1 Corporate name and head office 222 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law 222 7.3 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term 222 FOR THE INFORMATION 226 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) 222 7.3.1 Person responsible for financial information 226 7.1.5 Incorporation details 223 7.3.2 Persons responsible for the audit of the financial statements 226 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents 223 7.3.3 Declaration by the person responsible 7.1.7 Fiscal year 223 for the Registration Document 228 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of income 223 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings 224 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds 224 7.1.11 Shareholder identification 224 7.1.12 Voting rights 224 7.1.13 Changes in share capital and related rights 224 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 221 7 Additional information 7.1 LEGAL INFORMATION 7.1.1 Corporate name and head ofﬁce Corporate name: Cap Gemini Head office: 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 Paris 7.1.2 Legal form and governing law The Company is a société anonyme (joint-stock corporation) governed and Decree no. 67-236 of March 23, 1967 (as amended by Decree by the French Companies Act of July 24, 1966 (Law no. 66-537) no. 2006-1566 of December 11, 2006). 7.1.3 Date of incorporation and term To prepare and facilitate the IPO on the Paris stock exchange of Cap The Company was set up for a period of ninety-nine years from the Gemini Sogeti (incorporated in 1967) a new company, Cap Gemini, date of its registration with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry. It may grouping together all investments representing the operating activities be wound up in advance or have its term extended by decision of the of the Group was incorporated on September 17, 1984. This company Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting. was registered with the Companies and Trade Registry on October 4, 1984. 7.1.4 Corporate purpose (Article 3 of the bylaws) The Company’s purpose is to assist companies in France and abroad INFORMATION SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT in managing and developing their businesses by providing them with The Company designs and installs information systems. Its services the benefit of its knowledge of their industry, its know-how in the area include the development of customized software, the installation of of business process engineering and re-engineering, and its expertise software applications available on the market or developed internally, the in the area of information technologies. integration of systems incorporating hardware, communication systems, To fulfill this purpose, the Company carries out on behalf of clients, customized software, software packages and other components. The either directly, or through its subsidiaries or affiliates *, one or more of Company also supports clients’ IT projects by providing consulting, the following activities, on an individual or integrated basis: project management, training and assistance services. MANAGEMENT CONSULTING OUTSOURCING Working closely with clients, the Company provides change The Company manages all or part of its clients’ IT resources on their management assistance to companies by helping them to redefine behalf. Where requested by clients, the Company may perform all or redirect their strategy, change their product and service lines, or part of this service using its own hardware, telecommunications re-engineer their structures and business processes, restore staff systems and other equipment. motivation and achieve other changes. To this end, the Company The Company may also manage the IT-based services offered to its uses all the possibilities offered by the latest information technologies clients’ own clientele. In addition, it may work in partnership with clients whenever appropriate. within a structure conducting all or some of these activities. * Including Technical Assistance/Local Professional Services performed under the Sogeti tradename and representing the Group’s fourth business. 222 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Additional information 7 7.1 Legal information In order to fulfill its corporate purpose, the Company may decide to: ■ invest and manage the Company’s available funds, make cash advances, and provide any and all guarantees or collateral on behalf ■ create specialist subsidiaries or acquire interests in the capital of of subsidiaries and affiliates, other companies and manage their business in exchange for a fee. Management services include the provision of technical, marketing, ■ obtain or acquire and use any and all patents and manufacturing legal and financial assistance, promotion of a consistent image, processes and sell, contribute or license any such patents and organization of financial structures, assistance in negotiations to processes. help these companies win new contracts, training, research and In broader terms, the Company’s purpose includes carrying out any and development support, etc., all commercial, industrial, securities, real estate or financial transactions related directly or indirectly to any of the above purposes or any similar or related purpose or which is likely to facilitate the fulfillment or furtherance of these purposes. 7.1.5 Incorporation details The Company is registered with the Paris Companies & Trade Registry (Registre du Commerce et des Sociétés) under number 330 703 844. Its APE business identifier is 7010Z. 7.1.6 Consultation of legal documents Documents relating to the Company, including the bylaws, the financial the Shareholders’ Meetings, and the Statutory Auditors’ reports are statements, the reports of the Board of Directors (or the Management available for consultation at the Company’s head office at 11, rue de Board, the Directoire, from May 24, 1996 through May 23, 2000) to Tilsitt 75017 Paris. 7.1.7 Fiscal year The Company’s fiscal year commences on January 1 and ends on December 31. 7.1.8 Appropriation and distribution of income The Shareholders’ Meeting has sole discretionary powers to decide dividend alternative, in which case the related dividends will be paid on the appropriation of distributable income, as defined by French in the form of new shares credited as fully paid, in compliance with company law. Consequently, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide applicable laws and regulations. The above provisions also apply to to appropriate all or part of distributable income to revenue reserves, the distribution of interim dividends, subject to compliance with French special reserves or retained earnings, or to distribute all or part of the corporate law. amount to shareholders. In addition, the Shareholders’ Meeting may decide to distribute a The Shareholders’ Meeting also decides the terms and conditions of payment of dividends. In particular, shareholders may be offered a stock dividend out of distributable reserves, subject to compliance with French corporate law. 7 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 223 7 Additional information 7.1 Legal information 7.1.9 Shareholders’ Meetings The right to participate in Shareholders’ Meetings is evidenced by an shareholders voting by proxy or remotely may participate in voting using entry in the name of the shareholder (or of the intermediary acting on his/ any telecommunication or teletransmission means, including the internet, her behalf if domiciled outside France) in the Company’s share register in accordance with the conditions set out in applicable regulations at the or in the register of bearer shares held by the applicable authorized time of use. Where an electronic form is submitted, the shareholder’s intermediary. Such entries must be recorded by 12:00 a.m. (Paris time) signature may take the form of a secure signature or a reliable on the third working day preceding the Meeting and any related notices identification procedure guaranteeing the link with the related action must be filed at one of the addresses indicated in the notice of meeting. and potentially consisting of a user identification and password. Where In the case of bearer shares, the authorized intermediary shall provide a applicable, this decision of the Board of Directors shall be communicated participation certificate. in the notice of meeting published in BALO (French Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). Shareholders may participate in Shareholders’ Meetings in person, by proxy or by casting a remote vote in accordance with the terms and Where a shareholder has given proxy to a third party and has also voted conditions set by applicable regulations. remotely, if there is any difference in the two votes, the remote vote will be taken into account and the proxy ignored. Shareholders who have informed the Company that they wish to participate in a Meeting in person, remotely or by proxy may not alter If the Board of Directors so decides when convening the Meeting, their method of participation. However, attendance at a Meeting by a shareholders may participate and vote at the Meeting using any shareholder in person shall cancel any votes cast by proxy or remotely. telecommunication or teletransmission means enabling their identification, including the internet, in accordance with the conditions set out in To be taken into account, remote votes or proxy forms must be received applicable regulations at the time of use. Where applicable, this decision by the Company at least three days prior to the date of the Meeting. of the Board of Directors shall be communicated in the notice of meeting If the Board of Directors so decides when convening the Meeting, published in BALO (French Journal of Mandatory Legal Announcements). 7.1.10 Disclosure thresholds The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added 1% of the Company’s share capital or voting rights, the undisclosed specific disclosure obligations to the Company’s bylaws. The bylaws shares will be stripped of voting rights. This sanction will apply for all now state that shareholders are required to notify the Company if their Shareholders’ Meetings for a period of two years from the date on interest in the Company’s share capital or voting rights is increased to which the failure to disclose is rectified. Such request and the decision above or reduced to below 1% or any multiple thereof. In the event of the Shareholders’ Meeting must be recorded in the minutes of the of failure to comply with these disclosure rules, at the request of one Meeting. or several shareholders with combined holdings representing at least 7.1.11 Shareholder identiﬁcation The Company is authorized to obtain details of identifiable holders of address and date of registration for a company, of any holders of shares bearer shares. and securities granting access, immediately or in the future, to shares carrying voting rights at Shareholders’ Meetings. The Company may The Extraordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002 added a also obtain details of how many shares are held by each shareholder new article to the Company’s bylaws according to which the Company and any applicable restrictions on these shares. may request from the share transaction clearing organization, the name, address, nationality and year of birth for an individual or the name, 7.1.12 Voting rights Shares carry voting rights based on the proportion of capital No shares carry double voting rights. represented. All shares have the same par value and they therefore all All registered and bearer shares carry one vote per share. carry one vote per share. 7.1.13 Changes in share capital and related rights Changes in the share capital or the rights attached to shares are subject to compliance with French corporate law and the specific provisions of the bylaws. 224 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Additional information 7 7.2 GROUP MANAGEMENT STRUCTURE The Group management structure comprises: ■ a Group Management Board (GMB) with 6 members: Paul Hermelin Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Aiman Ezzat Group Chief Financial Officer Aymar de Lencquesaing Human resources / Operations in India Patrick Nicolet Infrastructure Services / Supervision of Latin America Salil Parekh Application Services One / Supervision of Sogeti Olivier Sevillia Application Services Two / Supervision of Capgemini Consulting, Prosodie and BPO ■ an Executive Committee comprising the GMB and 10 additional members: Pierre-Yves Cros (1) Development Hubert Giraud Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) Philippe Grangeon Marketing and Communications François Hucher Production / Method and Support Aruna Jayanthi India Jean-Baptiste Massignon General Secretary Paul Nannetti Global sales and portfolio John Brahim Apps – Continental Europe Xavier Hochet (2) Consulting Luc-François Salvador Local Professional Services (Sogeti) (1) Replacing Cyril Garcia from April 11, 2013 (2) Replacing Pierre -Yves Cros from April 11, 2013 ■ and Group directors reporting directly to the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Philippe Christelle Internal Audit Lanny Cohen Large Accounts – United States Navin Goel Large Accounts – Latin America Christine Hodgson Large Accounts – United Kingdom Michael Schulte Large Accounts – Germany 7 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 225 7 Additional information 7.3 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE INFORMATION 7.3.1 Person responsible for ﬁnancial information Aiman EZZAT Chief Financial Officer 11, rue de Tilsitt, 75017 PARIS Tel.: +33 (0)1 47 54 50 00 7.3.2 Persons responsible for the audit of the ﬁnancial statements PRINCIPAL STATUTORY AUDITORS SUBSTITUTE STATUTORY AUDITORS: PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit Etienne BORIS Member of the Compagnie Régionale des Commissaires aux Compte 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex de Versailles Substitute for PricewaterhouseCoopers Audit 63, rue de Villiers, 92208 Neuilly-sur-Seine, Cedex Appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 17, 2008. represented by Serge VILLEPELET Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of May 24, 1996. held to approve the 2013 financial statements. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2013 financial statements. KPMG S.A. Bertrand VIALATTE Member of the Compagnie régionale des Commissaires aux Comptes 1, cours Valmy, 92923 Paris la Défense Cedex de Versailles Substitute for KPMG S.A., Immeuble le Palatin, 3, cours du Triangle, 92939 Paris La Défense Appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 17, 2008. Cedex, Term of office expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting represented by Jean-Luc DECORNOY held to approve the 2013 financial statements. First appointed at the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting of April 25, 2002. Current term expires at the close of the Ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting held to approve the 2013 financial statements. 226 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Additional information 7 7.3 Persons responsible for the information FEES PAID BY THE GROUP TO THE STATUTORY AUDITORS AND MEMBERS OF THEIR NETWORKS KPMG PwC In thousands of euros VAT excluded Amount % Amount % 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Audit Statutory audit, certification of the consolidated and seperate financial statements 2 845 2 239 68% 73% 3 112 3 040 63% 55% Issuer 482 348 11% 11% 572 441 12% 8% Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 2 363 1 891 57% 62% 2 540 2 599 51% 47% Other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement (1) 135 86 3% 3% 354 806 7% 15% Issuer 29 29 293 1% 5% Fully-consolidated subsidiaries 106 86 3% 3% 325 513 6% 9% Sub-total 2 980 2 325 72% 76% 3 466 3 847 70% 70% Other services Legal, tax and employee-related advisory services 151 246 3% 8% 91 210 2% 4% Other (2) 1 035 491 25% 16% 1 398 1 460 28% 26% Sub-total 1 186 737 28% 24% 1 489 1 670 30% 30% TOTAL 4 166 3 062 100% 100% 4 955 5 517 100% 100% (1) Fees presented in other services directly related to the statutory audit engagement mainly consist of buyer due diligence procedures, (2) The majority of these fees concern assignments performed at the request of our customers pursuant to the standard ISAE 34-02 and concern the audit of applications and/or processes outsourced to the Group. 7 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 227 7 Additional information 7.3 Persons responsible for the information 7.3.3 Declaration by the person responsible for the Registration Document “I hereby declare that, having taken all reasonable care to ensure that such is the case, the information contained in the registration document is, to the best of my knowledge, in accordance with the facts and contains no omission likely to affect its import. I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge, the financial statements for 2012 have been prepared in accordance with the applicable accounting standards and give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and results of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, and that the information provided in the Management Report listed in chapter 8, section 8.3 gives a fair description of the material events, results and financial position of the Company and all the other companies included in the scope of consolidation, as well as a description of the main risks and contingencies with which the Company may be confronted. I obtained a statement from the Statutory Auditors at the end of their engagement affirming that they have read the whole of the registration document and examined the information in respect of the financial position and the historical accounts contained therein. The statement from the Statutory Auditors is not qualified and does not contain any observations”. Paris, April 22, 2013 Paul Hermelin, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 228 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cross-reference tables 8 8.1 INFORMATION REQUIRED UNDER 8.3 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) THE MANAGEMENT REPORT REQUIRED NO.809/2004 230 UNDER ARTICLES L. 225100 ET SEQ. OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE 232 8.2 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE 231 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 229 8 Cross-reference tables 8.1 INFORMATION REQUIRED UNDER COMMISSION REGULATION (EC) NO.809/2004 Page 1 PERSONS RESPONSIBLE 226 and 228 2 STATUTORY AUDITORS 2 and 226 3 SELECTED FINANCIAL INFORMATION 3 4 RISK FACTORS 24, 25 to 29, 136, 143 and 150 to 152 5 INFORMATION ABOUT THE ISSUER History and development of the Company 6 and 8 Legal information concerning the company 222 to 224 Investments 24, 120 to 121, 125 to 126, 137 to 140 6 BUSINESS OVERVIEW Principal activities 11 to 13 and 16 to 23 Principal markets 14 to 15 and 159 to 165 The IT services market and competition 14 to 15 7 ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE Brief description of the group and position of the issuer 9 to 10 List of significant subsidiaries 169 to 171 8 PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT 9 9 OPERATING AND FINANCIAL REVIEW 106 to 111 and 174 to 175 10 CAPITAL RESOURCES Information concerning the issuer's capital resources 175, 130 to 136, 202 to 205 Explanation of the sources and amounts of, and a description of, the issuer’s cash flows 115, 148 to 150 Borrowing requirements and funding structure and information regarding any restrictions on the use of capital resources 144 to 148, 166 to 167 11 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT, PATENTS AND LICENSES N/A 12 TREND INFORMATION 111 13 PROFIT FORECASTS OR ESTIMATES 111 ADMINISTRATIVE, MANAGEMENT, AND SUPERVISORY BODIES AND SENIOR 14 MANAGEMENT 2, 32 to 48, 225 15 REMUNERATION AND BENEFITS 44, 49 to 55, 168 16 BOARD PRACTICES 32 to 34, 39 to 44 17 EMPLOYEES Number of employees 70 to 73, 107 to 108, 166 Employee shareholdings and stock options 54 to 55, 130 to 136, 183 to 186, 205, 210 to 211 18 MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS 206, 209 19 RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 9, 168 20 FINANCIAL INFORMATION CONCERNING THE ISSUER’S ASSETS AND LIABILITIES, FINANCIAL POSITION AND PROFITS AND LOSSES Historical financial information 1, 3 Financial statements 112 to 173 and 176 to 200 Auditing of historical annual financial information 172, 195, 228 Dividend policy 175, 208, 223 Legal proceedings and arbitration 27 and 158 21 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION Share capital 175, 202 to 205 Memorandum and articles of association 222 to 224 22 MATERIAL CONTRACTS 21, 108 and 109 THIRD PARTY INFORMATION AND STATEMENT BY EXPERTS AND DECLARATIONS 23 OF INTEREST N/A 24 DOCUMENTS ON DISPLAY 222 to 224 25 INFORMATION ON SUBSIDIARIES AND INVESTMENTS 199 N/A: Not applicable 230 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cross-reference tables 8 8.2 ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE Page 1 Company financial statements 176 to 194 2 Consolidated financial statements 112 to 171 3 Management report presented by the Board of Directors of Cap Gemini See pages 232 and 233 4 Declaration by the person responsible for the annual financial report 228 5 Statutory Auditors’ report on the Company financial statements 195 to 196 6 Statutory Auditors’ report on the consolidated financial statements 172 to 173 7 Statutory Auditors’ special report on regulated agreements and commitments 197 8 Statutory Auditors’ fees 194, 227 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate governance, 32 and 33, 39 to 44, 9 internal control and risk management 46 to 48 and 56 to 63 10 Statutory Auditors’ report on the report prepared by the Chairman of the Board of Directors 64 8 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 231 8 Cross-reference tables 8.3 CROSS-REFERENCE TABLE FOR THE MANAGEMENT REPORT REQUIRED UNDER ARTICLES L. 225-100 ET SEQ. OF THE FRENCH COMMERCIAL CODE * Page Situation and activity of the Group in 2012 Comments on the fiscal year Analysis of changes in the business, results and the financial position of the Company and the Group 106 to 111 Major events between the year end and the date of preparation of the management report 168, 194 Developments and outlook for the future 111 Research and development N/A Company financial statements Balance sheet and Income Statement 174 to 175 Expenses and charges stipulated in Article 223 quater of the French General Tax Code N/A Supplier settlement periods 174 Acquisitions of investments or controlling interests during the fiscal year in companies whose registered office is located in France N/A Five-year financial summary 198 Subsidiaries and investments 199 Main risk factors Risks related to operations 25 to 27 Legal risks 27 Equity risk 28 Credit and counterparty risk 28 Liquidity risk 28 Financial and market risk 24 and 28 Risks associated with employee-related liabilities 28 Insurance 28 and 29 Governance Organization of group management activities 32 and 33 List of offices and duties exercised in companies by corporate officers during the last fiscal year 33 to 38 Compensation and benefits paid to corporate officers during the last fiscal year 44, 49 to 51 and 53 to 55 Commitments given in favor of executive corporate officers 49 to 55 Options and performance shares granted to executive corporate officers 54 and 55 Summary of transactions carried out in 2012 by members of the Board of Directors and other senior managers involving Cap Gemini shares 48 Corporate social responsibility Information on employees and the social impact of Cap Gemini activities 69 to 86 Key environmental and social indicators 87 to 99 Information on the share capital Ownership structure and changes during the fiscal year 175, 206, 209 Share capital structure and changes 202 N/A: Not applicable * Including the report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors 232 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI Cross-reference tables 8 8.3 Cross-reference table for the Management Report Page Employee shareholding 210 and 211 Crossing of legal thresholds reported to the Company 175 Shareholder agreements concerning the share capital of the Company 209 Buyback by the Company of its own shares 212 Information on share subscription options granted to executive corporate officers and employees 49 to 55, 210 to 211 Information on free share grants to executive corporate officers and employees 49 to 55, 211 Summary schedule of current delegations of authority to increase the share capital and use of these delegations during the fiscal year 203 to 205 Dividends and other revenue distributed during the last three fiscal years 175, 208, 214 Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors on corporate governance, 32 and 33, 39 to 44, internal control and risk management 46 to 48 and 56 to 63 8 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 233 234 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI 235 236 REGISTRATION DOCUMENT 2012 CAPGEMINI www.capgemini.com
