Communication on Progress (15/03/2013) Ten Principles and participation in partner projects to support development of the UN 2012 I. Basic provisions II. Partner projects to support UN Global Compact III. Human Rights IV. Labour Rights V. Environment VI. Anti-Corruption I. Basic provisions The National Projects Foundation confirms constant support of the principles of the UN Global Compact in our activities. II. Partner projects to support UN Global Compact Taking into account that Global Compact considers active participation of the interested parties who do not belong to business circles as an important factor of achieving real progress, the Foundation sees the responsibility in our support of the UN Global Compact. As we are a non-commercial organization, our basic targets in this aspect is partnership, cooperation and expertise. The National Projects Foundation performed a number of projects, targeted at spreading information about the UN Global Compact and at a dialogue with the interested persons. In particular: Projects «Intellectual property in football» and «RIAS»; Project «KIDS Quarter»; Project «ART267». For example: ART 267 – is aimed at creating art museums to promote UNGC 267 stands for the date 26.07.2000 when UN Global Compact was officially launched III. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The Foundation supports in its day-to-day activities the basic principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and other generally recongnized norms of International Law. Over the period of this report the National Projects Foundation did not receive any complaints connected with non-observance of human rights. IV. Labour Rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. The Foundation considers its people as the most important value of the company. The Foundation does it utmost to create conditions for optimal use of potential of human resources and observance of labour rights of human. During the period of this Report we have not received any complaints connected with nonobservance of human rights. Any cases of discrimination, child labour, forced and compulsory labour, bans of association and collective bargaining over the report period did not occur. V. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The Foundation observes all requirements of environmental laws and ecological norms. The Foundation assists development and resource saving technologies and innovations in this sphere, incl. those in Intellectual property protection and assistance in promotion on the market. VI. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. All employees of the Foundations are obliged to act in the interest of the Foundation, avoid any interest conflict, which means any situation when personal interest contradicts to the interests of the Foundation in general. No facts of corruption over the stated period occurred. Best regards Mikael Dashian President of The National Projects Foundation Follow us on Twitter @NPFInform Facebook
