TABLE OF CONTENTS For a Better World --------------------------------------------------------------4 Corporate Values ----------------------------------------------------------------5 About Ekol -----------------------------------------------------------------------6 Ekol and Social Responsibility -----------------------------------------------17 Responsibility towards employees ------------------------------------------18 Environmental responsibility ------------------------------------------------26 Social responsibility ----------------------------------------------------------34 Global Principles Compact ---------------------------------------------------40 GRI Indicators Contents -----------------------------------------------------41 Respect for the society and environment 2012 1995 1995 1995 We live in a world where being good at only your business line is not enough. All elements related to our line of business work interdependently like the rings of a chain. Respect for the society and environment stands out as one of the most important rings of this chain. In order to be able to leave a better world for our children; it is highly important to implement effective and sustainable projects on the use of natural resources in the most efficient way in our activities, and to raise social awareness regarding such activities. Within this scope, we signed the United Nations Global Compact Principles in 2007, which corresponds to our corporate values. All principles set out in the Global Compact lead the way toward Ekol Logistics’ objectives as a corporate citizen. We prioritize customer satisfaction and we rapidly proceed in the course of becoming one of the most important brands in our region and in Turkish and European sectors. Thanks to environment friendly intermodal transportation activities combining a multitude of transportation systems such as land, maritime, and rail transportation, we save forests as large as 477 football fields each month. We continue our efforts to protect environment, with an increased service count of 28 reciprocally each week. We have been granted a very important award this week on the basis of our intermodal transportation activities. We have built up on this award with the Ro-Ro trips which began on January 12th within the framework of sustainability, efficiency and quality service. We are able to render services in the international arena with our distribution centres equipped with the latest technology in Turkey and Europe, and our young and environment-friendly vehicle fleet. We attach great importance on R&D activities which will take us a step further by developing sustainable practices We are listed among the pioneering suppliers of integrated logistics services in the national and international arena with our distribution centres over 400,000 m 2 indoor areas in Turkey; our sites over 86,000 square meters in Germany, Italy, Greece, France, Ukraine, Bosnia and Romania; our fleet of 2000 vehicles; and over 4,000 Turkish and 1,200 European employees. As Ekol Logistics, we are a huge family, acting highly responsibly towards discharging our obligations for the society and environment which we directly affect and get affected by with all our assets, human resources and corporate culture; and taking a pride in this manner. Ahmet Musul Chairman of Ekol Logistics For the sustainability of life… As Ekol Logistics, we carry on our activities in national and international markets with an ever increasing success. We pay attention to work with innovative corporate responsibility approaches in order to render the best possible service while we keep on growing, and to discharge our obligations towards our society and the world. We proceed with a vision which aims at contributing to our social responsibilities and the sustainability of life. As the most important indicator of our determination and efforts in this regard, we signed and became a part of the United Nations Global Compact Principles on November 12, 2007, to which we refer in our activities. Several important developments occurred throughout 2012 both in our country and in the world economy. Despite current difficulties in global markets, we managed to realize successful projects thanks to the growth environment in our country. We considered ourselves and next generations, and implemented activities which provided environmentally friendly and sustainable efficiency for the sustainability of life. We adopted green logistics as our philosophy. Within the framework of these activities, we formed a fleet of 2000 Euro-5 compliant vehicles which reduce the emission of pollutants as well as the carbon footprint. Through the block train project we developed, we have reduced the road journey in each round-trip of exports to European countries from 7000 km to 2000 km since 2008, achieving fuel savings of 1600 litres per trip per vehicle. Thanks to environmentfriendly intermodal transportation activities combining a multitude of transportation systems such as land, maritime and rail transportation, we continue to save forests thousands of square meters each month and protect the environment. Besides, we support environment activities of several non-governmental organizations, primarily forestation activities. These devoted activities helped us receive the Europe Eco Performance Award in 2012. Intermodal transportation activities are enhanced with our newly-established company Ro-Ro, and become more environmentally friendly. We have taken an important step by investing in maritime transportation which is one of the most significant areas for our country surrounded by water on three sides. In order to be useful for the society and environment with technological activities, we led the way in the sector and established the Ekol R&D Centre. Implementing the right and beneficial projects for the society without making any concession in business ethics is a highly important value for us. As a result of this determination and devotion, we became the winner of the ETIKA 2012 Turkey's Ethics Award, which has been awarded for the first time by Ethical Values Society (EDMER). We aim at developing permanent projects which create environmentally friendly and sustainable economic values in our future activities. Companies which are aware of the effects of globalization on environment, renew their strategies and administrative structures in order to increase their power in this field. We have been working with this awareness for a long time. We develop conscious and planned activities in social, economic and environmental issues. We regard our activities as a culture, not as an administrative approach. Ekol Logistics respects the activities and efforts in all processes with its entire staff, and follows world standards on improving working conditions. We will continue our devoted activities with these values... Tayfun Öktem Ekol Logistics CEO About Ekol Ekol began its operations in 1990 and adopted customer satisfaction as a main point of achievement with the target of becoming a pioneering brand in Europe from the very first day. Started off with shipment organization in international transport, Ekol has achieved an integrated structure, offering third party integrated logistics services. With the know-how accumulated, its highly qualified staff and leading edge technological practices, Ekol offers solutions of integrated logistics services and supply chain solutions to its domestic and foreign customers from many different industries. With its distribution centres furnished with the most advanced technology in Turkey and Europe and its young and environmentally friendly fleet, Ekol can offer all kinds of services required by the new economic conditions in the international arena and provide its customers with transportation, warehouse management, foreign trade and supply chain management solutions. Ekol, having added a Ro-Ro line among its investments in order to provide more efficient, sustainable and competitive services, runs round trips between Haydarpaşa-Trieste ports three times a week with its latest technology Ro-Ro ships named Hatche, Paqize and Qezban, each with a capacity of 240 trailers. Ekol is listed among the pioneering suppliers of integrated logistics services in Turkey and Europe with its distribution centres with more than 400,000 m² indoor areas in Turkey, its sites over 86.000 m2 in Germany, Italy, Greece, Ukraine, Bosnia and Romania, a fleet of 2000 vehicles and over 4,000 Turkish and 1,200 European employees. Milestones  Ekol Logistics was established in 1990 and served in the international land transportation until 1993.  In 1994, the company made the biggest one-time fleet investment in Turkey and expanded its service network with the addition of air and sea transportation and customs clearance services. That was the first step in the way to becoming a complete logistics services supplier.  In 1996, the company opened its first foreign branch office in Germany.  Ekol began to serve in the field of contract logistics with the Kardelen and Orkide Logistics Centers established respectively in. 1997 and 2001.  In 2002, the company leaped forward with the acquisition of the most important forwarding company of the time, Unok/Unatsan. Realizing a first in the industry, Ekol also founded Process Development Department where only industrial engineers are employed.  In the period 2002-2010, the company opened a stream of warehousing and distribution centres in almost all parts of Turkey to create its existing service network, and now renders its services at 26 locations in Turkey and Europe.  In 2003, Ekol introduced another achievement in its industry thanks to its robust technology infrastructure, and began to use its quadro™ software which was designed in-house to accelerate operation of logistics processes and bring transparency to the customers. Furthermore, SAP was put to active commission.  Within this perspective, in 2007, a Management Systems Development Group was established to introduce integrated management systems, and to develop integrated systems with its R&D team.  In 2008, Ekol began the first Block Train service between Trieste and Ludwigshafen terminal.  End of 2009 saw Ekol gaining another strength by joining forces with a minor partner, Invest AD of Abu Dhabi.  In December 2010, Ekol acquired a leading Scandinavian forwarder, STS International Transport, to achieve industry leadership in that route also.  With a quick start in year 2011, Ekol opened Ekol Italy. The last quarter of the year saw an acquisition in Romania, registering a 300% growth in the Eastern Europe Line, and establishing Ekol Romania. With a substantial focus on Medical Logistics, Ekol opened the largest pharmaceutical distribution warehouse of Turkey in Tuzla Logipark Campus.  In 2012, Ekol was granted the Europe Eco Performance Award. It established the first and only R&D Centre in the logistics sector in Turkey. New facilities were established in 4 different locations in Europe (France, Bosnia, Greece and Ukraine). Ekol was the winner of the ETIKA 2012 Turkey’s Ethics Award granted by Ethical Values Center Association (EDMER). Major Awards  2012 Ekol Logistics is the winner of Turkey’s Ethics Award, Etika 2012, which has been given for the first time this year by the Ethical Values Center Association (EDMER)  2012 Thanks to its economic success, and environment and social responsibility projects, Ekol was granted the European Eco Performance Award 2012 by St. Gallen University on the basis of an assessment of companies' environmental awareness in their economic business models.  2011 Ekol Logistics received “Business Partner Excellence Award” in the Logistics Field granted by Procter & Gamble every year to its strategic partners worldwide thanks to its strategic innovations and investments.  2011 In the 4th International Logistics Conference held jointly by the Logistics Association (LODER) and Mersin Chamber of Industry and Commerce (MTSO), Ekol Logistics won the enterprise achievement award in the National Logistics Project Contest, with its intermodal project.  2011 Ekol became the only firm in Turkey to purchase and lease to firms the packages used for production and shipment of EPAL licensed automotive and automotive supply industry products produced in Turkey, thanks to the certificate received from EPAL (European Pallet Association).  2011 Ekol's German Branch received the AEO (Authorised Economic Operator) Certificate which will enable it to complete customs operations even more quickly within the borders of EU. A status serving to prove compliance of the supply chain, AEO makes the certified firms' life easier in international trade. Certified operators are assumed to be reliable and compliant, and are able to utilize facilities which help faster access through security and protection related controls in EU countries, as well as simplifications in relevant customs regulations.  2008 Ekol is now a SAP Global Success Story. The same year saw Ekol as the first Turkish firm to make a presentation in the Global Success Stories category in the global Sapphire event.  Ekol's intermodal project awarded by European Union project Cream.  2008 Ekol's projects were among the finalists in the ‘Logistics&Fulfilment’ and ‘Environmental Improvements’ categories in European Supply Chain Excellence Awards.  Ekol realized one of the first 10 applications globally for SAP version CRM2007S. Services: Road Transportation: As a forwarder with one of the largest vehicle fleet in Turkey and Europe, Ekol renders partial and complete road transportation services between all European countries and Turkey. Since 2011, Ekol manages a 2,000 strong fleet of vehicles, all of which are equipped with environment-friendly Euro 5 engines. Partial vehicle transportation allowing economies of scale by bringing together small quantities of products to make larger cargo parties offers more flexibility compared to complete transportation, due to the higher frequency of departure dates. Thanks to a large service network, deliveries are made all over Europe within the pre-determined time frames. Ekol offers Standard, Express, Super Express, and Speedy service types differentiated on the basis of transit times. Route planning to minimize distances and smart solutions to make more efficient use of the service period of the vehicle, allows flexibility in time dimension, while simultaneously serving to assure service standard and quality. Ekol Logistics's fleet is able to offer transportation solutions such as Road, Cold Chain, RoRo Road, Intermodal to its customers, with an extensive and environment-friendly fleet comprising only EURO-5 compliant trucks. Since the company is able to provide diversified forwarding solutions, it offers affordable pricing along with suitable time frames. National Distribution: Through its nation-wide distribution network, Ekol offers reliable service in partial and complete domestic vehicle transportation, and a wide range of economic custom solutions at competitive prices. The advanced technology employed, its qualified work force and environment-friendly perspective, Ekol is the leader of its industry, and is the preferred partner of numerous national and international brands. Within the scope of national distribution solutions, Ekol meets transportation needs for out of gauge products on a project basis and also offers various custom transportation solutions including: • Milk run, • Cross Dock, • Flexible Milk Run, • Cross Docking Model (Xdock) Ekol delivers an annual volume of 2 million m 3 of products to 20 thousand addresses all around Turkey, with 500 employees in 81 provinces, using 2 thousand vehicles and 24 transfer centres. Air Transportation: Ekol has adopted the principle of offering the most appropriate solution to any demands coming from customers. With the IATA license, UTIKAD and HTFN memberships, with strategic partnership agreements with the most reputable airline companies and a large network of agencies to cover the whole world, Ekol works for offering the best quality services to its customers at the most affordable prices. According to 2012 figures, Ekol ranks 22nd in IATA rankings. The membership in IATA offers not only a quality management system advantage, but also helps to lower operational costs. Membership helps Ekol to offer Economy, Priority, Consolidated and Charter services taking into account the time and cost-related requirements of customers. The infrastructure to respond to customer requests on a 7/24 basis thanks to E-services, is also able to handle cargoes in every part of the globe, through crosstrade and third party services. Ekol also extended its high standards regarding service quality through memberships in HTFN and Conqueror networks, reinforcing its presence in Europe, America, Asia, Middle East, and Africa. As in the case with Turkey, Ekol is able to provide customs clearance, warehousing and door-to-door transportation services at numerous locations of the world, thanks to a global network of agencies. The large network of agencies and service locations enable Ekol to offer diversified solutions in delivering products from Turkish airports to all international airports. Ekol offers diversified services in accordance with customer demands. These include, in addition to transit loading services and cross forwarding services between two countries other than Turkey, also airport to airport, door to airport, airport to door, and door to door transportation. Services such as integrated warehousing, handling, distribution, customs clearance, palletizing and insurance are offered within the framework of air freight, in line with the needs of the customer. Ekol transports numerous types of products of various sectors, safely and quickly via direct or charter services, from general and perishable cargoes to dangerous substances, textile products on hangers, heavy tonnage products and out of volume goods on special project agreements, livestock, factory transportation, and special forwarded cargoes. Ekol Air Cargo, with its headquarters in Istanbul and branches in İzmir, Ankara, Bursa, and Mersin, makes utmost use of advantages provided by its location network, is able to provide even faster, more integrated, and more ideal solutions. Through Ekol offices in airports, it is able to offer terminal services, providing cargo tracking services with tracking reports at all steps of transportation, from the reception of cargo to door-to-door services. Sea Transportation: Today 80% of all global transportation is conducted over maritime routes. Within this picture, Ekol offers smart intercontinental logistics solutions for many customers all around the world, not only between Turkey and other countries but also between different countries other than Turkey, thanks to agreements with reputable ship owners, a large network of agencies, and FIATA, ITCO, UTIKAD memberships. Ekol plans any possible combinations during the course of transportation of the cargoes of its customers on FCL (Full Container Load) and LCL (less than Container Load) basis and offers ideal solutions on intermodal choices such as road-sea, sea-air, sea-railway transportation types. In addition to port-to-port, port-to-door, door-to-door transportations, Ekol has invaluable experience in consolidating LCL commodities, transit loading services and cross transportation services that are conducted between two different countries other than Turkey. Ekol offers freight alternatives through special contracts it has with all shipping agencies in Turkey, hence providing cost advantages. Ekol with its know-how and infrastructure to transport all kinds of products in various types of containers in its fleet, provides transportation services for any solid, liquid, or gas, from textile products on hangers to flammable and inflammable chemicals, to food products. In addition to providing all container transportation services with open top, open side, reefer, flat rack, and platform type special containers and hanger containers, as well as ISO tank and Flexi tank container transportation services, Ekol also offers optional services such as the procurement, loading, and laying of flexi and hanger containers. Complete, Partial, and Special Equipment options offered on the basis of the amount and type of product, as well as the transportation time, services to any port on the world is possible through suitable planning and competitive prices. Special agreements with ship owners, Ekol is also equipped with a service range to cover boutique services as required by its customers, for sea freights to Far East, America, Africa, Europe, and Middle East. It is able to offer deliveries at the address, customs clearance, and distribution services at every corner of the globe, thanks to its existing set of co-loader agreements, membership in HTFN, and ITCO and Conqueror global agency network. With its qualified staff, e-services, and regular cargo tracking reporting system, Ekol aims to offer both time and cost savings to its customers. Railway Transportation: Being one of the few logistics companies that carry out railway transportation in Turkey, Ekol offers advantages of railway transportation to its customers on project basis where customers are offered dedicated solution alternatives. The types of containers Ekol offers to its customers with reference to the characteristics and dimensions of the cargo: Customs Clearance: When the question is customs clearance, Ekol is known as one of the pioneering actors in its sector, for developing the most appropriate solutions by analyzing the needs of its customer as diligently as possible, thanks to its corporate experience and expertise and customer-oriented approach. Ekol has its own external operations staff located in all customs and dedicated special courier staff in order to achieve documentation flow in the fastest way possible, and finalizes any customs clearance process as quickly as possible without any issues. Supply Chain Management: Ekol offers an effective supply chain management services for its customers, from a single source with its integrated logistics services. All operations are managed from a single control centre, allowing better management of the process, along with lowered costs. Each case under the scope of this concept is handled as a dedicated project and solutions are tailored carefully for each customer. Detailed items carefully planned within the project include the scope, aims, targets, success criteria and responsibilities of the project. Sources are managed in the most effective way in order to reach the previously defined targets in accordance with the cost and time criteria. Contract Logistics: Contract Logistics is one of the most important parts of the supply chain, and serves as the intersection in interaction with other processes. Effective management of warehousing activities, timely provision of supplies to outlets, and high accuracy rates in order preparation are important elements in keeping logistics costs, hence product costs down. Given its technical experience and know-how, Ekol is able to re-interpret processes, creating optimization opportunities regarding resource utilization and providing savings. Thanks to synergy and shared resource utilization at multi-user facilities, idle resources are utilized to increase efficiency. This serves to improve operational quality, which in turn helps to minimize the indirect losses to arise due to lost sales. For years, Ekol is able to offer flexible and outstanding solutions to its customers, through the application, through a wider perspective, of its experience accumulated through services to a wideranging set of clients. By determining the problems, expectations, and logistics needs of its customers and with tailor-made solutions Ekol offers services to add value to their businesses. In order to provide its customers higher quality and more robust solutions, which also provide cost benefits, Ekol watches closely any developments in warehousing technologies, adapting applicable automation solutions to its existing processes. This allows economy on man hours, increasing efficiency as well as making it possible to manage daily changes in demand with flexibility and lower costs. Ekol also employs a team of Business Development experienced in project management and specializing for the needs of specific industries. At each facility, locally assigned team members supervise the operations closely, ensuring the implementation of the project design on the field, in a timely and problem-free manner, and within the pre-determined budgetary limits. Continuous improvement activities also serve to improve efficiency and operational quality. In order to provide faster responses to varying requirements of customers, and to offer flexibility in quality service with reference to customers' requirements, Ekol makes a point of making the most efficient use of technology. Moreover, Ekol minimizes the error rate in its warehouses through smart application of automation technologies, provides real-time information to its customers over portal applications, and ensures traceability of its operations. Ekol and Management Systems:  After receiving ISO 9001:2000 Quality Management System certificate in year 2004, Ekol established in 2005 OHSAS 18001 Occupational Health and Safety system.  As of 2010, Ekol moved on to ISO 9001:2008, and was the first logistics firm to certificate Design in the industry. The move to Integrated Management System was completed with the establishment of ISO 14001 Environment Management System.  The bonded warehouse compliant with ISO 22000 Food Safety Management System, a first in Turkey, allows Ekol Logistics to meet customer requirements, and develop and commission new systems.  With the most comprehensive Quality Management System in the industry, Ekol Logistics pioneered R&D activities through its custom solutions tailored for its customers.  In 2011, Ekol was able to extent the scope of ISO 14001 Environment Management System, receiving certification for its all 3 large facilities.  In 2011, Ekol Logistics decided to undergo Safety Quality Assessment (SQAS) organized by the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC), with respect to International Road Transportation, and was able to pass the assessment in February 2012. By underlining the significance it attaches to Health, Safety, Environment, Security, and Quality in its services offered to Chemical Industry, it trained the drivers assigned to international transportation operations accordingly. Even under the light of growing extent of operations and ever increasing numbers of employees, the rate of work-related accidents registered a fall in comparison to year 2011. Years 2010 2011 2012 Number of Work-Related Accidents / Number of Employees 1.72% 1.43% 1.06%  Within the framework of the “We Are Listening” project, the customer feedback is used as an asset of the company. The Customer Complaints Handling Customer Satisfaction System received ISO 10002 certificate in 2010. By establishing the Customer Complaints & CRM department in 2011, Ekol emphasized the importance it attaches to the consideration of internal and external feedback.  Each year, Ekol Logistics carries out customer satisfaction research through an independent firm, Gfk. By acting on the results of the research for 2010, which showed a 78% overall satisfaction rate, Ekol Logistics was able to improve its operations where there was room for improvement, and to achieve a 90% overall satisfaction rate in 2011. Overall satisfaction rate was 86% in 2012.  In order to prove our carbon dioxide reports which we regularly send to our customers, and our greenhouse gas inventory related to all locations and activities of Ekol Logistics, which have a significant effect on our winning of the Eco Performance Award; a project has been commenced within the scope of the ISO 14064-1 Quantification and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions at the Organization Level standard. A project team was formed for the project to be implemented by Management Systems Development and Process Development Departments, and the team received a 3-day (126 person/hour) training. Project activities began in the last quarter of 2012, and field supervisions were completed in February 2013 as part of the project plan. The process continues for report verification, and it is aimed at completing the Ekol Logistics Greenhouse Gas Inventory Report in April.  Our improvement activities carry on interruptedly in order to provide all stakeholders with more efficient, fast, reliable and quality service. In this regard, works have begun to be the first company to apply for the AEO Program entered into force in 2013 by T.R. Ministry of Customs and Trade, and to become entitled to receive certification.  As part of the AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) Program, ISO 27001:2005 Information Security Management System will be shortly put into effect, which is one of the requirements for receiving the Authorized Shipper Certificate as Ekol Logistics. Protecting data integrity and confidentiality/privacy, preventing unauthorized access, and maintaining the continuity of the system will be realized, which are of great importance for the actualizing this system. Ekol and Social Responsibility Since its foundation in 1990, Ekol Logistics always aimed to fulfil its responsibilities towards the society, the environment, and employees. In this framework, it tried to support Social Responsibility Projects to the extent of its capabilities. Ekol underlines its efforts in this respect with the frequently used slogan logistics for a better world , and pays the due of its principles with countless projects it carried out through the years. 1. Responsibility towards Employees: Ekol Logistics believes that its most important asset omitted from the balance sheet is its employees . In this respect, it realizes sustainable projects to improve the working conditions, to ensure compliance with certain standards with respect to such conditions, to protect social benefits of employees, and to create more efficient communication platforms through various social activities. 2. Responsibility Towards the Environment: Natural resources are being exhausted with pace. Habitats are getting restricted. Each day harm done by humans on the environment increases logarithmically. Believing that the companies need to play their part on leaving a better world to future generations, Ekol strives to organize its processes with environment-awareness, to inform its employees, and to support nongovernmental organizations working to protect wild life... 3. Responsibility towards the Society: Ekol Logistics operates in a structure ever-present in every aspect of life, with its wide network of services offered to various industries. With a view to fulfilling its part in achieving a better society, Ekol engages in numerous projects such as the protection of cultural and social values of the society, supporting of non-governmental organizations and coming up with joint projects, and supporting the individual initiative taken by the employees of the company. Responsibility Towards Employees: Our most important asset omitted in the balance sheet: OUR EMPLOYEES... Human Resources Mission: Creating high-performance human resources open to learning, improvement, and sharing, and embracing the corporate values. The ability to consider the whole skill and qualification set as the capital of Ekol; preparing an environment to ensure long-term cooperation... Our objective in parallel to this mission is;  The incorporation of a modern human resources perspective improves employee satisfaction and loyalty throughout the company.  Correct hiring practices allows the assignment of correct employees to correct tasks.  Determining and meeting training needs in the light of the qualification set requirements helps the employees improve their skills and knowledge, and hence, performance. The increased individual performance would only increase Company's performance.  An accurate performance evaluation system aims to provide clear description of expectations from individuals, and an accurate assessment and awarding of individual success. Regular monitoring of the employee performance in the light of targets set contributes to the achievement of targets by the company.  The establishment of career and back-up system serves to assign correct individuals to the correct positions, at the correct time.  Wage and bonus system aims to make a realistic and just awarding of employees possible. This helps to retain a desired level of quality of employees.  Employee Satisfaction is monitored as an indicator. Areas with room for improvement are determined, and activities to achieve the improvement are performed accordingly. Ekol aims to achieve the best management of human resources and instilling corporate change culture, in order to realize the corporate targets and critical success factors for Ekol. Ekol respects its employees' union and collective contract rights. Ekol believes that the key to sustainable success and efficient use of resources, smart solutions, is only possible with qualified and satisfied human resources. That is why Ekol continuously invests in human resources. Each employee has an employment contract delineating the terms of service, as well as job description. Specifying the conditions regarding the termination of employment in the Operational Procedure for Discipline Regulation , Ekol clearly states that purchases, receiving gifts, goods, or cash, or any benefits from legal or natural persons with which the company deals with would constitute grounds for termination of employment, within the framework of the efforts to fight against corruption. In order to be able to make all stakeholders adopt its ethical values in business making processes, Ekol published the Ekol Corporate Principles Regulation in 2012. The regulation emphasizes the main topics of Protecting Social Benefits, Compliance to Laws and Other Regulations, Protecting Worker Rights and Working Conditions, Efficiency of Business Partners and Social Stakeholder Communication, Protecting Company Rights, and Transparency. Ekol was never accused of forced labour, nor was its name involved in any such matters. On the other hand, compliance with the legal requirements concerning employee rights, confidentiality principle, equal benefits for employees, safety, security, and health had always been important parts of its Human Resources Policies. Ekol stands against any discrimination based on race, colour, gender, religion, political view, nationality, marital status etc., and acts in line with established procedures. In March 2009, Ekol signed the Declaration for Management as a Women's Right sponsored by KalDer, underlining the importance it attaches to gender equality. Employee distribution in years 2009 – 2010 – 2011 Female Staff / Total Staff Count 2009 2010 2011 2012 Number of Male Employees 2480 2888 4229 5366 Number of Female Employees 389 431 798 1425 Rate of Female Employees 13.55% 12.98% 15.87% 20.98% Hiring and Assignment Process: In the hiring process; 4 basic qualifications are sought for each level: These are:  The Will to Success  Team Work and Cooperation  Customer Focus  Organizational Loyalty. The hiring and assignment process at Ekol is based on the Correct Employee for Correct Position strategy. All candidates are considered under various criteria established for full time, part time, and internship positions. The objective of the hiring and assignment process at Ekol is to choose and assign, candidates qualified with the knowledge set, skills, and qualifications for the position, who will adapt to vision, mission, objectives and corporate culture of Ekol, and who will create added value, in a process in line with the Human Resources policies, to fill the vacated posts as per the manpower planning for the year. The skills and qualifications required for each position are determined for hiring and assignment process comprising the sub-processes of determination of necessity, application management, preliminary screening, selection, approval, assignment, and monitoring. The candidates are required to meet these skills and qualifications. Ekol Logistics does not employ child labour, as per ILO (International Labor Organization) standards. The minimum age of employment is 18. In case the vacant positions cannot be filled from within the company, external sources are utilized. In line with its aim to become the preferred employer, Ekol uses modern hiring and assignment practices such as qualification-based-interviews, personality inventory, mental abilities test, foreign language exam, technical interview, upper management interview, and reference checks, as required for the position, to succeed in choosing the correct employee. Performance Management System: With the awareness that the most important role regarding the achievement of strategic targets in parallel to the vision of the company is played by employees, the fundamental objective of Ekol Performance Management System is to make an objective assessment of the performance of every employee, in order to unearth their true potential. The Performance Management System comprises the sub-processes of target definition and dissemination, Human Resources planning meetings, monitoring and follow-up, qualification assessment, and performance assessment; and various assessment criteria such as corporate objectives, shared objectives of department/unit, quantifiable and non-quantifiable individual work targets, development plans, personnel mobility and direction area. The SMART approach is used in determining quantifiable individual work targets. Ekol also performs annual performance assessments with interim monitoring on the basis of 6-months periods. Interim monitoring processes comprise the individual interviews of the employee with the supervisor, and meetings when the revision of targets is required on the face of changing circumstances. The actual performance assessment is carried out at the end of the year, and is based on the end-of-year figures. The work performance targets of each Ekol employee is connected with the Balanced Scorecard of the department and the company. The data obtained in the conclusion of the Performance Management System are used as the input data for Wage Management, Career Management, and formulation of Training and Development Plans. Individual development targets, in turn, are based on the results of annual performance assessments and the results of 360 Degrees Qualification Assessment System. PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 Number of employees assessed 47 45 123 1143 1646 360 Degrees Qualification Assessment System: The Annual 360 Degrees Qualification Assessment System is applied once every 2 years for a given employee. This system allows the assessment of the employee by his/her supervisor, team-mates, any subordinates, and himself/herself, with a 360 Degrees perspective. The system helps to identify the differences between the qualifications required for the task, and personal qualifications, as well as the areas requiring improvement. 360 Degree Qualification Assessment System is designed to provide an analytical assessment of the qualifications of employees. Furthermore, it also provides guidance for Human Resources in developing the bonus system and career development areas. 360 DEGREES QUALIFICATION ASSESSMENT 2008 2010 2011 Executive Team 52 53 14 White Collar Employees (Excluding the 238 Executive Team) 0 436 TOTAL 52 489 253 Scholarships and Charity Facilities: Ekol Logistics offers scholarship and assistance to primary and secondary school students who are the children of company employees. In addition to providing scholarships to students successful in OKS, all students are provided school supplies and clothing assistance. Education Aid Year Number of Total Figure Persons 2007 500 63.000 2008 550 70.000 2009 550 70.126 2010 745 95.433 2011 800 120.000 2012 1.504 225.600 Career Management: In order to ensure that company's strategies are achieved, a study of the company structure was performed with Hay Group, a global leader in HR career management. The business family and level definitions established in this study lets each employee know what is expected from his/her level, and what he/she should achieve in order to achieve the next level. In addition, within the framework of 360 degrees qualification assessment, the qualification level of each employee is subject to the assessments of his/her superior, subordinates, colleagues, and stakeholders. The process allows the comparison of the qualifications required of any given position against those required from the next position in the ladder. The output of the performance assessment system helps draw the career track of the person, taking into consideration the training results and the factor of meeting the requirements of the position. The employees which achieve success in all these criteria are included in the skill pool, and proceed to be trained as the future executives of Ekol. Training and Development: Once the strengths and improvement needs of employees are established through annual performance and qualification assessments, the training and development activities to be provided within the year are determined by their supervisors, with the guidance of the Human Resources. The results of these activities provide our employees guidance on what they should do in a given year, and where improvement should be made. For the employees in Ekol Skill Pool, on the other hand, training and development activities to help them improve their management skills are planned. These employees are, in time, considered for various executive posts. Not only white collar employees, but also blue collar workers at Ekol are also considered most important, and substantial resources are allocated for their training. The trainings received by our blue collar workers throughout the year can be categorized under the titles personal development, quality management systems, occupational health and safety, environment management systems, and technical and professional trainings. Another important objective in this respect is to provide our drivers with required trainings to ensure that they consume the least possible amount of fuel. In addition to our environment-conscious approach, the efficient use of resources and cost-awareness perspective lead us to provide our drivers Safe and Economic Driving Techniques Trainings with heavy vehicle simulator, in addition to professional development trainings. The trainings provided with the support of trainers specialized on various matters such as Advanced Driving Techniques, Economic and Safe Driving Techniques, ADR, Load Safety, RCA Root Cause Analysis), are on full swing since 2008. Driver Trainings per Year:  2007: 378 hours / 90 drivers / 2802 man-hours  2008: 280 hours / 110 drivers / 2792 man-hours  2009: 440 hours / 572 drivers / 3288 man-hours  2010: 416 hours / 160 drivers / 1728 man-hours  2011: 150 hours / 260 drivers / 1620 man-hours  2012: 218 hours / 307 drivers / 2077 man-hours Ekol Academy: Ekol Logistics established Ekol Academy in 2007, as a monument of the value of human and continuous improvement of employees. Ekol Academy moves forward with its aim to achieve development, innovation, a solid future, and adding value to our employees, to become a center for development, and a corporate university. Since year 2010, the year when Sales Development Faculty was opened, Ekol works to establish other faculties such as Leadership and Continuous Improvement Faculties planned to be included in the Academy. Our employees are enrolled in numerous programs regarding professional, technical and personal development in the faculties of Ekol Academy. In addition to trainings in classrooms, e-learning, on-the-job training, seminars, conferences, and panels are offered as distinct training solutions, to contribute to the professional and personal development of our employees, with a view to raising their knowledge levels higher, to come up with individuals to create value and increase performance each day. That is why the Academy is a most crucial pillar of Ekol. Vision of Ekol Academy: To become a corporate university. Mission of Ekol Academy:  Ensuring continuous personnel development through training and development plans.  Increasing personnel satisfaction and loyalty,  Increasing the number of sophisticated, innovative, and value-creation oriented personnel,  Perfecting quality awareness,  Improve employee performance to increase operational efficiency and productivity,  Reinforcing the application structure supporting career plan and development. Total Training Time at Ekol Academy:  2007: 1254 hours / 1165 employees / 10,462 man-hours  2008: 1858 hours / 7871 employees / 20,917 man-hours  2009: 2450 hours / 5211 employees / 15,623 man-hours  2010: 2900 hours / 5909 employees / 19,264 man-hours  2011: 3573 hours / 13682 employees / 34,515 man-hours  2012: 7354 hours / 19613 employees / 40,431 man-hours Environmental responsibility: Fleet Replacement Project: EURO 5 norms aim to achieve gradual reductions in NO (Nitrogen oxide), CO (Carbon monoxide), HC (Hydrocarbons) and particle emissions. Within the framework of the project to minimize the environmental footprint of the vehicles which ensure seamless flow of trade throughout the Europe, Ekol Logistics replaced all the trucks in its fleet as of the end of 2011, and made the fleet fully compliant with EURO 5 standards. With a fleet exceeding by a wide margin the EURO 1 standards currently in force in Turkey, Ekol adopted European norms, and proved its environmental-awareness with a total of 2000 Euro-5 compliant vehicles. Intermodal Transportation: Logistics processes are indispensable for global trade. With its services reaching each day to every corner of the globe, Ekol strives to develop a more sustainable business model, making optimal use of natural resources. In this respect, the Intermodal transportation project implemented by Ekol in 2008 entails the transportation of a cargo to various destinations through more than one transportation mode, without further processing of the cargo during the change of modes. Within the framework of intermodal transportation, special containers, trailers, or semi-trailers allowing direct transfers from one mode of transportation to another without necessitating re-packaging of products, are used. When providing intermodal services to its customers, Ekol makes use of transportation models employed in intermodal transportation, such as trucks, road vehicles, cargo / roro ships, steam ships and planes, trains. The route used for this service is described below. The advantages Ekol offers to its clients with Intermodal transportation:  Premium and guaranteed intermodal services for time-sensitive cargoes.  For commodities with lower value, value pricing on the basis of various equipment types and service options.  Flexibility of equipments allows customers to choose the most suitable option for the cargo: Numerous options are on offer including 20', 40', 45' containers and mega semi-trailers, and high-cube containers.  Contracts with select Drayage providers ensure on-time picking and delivery.  Thanks to reduced fuel consumption, hence reduced CO 2 emission for transportation, intermodal transportation offers prestige and political advantages for customers which adopt environment-conscious policies.  Ekol customers can easily follow up their shipment through the robust Ekol quadro™ software which reports automatically the location and situation of a freight.  Ekol’s experienced staff handles each parcel carefully so that a trustable and consistent performance is ensured that its customers require within a dispatch program.  Ekol offers intermodal services to a substantial majority of the best known global companies and brands by carrying thousands of containers full of materials, finished products, industrial and consumer goods each day.  Ekol has started test runs for intermodal services between Antwerp, Belgium and Malmö, Sweden with the intention of improving its intermodal lines all around Europe. EU CREAM CONSORTIUM and EKOL Ekol is an active member of the CREAM Consortium (Customer-driven Rail-freight services on an European mega-corridor based on Advanced business and operating Models) established within the 6th Framework Program of the European Commission. The CREAM project is a research and development project financed under the coordination of European Commission. The objective of the project is to improve railway and intermodal transportation ever more on the transportation corridors between Europe and Turkey. One of the activities within the framework of the CREAM Project is the development of trimodal transportation chain through RoRo-Train-Road integration. One of the activities within the framework of the Project is the development of trimodal transportation chain through RoRo-Train-Road integration. Embodying the innovative business models of Ekol, the Worms Trieste block train service and the subsequent cargo flow and transportation concept was found fully compliant with the project's purpose, and was found eligible for support. Ekol's solution based on the shipment of cargo in containers and semi-trailers compatible with intermodal operation, from Turkey to the port of Trieste in Italy, via Ro-Ro, and transportation therefrom to Worms in Germany on block trains, and thereafter delivery to all over Europe on trucks with German license plates; aims to reduce the road trip from 7,000 km to 2,000. This saves 1600 l of fuel in each round trip, which translates to reduced emission of 5520 kg CO², 25.86 kg Nox, 3.98 kg NMHC, and 0.70 kg particles less. More efficient, sustainable and competitive services from Ekol... Ekol aims to offer more productive and high quality services with these new Ro-Ro trips, started as of January 2013, in order to enhance the competitiveness of its customers. 3 round trips per week take place between Haydarpaşa – Trieste ports with 3 modern vessels, named as HATCHE, PAQIZE and QEZBAN. WWF Green Office Program: Ekol Logistics is proud to become the first logistics company in Turkey to participate in WWF Green Office program. There are improvements being planned and implemented with respect to Waste Management, Electricity Consumption and Paper Consumption savings indicators chosen within the framework of the program. The activities in this respect focus on improving the awareness of employees. Within the scope of the Green Office Program, an awareness-raising presentation was held for employees in two facilities of Ekol in 2012. The presentation was made by WWF-Turkey representatives and the issues such as WWF, Green Office, system/ecosystem, ecological footprint, water footprint and climate change were included in the presentation. Waste Management: Ekol is well aware that wastes which were not disposed of appropriately remain to pollute the nature for years, continuing to have harmful effects on the environment. In this respect, Ekol Logistics focusing also on Waste Management within the framework of WWF Green Office Program, took steps to ensure any waste created during its operations is disposed of appropriately. Aiming to reduce trash volumes through sorted collection of wastes, Ekol Logistics aims to reduce the use of raw materials, energy, and other natural resources through the application of suitable sorting methods. The sorted waste are disposed of or recycled appropriately by the licensed firms with which Ekol made contracts for this purpose. Collection of Food Waste: The waste food collected in cafeterias is taken to animal shelters in the vicinity, with an aim to provide food for our animal friends. Sorting of Food Waste: Through sorting out recyclable wastes among the waste produced in the cafeteria, recycling efforts are supported. Campaign for the Recovery of Scrap Waste: The scrap waste created in the facilities within year 2011 were sorted and delivered to relevant recycling firms. The revenue derived from this operation was used to support the adoption campaign of World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) Turkey. Paper Consumption: In order to protect the nature's oxygen factory, the forests, Ekol included savings in paper consumption and recycling of paper among the main indicators chosen within the framework of WWF Green Office Program. Ekol determines paper consumption rates per department, and produces special solutions to reduce consumption. Each ton of paper recycled thanks to efforts of Ekol saves 17 trees, which in turn provide for the oxygen needs of 144 human beings. Moreover, through the use of recycled paper, Ekol helps achieve significant savings in water and energy consumption for the production of paper. Electricity Consumption: With the awareness that anyone can create a substantial difference in terms of electricity savings, Ekol aims to support a collective movement rather than instances of individual efforts to reduce electricity consumption. Furthermore, Ekol is in the process of coming up with improvements in line with the results of analyses performed using different measurement devices for each office. In Turkey, lighting accounts for 20% of the electricity consumption. A 20% improvement towards energy-efficient lighting systems would allow savings equal to the annual generation capacity of Keban Dam. That is why Ekol opts to use energy-efficient light bulbs in its facilities. Through the Virtual Server Project implemented in year 2011, existing set of 55 servers were replaced with 4 virtual servers, to achieve 20% savings in electricity consumption. Number of Power Supplies Total Consumption / kwh 55 servers at various locations 70 28 4 virtual servers 8 5.4 Energy Saving 22.6 Türkiye’s Life Project (2010): In the aftermath of the Green Office Program realized with WWF, Ekol began to support the projects by World Wide Fund for Nature, and became a supporter of most important efforts of the Fund to protect natural resources and sustain wild life. In this respect, Ekol became a sponsor of the campaign Turkey's Life launched by WWF Turkey aiming to receive donations from 1001 donors, each providing TRY 1001, in order to create a fund for projects trying to achieve a better understanding of the importance of bio-diversity on human life, protect the natural wealth well integrated with the traditional lifestyle in Anatolia, yet on the verge of extinction, and improve life standards by adopting sustainable means of utilizing nature. Environment Management System (2009-2012): In 2010, Ekol completed the Environment Management System Project, of which infrastructure began to be laid down in 2009. Within the framework of the project, documentation was created as per ISO 14001 Environment Management Standards, and applied later on pre-determined environment-related targets. Then trainings of Ekol personnel and the students of the schools close-by began.  With reference the targets, the disposal of the wastes produced in the facilities began in accordance with Environment Regulations. 1. Packaging Wastes: Collected and sorted within the facility, and recycled by licensed firms. 2. Domestic Wastes: Disposed of by the municipality. 3. Waste Vegetable Oils: Given to licensed recycling firms by our kitchens operated by contractor firms. 4. Waste Mineral Oils: Disposed of by licensed firms. 5. Hazardous Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms. 6. Used Batteries and Accumulators: Collected in battery boxes provided by TAP Association, and disposed of again by TAP Association. 7. Worn Tires: Delivered to producers. 8. Medical Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms. 9. Electronic Wastes: Disposed of by licensed firms.  Potable water and drinking water analyses, chimney emission measurements, ambient noise measurements are performed as per the periods specified in relevant regulations, and checked for compliance.  In year 2010, in line with the established targets, EnvironmentAwareness and Recycling trainings were provided at 3 high schools in the vicinity of Lilyum Facility.  The employees who received the highest scores in the exam following the Environment-Awareness, Recycling and Hazardous Waste Management Trainings carried out at the Lilyum Facility were awarded with environment-friendly products.  A Battery Collection contest was organized to increase employees' awareness regarding batteries, which constitute a major hazard for the environment.  Designs to increase the employees' awareness were created, and sent to all employees via e-mail.  As a result of these activities, Lilyum Facility was granted ISO 14001 Environment Management System Certificate.  In year 2011, 3 additional facilities were included in the ISO 14001 Environment Management System for which certification was received previously. The efforts to expand the system are on track.  A storage area is established to minimize the harm of hazardous wastes on environment, and these wastes are now disposed of using appropriate methods, at disposal facilities licensed by the Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning. The project aims in particular to increase the environment-awareness of blue collar workers. By supporting recycling, the protection of natural resources and reduction of energy consumption is aimed for. By increasing the awareness level of the employees for wastes which are potentially very hazardous for the environment (hazardous wastes, waste oils etc.), support was provided to the efforts to prevent pollution. In year 2011, in the warehouse operations of Ekol, a total of;  7.631.000 kwh energy was consumed.  50,934 m3 water was consumer.  1940 kg electronic waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  150 kg batteries were collected and sent for disposal.  1,600 kg packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling. Throughout 2012, in Ekol's facilities which are the environment management system practice of Ekol, a total of;  10,770,022.22 kWh energy was consumed.  36,737 m3 water was consumed.  455 kg electronic waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  10 kg batteries were collected and sent for disposal.  1,165,545 tons packaging waste was delivered to licensed firms for recycling.  1531 kg hazardous waste, 5700 kg scrap waste was delivered to licensed firms. Consumption has risen due to the increase in data collection quality and the number of facilities. Social Responsibility: Ekol's Cooperation with Universities (2007): Aware that the youth comprises the most important individuals of the society, Ekol Logistics acts in cooperation with universities. Opportunities to visit the facilities, internship agreements with important educational institutions, career days participated, and panels, as activities organized for or with universities, provide, on the one hand, university students a chance to prepare themselves better for the professional life, and fulfil, on the other, the role of the firm in supporting training of quality workforce, as part of its industrial responsibility. Ekol reached an important success in 2012 as the first brand to establish the only R&D Centre in its sector in Turkey. The application process carried out by Ekol for an R&D Centre (Research and Development Centre) was approved by the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology in June 2012. Ekol R&D Centre will create a ground for realization of SAN-TEZ (Thesis Studies Supported by Industry) projects and give opportunity of implementation to masters and doctorate students during which the ongoing cooperation of Ekol with academics will increase and publications of sector specific studies and case studies will have vast chances. Visits to Facilities: Ekol provides tours of the highly-automated facilities equipped with advanced technology, for logistics clubs of universities, allowing the students to have a on-site glimpse on the processes. The students obtain a chance to get detailed information regarding the industry they intend to work in, in addition to an opportunity to see the wide range of services covered by the logistics industry. Facility visits in year 2008: İzmir University of Economics Beykent University Avcılar Mehmet Emin Horoz Vocational School of Logistics İstanbul University Facility visits in year 2009: Bilgi University Okan University İzmir University of Economics Bahçeşehir University Facility visits in year 2010: Boğaziçi University Yeditepe University Facility visits in year 2011: İstanbul Kültür University Bahçeşehir University Yeditepe University Facility visits in year 2012: Okan University Arel University Yıldız Teknik University Bilkent University Kayseri Erciyes University Seminars and Panels: The executives of Ekol Logistics offer numerous seminars and participate in panels each year, in order to share their experiences accumulated in long years in the industry, with the logistics specialists of the future. Seminars and Panels in 2007: İzmir University of Economics – Seminars by Guest Speakers Seminars and Panels in 2008: Yeditepe University – Career Days Celal Bayar University – International Trade and Logistics Seminar Seminars and Panels in 2009: Istanbul Technical University – 8th Industry Days Erciyes University – Logistics Day Boğaziçi University – Seminar Class Seminars and Panels in 2010: Boğaziçi University – Seminar Class Uludağ University – Career Days 2010 Muğla University Seminars and Panels in 2011: Uludağ University Istanbul Kültür University Marmara University Seminars and Panels in 2012: Boğaziçi University Istanbul Kültür University Uludağ University Yıldız Teknik University Sponsorships: In order to support the students in getting a complete education, Ekol sponsors various events organized for university students, the future of Turkey, to fulfill its responsibility for university students. Sponsorships in year 2007: Logistics Training Camp ‘07 Sponsorships in year 2008: Istanbul University – Graduation Ceremony 2008 Sakarya University – Shell Eco-marathon (logistics support) Sponsorships in year 2011: Mersin University – TUBİTAK Formula G Solar-Powered Car Races Sponsorship for the team racing with the vehicle named Scarpion. Sponsorships in year 2012: Uludağ University gift a conference room to the Vocational School of Social Sciences. İstanbul Kültür University –2012 Logistics Panel Bilkent University – Supply Chain Summit Internship Opportunities: As one of the most important logistics firms of Turkey, Ekol offers university students various internship opportunities. Each year, an average of 30 students are provided internship opportunities in Ekol's facilities. Through agreements with the most successful universities of Turkey, such as Boğaziçi, ITU, and METU, students of Industrial and Business Administration Engineering departments are offered internship opportunities. Ekol and NGO Cooperations: Ekol Logistics enters into joint projects with non-governmental organizations working to achieve higher life standards and a more egalitarian society, and provides any assistance it may be of, with various grants. Cooperation with TEMA Foundation: Ekol Logistics concluded the year 2012 with an important social responsibility activity which is also in compliance with green logistics. At the end of 2012, Ekol believed that the best New Year gift to business partners would be to bring in a new forest to Turkey, and established cooperation with TEMA Foundation in this regard. Information on the 5000-plant forest project in Izmir Urla was given to business partners via recyclable certificates. WWF Earth Hour Activity: Ekol Logistics, as the Earth Hour activity envoy of World Wildlife Fund (WWF), which is one of the biggest environment movements in the world, made a promise to turn off the lights for one hour in the Kardelen Facility on March 23, 2013 in order to draw attention to global climate change. That village is not too far project: Ekol Logistics makes utmost use of its capabilities and efforts to support education and youth. In this respect, logistics support was provided for the That Village Is Not Too Far Education Project organized by Merter Platform. Founded in 31st March 2011 by textile industrialists and businessmen from Merter, the Merter Platform took the road to build libraries for 3 thousand village schools all over Turkey. A fund of approximately 2 million Liras is gathered for this purpose. The project launched with the slogan That village is not too far then moved to contact with village schools and learn what they needed. Headed by the Honorary Chairman, Governor of Istanbul, Hüseyin Avni Mutlu, and supported also by the Ministry of Education, the education project That village is not too far by Merter Platform sent assistance to 2058 schools to date. Providing transportation services for assistance sent by Merter Platform to 10 provinces, Ekol helped provide aid to 783 schools. Blood Donations to Kızılay: Ekol considers blood donations as a matter above and beyond other social responsibility projects. It is a duty before humanity. In this respect, joint projects are held with Kızılay on every occasion. Ekol Logistics supported Kızılay's campaign Seeking 1,000,000 Good Persons in year 2008. Within the framework of the project, the employees were provided education on blood donations. Then, at the Ekol Family Picnic organized later on, volunteers were given an opportunity to donate blood at the mobile donation unit. Furthermore, Kızılay's mobile donation units visit Ekol Logistics's various facilities, offering the employees do donate blood. Ekol's Cooperation with BİKEV: Established in 1995 by 107 volunteers from various professions including poets, professors, shopkeepers, civil servants, former members of parliament, architects, engineers, workers, doctors, fishermen, nurses, industrialists, lawyers, pharmacists, housewives, teachers and so on, BİKEV founded a dormitory for girls attending primary school in Balıkesir. Upon becoming aware of the activities of the foundation, Ekol Logistics began contemplating ways to be of assistance, and then proceeded to make the largest grant the foundation received up to date. Ekol's Cooperation with LÖSEV: Ekol Logistics is aware that just financial assistance for a non-governmental organization would not suffice. In this respect, services within the framework of the industry are offered to NGOs as assistance. Since 2007, logistical support is provided to LÖSEV when required. In particular, the warehouses in Ankara and İzmir are used to store support packages received by LÖSEV. This helps problem-free storage of support packages for timely delivery to persons who need them. In addition to storage organizations, the materials for the Village for Children with Leukemia constructed by LÖSEV were also carried free of charge on vehicles of Ekol Logistics. The Project Your Children Are Ours As Well (2007 – 2011): Ekol Logistics invests in the future of the world, the children. The aim is to provide them suitable living environment, healthy development and good education opportunities. In this respect, each year 500 primary and secondary school students are supported with books, notebooks, pens, and clothes. The aim is to help the students complete the education year without any problems. Moreover, again within the framework of the campaign Your Children Are Ours As Well, each year 600 students who are successful in OKS are offered scholarships. Ekol and Children of Hope Foundation Through organizations with Children of Hope Foundation, which works to provide salvation for homeless children and to ensure their rehabilitation into the society, Ekol Logistics aims to bring joys to homeless children, joys which cannot be purchased, with concerts organized and gifts given, in an effort to touch the heart of the children. In the campaign Save a Child, Save the Future organized jointly with the Children of Hope Foundation, a nice concert was organized for the children, in addition to bringing the light on this foundation, to help it secure more support. There is a village far away Bolluca Children's Village is an organization established in 1992, to support young children who lost a warm home, and to ensure that they grow up in much better environments than streets, with an ultimate aim of raising good members of the society, and is kept going with the support of philanthropists. Ekol Logistics eventually included the project, which was brought first to its attention as an object of efforts by its employees, in its Corporate Social Responsibility umbrella. Within the framework of the project, the children living in the Children's Village were hosted at Ekol's facilities, and various donations were made. Individual Practices Ekol Logistics's employees have internalized Social Responsibility Awareness within the framework of the corporate culture, and currently maintain their efforts in this respect. All employees engage in personal efforts in addition to company-wide efforts. The visits to retirement homes and donation campaigns organized by the employees are among the best examples of such efforts. 10 Principles of the Global Compact: Human Rights:  Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights.  Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Work and Labor Standards:  Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining.  Principle 4: Businesses should strive for the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour.  Principle 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour.  Principle 6: Businesses should work for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment:  Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges.  Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility.  Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corruption:  Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. GRI Indicators' Content Global Compact's 10 Principles Reference Pages Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 3-7;18-28;37-44 Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 3-7;18-28;37-44 Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 22 Principle 4: Businesses should strive for the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 23 Principle 5: Businesses should ensure the effective abolition of child labour. 24 Principle 6: Businesses should work for the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 23 Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 29-38 Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 29-38 Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 29-38 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 23
