Global Compact Communication on additional actions 06-2013 Global Compact THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Mersen additional actions: Mersen plants sign this type of declaration and commitment regularly, whenever a main customer requests it. Mersen plants uphold the Group's values as stated in the Group's charter and undertake to demand the same commitments from suppliers. 2/11 Global Compact Principle 2: Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Mersen additional actions: Mersen plants sign this type of declaration and commitment regularly, whenever a main customer requests it. Mersen Equality Group agreement between men and women. -Diversity politic. At the La Mure plant: Mersen La Mure has suppliers sign this type of commitment and conducts audits to check compliance. 3/11 Global Compact LABOUR Principle 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Mersen additional actions: Hardness Group agreement in 2012 with the realisation of a hardness diagnosis. At the Saint-Loup de Naud/ Provins, La Mure, Angers and Gorcy plants: Works Council and OHS committee in place and meetings held regularly according to legal requirements. Elections are held to renew those instances regularly. At the La Mure plant: Continued Works Council and OHS committee meetings with an annual prevention plan showing that progress is on schedule. Transparency of all economic and labour data. At the Saint Bonnet de Mure plant : Social dialogue toughened. Multiparty work groups with Employee Representatives (in particular psychosocial risk prevention). 4/11 Global Compact Principle 4: Business should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. 5/11 Global Compact Principle 5: Business should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. Mersen plants uphold the Group's values as stated in the Group's charter and undertake to demand the same commitments from suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. 6/11 Global Compact Principle 6: Business should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Mersen additional actions: In 2011, creation of a working group on gender diversity. Continuation In 2012. In 2011, salary agreement including a budget to reduce salary income gap between men and women: some increases are reserved to correcting income gaps, including, but not restricted to, those between men and women. Continuation In 2012. As a general rule the HR department pays special attention to ensure that employee representatives are treated fairly when company-wide pay levels are being negotiated. Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. Mersen Equality Group agreement between men and women. -Diversity politic. At the Eldre plant: Alignment of the company agreements with Group agreements (older workers, gender diversity, incentive schemes, etc.). Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. At the Saint-Loup de Naud / Provins and La Mure plants: When individual raises are granted the HR department is especially attentive to fair treatment of employee representatives, women and workers in different age brackets. 7/11 Global Compact ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Mersen additional actions: At the Saint Bonnet de Mure plant: With the creation of an Energy and Environment Management System, Mersen did an environmental analysis of the plant and developed an HSEE alert procedure In case of emergency, incident or accident. Energy diagnosis. No air pollution. Environment nearly-accidents analysis. At the Saint-Loup de Naud / Provins plant: The new Saint-Loup de Naud surface treatment line, started up again at the end of 2011, is totally effluent-free. Use of components with Cr VI, Be and Cd Is forbidden. 8/11 Global Compact Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. At the Saint Bonnet de Mure plant: Regular communication about environmental protection. ISO 14001 and EN 16001 certifications at our Saint Bonnet de Mure plant. Organization of waste sorting and collection at our Saint Bonnet de Mure plant. At the Saint-Loup de Naud / Provins, La Mure, Angers and Gorcy plants: Organization of waste sorting. 9/11 Global Compact Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Mersen additional actions: Continued deployment of our mastery of the REACH Directive in Europe, which enables us to respond to our customers' queries while improving our control of how hazardous substances are used in our workshops, on our production lines and at our workstations. Establishment of Product Environmental Profiles (PEP) and Life Cycle Analyses (LCA) as part of all new product development projects. Implementation of a specific Organizational Instruction for PEPs and LCAs. 1 PEP and 1 LCA done in 2012. Participation in the PEP ecopassport eco-declaration program in liaison with the PEP association. Presentation of the status of demand on our markets in terms of sustainable development and eco-design, made to the European Management Committee in 2012 to help advance thought on the suitability of our organizations to give pertinent answers in the short, medium and long-term to our customers and to demonstrate how committed Mersen is in these fields. At the Saint-Loup de Naud / Provins plant: The new Saint Loup de Naud / Provins surface treatment line, started up again at the end of 2011, Is totally effluent-free. 10/11 Global Compact ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Mersen additional actions: Update of the supplier guidelines and of the purchasing ethics guidelines V.2012, available within our company in the Quality system In Lotus Notes and sent to all our suppliers. At the Corporate level, the Mersen Group does internal audits focused on the detection of risks of fraud or any form of corruption, and the resulting report is distributed on the Corporate level. The La Mure plant has thoroughly investigated with no major corrective actions necessary. At the Eldre plant: Deployment of Group commitments during the purchasing Integration plan. 11/11
