Letter from the Chief Executive Officer 03 Company Profile 06 AXTEL Culture 07 AXTEL Background 08 01 Corporate Governance 09 Company Profile Business Ethics 17 05 Human Rights 20 AXTEL Services 21 AXTEL Technology 24 Quality Management System 25 Customer Satisfaction 26 02 Sustainability 28 Sustainability Sustainability Model 29 30 03 AXTEL Foundation 33 AXTEL Foundation 34 04 Social Perspective 39 Social Workforce 40 Integral and Occupational Safety 44 Perspective Training 45 38 Integral Collaborator Agenda 47 Content 05 Environmental Perspective 51 Environmental Waste Management and Disposal 52 Perspective Energy and Air Emissions 55 50 Water 56 06 Financial Perspective 59 Financial AXTEL Business Model 62 Perspective Markets Served 63 58 Annual Financial Report 2012 65 Memory Parameters 113 Awards Recieved during 2012 114 GRI Index 115 Verification 119 GRI Statement 121 Letter from the Chief Executive Officer In 2012 we were the only supplier in the market having Broadband Internet offerings for the consumption segment, with 150 Mbps speed Tomás Milmo Santos, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer [1.1, 2.9] We work intensively to improve our clients’ experience through the development and supply of new products, some launched in 2012, and some others that will be announced during 2013 Last year our company faced challenges before which we In the end of 2012 we launched our “AXTEL TV” pay television service in a controlled manner among existing collaborators demonstrated our ability and feasibility as a business. These and customers in México City, Guadalajara, and Monterrey. include, among others, the decrease in our earnings coming from This service, based on the technology platform of our supplier International traffic resulting from the prevailing unbalance in Ericsson, the most advanced in Latin America, takes advantage the industry, the finalization of the agreement with one of our of the capacity and reliability offered by our fiber optic network, main wholesale clients and the culmination in the Supreme Court on which we already offer the AXTEL X-tremo broadband service of Justice of the Nation of a long litigation process related to since 2011. In 2012, we were the only supplier in the market interconnection rates. offering broadband Internet speeds of 150 Mbps to the mass market segment. It is worth adding that during 2013 we will Faced with this scenario, which led to the decrease in our extend AXTEL X-tremo and AXTEL TV to more cities. revenues and our operating cash flow in relation to our projections, we made adjustments in our investment plan in In the enterprise segment we developed new services in areas order to maintain healthy levels of liquidity and, at the same time, such as infrastructure and security, among others. This will not lose focus in our two strategic initiatives; growth of our fiber strengthen our customized solutions offers for large corporate, optic network and value-added services for the enterprise sector. financial, and government accounts, as well as standardized Additionally we intensified efforts to achieve greater efficiencies packages for small and medium enterprises. in the Company’s expenses. Finally, and in parallel with these two efforts, we continued strengthening our commercial offers Another relevant event was the entry of AXTEL to the through the development of a new generation of products Sustainable IPC of the Mexican Stock Exchange in 2013, thanks Dear reader: focused on satisfying the needs of all the market segments we to the results achieved in 2012 in regards to sustainability. The serve. aspects assessed were: corporate governance, business ethics, entering the social and environmental fields. As a result of these actions, in 2012 we managed to improve our operational productivity, making our organization more efficient, In 2012 we confirmed our commitment to the United Nations lean, and focused, with a structure appropriate to the size of our Global Compact, of which we are signatories since 2011, to core businesses and industry parameters, which resulted in a meet its 10 principles related to human rights, fighting against significant decrease in our operating expenses. corruption, labor standards, and environmental regulations. In this way, we closed 2012 with high expectations and with the It is worth noting that given the aforementioned challenges, confidence of a strengthened organization and focused on a new a decision was made to initiate a recapitalization plan that stage of sustained profitable growth. would restore flexibility to continue executing our strategic initiatives. This recapitalization plan consisted of divesting nonThe aforementioned was possible thanks to the 6 thousand strategic assets, as well as a debt restructuring transaction. Both collaborators, who, with their daily work, make a reality the transactions, successfully completed in early 2013, along with effective realization of the strategies and the satisfaction of the decrease in operating expenses, are significantly improving market needs. the capital structure and liquidity of the Company, restoring the required flexibility in order to make the necessary investments I thank our customers, our Board of Directors, our suppliers and continue to increase our competitiveness in the market. and our shareholders for their support in consolidating our business plans, ratifying our commitment to continue driving the It is relevant to note that during 2012, revenues coming from our profitable and sustainable growth of our Company. two main segments, consumption and enterprise government, represented 83 percent of our total earnings, an increase of 4 percent compared to 2011. In regards to our operational performance, the Revenue Generating Units, that are the sum of voice lines and data accounts, totaled nearly a million and a half at the end of 2012. On the other hand, we continue working intensively in improving our customers’ experience through the development and provision of new products, some launched in 2012 and others Tomás Milmo Santos to be announced during 2013, thereby ensuring their total Chairman and satisfaction as well as capturing more market share. Chief Executive Officer In the consumption segment, it is important to mention that the number of broadband subscribers grew 13 percent, driven by our “AXTEL X-tremo” offer which we provide through our fiber-to-the-home or business network (FTTX). Subscribers for this offer grew from 46 thousand to 100 thousand during the year, representing already 20 percent of our total broadband subscriber base. 4 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE 01 COMPANY PROFILE [2.1, 2.8, 2.10, 4.8] AXTEL is the second largest operator for fixed telephony and long distance in México, with is own network in 39 of the most important cities in the Country, as well as connectivity in 200 cities in the nation. WHO WE ARE WHAT MARKETS ARE WE SERVING? W e are a young and innovative telecommunications W e are present in 39 cities in México where we serve all enterprise operating in México. Leaders in ICT solutions the market segments: corporate, financial, government, (Information and Communication Technologies) in the wholesale, and residential. corporate, financial, and government sectors. WHAT DO WE OFFER? AXTEL is a public enterprise listed in the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) since 2005, operating under O ur offering includes integral communication services “AXTELCPO”. In 2013 we became part of Sustainable IPC such as high-speed Broadband, pay television, data at BMV. transmission and virtual private network implementation, Web page hosting, data centers, managed security, By December 31, 2012: services for other telecommunications operators and voice services, among others. 1 million 490 RGU’s were recorded. Company Profile 493 thousand Broadband Internet subscribers. 377 thousand WiMAX technology Internet users. 100 thousand clients with FTTX technology. * RGU’s: Revenue Generating Units. 6 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE WHAT DISTINGUISHES US? Honesty Respecting truthfulness: deciding to do what is correct. Building trusting relations. O ur culture reflects our daily behavior and the pillars on Respecting others. which we work day after day, convinced that congruence, Declaring and learning from my mistakes and successes. quality work, and ethics are essential values for the Responding realistically to requirements. development and permanence in our business on the long-term. Service Excellence and attitude in doing something for others: Mission: Listening and satisfying needs. Improve communication to Positively surprising others exceeding their expectations. Proactively making offerings enhance life Enriching our work taking care of the ways. Vision: Communication Improving the quality of our dialogue at every moment: Innovating communication Sharing what we are, do, and learn. AXTEL Culture experiences that bring people Making clear requests. Stating improvement areas. closer to what they care the Giving feedback. most for Thanking and recognizing. Innovation OUR VALUES: Making new ideas a reality: transforming life. Improving others’ lives. Commitment Generating new experiences. Honoring promises: to meet what I promise. Creating new ways of doing things. Expanding possibilities. Making claims or stating satisfactions. Contributing with society. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 7 01 COMPANY PROFILE AXTEL Background Started operations as Telefonía Inalámbrica del Norte, S.A. de C.V. 1994 1996 Obtained the Telecommunications Public Network concession. Launched the AXTEL trade name and started operations in Monterrey. 1999 2000 2008 Started operations in 37 additional cities. Became a public entity trading shares in the Mexican Stock Exchange 2005 (BMV). 2006 Acquired Avantel. Received the concession to offer pay television or 2009 satellite television services. Launched AXTEL 2010 X-tremo, faster and more advanced 2011 Subscribed to the United Broadband service Nations Global Compact. in México. We obtained the required results 2012 to enter the Sustainable IPC in the BMV. We launched AXTEL TV, and offer 150 mega high speed. 8 / INFORME ANUAL INTEGRADO AXTEL 2012 01 COMPANY PROFILE [2.4, 2.6, 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11 ] Corporate Governance AXTEL is a public enterprise listed in the Mexican Stock Exchange. It operates under the “AXTEL CPO” symbol. It is part of the Sustainable Price and Quotation Index in the Mexican Stock Market. AXTEL Board of Directors is our supreme body governing the corporate and strategic decisions in our company. The main function of this Board is managing the Enterprise, together with the Chief Executive Officer. These functions include identification and attention to potential risks that AXTEL is exposed to. Likewise, the Board of Directors, headed by our Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, is in charge of establishing the guidelines for our business strategies and overseeing their compliance, always aligned to the current Securities Market Law in México (LMV). In accordance to the Company bylaws and the current laws, management is entrusted to the Board of Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. The Board of Directors of the Company is currently composed of 10 owner board members and 9 alternate directors, out of which one is a woman, not exceeding a maximum of 21 owner members in accordance to the provisions of the Securities Market Law and the Company Bylaws. The board members are designated by the shareholders in the Ordinary General Stockholders’ Meeting. In compliance to the bylaws and the Securities Market Law, at least 25 percent of the Board of Directors must be independent board members. In compliance with the applicable legislation and Company bylaws, the Board members remain in office 30 days after their resignation or until the Board member designated as replacement is in office. The Company bylaws establish that the alternate directors shall attend the Board of Directors sessions when the owner member cannot attend. The updated information detail in regards to the integration of the executive officers and members of the Board of Directors of the Company follows: Tomás Milmo Santos Thomas Lorenzo Milmo Chairman of the Board of Directors Zambrano and Chief Executive Officer Director Founder partner and Chief Executive Officer at AXTEL. Has been a Director at the Company since October Member of the Board of Directors since 1997 and Chairman 1997, and held the position of Chairman of the Board of the Board since 2003. He is Regional Councillor of Grupo of Directors from 1997 until 2003. He was founder and Financiero Banorte, member of te Board of Directors in Chairman of the Board at Grupo Javer, S.A. de C.V., one CEMEX, at Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores of the largest housing development companies in México, de Monterrey, in Promotora Ambiental. He is Chairman of and of Incasa, S.A. de C.V., one of the largest aggregate the Board at Tec Salud and in Alianza Educativa Ciudadana producers in México. He was also Chairman of the Board por Nuevo León. Tomás Milmo Santos holds a degree in of Directors and CEO of Carbonífera de San Patricio S.A. Business Economics from Standford University. de C.V. and Carbón Industrial, S.A. de C.V. He was also Director of CEMEX until 1996. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 9 01 COMPANY PROFILE Patricio Jiménez Barrera Lorenzo H. Zambrano Treviño Director Director Has been Director at AXTEL since 1998. He was Has been a Director at AXTEL since October 1997. Since Corporate Director at AXTEL until February 2009. Prior 1995 he is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive to being at AXTEL, he held a variety of finance-related Officer of CEMEX, one of the main global companies in positions, including Investment Banker at Invermexico the construction materials industry, and he is member Casa de Bolsa, treasurer at Grupo Cydsa, S.A. and again of the Board of Directors of IBM and served as Chairman investment banker at Banca Serfín, S.A., where he was of the Board of the Sistema Tecnológico de Monterrey Director of International Banking and Treasury. Currently from 1997 to 2012. He is also Member of the Board of he is member of the Board of Directors of Sociedad Museo de Arte Contemporáneo de Monterrey (MARCO). Financiera de Crédito Popular Nacional and of Operadora Lorenzo Zambrano Treviño holds a B.S. in Mechanical de Servicios Mega. Patricio Jiménez Barrera is a CPA and Engineering from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios holds a degree from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey and has a Master’s in Business Superiores de Monterrey. He is Chairman of Abstrix, S. A. Administration from Standford University. de C. V., company dedicated to private capital investments in México. Alberto Santos de Hoyos ( ) Alberto Garza Santos Director Director Held the position of Director at AXTEL from October Has been Director of AXTEL since October 2003. He is 1997 through 2013. He was a founder member of founder and Chairman of the Board of Directors and AXTEL. He was also a Member of its Board of Directors CEO of Promotora Ambiental and Museo Maderas del since 1997. Served as Board Member of Banco de México Carmen; likewise he is a member of the Board of Directors (regional), Grupo Cydsa, Grupo Senda and Maquinaria of Maquinaria Diesel, S.A. de C.V., Desarrollos Delta and Diesel, S.A. de C.V. Was a Senator and Congressman at SUPERA. He is Chairman of the Foundation Mundo the National Congress, President of the Nuevo León Sustentable; he served as Chairman of the Advisory Board Chamber of Industry (CAINTRA), Vice Presidente of of Parque Ecológico Chipinque. He held the position of the Confederation of Industrial Chambers (CONCAMIN) Vice-President of the National Liaison Committee with and President of the National Chamber of the Sugar and the Legislative Power at the National Chamber of Industry Alcohol Industries. He also held the position of Chairman (CANACINTRA) and Chairman of the Environmental of the Board of Directors, CEO and Member of the Board Commission at CANACINTRA. Alberto Garza Santos of Gamesa. He was also member of the Board at Instituto holds a degree in Business Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey and Casa Paterna La Gran Familia, Andares, Instituto Nuevo has a degree in Political Sciences from Southern Methodist Amanecer, Renace, Patronato Pro Educación Marista University. and Chairman of the Board at Empresas Santos, Ingenio Santos and Tres Vidas. Alberto Santos de Hoyos received a degree in Business Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. 10 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE Héctor Medina Aguiar (2)(3) Fernando A. González Olivieri Director Director Has been a Director at AXTEL since October 2003 and is Is member of the Board of Directors at AXTEL since 2010. member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee. Since he started his career at CEMEX in 1989 Fernando He was Executive Vice-President of Finance and Legal at A. González has held different Senior positions, including CEMEX from October 1996 until February 2010. Before Corporate Vice-President of Strategic Planning, President he worked at Grupo ALFA. He was Chairman of the of CEMEX Venezuela, President of CEMEX Asia, President Directive Board of Universidad Regiomontana from 2006 of CEMEX South America and the Caribbean, President to 2012, and is Member of the Board of Banco Ahorro of CEMEX Europe, Middle East, Africa and Australia, and Famsa and other private companies. He is also member Executive Vice-President for Planning and Development of Invercap Afore Investment Committee and member and Executive Vice-President of Planning and Finance. of the Technical Committee and Audit Committee at He is currently Executive Vice-President of Finance Fibra Inn. Héctor Medina Aguiar graduated from Instituto and Administration. Fernando received his degree and Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey as a Master’s in Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y Chemical Engineer. He also holds a degree in Management de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. from the University of Bradford Management Center in England and a M.S. degree from Escuela de Organización Industrial in Spain. Bernardo Guerra Treviño (2)(3) Lawrence H. Guffey (2)(3) Director Director Is member of the Board of Directors at AXTEL since Has been Director of the Board of Directors at AXTEL 2006 and Chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices since may 2000. He is member of the Audit and Corporate Committee. He is a founder partner of Morales y Guerra Practices Committee. Likewise, he is Administrative Capital Asesores (MG Capital), and member of the Board Director at Blackstone Group International. Before of Directors at Promotora Ambiental, Grupo FAMSA and joining Blackstone, he worked at the Acquisitions Group Banco Ahorro FAMSA. Likewise, he is Chairman of the at Trammell Crow Ventures, the main investment arm Audit Committee at Promotora Ambiental and member at Trammell Crow Company. He is Member of the Board of the Risk Committee at Banco Ahorro FAMSA. Bernardo at Cineworld Group PLC, Deutsche Telekom and TDC. Guerra Treviño holds an Industrial Engineering and Lawrence H. Guffey graduated from Rice University. Systems degree from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey (ITESM). 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 11 01 COMPANY PROFILE Alberto de Villasante Herbert (1) Alberto Santos Boesch (1) Alternate Director Alternate Director Has been Executive Director of Strategic Relations Has been Alternate Director for Alberto Santos de and Alternate Director of AXTEL since march 2007. Hoyos since june 2005. He has held the position of Chief Prior to his current position, he was Vice-President Executive Officer at Empresas Santos S.A. since 2000. He of Negotiations, Alliances and Institutional Relations, is shareholder and director at Grupo Tres Vidas Acapulco responsible for relations with regulators, purchases of S.A., and Desarrollos Marinos del Caribe and Gimnasio strategic assets, real estate, public telephony, and AXTEL Body-tek, S.A. He is member of Grupo México Nuevo and strategic alliances. Prior to joining AXTEL he held different Grupo Generación 2000. He is also Chairman of the Board positions in Xignux including the Direction at Multilec. of Directors at Grupo Monde. Alberto Santos Boesch He is a Member of the Board at Concresa S.A de C.V. and holds a degree in International Studies from Universidad Productora de Terrasos S.A. de C.V. Alberto de Villasante de Monterrey as well as international studies in Cushing Herbert holds a degree in Marketing from Instituto Academy. Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey, and a Masters in public accounting, administration and total quality. Balbina Milmo Santos (1) Andrés Velázquez Romero (1) Alternate Director Alternate Director Is Alternate Director for Thomas Milmo Zambrano. She Is the Executive Director of Business and Government holds a degree in Graphic Design from Instituto de Arte y Market. He is alternate Director at AXTEL since march Restauración in Florence, Italy. She also has studies at the 2007. Prior to his current position, he was Executive Chamberlayne School of Design in Boston. She has lead Director of Process Transformation and Information several activities as entrepreneur. Technology during 2011. In the commercial areas he has held the position of Executive Director since 2004, responsible for the Mass Market as well as Business Market in different periods. He has held different Senior positions in AXTEL including Executive Director for the Central Region, Treasurer and Vice-President for Administration and Comptroller, among other responsibilities. Before joining AXTEL, he had experience in different positions in the financial sector, performing functions related with Francisco Garza Zambrano (1) risk management, financing, correspondent banking, Alternate Director international treasury, and foreign exchange. He was also COO at Banca Serfín New York Agency in Nueva York. Has been Alternate Director for Lorenzo Zambrano Andrés Velázquez Romero holds a degree in Economics Treviño since june 2005. He has held the position of from Instituto Tecnológico Autónomo de México. President of the America region for CEMEX, as well as President of CEMEX México. CEMEX Panamá and Venezolana de Cementos (Vencemos, S. A.); has also been Vice-President at CEMEX Trading and Chairman in charge of CEMEX operations in the United States. Francisco Javier Garza Zambrano holds a degree in Business Administration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey and a Masters in Business Administration from Cornell University – Johnson Graduate School of Management. 12 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE David Garza Santos (1) Mauricio Morales Sada (1)(4) Alternate Director Alternate Director Has been Alternate Director for Alberto Garza Santos Has been Alternate Director for Bernardo Guerra Treviño since november 2005. He is Chairman of the Board of since april 2006. He is President and founder member Directors and Chief Executive Officer at Maquinaria Diesel, since 1995 of MG Capital, an independent investment S.A. de C.V., a company which distributes Caterpillar, management firm in México. From 1984 to 1995 he held Ingersoll Rand and other construction equipment in different Senior positions in Banks and brokerage houses México. He is also Chairman of the Board of Directors in México. Mauricio Morales Sada received the degree for at Comercial Essex, S.A. de C.V., the most important Mechanical Engineer and Administration from Instituto distributor in México for Exxon Mobil lubricants. He is also Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. He member of the Board of Directors at Desarrollos Delta, is currently Director at Maquinaria Diesel, S.A. de C.V. and S.A. de C.V., a real estate developer for the residential Grupo FAMSA S.A.B. He also participates in the Board at market, offices, and resorts, and is a member of the Fomento Moral y Educativo A.C. Board of Directors of Promotora Ambiental, S.A. de C.V., leader company in México in waste management. He is member of the Advisory Committee of the School of Business Management at Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. David Garza Santos holds a degree in Business Adminsitration from Instituto Tecnológico y de Estudios Superiores de Monterrey. Ramiro Villarreal Morales (1) Leif Lindbäck (1)(4) Alternate Director Alternate Director Is the Executive Director of the Venture Capital Group Is Alternate Director for Fernando A. González Olivieri at Blackstone. Since he joined Blackstone in 2002, since april 2011, and was previously Alternate Director Lindbäck has participated in Blackstone’s investment for Héctor Medina Aguiar since 2006. He is the General funds in Deutsche Telekom, TDC, Southern Cross / Counsel of CEMEX S.A.B. de C.V. since 1987. He serves NHP, Grupo Espíritu and Houghton Mifflin, and has also Secretary of the Board of Directors of CEMEX S.A.B. evaluated investments in the oilfield sector. Before joining de C.V. since 1995. From 1985 to 1987 he held the Blackstone, Lindbäck worked in Morgan Stanley in the position of Assistant General Director of Grupo Financiero Risk Capital Group. He holds a Master’s Degree in Finance Banpaís (now part of Banco Mercantil del Norte S.A.). from ESCP-EAP European School of Management. Ramiro Villarreal Morales received a degree in Law from Universidad Autónoma de Nuevo León and a Masters in Finance from Universidad of Wisconsin. (1) Alternate Director. The business address for each officer, director, and (2) Independent Director. alternate directors is located in Blvd. Díaz Ordaz km. 3.33 (3) Owner Member of Audit and Corporate L-1, Col. Unidad San Pedro, San Pedro Garza García, N.L., Practices Committee. México, CP 66215. (4) Alternate Member of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee Note: The remuneration received by our directors is determined annually by the Shareholders’ Meeting of the Company. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 13 01 COMPANY PROFILE OBLIGATIONS AND DUTIES OF THE Giving strict compliance to the Securities Market Law and Corporate Practices reported directly to the Board BOARD OF DIRECTORS of Directors and is comprised by three independent directors. The main functions of the Committee are overseeing management, operation and administrative and financial Among the key obligations and duties of the Board of execution at AXTEL. Furthermore, recommending the Directors are: Internal and External Auditing areas the actions to be carried out in regards to significant financial matters of I. Establishing the overall strategies to conduct the the company. business, the company and legal entities it controls. II. Overseeing management and conducting of the Through this Committee, an information channel company and the legal entities it controls, as well as between the Board of Directors and the directive levels of performance of relevant officers. the company is established. An additional communication III. Approval of policies, guidelines, and representative means to contact the Board of Directors is the Investor operations for the enterprise; appointment, Relations area, which receives the comments and/or selection, and when appropriate, removal of General recommendations that our stakeholders wish to make to Director; policies in regards to loans and collaterals; the members of the Board. The e-mail to send comments dispensations for board members and/or directors is: ir@axtel.com.mx to take advantage of business opportunities corresponding to the enterprise or the legal entities it controls; the guidelines in regards to internal control Other relevant subjects related with Corporate and internal auditing; the accounting policies; the Governance financial statements; contracting the legal entity to provide external auditing services and, when • To avoid conflict of interests in the highest Governance appropriate, additional or supplementary services to body at AXTEL, we adhere to the Securities Market external auditing. Act (LMV) bylaws meeting the required percentage IV. Submitting reports to the General Stockholders’ of independent directors. Likewise, the Audit and Meeting, celebrated in closing the financial year. Corporate Practices Committee, the Internal Auditor V. Giving follow-up to the main risks to which the and External Auditor ensure that, in case of conflict enterprise and legal entities it controls are exposed of interests, the corresponding Director will refrain to. from participating in the corresponding voting. VI. Approving policies for information and communication • In regards to training and expertise of the highest with the stockholders and the market, as well as board Governance body, our Directors are selected in members and relevant officers. accordance to the considerations established by VII. Determining the corresponding actions in order the Securities Market ACT (LMV), where expertise, to rectify known irregularities and implement the ability, and professional prestige of the executives corresponding corrective measurements. are considered. VIII. Establishing terms and conditions the General Director • Performance of the Board of Directors is approved at will follow while exercising his act of ownership. least once a year. IX. Ordering the General Director to disclose openly the important events he has knowledge about. 14 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE [2.3, 2.9, EC7] DIRECTIVE TEAM In order to adapt AXTEL organizational structure to the needs and priorities of the environment, during 2012 a redimensioning of the directive areas was carried out. Among the most relevant changes is the merger of some areas and directions re-definition, thus, since December 2012 there are seven, and not nine, directions reporting to the General Director. DIRECTIONS 2011 DIRECTIONS 2012 Executive Direction for Corporate Market Executive Direction for Corporate and Government Market Executive Direction for Process Transformation and IT Executive Direction for Technology and Operations It merged with the Executive Direction for Consumption Market Executive Direction for Marketing and Innovation and the Executive Direction for Corporate and Government Market Executive Direction for Negotiations and Strategic Accounts Executive Direction for Strategic Relations Executive Direction for Field Services and Network Operation Merged with the Direction of Technology and Operations Corporate Executive Direction Executive Direction for Finance Executive Direction for Human Resources and Communication Executive Direction for Management and Human Resources Executive Direction for Mass Market Executive Direction for Consumption Market Audit Director Remains without change ORGANIZATIONAL STRUCTURE AXTEL Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Tomás Milmo Santos Audit Director Gerardo González Villarreal Executive Direction for Executive Direction for Executive Direction for Corporate and Technology and Consumption Market Government Market Operations Antonio De Nigris Sada Andrés Velázquez Romero José Luis Luna Cárdenas Executive Direction for Executive Direction Executive Direction for Strategic Relations for Finance Administration and Human Resources Alberto M. de Villasante Felipe C. Canales Tijerina Herbert José Eloy Valerio Treviño 15 / INFORME ANUAL INTEGRADO AXTEL 2012 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 15 01 COMPANY PROFILE [1.2, SO2] RISK MANAGEMENT T he appropriate risk management is a key aspect in ensuring permanence of our business in the future. The key conflicts for our company are determined through an assessment matrix. This matrix evaluates two key aspects: our exposure in regards to identified risks and the impact probability that our transactions have. The Internal Audit area, reporting to the AXTEL General Director, is the body responsible for monitoring the Internal Control System through which the financial and non-financial processes of the business are evaluated. Among the processes to assess we find: revenues, Supply Chain, Corporate Governance, related parts, asset safeguarding, information technologies, and legal and regulation compliance. As part of the identification and risk mitigation exercise, in 2012 we carried out an analysis regarding the key topics that required our focus, determining which was the current status and the status in the same year end. Main focus for 2012 Desired Results Status Focus on risk areas and levels Achieving greater alignment of the Increase in strategic approach according to strategic initiatives in risk analysis with business strategic focused on risk analysis and the company. initiatives in order to give more implementation of controls in this value and relevance to the results sense. obtained. Focus and risk mitigation regarding Increasing efficiency and return in Increase in interaction with new projects and products. new products launched by the responsible collaborators, company. generating more value in business processes. Increase in dissemination of Generating greater presence of Greater participation of the anonymous denouncing lines. anonymous denouncing tools collaborators through anonymous amongst collaborators. denouncing lines, increasing trust in such tools. Restructuring long-term debt. Exchange of existing debt for new The debt exchange plan completed guaranteed and convertible debt, to successfully, achieving greater achieve recapitalization of the financial flexibility for the business. enterprise. Divestment in non-strategic assets. Non-strategic asset divestment plan Recapitalization plan completed execution to strengthen the successfully achieving the approval of financial position of the enterprise. the Federal Competition Commission (CFC) and closing satisfactorily the selling of the telecommunication towers. Legal proceedings (juicio de Obtaining favorable results from the The Supreme Court of Justice of the Nation amparo) in regards to the Supreme Court of Justice of the voted 8 2 against denial of the proceedings interconnection rates for Nation in regards to the legal (amparo) initiated by AXTEL regarding the El Que Llama Paga . proceedings (amparo) initiated due interconnection rates in the El Que Llama to the interconnection rates for Paga service among other enterprises El Que Llama Paga . during 2005 2007. 100 percent of our operations was evaluated during 2012 regarding risks related with corruption. AXTEL has a corruption risk map that considers those areas in the different business units which have a greater risk exposure. Additionally, the corruption or bribery risk is considered in the general assessment that the Audit department carries out, which serves as baseline to determine the areas that will be reviewed within the audit plan in the corresponding period. 16 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE [EC6, HR2, HR3, HR4, SO3, SO4] In order for an enterprise to remain over time, it must The complaints delivered may be received anonymously operate under ethical and moral principles that do not or personally, with the certainty they will be dealt with, in affect the environment, society, or the company itself. all cases, confidentially by the Direction of Internal Audit, body responsible for receiving the reports, giving followin AXTEL we work Following this principle, up and the appropriate solution. In the cases where under stringent standards that guide reports cause controversy, they are reviewed together with the Honor and Justice Committee that is integrated our daily behavior in all our actions and by the Legal Director, Human Resources Director, and operations. To ensure it, we have different internal Audit Director. mechanisms among which the AXTEL Ethics Code stands out, our Anti-corruption Policy and the commitment we The key objectives of the Transparency Mailbox are: acquired when adhering to the guidelines established • Receiving, maintaining and treating the denounces by the Inter-American Convention against Corruption received in the company in regards to accounting, and the United Nations Convention against Corruption, internal control, violations to the Ethics Code, asset strongly rejecting any action implying or promoting robbery or abuse, inappropriate use of privileged bribery or extortion. information, bribery, policy non-compliance, among them the Non-Gift, Anti-corruption and Suppliers, Through the Ethics Code we promote the ethics and activities that may be assumed fraudulent. guidelines that we must meet among our collaborators, • Providing the complainant total certainty regarding always under the framework of the law and regulations Business Ethics treatment and confidentiality of his/her report in our Country, or any other place where we carry out through the Transparency Mailbox. transactions or operations. Likewise, this document • Protecting any revenge or retaliation action to people offers a guideline for the resolution of conflict of interests who report any irregularity in good faith. among our collaborators and external entities with which we interact, as well as the ethical obligations toward the company, investors, clients, creditors, suppliers, competitors, and authorities. In compliance with the agreement made in 2011, we carried out an exercise to communicate the Ethics Code *In order to learn the complete content of the document, among our collaborators during 2012, with the purpose go to www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad of reinforcing its knowledge and ensuring its correct application. To this end, we taught the course “AXTEL Ethics” through the Virtual University, where 91 percent of our collaborators participated. Likewise, in the AXTEL Induction course there are subjects related to respect and compliance of Human Rights included. During the last quarter of the year, a course called AXTEL Good Practices was implemented, through our Virtual University, where the content comprised topics related with our Anti-corruption Policy, No-Gift Policy, and Transparency Mailbox Policy. By the end of the year, 5 percent of our collaborators at a national level had passed the course. Our commitment is that during 2013, 100 percent of our employees have it covered successfully. The topics addressed by the AXTEL Code of Ethics* are: behavior at work, communication; conflict of interests; personnel hiring; honesty, loyalty and integrity; confidential information; safety in the job; relationship with clients, community, government and suppliers; promotion and sales; and environmental accountability. We have a Transparency Mailbox that enables us to access denounces brought by our collaborators or any other person in the community, so they may report anonymously or personally any situation or action that is against our organizational values or the guidelines in our Ethics Code. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 17 01 COMPANY PROFILE DENOUNCE FLOW IN AXTEL TRANSPARENCY MAILBOX Audit Direction receives Complaints are analyzed comments and/or and assigned for complaints. appropriate attention. The sensitive cases Corrective actions are Auditing procedures are reviewed together carried out according to are carried out. with Honor and Sanction Code. Justice Committee. A summary is An annual report is elaborated from results submitted to the and information is Audit Committee with submitted to Executive the complaints Direction. received. The contact lines to receive complaints 24/7/365 a year* are: • Toll-free number 01 800 087 0909 • E-mail: transparenciaaxtel@axtel.com.mx • In our corporate offices with the Audit Director and/or Manager of Corporate Governance *Through the telephone line and e-mail. for our clients and suppliers we also have the Transparency Mailbox available through our Web Page: www.axtel.mx/Sustentabilidad / Gobierno Corporativo / Buzón de Transparencia 18 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE During 2012 we received 55 complaints, one that was related to corruption activities. In this case in particular the collaborator involved was dismissed and the corresponding legal process was initiated. Twelve of the complaints corresponding to Labor Relations were related with work discrimination activities. COMPLAINTS RECEIVED THROUGH THE TRANSPARENCY MAILBOX IN 2012 9% 2% 13% 43% Labor Relations Clients and Personal Relations Policy Non-compliance Asset Preservation 33% Others The receiving channels for the complaints received in 2012 were: 90 percent via E-mail and 10 percent by telephone. During 2012 we also carried out the communication of our No-Gift Policy and Anti-corruption Policy with 100 percent of our suppliers. In this communication they were requested to avoid sending presents to the AXTEL collaborators for any reason. We have a Supplier Policy which was reported at 100 per cent of them in 2012. Among other topics, promotes compliance of the current law, the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, our Ethics Code, as well as observing our Anticorruption Policy, Human Rights, Environmental and No-Gift Policies. In 2012 the business relation with two suppliers was terminated since they were against AXTEL Ethics Code in different aspects not related with corruption activities. AXTEL SUPPLIERS 4% National 96% Foreign 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 19 01 COMPANY PROFILE [HR6, HR7] T hrough our Human Rights Policy* we declare our Labor Regulations position to respect individuals in all their expressions, 3. Companies must respect freedom of association rejecting discrimination actions, child labor, forced labor, and effective recognition of the right to collective abusive behavior, coercive power, and threat, ensuring its bargaining. compliance with tools such as AXTEL Ethics Code, our 4. Companies must eliminate all forms of forced or Diversity and Inclusion Policy, Personnel Selection and mandatory labor. Hiring Policy and our Transparency Mailbox. 5. Enterprises must abolish effectively child labor. 6. Enterprises must eliminate discrimination in regards Likewise, in AXTEL we comply with the current legislation to employment and occupation. in our Country in regards to human rights, the Federal Labor Law, and strictly respect the individual and Environment collective agreements with our workers. 7. Enterprises must support preventive methods in regards to environmental problems. Since 2011 we voluntarily became part of the United 8. Enterprises must adopt initiatives to promote a Nations Global Compact promoting and respecting the greater environmental responsibility. 10 principles in this international organization: 9. Enterprises must promote the development and Human Rights communication of harmless technologies for the Human Rights environment. 1. Companies must support and respect the protection of human rights proclaimed internationally. Fight against corruption 2. Companies must ensure not being an accomplice in 10. Companies must work against corruption in all its human rights abuse. forms, including extortion and bribery. *In order to learn the complete document, go to: www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad In 2011, AXTEL joined the United Nations Global Compact , the largest social responsibility initiative in the world. 20 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE [2.2, 2.5, 2.7, PR9] A broad assortment of services characterize the versatility of our enterprise. With an offering of 22 telecommunication services we cover the demand of more than 700 thousand clients along the Country. During 2012 there were no significant fines received due to standard non-compliance in regards with the supply and use of products and organization services. AXTEL has its own network in 39 of the most important cities in México. AXTEL Services AXTEL X-tremo Broadband service has given the consumers the most advanced and fastest service in the Country, placing México in the same level as the United States, Japan, Korea, Hong Kong, and Sweden, with speeds up to 150 Mbps. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 21 01 COMPANY PROFILE SERVICE RESIDENTIAL BUSINESS CORPORATE GOVERNMENT AXTEL Universal Access: Internet plus telephony package. AXTEL X-tremo: High-speed Internet plus telephony package delivered through optical fiber. AXTEL TV: Pay TV Service delivered through optical fiber. AXTEL WiFi Xtremo: High speed Internet connection in public areas. AXTEL Home Plan: Telephony plans with calls and minutes included. AXTEL Telephony: Basic telephone service. AXTEL Conmigo: The line at home or business with mobility through WiFi connection or 3G in different devices such as smartphones, tablets, and laptops. AXTEL WiFi Network: WiFi wireless connection network at home/business. AXTEL Membership: Packages with emergency services, medical discounts, and life insurance, that provide benefits for all the clients’ family. AXTEL Store: Offers the possibility to acquire different equipment in installments, such as computers, tablets, video game consoles among others. AXTEL Expert for PC & MAC: Expert advisor service to assist and solve through a chat application on line, situations or problems with PC or MAC computer. AXTEL X-tremo Specialized Support: Specialized engineer team that offers the client the configuration service for all his devices such as computers, smartphones, tablets, videogame consoles and other equipment so they are connected to the AXTEL X-tremo WiFi Wireless Network. Soluciones AXTEL: Digital services for the line: Voice Mail, Call Management, Call Forwarding Package, Call ID, Call Waiting, Three party Calling, and Personal Additional Number. Corporate Voice Services: Intelligent Lines, Digital Trunks, SIP Trunks, Vision, Virtual Line, Long Distance and 800 Service. Internet: Broadband, Dedicated, High Capacity and Internet 2. National and International Networks: Private Lines, Ethernet, Broadband VPN and Multi-service VPN. Safety: Corporate Integral Security, Clean Pipes, and Managed Security. Data Centers: Dedicated Web Hosting, Co-location and Dynamic Server (IaaS). Collaboration: Audio-connection, Webex and Private Cloud Collaboration and Telepresence. Integrated Services: Contact Center, Voice and Data Equipment, Network Management, Managed Monitoring, Cabling and Adaptations. Applications: Electronic Invoicing. AXTEL Smart Voice: Package with Lines and Digital Trunks with Broadband or Dedicated Internet. Residential Business Corporate Government 22 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE AXTEL REGIONS AXTEL offers connectivity in 200 cities in the national territory. TIJUANA MEXICALI CD. JUÁREZ HERMOSILLO CHIHUAHUA SALTILLO NUEVO LAREDO MONTERREY REYNOSA TORREÓN MATAMOROS CULIACÁN DURANGO MAZATLÁN CD. VICTORIA TAMPICO GUANAJUATO LEÓN SAN LUIS QUERÉTARO POTOSÍ PACHUCA CANCÚN SAN JUAN DEL RÍO MÉRIDA MÉXICO GUADALAJARA MÉXICO D.F. AGUASCALIENTES PUEBLA XALAPA CELAYA MORELIA COATZACOALCOS VERACRUZ IRAPUATO VILLAHERMOSA TOLUCA ACAPULCO CUERNAVACA MINATITLÁN MÉXICO REGION México, D.F. MULTI-TECHNOLOGY REGION (WiMAX, Symmetry and FWA) OPTICAL FIBER REGION (FTTX) to 2012 Acapulco Irapuato Saltillo Guadalajara Aguascalientes León San Juan del Río México Cancún Matamoros San Luis Potosí Monterrey Cd. Juárez Mazatlán Tampico Celaya Mérida Tijuana The cities where the FTTX network will be Chihuahua Mexicali Toluca deployed will be defined in 2013. Ciudad Victoria Minatitlán Torreón Coatzacoalcos Morelia Veracruz Cuernavaca Nuevo Laredo Villahermosa Culiacán Pachuca Xalapa Durango Puebla Guanajuato Querétaro Hermosillo Reynosa 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 23 01 COMPANY PROFILE O ur company provides services that go together Point to Multi-point Radio with an offering of technology resources of the most With a broad geographical scope, low maintenance costs advanced generation, that enable us to provide diversity and minimum impact on the environment, we offer the in communication solutions. Point to Multi-point Radio technology for those clients AXTEL Technology that require medium capacity for voice and data services. These access technologies we use in our operation are: For this technology, in AXTEL we have available 60 MHz optical fiber, fixed wireless access, point to point radio, spectrum, with coverage at a national level, within the point to multi-point radio, and copper technology. 10.5 GHz band. In 2012, AXTEL invested the Point to Point Radio Offers complete voice, data and Internet transmission equivalent to 18 percent of its services, with great clarity in voice transmission and total earnings in state-of-the-art security in calls. Point to Point Radio digital technology enables us to serve the communication requirements of technology, three percentage our clients who wish high capacity and broad coverage points above average in the services. telecommunications industry at a For point to point links at a national level, AXTEL has 100 world level. MHz spectrum within the 23 GHz band and 128 MHz spectrum within the 15 GHZ band. AXTEL Digital Network Comprises the combination of the best technology Intelligent Network solutions existing in the telecommunications market. We offer versatile and reliable voice services using our These are the result of years of research, development technology to expand the possibilities in the creation of and experience in the field by leading companies in the switching services with a platform designed exclusively world. for this purpose. Through this network we integrate local telephony, long Our services are customized according to our clients’ distance, Internet, and value added services. needs, some of them are: general information services, automation and customization of entering calls, customer Optical Fiber service, contact centers, probing and surveys, 800 and For our clients who require high capacity transportation 900 numbers, among others. in voice and data digital transmission, as well as direct connection to the network, AXTEL offers solutions through optical fiber cable, enabling us to provide longer transmission distances also. The length in optical fiber network in AXTEL is above 12 thousand 200 kilometers. Fixed Wireless Access It is an ideal solution for residential clients and small businesses. This access is carried out using 50MHz of spectrum within the 3.4 GHz band at a national level. It enables providing local telephony, long distance, Internet, and value added services. It is not cellular telephony. In order to meet the client needs and be able to offer new services, WiMAX technology was integrated, enabling us to deliver higher speed data links using the IP protocol in a native way. 24 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE Each one of the areas within our Quality Management others’ lives, meeting the demand of products and services based on quality management and promoting Quality Management System System defines, establishes, and maintains the documents the excellent process performance, to consolidate the ensuring the effective operation at a process level, success of the business. procedures and operational methods. The scope of the IT Governance Management System at The system has 27 performance indicators which are AXTEL includes the activities required to deliver quality reported, measured, and analyzed monthly. The indicators services to the clients at Client Operations Direction, with include the following focus: the guarantee of availability, integrity, confidentiality of the information; a work philosophy based on continuous • Network operation: availability, commitment improvement of our processes as well as service reliability compliance in repairing, maintenance and failure within a frame of IT Governance. relapse. • Corporate and Government market services: commitment compliance in repairing and telephone assistance. CONSOLIDATION OF AXTEL SIX • Consumption market services: commitment compliance in repairing, telephone assistance, and SIGMA LEAN PROGRAM reliability. During 2012 we continued with the execution of more The Quality Management System considers in its scope: than 20 improvement projects in all the organization Operation and management of AXTEL telecommunication with an impact on productivity. As a result, the benefits network and its associate services for network vis-a-vis the previous year were doubled, exceeding US 3 maintenance, clients’ support, and Contact Center. million. In 2013 the system will be re-certified for the third time, The goal for 2013 is certifying with internal capacity more with this we seek to make elements more robust such as: than 40 improvement engineers (Green Belts) belonging data analysis, corrective actions, relationship with internal to all the work areas. All this, to increase the ability to selfand external suppliers, and application of continuous perform projects for efficiency increase and exceed the improvement cycles. We are certain that with this effort benefit generated year after year. we can continue with our commitment of improving 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 25 01 COMPANY PROFILE [SO7, PR5, PR6, PR7, PR8, PR9] Through our Contact Customer Satisfaction Centers we served and gave follow-up to more than 4.7 million interactions with our clients during 2012. Our priority is offering quality services, efficiently and Besides the media that our clients have to connect and express their opinions, in AXTEL we have a tool to assess with the best treatment to our clients. the satisfaction of the services provided to our users. In AXTEL we have different tools to maintain This is carried out bi-annually through service surveys communication with our users so they have the possibility applied by an external supplier. In 2012 there were 4 to communicate their concerns, complaints, service thousand and 112 AXTEL clients contacted to whom a failures, technical, administrative problems or, give their standardized methodology was applied to identify and opinion regarding the attention and service received. measure the more relevant attributes for the client. These tools are available through the mailboxes in the The moments of truth that are assessed in this exercise Customized Service Modules, Customer Service Centers, are: pre-selling and selling process, installation process, Internet page, surveys and service calls. use of products and services, customer service, failure repairs, invoicing, and collection. Once our clients express their concerns, complaints and/or suggestions, we give follow-up and response The results obtained from these studies enable us to work according to the guidelines in our Internal Policy for under the continuous improvement principle, to adapt Customer Support. Likewise, with the same criteria and serve our clients and users according to their needs we address the complaints received through PROFECO and continue offering the telecommunication services Federal Consumer Office and COFETEL Federal with the best quality in the Country. Telecommunications Commission. INTERACTION* WITH CLIENTS DURING 2012 AXTEL CLIENT SATISFACTION INDEX Media Percentage Segment 2011 2012 Phone 89% Corporate 4.90 3.82 Chat 9% Entrepreneur 4.01 4.20 E-mail 1% Government 4.05 3.97 Social Networks 1% Business 3.97 3.94 Residential 4.47 4.31 *Total interactions were 4,709,400 On a scale from 1 to 5 26 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 01 COMPANY PROFILE These measurement exercises provide relevant In AXTEL we carry out our advertising communication information to carry out the analysis that helps us in according to what is established in the Consumer Federal making decisions regarding the following subjects: Law and the Industrial Property Law which we review and apply permanently. • Client satisfaction Index by segment, with which we carry out analysis to verify our continuous The Telecommunications sector in México has been an improvement. object of discussion during the latest years derived from regulatory changes, but there are no debates in regards to • Net Promoted Score (NPS®), is a value indicating the product and service providing, which is allowed in all the degree of recommendation in our clients regarding national territory. service and enables us to compare ourselves visa-vis international benchmarks and from different In 2012 there were no fines due to non-compliance of industries. the regulation related to supply and use of products and services, or marketing communications, including • Analysis of attributes and their participation in the advertising, promotion and sponsorship. There were no moment of truth assessment, and as key motivators complaints registered for privacy violation or personal for our clients. information leaks from our clients. During 2012 we had 15 thousand 132 interactions with AXTEL operates in an industry which, at a national level, our clients, received through the mailboxes placed in has competitors who have a large market share, so the 59 Customized Service Modules, which were visited based on the aforementioned and compliant to the law, mainly for payments and invoice clarifications, selling of our company has not been subject to sanctions or legal products and services and customized attention. actions derived from unfair competition and/or practices against free competition or monopolistic. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 27 02 SUSTAINABILITY 02 SUSTAINABILITY [4.12, 4.13, 4.14, 4.15] healthy and safe environment in all the facilities and AXTEL has received the recognition as buildings. Socially Responsible Enterprise from • Respecting human rights, developing a favorable CEMEFI during five consecutive years framework for labor relations based on equality, respect to diversity, non-discrimination, rejecting since 2008. forced labor, slavery, and child labor. • Adopting Corporate Governance practices based on ethics and corporate transparency, observing a stringent control on risks, to promote trust in O perating under a sustainability framework implies our collaborators, clients, suppliers, investors, taking care of the social, environmental, and economic shareholders, and stakeholders. aspects of the enterprise. While in AXTEL we have carried • Rejecting bribery practices, corruption or any other out many related actions since our creation, since 2011, kind of contribution to obtain corporate advantages. we have worked with a sustainable business approach and • Potentiating a culture of respect for the environment thus taken actions and established indicators that enable while reducing environmental impact of our us to assess our evolution over time. activities, defending biodiversity, and promoting care for nature. In the economic field, 2012 was a year of great challenges • Informing all our stakeholders the activities carried for our enterprise, which pushed us to be innovative out by the enterprise, veraciously and timely. developing different strategies to ensure growth and • Developing programs that contribute to social profitability in our business. sustainability of the communities, promoting Sustainability productivity, education and personal development, In regards to social aspects, we continue promoting with the support and collaboration of all our our collaborators’ development and promoting their collaborators. professional growth through permanent training. • Searching for continuous improvement in all our Moreover, AXTEL Foundation continues working in processes, projects and personal development, to developing projects to benefit the community. develop innovative technology products and services that contribute in the growth of our society. In topics related to the environment, we have been dedicated to measuring the impact of our operations in aspects such as recycling and waste management, energy savings, water consumption, and emissions in order to establish strategies that decrease such impact. These actions have made us advance steadily, enabling us to enter the Sustainable Price and Quotation Index in the Mexican Stock Exchange (Sustainable IPC), being part of the 29 public enterprises in México that obtained the grade to participate in this Index since January 2013. The commitment with Sustainability in AXTEL is expressed in: • Managing integrally, ethically, and transparently our activities. • Working to improve not only communication, but also the life of our collaborators, clients, suppliers, shareholders, investors, and stakeholders. • Carrying out actions that ensure economic, social, and environmental sustainability. Our Sustainability Policy reflects the following guidelines: • Meeting the current municipal, state, and federal regulations. • Establishing policies to protect the collaborators’ labor rights, as well as their physical integrity, promoting safety and hygiene practices, and a 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 29 02 SUSTAINABILITY Ethics, Responsibility and Quality Environment Innovation in Information Technology and Sustainability Model Communication Labor Wellbeing Social Investments AXTEL SUSTAINABILITY Social Strategy We promote sustainable development in our community, STATEMENT carrying out actions that benefit our collaborators and our external communities, providing them the tools that T he Sustainability Strategy guides and gives direction to allow them to have access to better education and health opportunities and a dignified living. our actions. Through its guidelines, AXTEL Sustainability Model becomes a live model that supports us in carrying out concrete actions in each one of its five dimensions. Environmental Strategy We seek to reduce the negative impact of our operating practices in the environment, reviewing our procedures, Global Sustainability Strategy developing new technologies, and improving our methods, We seek to contribute to a more sustainable future with to preserve resources and establish a harmonious our work and environmental practices, introducing in relationship with nature. an honest, ethical and responsible manner, innovating solutions that provide society access to information and communication technologies. STAKEHOLDERS Economic Strategy AXTEL Strategy and Sustainability Policy are focused not Our commitment is to honestly manage our technologic, only in our enterprise and collaborators, but also in all economic, and financial resources, to operate efficiently those stakeholders with whom we are related and area under a strict risk control and following the legislation, key for our operations, development, and permanence in enabling a successful and sustainable growth of the the market. company. The different actors with which we relate were classified into 41 groups with which we created seven large blocks that enable us to serve then with a greater focus and effectively. 30 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 02 SUSTAINABILITY Stakeholder Mecanismo de comunicación actual Frecuencia de contacto Employees Intranet Permanent Individuals who perform a service function E-mail Daily to AXTEL, as well as those individuals or Corporate Communication Boards Bi-monthly groups that have direct relation with our AXTEL meeting with General Director Quarterly collaborators an can impact their Monthly Electronic Newsletter Monthly productivity. Transparency mailbox Permanent Printed and brochures Quarterly Investors and Financial Sector Web Page, Relationship with Investors Permanent Organizations and/or individuals who section maintain financial interests in AXTEL, or Face-to-face meetings Permanent collaborate so the information for these Telephone conference Quarterly groups is clear and timely. Annual Shareholders Meeting Annual Transparency mailbox Permanent Investors Contact Mailbox Permanent Clients Mass media Permanent Individuals or groups that use AXTEL E-mails Bi-monthly services in a recurring or eventual manner Invoicing Monthly to cover their communication needs. Leaflets Monthly Contact Center Permanent Web Page Permanent Transparency mailbox Permanent Contact Mailbox Permanent Facebook Daily Twitter Daily Suggestion Mailbox (in Customized Permanent Service Modules) Suppliers Suppliers' Extranet Permanent Organizations or individuals with whom E-mails Bi-monthly AXTEL maintains trade relations to Face-to-face meetings Monthly exchange goods and services that support Committees Monthly the execution of our administrative and Official Spokespeople Permanent operational processes. Transparency mailbox Permanent Contact Mailbox Permanent Government Face-to-face meetings Permanent Government entities with which AXTEL Committees Monthly interacts for the correct execution and Official Spokespeople Permanent provision of its services, always respecting External Communication Department Permanent the legal framework existing in México. Transparency mailbox Permanent Contact Mailbox Permanent Organizations and Civil Society AXTEL Foundation Permanent Groups AXTEL Foundation E-mail Permanent Civil society organizations with which the Transparency mailbox Permanent enterprise is related with the purpose of exchanging services, knowledge and/or mutual support (or for one of them), for the benefit of the enterprise, the members of the organizations or both parties. Competitors Committees Permanent Information Technology Enterprises that Transparency mailbox Permanent offer same or similar services as AXTEL Face-to-face meetings Monthly and with whom there is constant dialogue to achieve a competitive development in the Telecommunications Industry. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 31 02 SUSTAINABILITY Associations in which AXTEL is part • National Chamber for Telecommunication Industry via Cable CANITEC • National Chamber for Electronic Telecommunications Industry and Information Technology, CANIETI • Mexican Chamber of Industry, CONCAMIN • Business Coordinating Council, CCE • Telecom Council of Silicon • TM Forum 32 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 03 AXTEL FOUNDATION 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 33 [SO1] 03 AXTEL FOUNDATION In AXTEL Foundation we focus on serving AXTEL Foundation the real needs in our communities. At AXTEL Foundation we recognize that our work is AXTEL collaborators who, with genuine solidarity and enthusiasm, join their knowledge and willingness in the only possible thanks to the trust that, year after year, volunteering activities we design. the clients provide AXTEL. It is thanks to them and representing all our stakeholders, that we seek to address the root causes of the problems that affect the urbanmarginal communities in the cities where we operate. This is how AXTEL Foundation is conceived as a live organization, in constant evolution and flexible, so our actions maintain an updated focus on assisting the real and felt needs of our community. The structure of the Foundation is small but we know that our arms are in each and every one of the During 2012 we dedicated 2 million 970 thousand pesos in donations to support causes that benefit the community. ECONOMIC SUPPORTS BY CAUSE 10% 9% Human Development Community Development 81% Environment 34 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 03 AXTEL FOUNDATION PRIORITY CAUSES FOR AXTEL FOUNDATION AXTEL Foundation mainly supports non-dependency causes related with Human Development, Community Development, and the Environment. Human Development Through this program, at AXTEL Foundation we promote processes that help people learn and strengthen their personal and professional abilities. Economically, we support projects that develop competencies in people and strengthen their individual and social accountability, helping them in taking control of their own lives and actively participating in the transformation of their social environment. Community Development Our objective is promoting sustainable and equitable community development. We support the work of organizations whose projects seek to improve the quality of life and development opportunities of their citizens and consider the social and environmental aspects in a fair, responsible, and integral manner. Environment and Development We seek to support causes that promote sustainable social development assisting the needs in society, through actions that do not harm natural resources that the future generations will require. AXTEL Foundation was created by AXTEL in 2005, which has supported more than 200 social projects and benefited more than 450 thousand people. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 35 03 AXTEL FOUNDATION MEN AND WOMEN WORKING Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo León With the purpose of improving education quality in the As part of our culture, at AXTEL we promote social State of Nuevo León, AXTEL together with Alianza engagement among our collaborators, searching to Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo León, adopted the contribute in the improvement and development of Technical Secondary School 43 Adalberto Viesca Sada, projects and programs focused on the communities located in the municipality of Nuevo León, which has 826 where we live and operate. students. This corporate citizenship is lived in AXTEL as part of the Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por Nuevo León operates social sustainability strategy and remains embodied in under a community participation model with the our Corporate Volunteering Policy that establishes our purpose of generating credibility, engagement, sense of collaborators’ engagement and their families with our accountability, and ownership among the neighbors and stakeholder groups and communities we are part of. the school community. Some guidelines in our Policy establish that all the The work carried out with the support of 106 volunteers collaborators may participate actively in social programs was making improvements, together with the and projects that promote development in the community, in the school infrastructure and providing communities where we operate: dignified facilities to the students, to try to increase their educational level and obtain higher grades in the Enlace national examination. • Each collaborator can dedicate up to 16 hours of their work time per year to different volunteering To this end, there are eight committees organized with activities organized by AXTEL. 37 participants from the education community. The • The hours dedicated to volunteering activities shall committees are: reading; infrastructure improvement; not interfere with their work responsibilities, project civil protection and school security; promotion of physical compliance, their daily performance or put in risk the activity; recreational, physical, and cultural activities; optimum operation of the company. discouragement to violence practices; establishing school • Each volunteer shall program the activities and inform consumption; caring for the environment and cleaning their immediate boss the schedule in which the work the surrounding areas. will be carried out, since the hours dedicated to social activities shall not be restored. Likewise, there was coordination with Supera, Impulsa and • The collaborators’ participation in work schedule is Gente Joven from the DIF Program, the implementation dependent upon the authorization of the immediate of different educational preventive health programs, boss. hygiene, reproductive health, pregnancy prevention and • The political or religious initiatives, as well as those sexual transmitted infections representing a potential conflict of interests for AXTEL, are excluded from the activities of Corporate Red SumaRSE Volunteering. AXTEL finished the period as Chair in Red in February 2012, remaining as member of the Executive Board. Red During 2012 we increased the SumaRSE is an institution comprised by the participation of 21 Mexican enterprises together with the Ministry volunteering participation of of Social Development in Nuevo León that promotes our collaborators, having the strengthening the civic ability and reconstruction of social fabric in the metropolitan area of Monterrey. engagement of 393 individuals in 11 cities in the Country. Huertos Familiares Together with CEMEX, we participated in a program At AXTEL we promote and maintain alliances with developed in order to train the community in the institutions that pursue the same objectives as AXTEL. construction of urban orchards where the families in These causes are mainly related with education, health, urban zones are enabled to plant fruits and vegetables in and human development. easily installed and maintained orchards. Among the alliances and projects promoted during 2012, In 2012 there were free horticulture workshops taught we find the synergy with Alianza Educativa Ciudadana por to 42 families, neighbors of the orchard, where there was Nuevo León, Red SumaRSE, Huertos Familiares CEMEXradish, coriander, collard greens, broccoli, lettuce, and AXTEL, Programa Impulsa and Habitat for Humanity. cauliflower harvested. 36 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 03 AXTEL FOUNDATION The harvest is used to feed these families contributing Hábitat para la humanidad to improve family nutrition, obtaining also an economic benefit. In 2012 Fundación AXTEL A.C. signed a collaboration agreement with the organization Habitat for AXTEL Impulsa Humanity México A. C. with the purpose to start a housing improvement program in the Pueblo Nuevo AXTEL, through its Volunteering program participates Neighborhood, in Apodaca, Nuevo León. with Impulsa since 2007 in the development of the entrepreneurial spirit in students from elementary The objective of this alliance is to benefit a minimum of schools located in the low income neighborhoods, with 50 families with a process that considers the participation the purpose of motivating them to continue studying and of the families, from the self-diagnosis stage to finishing planting in them the desire for development. the housing solution that better responds to their needs. During 2012, AXTEL volunteers from Morelia, Toluca, Puebla, Mexicali, Hermosillo, Cuernavaca, Chihuahua, Ciudad Juárez, Guadalajara, México, and Monterrey participated Through the IMPULSA project the following results were obtained: 4 thousand 100 children benefited One thousand 849 hours volunteer work 305 volunteers 12 schools benefited (1 secondary, 11 elementary schools) 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 37 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE [EC5, HR5, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, LA10] Our workforce in 2012 comprised Social Perspective 6 thousand 541 men and women performing their work with dedication and excellence so our company maintains constant movement and satisfies our clients’ needs. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 39 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE [2.8, EC5, EC7, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, LA5, HR5] AXTEL collaborators represent the basis for success in to reduce operating expenses dismissing 1 thousand 404 collaborators, which represented a savings of our business. Men and women who perform their work approximately 15 percent in personnel expenses. With with dedication and excellence are the ones that enable this, AXTEL will have a more agile organization and our company to maintain its constant movement to focused on implementation of its key strategic initiatives. satisfy our clients’ needs. The balance between excellent collaborators, their development, training and equal The new organizational proposition considers business opportunities represents a priority for us. units focused on specific markets, integrating the resources necessary to increase efficiency in our services In the last quarters in 2012, AXTEL experienced a decrease and improving customer service. in its income and cash flow, affecting our liquidity. For the purpose of improving our productivity, we saw the need NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS BY GENDER AND REGION Region Men Women Total México, Center, South 1,298 301 1,599 West 2,488 1,305 3,793 North 748 401 1,149 Total 4,534 2,007 6,541 Workforce NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS BY TYPE OF AGREEMENT 2% Full Time 6,411 Part-Time 130 98% TOTAL 6,541 40 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS BY GENDER AND AGE Age Men Women Total 18-20 2,117 1,289 3,406 31-40 1,806 603 2,409 41-50 537 107 644 50 + 74 8 82 Total 4,534 2,007 6,541 Our Personnel Recruitment, Selection and Hiring Policy who meet the competencies required as the first option ensures our equal opportunity strategy for all our to cover a vacant position. In 2012, 25 percent of our collaborators. In terms of wage, in AXTEL we handle collaborators received a performance evaluation and higher amounts than the minimum established by law, for professional development, which enables us to give thus there is no collaborator receiving the minimum wage follow-up to their competencies and career plans. in the region where we have significant activities. Through its guidelines, the personnel selection criteria are specified, being hired or promoted based on their professional competencies without distinction of gender, A 17 percent of the AXTEL race or any discriminatory condition. collaborators is covered by a We promote the development of our collaborators in collective work agreement. equal circumstances and consider our internal employees NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT, CONTRACT AND REGION Region Unionized* Non-unionized Full Time Full Time Part-Time Total México, Center, South 492 1,107 0 1,599 West 368 3,332 93 3,793 North 221 891 37 1,149 Total 1,081 5,330 130 6,541 *The minimum period for pre-notification regarding organizational changes is two days and it is established in the collective agreement for our unionized collaborators. Note: all our collaborators have the right of association and invoke the collective bargaining if they desire so. In 2012 there was no activity that put this right at risk. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 41 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Our unionized collaborators are subscribed to a Collective Work Agreement, that is reviewed annually with the union. The renewal is carried out every two years and the document is deposited at a government agency of the Federal Conciliation and Arbitration Board. NUMBER OF COLLABORATORS BY AGE, GENDER, AND REGION México Center West Region North Region South Region Ages Men Women Men Women Men Women Total 18-30 524 135 472 320 1,121 834 3,406 31-40 571 142 207 70 1,028 391 2,409 41-50 177 21 65 10 295 76 644 50 + 26 3 4 1 44 4 82 Total 1,298 301 748 401 2,488 1,305 6,541 COLLABORATOR DISTRIBUTION BY GENDER AND CATEGORY Title Men Women Total Executive Directors 8 0 8 Directors 41 3 44 Managers 122 11 133 Employees Staff 2,082 728 2,810 Contact Center Executives 1,200 1,265 2,465 Installers 1,081 0 1,081 Trainees 0 0 0 Total 4,534 2,007 6,541 AXTEL generates more than 25 thousand employments, including 6 thousand 530 direct jobs and 20 thousand indirect jobs. 42 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Out of our directive team, 99 percent are native from the cities where AXTEL is present, while the remaining 1 percent are foreign. EXECUTIVES* BY GEOGRAPHICAL REGION Men Women Total Executives native from the cities 146 11 157 where AXTEL is present Executives native from the cities 22 1 23 where AXTEL is not present Executives native from other countries 3 2 5 Total 171 14 185 * Executives are considered the collaborators in positions as Executive Directors, Directors, and Managers. COLLABORATOR TURNOVER* BY AGE AND GENDER Age Men Women Total 18-30 1,236 812 2,048 31-40 746 407 1,153 41-50 230 50 280 50 + 32 6 38 Total 2,244 1,275 3,519 The annual turnover percentage** was 47 percent * The main cause for dismissals in AXTEL during 2012 was due to personnel reduction carried out at an organizational level, as well as turnover in areas where there are projects contracted (Contact Centers). ** Calculated on an annual average of 7,500 employees. In 2012, 1 thousand 404 collaborators were dismissed, • Commute time savings, in average 1.6 hours a day. out of which 91 resigned voluntarily. The amount of such • Greater effective work time and productivity while settlements was equivalent to 195 million MXN. decreasing distractions. • Permanent attention in chat, telephone, and mail. In AXTEL there are no differences in regards to social • Gas average savings of 544 MXN per month per benefits between our full-time employees and those employee. working part-time. Some of these benefits are life • Better quality of life, since the collaborators under insurance, grocery bonus, 100 percent vacation bonus this scheme increase an average of two hours of time and 30 days Christmas bonus a year. dedicated to their families. • Flexibility to work anywhere with WiFi access for A pilot program was launched during 2012 for working operation continuity. from home in the area of sourcing where the collaborators • 100 percent utilization of work tools. do “home office” two days a week. The benefits shown by this program have been: 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 43 [LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9] 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL offers safe facilities to its collaborators. Integral and Occupational Safety AXTEL offers safe facilities to its collaborators. For us, it is key that all the individuals working in our company do so under strict health and safety standards while performing their daily activities. ABSENTEEISM RATES, PROFESSIONAL DISEASES, LOST DAYS AND NUMBER OF FATALITIES RELATED WITH WORK BY REGION 2011 2012 Accidents 113 133 Lost days due to accidents* 2,563 2,480 Average personnel exposed to risks in the year 6,034 7,120 Average lost days due to accidents 22.68 18.65 Average accidents per person 0.044 0.02 Fatalities 0 0 Note: due to the type of business, the activities carried out are not considered high risk for our collaborators. *Working days THE HEALTH AND SAFETY MATTERS COVERED IN FORMAL AGREEMENTS WITH UNIONS, INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING TOPICS Degree of Coverage Personal protection team 100% Safety and Hygiene Committees 100% Periodical inspections Quarterly In accordance to ILO 100% In the Occupational and Integral Safety area, our accident for our collaborators, implementing an institutional course record was 36.8 percent lower than the telecommunications through AXTEL University to ensure that 100 percent of industry average, according to the Ministry of Labor (an our personnel has information and recommendations to improvement of 4.8 percent regarding 2011). Accident protect their integrity and their family. severity decreased in 21 percent compared with 2011, 30 percent lower than the national average. There were 240 The operation of the Mixed Commission for Safety and safety presentations given at a national level and more Hygiene is institutional. The Commissions, that have an than 420 recommendations issued, which contributed in implementation guide, operate at a national level in 17 decreasing accident incidence up to 17 percent. out of the 39 cities where AXTEL is present. They operate at a Work Center level and the coverage is 25 percent for The requirements to obtain the Safe Enterprise the number of individuals. Certification from the Ministry of Labor were met during the year. Likewise, we have education, training and counseling programs regarding our workers’ risks, we have also Within the insecurity context prevailing in the Country, we invited their families to prevent and control risks in regards intensified the communication and orientation campaign to severe diseases. In AXTEL we do not have occupations to prevent risk situations in personal and family security with high risk of contracting specific diseases. 44 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE [LA10] 91 percent of our collaborators participated in the AXTEL Ethics Course taught through our Virtual University. D eveloping our collaborators is a commitment and a responsibility at AXTEL. Our business is providing state-of-the-art technology and quality service, thus, it is necessary to maintain our personnel updated and prepared to serve our clients with the speed and excellence they require. TRAINING 2012 Number of Number of Hours or Average number of Modality collaborators courses total training hours per trained taught training employee* Virtual 6,559 342 46,204 7 Face-to-face 2,420 151 96,972 40 * The average number of training hours per employee is calculated taking as a basis the number of collaborators trained. Training AVERAGE NUMBER OF HOURS OF EDUCATION PER YEAR PER EMPLOYEE, DIVIDED BY CATEGORY Category Number of Education Average number of hours collaborators Hours for training per category Directors 52 189 3.6 Managers 133 972 7.3 Middle Management 1,260 15,223 12 Analysts 3,848 63,690 16.5 Assistants/Auxiliary personnel 149 1,053 7 Unionized 1,081 28,434 26.3 Note: The difference between the number of trained collaborators and the total number of AXTEL collaborators corresponds to personnel who were not in conditions to take the programs due to disability and/or vacations. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 45 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Just as professional development of men and women who work in our company is important, preparing and maintaining them updated regarding ethical and human rights topics is fundamental. In 2012, there were three hours of education on these topics offered per employee in average, providing a total of 17 thousand 799 hours of training to 5 thousand 900 employees during the year. In our AXTEL Institutional Platform, which offers integral education for all our collaborators, there were 10 courses offered during 2012. PISA INSTITUTIONAL COURSES (SER AXTEL INSTITUTIONAL PLATFORM) Name of the course Number of Average training hours per Total training participants employee hours AXTEL Induction 1,075 3 3,225 Action Coordination 929 3 2,787 Basic on Environment 999 3 2,997 Institutional Processes 1,017 3 3,051 Effective Meetings 839 3 2,517 Institutional 5´S 837 3 2,511 Feedback 820 3 2,460 Customer service 885 3 2,655 AXTEL Ethics 5,933 3 17,799 Introduction to Project 5,604 3 16,812 Management 46 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE T he Integral Agenda offers a diversity of spaces and opportunities for our collaborators to address the health, education, culture, family, community and work areas. In 2012 there were 96 activities related with these topics for the benefit of our collaborators and their family. In regards to education, there have been seminars and courses focused on interpersonal relations, team work, communication, leadership, and coaching. Integral Collaborator Agenda We have maintained the Cultural Cells program, through which 42 teams worked in topics such as work atmosphere, environment, social accountability, and wellness. INTEGRAL COLLABORATOR AGENDA FOR 2012 Agenda Action Number of participant collaborators Education workshops with curricular 229 value at AXTEL facilities Educational Scholarship for graduate studies 15 Education workshop with curricular 63 value in Universities Child attachment lecture 16 Family Relative visits to AXTEL facilities 657 Health Health actions 1898 We also made agreements with different organizations and instances offering benefits for our collaborators and their families. AGREEMENTS IN FAVOR OF THE COLLABORATOR Type of agreement Number of Cities Number of collaborators agreements benefited benefited Health 24 39 6,541 Education 36 39 6,541 Entertaining 31 39 6,541 Commercial 34 39 6,541 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 47 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Part of the objective of the Integral Collaborator Agenda, it is achieving a work-family balance. To this end, we carry out different activities where our collaborators and their families are involved. These activities have cultural, recreational, educational, health and family sharing purposes. In 2012 more than 17 thousand people participated in this initiative Event Event number of Total participating cities attendees Family Day 39 14,121 Family Visits 27 657 Educational Fair 5 800 Health Fair 5 1,100 Book Fair 1 505 Child Talent Contest 39 60 48 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 04 SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Health is fundamental for the good work performance and wellness of our Medical campaign Number of participants collaborators and their families. In 2012 we carried out multiple health campaigns Vaccination campaigns 938 in different AXTEL work centers. Information and prevention campaigns 2,950 Family health 346 Miscellaneous medical services 439 Women health programs 262 Conferences 250 Nutrition campaigns 497 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 49 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE Environmental Perspective At AXTEL we know that care for the environment is a fundamental part of our business and the development of our community. Actions to care for our Planet are everybody’s responsibility, in our company we know it, and consequently, since 2008 we formalized the Environmental Committee which is formed by collaborators from different areas in the company who gather to plan, develop and implement improvement ideas in environmental matters. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 51 [EN1, EN18, EN22, EN24, EN26, EN27] 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE This Committee has the participation of a representative with the Mexican Official Standards (NOM) and the in each city, who is responsible for implementing Environmental and Natural Resources Secretariat campaigns and carrying out projects related with ecology (SEMARNAT) to gather ink and toner cartridges for and environmental care, as well as for the Environmental printers, batteries and obsolete computer equipment. Waste Management and Disposal Management System, implemented this year. An important action we carried out in 2012 was the We institutionalized these actions through different “AXTEL Paperless Invoicing” campaign, where we invited policies and procedures: our clients to be part of the electronic invoicing process. In this year, issuance of electronic invoices increased in • Environmental Policy 218 percent compared with the previous year. In 2012 we • Policy on Management and Disposal of Waste stopped using 7.2 tons of paper, which represented not • Energy Savings Policy discharging 8.075 tons of CO2 into the atmosphere and avoiding cutting down 213 trees. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Includes guidelines to reduce and prevent the environmental impact of our activities, inside and outside the company, at a local, state, and national level. This Policy is integrated to the AXTEL Environmental Sustainability Strategy that seeks to preserve resources and establish a harmonious relationship with Nature. At AXTEL we are committed to: • Preserving the Planet. • Preventing pollution. • Decreasing environmental impact of our activities. • Managing non-hazardous and hazardous waste, internally and externally. • Contributing in water and soil preservation. • Promoting material recycling and reutilization. • Reducing emissions of polluting gases into the atmosphere. • Meeting the current environmental regulations. ENVIRONMENTAL QUALITY In march we signed an alliance with XEROX to minimize During 2012, all the requirements established in the our environmental impact substituting the printing regulations of the General Law for Ecological Balance and equipment in México, Guadalajara, and Monterrey. Thanks Environmental Protection in regards to self-regulation to this we stopped printing more than 540 thousand and PROFEPA environmental audits were met in the sheets of paper, equivalent to 2.2 tons of paper, which Campus, Monterrey, and Santa Fe facilities in México City, represents not cutting down 64 trees and not discharging to obtain the Environmental Quality Certification granted 2.40 tons of CO2. by the Federal Direction for Environmental Protection (PROFEPA), regulating agency in the Environment and In the rest of the cities we continue participating with Natural Resources Secretariat (SEMARNAT). Hewlett Packard in the program “Planet Partner”, initiative in favor or recycling empty toner cartridges The Waste Management and Disposal Policy at AXTEL enabling to treat an average of 440 units during last year. establishes the guidelines to control the materials These actions enabled us to achieve 42 percent additional generated by our operation at a national level. savings in expenses for equipment, maintenance, operation, consumables, paper, and energy. This document defines the materials by type of waste, treatment given to each one of them, as well as the guidelines to identify the waste generated in a recurrent manner in our company. Likewise, we have procedures established in accordance 52 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE MATERIALS USED BY WEIGHT AND VOLUME Annual amount CO2*Emissions Waste (Tons) Avoided Domestic residues 2,833 0 Paper 30.30 33.66 Cardboard 55.00 61.43 Pet plastic 1.61 1.07 Aluminum 0.85 0.094 Plastics 13.95 9.30 Glass 1.55 5.18 * Considered emissions avoided since they are sent to recycle. SPECIAL MANAGEMENT WASTE BY WEIGHT Annual amount Waste (Tons) Batteries 0.286 Power sources 41.22 Plastics 13.95 Cables 12.62 Electronic equipment 1,005.32 Toner cartridges 1.25 TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE, BY TYPE AND TREATMENT METHOD Annual amount Waste (Tons) Hazardous waste 1,046 Non-hazardous waste* 2,937 * All the other solid and liquid waste forms, except waste water. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 53 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE TOTAL WEIGHT OF WASTE, BY TYPE AND TREATMENT METHOD Way to eliminate Annual amount waste (Tons) Recycling 103 Landfill 2,833 Onsite Storage 0.286 TOTAL WEIGHT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE TRANSPORTED IN 2012 1,046 ton ANNUAL AMOUNT OF WASTE TREATED AND TRANSPORTED TO BE CONFINED Annual amount Destination (Tons) Mina, Nuevo León 0.286 Singapore 36.30 At AXTEL plastic casings are used to protect the electronic equipment from natural phenomenon impacts which are used with WiMAX technology; these casings are recovered at the end of their useful life. Currently we have 377 thousand operating, out of which we have substituted 5 thousand 189 parts, which means that 98.62 percent are active and operating. This recovery process is carried out according to the parameters established by the waste management company, in its environmental management system. ANNUAL AMOUNT OF PACKING AND PACKAGING PRODUCTS AND MATERIALS RECOVERED 5,189 pieces = 6.226 ton At AXTEL, polystyrene glasses were used by the AXTEL collaborators generating an average of 650 grams of waste per year per person. The aforementioned led us to suggest an initiative to eliminate the use of this harmful product for the environment, having an annual saving of 1 million 393 thousand glasses. With this, we avoid discharging 2.58 tons of CO2 into the atmosphere. 54 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT [EN3, EN4, EN16, EN17, EN29] 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE T he AXTEL Energy Savings Policy promotes practices to decrease electrical power consumption in all our installations among all the collaborators, strengthening the commitment acquired through the United Nations Global Compact. DIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND GREENHOUSE GAS Energy and Air Emissions EMISSIONS Consumption CO2 Emissions (Gigajoules) (Tons) Gas 77,227.036 605.70 Gasoline 11,045,681 11,601.54 Diesel 193,605.97 277.53 TOTAL 11,316,513 12,484.77 INDIRECT ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND INDIRECT GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Consumption CO2 (Gigajoules) (Tons) Electrical Energy 28.51 67,331.02 TOTAL 28.51 67,331.02 We have started actions to contribute in mitigating the environmental deterioration promoting initiatives to reduce CO2 discharges into the atmosphere. The actions taken during 2012 in this line and the savings generated were: • 2.40 tons of CO2 emissions avoided due to not printing on bond paper, because of the change of printing equipment in México, Monterrey, and Guadalajara, (AXTEL-Xerox Alliance). • 110.75 tons of CO2 discharges avoided into the atmosphere, due to responsible disposal (recycling) of paper, glass, aluminum, and plastics. • 5.27 tons of CO2 saved in employee commute thanks to the Home Office program, or work from home. • 2.58 tons of CO2 saved in eliminating the use of polystyrene glasses in all AXTEL facilities. • 8.07 tons of CO2 discharges avoided due to the Paperless Electronic Invoicing program. Activities in the organization that create indirect Annual amount emissions of greenhouse gas emissions: (Tons CO2) Employees commute 52,747.2 Traveling 57.54 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 55 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FROM PRODUCTS, MATERIALS AND PERSONNEL TRANSPORTATION Annual amount Energy consumption (fuels, electricity) 11,316,541 gjj Greenhouse gas emissions 79,815.79 ton CO2 Waste 2,833.6 ton C02 SIGNIFICANT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS FROM TRANSPORTATION WITH LOGISTIC PURPOSES AND EMPLOYEE TRANSPORTATION Impacts (CO2 Tons) Transportation with logistic purpose 11,601.538 Employee transportation 52 ,804. 74 W ater is used at AXTEL mainly for consumption in our administrative facilities in toilets, gardens and air conditioning. The main sources come from the municipal supply and, in some cases where this service is not available, water comes from authorized underground sources. [EN8, EN9] WATER CONSUMPTION BY SOURCES Annual amount Source Water Cubic meters Underground water sources* 34,000 Municipal water supply 191,679 Total 225,679 * Water extracted of an underground source does not risk biodiversity in the region, or the total volume mass of water. 56 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2011 495,893.23 Total 225,679 [3.9] 05 ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE * El agua extraída de fuente subterránea no pone en riesgo la biodiversidad de la región, ni el volumen total de la masa de agua. ANNUAL WATER CONSUMPTION CUBIC METERS 2012 225,679.00 2011 495,893.23 2010 423,883.29 2009 409,302.90 2008 362,027.73 METHODOLOGY AND CRITERIA APPLIED TO DETERMINE WHAT ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT IS SIGNIFICANT • Each ton of waste produces 1 ton of CO2. • Amounts were obtained based on the following equivalent values: • Liter of gasoline: 2.22 k of CO2 • Liter of diesel: 2.63 k of CO2 • Liter of LP Gas: 3 k of CO2 • Kwh: .656 k CO2 • Flights: 110 grams per passenger in international flight • 38.4 liters of fuel per passenger in national flight In the same way, an awareness campaign is carried out among employees for energy and fuel savings in order to mitigate the environmental impact generated by products transportation, collaborators, and other goods, and materials . 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 57 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE [EC1, EC5, EC6, EC7] 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE One of the key challenges we faced in 2012 was bandholders and also the investor of the communication towers. maintaining an appropriate cash flow level before the abrupt decrease in earnings coming from the international Likewise, we have given special emphasis in being traffic segment. In face of this dilemma demonstrated more creative in the search of financial schemes that since the beginning of the year, we saw the need to adjust do not affect the leverage of the company, such as the our investment budget, which caused our deployment operational leasing mechanisms, managed sourcing adplan for the fiber optic network directly to homes or hoc to specific projects and factoring schemes under businesses (FTTX) to be partial and temporary deferred. Financial Perspective standardized platforms. Resulting from the aforementioned, we also faced The recapitalization plan operated during 2012 and closed deterioration in financial leverage which forced us to in january 2013 enables the Company to recover financial oversee with special attention, our debt and liquidity flexibility to continue implementing appropriately its key levels, as well as start actions to make expenditures more strategic initiatives; (a) the deployment of the optical efficient and improve capital structure. fiber network to home or business, on which we are placing high value multi-services for the consumption In this sense, we started a financial clean-up process. market, and (b) ICT (Information and Communication Initially, we started negotiations to amend the credit Technologies) products and services in the cloud for the agreement with our banks avoiding the possible noncorporate and government market. compliance in certain financial clauses. Later, by mid-year, we started a recapitalization process of the Company, Already interweaving the promissory future of AXTEL, which involved divestment of communication towers, we see that the key financial objectives for 2013 are (i) which were no longer strategic and whose economic ensuring an efficient investment in working capital that value was greater in hands of a specialized operator. In contributes to strengthen our liquidity, and (ii) carry out parallel we started a process for debt reduction through the necessary investments that address our business plan the exchange of the two emissions of global notes and maintaining a prudent financial leverage. The successful pre-payment of the syndicated credit with part of the execution of the aforementioned will enable us to create resources that would be obtained from the towers sale. value for our clients, shareholders, collaborators, and the Both transactions were carried out successfully in January community in general. 2013 with the important support of most of the global 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 59 [EC1, SO6, SO7, SO8] 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL is an information and telecommunications company, ITC, that has invested more than 43 billion MXN in the creation of basic infrastructure for services and solutions for its clients and society. BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS Results (millions MXN) 2012 2011 2010 Income 10,190 10,829 10.652 (Loss) Operating Profit (535) 46 234 Net loss (709) (2,070) (307) Financial Situation (millions MXN) Total assets 20,500 22,092 22,532 Total debt 11, 467 12,323 10,465 Equity 5, 088 5, 802 7,633 Operating Cash flow (millions MXN) Adjusted UAFIRDA 2,738 3,569 3,228 Measures EBITDA/Income 26.9% 33% 30% (Loss) Operating Profit/Income -5.2% 0.4% 2.2% Net Loss/Income -7.0% -19.1% -3% Interest coverage 2.6% 3.6 3.4 Liabilities/Equity 3.03 2.81 1.95 Total Personnel 6,541 8,024 9,007 EBITDA PER QUARTER (MILLION MXN) SALES PER QUARTER (MILLION MXN) BROADBAND SUBSCRIBERS (THOUSANDS) 4to. 572 4to. 2,418 4to. 493 3ro. 704 3ro. 2,581 3ro. 491 2do. 703 2do. 2,688 2do. 482 1ero. 759 1ero. 2,503 1ero. 464 ANNUAL SALES (MILLION MXN) EBITDA PER YEAR (MILLION MXN) BROADBAND SUBSCRIBERS (THOUSANDS) 2012 10,190 2012 2,738 2012 493 2011 10,829 2011 3,569 2011 436 60 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2010 10,652 2010 3,228 2010 315 2009 10,969 2009 3,829 2009 162 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE IN 2012 Concept 2012 2011 Earnings 10,189,732 10,829,405 Economic value generated Earning due to Interests 21,967 22,340 (VEG) Other Earnings -199,987 -419,450 (VEG) 10,011,712 10,432,295 Operating costs -2,854,785 -2,799,269 Economic value distributed (VED) Outsourcing -425,474 -427,855 Social benefits (Payroll and derivatives) -1,956,608 -2,014,782 Taxes paid -68,028 -69,314 Payment to funding sources -1,002,967 -763,536 Investments in the community (Donations) -14,702 -22,068 (VED) -6,322,564 -6,096,824 Retained economic value VEG + VED 3,689,148 4,335,471 Amounts in millions of MXN Calculation according to Mexican Financial Information Standards EBITDA PER QUARTER (MILLION MXN) SALES PER QUARTER (MILLION MXN) BROADBAND SUBSCRIBERS (THOUSANDS) 4to. 572 4to. 2,418 4to. 493 In 2012 there were no financial or in –kind donations to political parties or related institutions. 3ro. 704 3ro. 2,581 3ro. 491 During this year, there were no sanctions or fines received derived from non-compliance of laws or regulations, or due to 2do. 703 2do. 2,688 2do. 482 monopolistic practices or against free competition. 1ero. 759 1ero. 2,503 1ero. 464 ANNUAL SALES (MILLION MXN) EBITDA PER YEAR (MILLION MXN) BROADBAND SUBSCRIBERS (THOUSANDS) 2012 10,190 2012 2,738 2012 493 2011 10,829 2011 3,569 2011 436 2010 10,652 2010 3,228 2010 315 2009 10,969 2009 3,829 2009 162 2008 11,572 2008 4,075 2008 92 The information from 2012 and 2011 has been prepared under the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). The information from 2010 and previous years has been prepared under the Mexican Financial Reporting Standards (NIF). 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 61 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE T he AXTEL business model is designed to satisfy the strategy, policies and guidelines defined by the Board of Directors, as well as to guarantee the growth of the company and operate integrally and in a transparent manner under an ethical frame according to the corporate values. AXTEL Business Model E ORAT AXTE RP GY L ID CO RATE Miss EN TIT ST io n , alue Vis Y te v ra s i on ,V ne in e s alu Ge e bus es t h for OSITION MARKETS S PROP vativ Inno ERV LUE ED VA AXTEL e Leade rs h i p E OM GR CU T AT t G LA tisfac ST CE M ED RIN RE a of OM UN rs S me nt R IC A IN OF E T sto me IO S TIO Cu mo FE NS N ry C eve io LE TE RVI tr n ut in h MANAGEMENT SE MODEL Strate gic Management System 62 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT [2.7] 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE CORPORATE AND GOVERNMENT Some of the main changes we carried out in our systems and/or structures to improve performance during 2012 MARKET were: Government • Change in the approach, evolving from Salespeople to Business Consultants. During 2012 we increased earnings in 16 percent in this • The organizational structure aligned to verticalization market. by sectors. • The Corporate Service Cells were implemented, integrated by Business Consultants + Service Corporate Executives. • The variable compensation scheme was modified to We worked successfully in serving medium and large size boost team work under the concept of Cells. Markets Served enterprises and corporations through the development of • A Data Base was created with information for integral solutions specialized in vertical segments of the potential by client. financial sector, Contact Centers, and Carriers. • The support information and decision making systems were improved for the Sales Force and Field We concentrate our efforts in two business lines that Service. complement each other, which also comprise four product families each: Among the main strategies and procedures used to implement policies or achieving objectives during 2012 we find: • Implementation of Consulting Sales Methodology. • More specialized resources focused on the 750 most important accounts in the Country with the purpose Communications: It is a market from which of increasing Wallet Share. AXTEL obtains more than 70 percent earnings • Verticalization by sectors to achieve solutions from the corporate and government segment. appropriate to Industry and Government needs. • Re-definition of the segments focusing on service levels according to each client’s size and potential. · Traditional telephony • Integration of the Solution Design and Service Delivery areas within the same Business Unit to · IP telephony improve service management End to End. · Networks · Internet INCOME 2012 (MILLON MXN) Segment Total Information technology: It is a market in Business 4,536 continuous evolution and growth above 15 percent per year where AXTEL has concentrated Government 1,971 the launching of new products. Total 6,508 · Infrastructure · Applications CLIENTS 2012 · Collaboration Segment Total · Security Business 10,112 Government 328 Total 10,440 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 63 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE CONSUMPTION MARKET C hange in AXTEL organizational structure to one based INCOME 2012 (MILLON MXN) on business units focused on a specific market, in this case Consumption, comprised by homes, micro and small Segment Total businesses, enabled integrating the marketing, sales, service delivery, customer service, failure solution and Residential 2,820 collections functions under one executive direction. Micro-businesses 586 The aforementioned has enabled us to improve operative efficiency, client and user attention, as well as achieving the evolution and specialization in sales channels Small businesses 276 according to the client market segment. Total 3,682 The prior was achieved thanks to the integration of the following strategies: • Improving the value proposition for the client incorporating value added services such as PC&MAC Expert and Specialized Support. CLIENTS 2012 • Increase recognition and purchasing intention for AXTEL X-tremo High speed Internet through Segment Total advertising campaigns and targeted promotion. • Evolution of the direct and indirect sales forces to Residential 637,068 achieve better service due to the new possibilities that the new generation products offer the client. Micro-businesses 64,327 • Communication and targeted sales strategies in zones with available capacity for wireless technologies. Small businesses 14,285 • Maintaining a competitive value offering in terms of the price-value relation. Total 715,680 The main goals for AXTEL consumption market in 2013 are: • Introducing the Television product to the market, selling in double and triple play packages. • Deploying the FTTX technology in four new cities and introducing the AXTEL Xtremo and AXTEL TV products in those markets in double and triple play packages. • Increasing customer penetration in the current FTTX coverage areas. 64 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT ANNUAL FINANCIAL REPORT 2012 Administration Analysis on Financial Statements 67 Independent Auditors’ Report 69 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 70 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 71 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 72 Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity 73 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements 74 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 65 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE ADMINISTRATION ANALYSIS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The information contained herein reflects the financial situation of the Company by December 31, 2012, compared with the financial situation by December 31, 2011. INCOME Other Services. Earnings due to other services for the 12-month period finished on December 31, 2012, totaled one thousand For the 12 month period finished on December 31, 2012, 882 million MXN in comparison with one thousand 604 total earnings totaled 10 thousand 190 million MXN, million MXN registered in the same period in 2011, which from 10 thousand 829 million MXN invoiced during the represented an increase of 278 million MXN or 17 percent, same period in 2011, a decrease of 640 million MXN or mainly due to the increase of 306 million MXN in earnings 6 percent. for equipment sales. Company earnings come from the following services: OPERATIONAL METRICS Local services. Earnings for local services for the 12 month period RGU’s and Clients. finished on December 31, 2012 totaled 3 thousand 619 By December 31, 2012, the revenue generating units million MXN, in comparison to 4 thousand 160 million (RGU’s) totaled 1 million 490 thousand, an increase MXN registered in the same period in 2011; a decrease of of 1 percent or 15 thousand by the same date in 2011. 541 million MXN or 13 percent explained mainly due to During the year 2012, net additions of RGU’s totaled 17 a decrease of 28 million, 62 million and 451 million MXN thousand, in comparison with 120 thousand net additions in monthly rents, measured usage charge, and cell phone in 2011, attributable to a slower pace in additions and a earnings. greater number of Internet disconnections. By December 31, 2012, the number of clients totaled 709 thousand, a decrease of 48 thousand or 6 percent by the same date Long Distance Services. in 2011. For the 12-month period finished on December 31, 2012, earnings for long distance totaled one thousand 236 million MXN compared with one thousand 224 million Voice RGU’s (Lines in Service). MXN registered in 2011, an increase of 12 million MXN By December 31 2012, the lines in service totaled 997 or 1 percent. thousand, representing a decrease of 42 thousand lines with regards to December 31, 2011. During 2012, in gross numbers, the total number of additional lines was of Data and Networks. 242 thousand in comparison with 282 thousand in 2011. For the 12-month period finished on December 31, 2012, Disconnections in 2012 and 2011 were 284 thousand the earnings for networks and data totaled 2 thousand each year. By December 31, 2012, the residential lines 797 million MXN, from 2 thousand 595 million MXN represented 66 percent of the total lines in service. invoiced in the same period in 2011, an improvement of 202 million MXN in its level, explained due to an increase of 254 million MXN in mass market or “on demand” Broadband RGU’s (Broadband subscribers). Internet earnings, and a decrease of 52 million MXN in The broadband access subscribers totaled 493 thousand dedicated Internet and virtual private network earnings. by December 31, 2012. During this year, there was an increase of 57 thousand subscribers for broadband, an increase of 13 percent compared with the previous International Traffic. year. By the end of December 2012, the total number Earnings due to international traffic totaled 655 million of WiMax subscribers reached 377 thousand, facing 368 MXN in the 12-month period finished on December 31, thousand a year ago, while the total subscribers of AXTEL 2012, a decrease of 47 percent compared with the same X-Tremo, or FTTH, totaled 100 thousand. The slower period in 2011, explained by a drop of 20 percent in pace in broadband additions considered mainly due to volume and 34 percent in price. increase in disconnections from WiMax that cannot be 66 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE totally compensated by additions in FTTH subscribers. Broadband penetration reached 49 percent by the end of INTEGRAL FINANCING RESULT 2012, in comparison with 42 percent a year ago. The integral result of financing was a cost of 347 million MXN in 2012 compared with a cost of 2 thousand 330 million MXN in 2011, explained mainly due to 5 percent COST OF SALES AND appreciation of the peso in the 2012 period, in comparison EXPENDITURES with a 9 percent depreciation in the 2011 period. Cost of Sales. NET PROFIT (LOSS) For the 12-month period finished on December 31, 2012, the cost of sales was 2 thousand 855 million MXN, The Company recorded a net loss for 709 million MXN in an increase of 56 million MXN in comparison with the the 12-months finished in December 31, 2012, compared year 2011, mainly due to increase in costs related to with a net loss for 2 thousand 070 million MXN pesos sales of equipment and integrated services, partially recorded in 2011. The variations pointed out previously, compensated by a decrease in costs from fixed to mobile net of an unfavorable variation of 41 million MXN in the and international traffic. tax line, explain this loss. Gross Profit. Gross profit is defined as earnings minus cost of sales. DEBT For the 12-month period finished on December 31, 2012, gross profit was 7 thousand 335 million MXN in At the end of 2012 total debt decreased 856 million comparison with 8 thousand 030 million MXN registered MXN in comparison with 2011, explained by (i) a net in year 2011, a decrease of 695 million MXN or 9 percent. increase of 271 million MXN in bank debt related to the drawdown under the revolving facility, (ii) a decrease of 339 million MXN in leases and other financial liabilities, Administrative and sales expenses. (iii) a decrease of 32 million MXN in notes issuance and For the 12-month period finished on December 31, 2012, deferred financing costs, and (iv) a non-cash decrease of the operating expenses were 4 thousand 597 million MXN, 814 million MXN caused by the 5 percent appreciation of from 4 thousand 461 million MXN in the same period in the currency. 2011. Personnel expenses represented 43 percent of the total operative expenses in the 12 month period finished on December 31, 2012. The increase of 135 million MXN MAIN CHANGES IN THE FINANCIAL was due to greater expenses in rents, maintenance and advertising related to AXTEL X-tremo and starting up of SITUATION OF the AXTEL TV campaign. THE COMPANY Adjusted EBITDA. By December 31, 2012 and 2011, the flows generated by The Adjusted EBITDA defined as net profit plus expenses operating activities were 2 thousand 204 million MXN and for net interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization, 3 thousand 548 million MXN respectively. By December and adjusted for extraordinary or non-recurring earnings 31, 2012 and 2011, the Company had utilized flows in or expenses. Adjusted EBITDA totaled 2 thousand 738 investment activities for (2 thousand 031) million MXN million USD, in comparison with 3 thousand 569 million and (2 thousand 534) million MXN, respectively. By MXN in 2011. As a percentage of earnings, margin was 27 December 31, 2012 and 2011, the flows (utilized in) percent for the 12-month period finished on December generated due to financing activities were (one thousand 31, 2012. 003) million MXN and (829) million MXN, respectively. Depreciation and Amortization. The result of the aforementioned, during 2012, the Depreciation and amortization for the 12-month period Company decreased the cash from one thousand 425 finished on December 31, 2012 was of 3 thousand 073 million MXN by the end of 2011, to 608 million MXN in million MXN, from 3 thousand 103 million MXN in the 2012. same period in 2011, a decrease of 30 million MXN. Capital investments. Operating Profit (Loss). For the 12-month period finishing on December 31, 2012, For the 12-month period finished on December 31, 2012 the capital investment totaled 2 thousand 016 million our operating loss was of 535 million MXN in comparison MXN, in comparison with 2 thousand 533 million MXN in with the operating profit registered in the same period in 2011. 2011 of 46 million MXN, a variation of 581 million MXN. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 67 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Taxes. During 2011, the benefit on income tax was of 173 million MXN, in comparison with a benefit of 214 million MXN the previous year. This benefit was mainly generated due to fiscal losses to be amortized, real estate, systems and equipment and other liability provisions. The information contained in this section reflects the financial situation of the Company by December 31, 2012, compared with the financial situation by December 31, 2011. Assets. without discounting accumulated depreciation totaled 35 By December 31, 2012, the total assets were 20 thousand thousand 653 million and 34 thousand 444 million MXN by 500 million MXN in comparison with 22 thousand 092 December 31, 2012 and 2011, respectively. The increase million MXN by December 31, 2011, a decrease of one in real estate, systems and equipment is explained due to thousand 592 million MXN. a greater investment during this period. Cash and Equivalent. Liabilities By December 31, 2012, cash and equivalent totaled 597 By December 31, 2012, the total liabilities were 15 million MXN in comparison with one thousand 373 million thousand 412 million MXN in comparison with 16 MXN by December 31, 2011, a decrease of 776 million thousand, 290 million MXN by December 31, 2011, a MXN, or 57 percent. decrease of 878 million. Accounts Receivable. Accounts Payable and Accumulated Liabilities. By December 31, 2012, accounts receivable totaled 2 By December 31, 2012, accounts payable and accumulated thousand 407 million MXN in comparison with 2 thousand liabilities totaled 2 thousand 404 million in comparison 018 million MXN by December 31, 2011, an increase of with 2 thousand 396 million by December 31, 2011, an 389 million MXN. increase of 9 million. Real estate, systems and equipment, net. Equity By December 31, 2012, real estate, systems and By December 31, 2012, Company equity totaled 5 equipment, net, were 13 thousand 998 million MXN thousand 088 million in comparison with 5 thousand 802 in comparison with 15 thousand 423 million MXN by million by December 31, 2011, a decrease of 714 million, December 31, 2011, a decrease of one thousand 425 or 12 percent. Corporate capital remained in 6 thousand million MXN. The real estate, systems and equipment 626 million MXN by December 31, 2012 and 2011. 68 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of AXTEL, S. A. B. de C. V.: We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of AXTEL, S. A. B. de C. V, and subsidiaries (the Company), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2012, 2011, and January 1, 2011 and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 and notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Management’s responsibility for the consolidated financial statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditors’ responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits in accordance with International Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on our judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, we consider internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Axtel, S. A. B. de C. V, and subsidiaries, as of December 31, 2012, 2011 and January 1, 2011 and the consolidated results of their operations and consolidated cash flows for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards. Emphasis paragraphs Without qualifying our opinion, we draw attention to the following: As described in note 2, in recent quarters, the Company has experienced declines in revenues and cash flows, and liquidity constraints. Company´s plans to address this situation are listed in Note 2. As mentioned in notes 24 (b) and 24 (c), the Company has contingencies related to interconnection rates with mobile operators and with long distance terminating calls with one of its main suppliers. As of December 31, 2012, the difference between the amounts paid by the Company and the amounts billed by the mobile operators and one of its main suppliers amounted to approximately $2,073 and $1,240 million of pesos, respectively, before value added tax. As of the date of this report, Company Management and legal counsel consider that they have sufficient elements for a favorable outcome in the trials related to these contingencies. KPMG Cardenas Dosal, S. C. KPMG Cárdenas Dosal Offices in Parque Torre II Blvd. Díaz Ordaz 140 Pte. Pisos 16 y 17 Col. Santa María 64650 Monterrey, N.L. Telephone: +01 (81) 8122 1818 Fax: +01 (81) 8333 0532 www.kpmg.com.mx C.P.C. Leandro Castillo Parada 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 69 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION (Thousands of Mexican pesos) These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers December 31, December 31, January 1, Note 2012 2011 2011 Assets Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents 8 $ 597,201 1,372,896 1,250,143 Restricted cash 8 10,709 52,127 58,121 Accounts receivable 9 2,406,764 2,018,013 2,240,534 Refundable taxes 91,069 108,679 97,884 Prepaid expenses 52,188 79,580 55,032 Inventories 10 105,471 152,756 165,629 Financial instruments 8 88,419 320,123 271,817 Assets classified as held for sale 11 460,462 Other current assets 14 141,439 235,401 303,798 Total current assets 3,953,722 4,339,575 4,442,958 Long-term accounts receivable 11 15,470 17,712 27,346 Property, systems and equipment 12 13,997,994 15,423,023 15,769,472 Intangible assets 20 288,622 325,495 370,772 Deferred income taxes 13 2,081,718 1,853,392 1,628, 471 Investments in associates 14 9,647 9,667 44,341 Other assets 153,158 123,090 141,658 Total assets $ 20,500,331 22,091,954 22,425,018 Liabilities and Stockholders’ Equity Current liabilities: Accounts payable and accrued liabilities $ 2,404,471 2,395,837 2,668,135 Accrued interest 276,043 297,107 261,692 Taxes payable 135,703 168,319 153,733 Short-term debt 8 280,000 Current maturities of long-term debt 15 411,969 380,880 375,996 Current portion of provisions 18 281,808 59,855 100,000 Deferred revenue 19 631,298 567,878 667,665 Derivative financial instruments 8 46,532 16,888 127,549 Other current liabilities 16 106,702 139,994 98,629 Total current liabilities 4,294,526 4,026,758 4,733,399 Long-term debt 15 11,054,645 11,941,813 9,667,867 Provisions 18 253,129 223,824 Other liabilities 9,534 12,233 18,535 Employee benefits 17 19,452 21,935 19,972 Deferred revenue 19 33,900 33,900 33,900 Total liabilities 15,412,057 16,289,768 14,697,497 Stockholders’ equity Common stock 21 6,625,536 6,625,536 6,625,536 Additional paid-in capital 21 644,710 644,710 644,710 Reserve for repurchase of own shares 21 162,334 162,334 162,334 Retained earnings (2,314,955) (1,606,086) 464,040 Accumulated other comprehensive income 21 (29,351) (24,308) (169,099) Total stockholders’ equity 5,088,274 5,802,186 7,727,521 Commitments and contingencies 24 Subsequent events 24 y 27 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 20,500,331 22,091,954 22,425,018 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 70 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (Thousands of Mexican pesos) These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers Note 2012 2011 Telephone services and related revenues 22 $ 10,189,732 10,829,405 Operating costs and expenses: Cost of revenues and services (2,854,785) (2,799,269) Selling and administrative expenses (4,596,598) (4,461,366) Depreciation and amortization (3,073,240) (3,102,824) Other expenses 23 (199,987) (419,450) Operating (loss) income (534,878) 46,496 Interest expense 11 (1,057,513) (1,002,580) Interest income 21,967 22,340 Foreign exchange gain (loss), net 797,630 (1,276,332) Change in the fair value of financial instruments, net 8 (109,197) (73,886) Net finance costs (347,113) (2,330,458) Equity in earnings of associated company 13 (20) (141) Loss before income taxes (882,011) (2,284,103) Income taxes: Current 20 (53,022) (73,105) Deferred 20 226,164 287,082 Total income tax benefit 173,142 213,977 Net loss $ (708,869) (2,070,126) Other comprehensive income items: Valuation effects of cash flow hedges, net of income tax 21 (5,043) 144,791 Comprehensive loss $ (713,912) (1,925,335) Weighted average number of common shares outstanding 8,769,353,223 8,769,353,223 Basic loss per share $ (0.08) (0.22) The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 71 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS Years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (Thousands of Mexican pesos) These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers 2012 2011 Cash flows from operating activities: Net loss for the period $ (708,869) (2,070,126) Adjustments for: Income tax benefit (173,142) (213,977) Foreign exchange (gain) loss, net (797,630) 1,276,332 Depreciation 3,021,210 3,028,501 Amortization 52,030 74,323 Impairment loss recognized on trade receivables 201,473 186,695 (Gain) loss on sale of property, system and equipment (429) 71,493 Allowance for obsolete and slow-moving inventories 21,408 324,409 Share of losses of equity-accounted investees 20 141 Impairment of other permanent investments 36,938 Interest expense 1,057,513 1,002,580 Amortization of premium on bond issuance (6,236) (6,236) Fair value gain on financial instruments 109,197 73,886 2,776,545 3,784,959 Movements in working capital: (Increase) decrease in accounts receivable (482,751) 81,795 Decrease in inventories 47,284 12,873 Decrease in accounts payable (132,263) (206,804) (Increase) decrease in deferred revenue 63,420 (99,787) Cash generated from operating activities 2,272,235 3,573,036 Taxes paid (68,028) (25,245) Net cash from operating activities 2,204,207 3,547,791 Cash flows from investing activities: Acquisition and construction of property, systems and equipment (2,016,223) (2,532,772) Other investment (2,405) Other assets (15,075) 895 Net cash used in investing activities (2,031,298) (2,534,282) Cash flows from financing activities: Interest paid (1,038,846) (969,724) Proceeds of bank loans 261,862 964,092 Payments of bank loans (352,000) Other long terms loans, net (333,027) (416,254) Income (payments) of derivative financial instruments 107,044 (54,738) Net cash flow from financing activities (1,002,967) (828,624) Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents (830,058) 184,885 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 1,372,896 1,250,143 Effects of exchange rate fluctuations on cash and cash equivalents held 54,363 (62,132) Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year $ 597,201 1,372,896 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 72 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY Years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 (Thousands of Mexican pesos) These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers Reserves for Accumulated Additional repurchase other Total paid-in of own Accumulated comprehensi stockholders’ Capital stock capital shares deficit ve income equity Balances as of January 1, 2011 $ 6,625,536 644,710 162,334 464,040 (169,099) 7,727,521 Net loss (2,070,126) (2,070,126) Other comprehensive income items, net of income tax 144,791 144,791 Balances as of December 31, 2011 6,625,536 644,710 162,334 (1,606,086) (24,308) 5,802,186 Net loss (708,869) (708,869) Other comprehensive income items, net of income tax (5,043) (5,043) Balances as of December 31, 2012 $ 6,625,536 644,710 162,334 (2,314,955) (29,351) 5,088,274 The accompanying notes are an integral part of the consolidated financial statements. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 73 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE AXTEL, S. A. B. DE C. V. AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO THE CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Thousands of Mexican pesos) These financial statements have been translated from Spanish language original and for the convenience of foreign English – speaking readers (1) REPORTING ENTITY In order to implement the strategic plans, the Company is restructuring certain operations (see note 18). AXTEL, S.A.B. de C.V. (“AXTEL”) is a Mexican corporation engaged in operating and/or exploiting a public On November 17, 2011, the Company closed a syndicated telecommunication network to provide voice, sound, data, loan with Banco Nacional de Mexico, SA, a member of text, and image conducting services, and local, domestic Grupo Financiero Banamex; Banco Mercantil del Norte and international long-distance calls. A concession is SA, Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero required to provide these services and carry out the Banorte; Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch; ING related activities, (see notes 6 (j) and 12). In June 1996, Bank NV, Dublin Branch and Standard Bank Plc in order the Company obtained a concession from the Mexican to strengthen liquidity, provide cash flows for future Federal Government to install, operate and exploit public capital investments, debt repayment and other corporate telecommunication networks for an initial period of thirty general purposes (see note 15). years. The corporate domicile of the Company located in Blvd. Díaz Ordaz km 3.33 L-1, Colonia Unidad San Pedro, 66215 San Pedro Garza García, Nuevo León, Mexico. AXTEL’s primary activities are carried out through (3) INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING different operating entities which are its direct or indirect subsidiaries (collectively with Axtel referred to herein as STANDARDS the “Company”). Beginning January 1, 2012, the Company adopted the International Financial Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) as (2) SIGNIFICANT EVENTS issued by the International Accounting Standard Board (“IASB”) as the regulatory base to prepare and present On December 4, 2012, the Extraordinary General Meeting consolidated financial statements. of Shareholders authorized to negotiate, incur or execute financing operations and debt restructuring on terms These consolidated financial statements have been and conditions that management deems appropriate prepared in accordance with the International Financial and in according with current market conditions, and Reporting Standards (“IFRS”) and are the Company’s is authorized to grant part or all of the tangible and first annual consolidated financial statements under intangible assets, present and / or future of the Company these standards. The Company applied IFRS 1 “First-time to ensure the financing and restructuring operations. Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards”. Previously, the Company’s financial statements have been In recent quarters of 2012, the Company has experienced prepared on the basis of Mexican Financial Reporting declines in revenues and cash flows, affecting its liquidity. Standards (“FRS”). The effects of transition to IFRS are This situation is negatively impacting the Company´s disclosed in note 25. investment program, thus slowing the Company´s growth. The Company plans to address this situation is as follow: • reduce operating expenses, through the implementation of different programs such as restructuring corporate structure and reducing workforce, and the not renewal of certain offices space under operating leases, • pursuing a liability management plan targeting to reduce current long term debt to achieve a more affordable debt level, • selling of non-strategic assets, through sale and lease back transactions, • launching different commercial offers and new products that were in developing stages and are ready to begin its commercial launch in the coming quarters. 74 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (4) CONSOLIDATION OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements include those of AXTEL and those of the entities over which it exercises control on the financial and operating policies. The subsidiaries included in the consolidated interim financial statements are presented as follows: Subsidiary Activity % Equity Interest Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V. (“Icosa”) Administrative services 100% Servicios AXTEL, S.A. de C.V. (“Servicios AXTEL”) Administrative services 100% Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel”) Telecommunication services 100% Avantel Infraestructura S. de R.L. de C.V. (“Avantel Infraestructura”) Telecommunication services 100% Telecom Network, Inc (“Telecom”) Telecommunication services 100% Avantel Networks, S.A. de C.V. (“Avantel Network”) Telecommunication services 100% AXTEL Capital, S. de R.L. de C.V. (AXTEL Capital) Administrative services 100% The Company owns directly or indirectly 100% of the subsidiaries. Intercompany balances, investments and transactions were eliminated in the consolidation process. (5) BASIS OF PREPARATION c) Functional and presentation currency a) Statement of compliance These consolidated financial statements are presented in mexican pesos, which is the Company’s functional The consolidated financial statements have been currency. All financial information presented in pesos prepared in accordance with International Financial or “Ps.”, are to Mexican pesos; likewise, references to Reporting Standards (IFRS). dollars or U.S. $, or USD are to dollars of the United States of America. These are the first annual financial statements prepared in accordance with IFRS and has applied IFRS 1 “First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards”. The effects of transition to IFRS are disclosed in note 25, and an explanation of how it affected the financial position, financial performance and cash flows reported by the Company are disclosed in note 25. On February 28, 2013, the Director of Administration and Human Resources of the Company authorized the issuance of the accompanying consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto. b) Basis of measurement The information presented in the consolidated financial statements has been prepared on a historical cost basis, except certain financial instruments. The historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration granted in exchange of the related assets. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 75 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (6) SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES FINANCIAL ASSETS VALUED AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS The accounting policies set out below have been applied Financial assets are classified as at fair value through consistently to all periods presented in these consolidated profit or loss if they are acquired to be sold in a short financial statements and in preparing the opening IFRS term. Derivative financial instruments are classified at fair statement of financial position at January 1, 2011 for value through profit or loss, unless they are designated the purposes of the transition to IFRSs, unless otherwise as hedging instruments. Financial assets classified at indicated. fair value through profit or loss is recognized initially at fair value, and subsequently changes in fair value are a) Cash and cash equivalents recognized in income or loss in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. Cash and cash equivalents consist of short-term investments, highly liquid, readily convertible into AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL ASSETS cash and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivative value, including overnight repurchase agreements and financial assets that are designated as such or that are not certificates of deposit with an initial term of less than classified in any of the previously mentioned categories three months. and do qualify as held-to-maturity investments. Availablefor-sale financial assets represent investments with a quoted price in an active market and can therefore be b) Restricted cash reliably valued at their fair value. After initial measurement, available-for sale financial assets are valued at their fair The Company restricted cash as of December 31, value and the unrealized gains or losses are recognized as 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011, presented in the a separate item in the other comprehensive income in the consolidated statements of financial position, amounted stockholders’ equity within other comprehensive income. to $ 10,709, $52,127 and $58,121, respectively, derived When the available-for-sale financial assets are sold and from various financial instrument contracts mentioned in all of the risks and benefits have been transferred to the note 8 and the syndicated loan mentioned in note 15. buyer, all previous fair value adjustments recognized directly in the other comprehensive income in the c) Financial assets stockholders’ equity are reclassified to the consolidated statements of comprehensive income. Financial assets are recognized when the Company becomes a party to the contractual provisions of the RECEIVABLES instrument. Trade accounts receivable and other accounts receivable with fixed or determinable payments that are not traded Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and on an active market are classified as “Receivables”. the net amount is reported in the statement of financial Receivables are valued at amortized cost using the position when there is a legally enforceable right to offset effective interest rate method, less any impairment losses. the recognized amounts and the intention is to settle Interest income is recognized applying the effective them on a net basis or to realize the asset and settle the interest rate method. liability simultaneously. EFFECTIVE INTEREST METHOD Financial assets are initially measured at fair value. The effective interest method is a method of calculating Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the the amortized cost of a debt instrument and allocating acquisition or issue of financial assets (other than interest income or financial cost over the relevant period. financial assets at fair value through profit or loss) are The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts added to or deducted from the fair value of the financial estimated future cash receipts or payments (including all assets, as appropriate, on initial recognition. Transaction fees and basis points paid or received that form an integral costs directly attributable to the acquisition of financial part of the effective interest rate, transaction costs and assets at fair value through profit or loss are recognized other premiums or discounts) through the expected life immediately in profit or loss. of the debt instrument, or, where appropriate, a shorter period, to the net carrying amount. Financial assets are classified within the following specific categories: “financial assets at fair value with changes WRITE-OFF OF FINANCIAL ASSETS through profit or loss,” “investments held to maturity”, The Company writes off a financial asset solely where “assets available for sale” “loans and accounts payable.” the contractual rights over the financial asset cash flows The classification depends on the nature and purpose expire or substantially transfers the risks and benefits thereof and is determined upon initial recognition. inherent to the ownership of the financial asset. 76 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE d) Impairment of financial instruments comprehensive income or loss in stockholders’ equity to the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The Company assesses at each financial reporting For equity instruments classified as available-for-sale, date whether there is any objective evidence that a if there is a significant or prolonged decline in their fair financial asset or a group of financial assets is impaired. value to below acquisition cost, impairment is recognized A financial asset or a group of financial assets is deemed directly in the consolidated statement of comprehensive to be impaired if, and only if, there is objective evidence income but subsequent reversals of impairment are of impairment as a result of one or more events that not recognized in the consolidated statement of occurred after the initial recognition of the asset and comprehensive income. Reversals of impairment losses on that had a negative impact on the estimated future debt instruments are reversed through the consolidated cash flows that can be reliably estimated. Evidence of statement of comprehensive income; if the increase in fair impairment may include indications that the debtor or value of the instrument can be objectively related to an a group of debtors are experiencing significant financial event occurring after the impairment loss was recognized. difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy e) Derivative financial instruments or other financial reorganization and when observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the HEDGING INSTRUMENTS estimated future cash flows. The Company recognizes all derivative financial instruments as financial assets and/or liabilities, which FINANCIAL ASSETS CARRIED AT AMORTIZED COST are stated at fair value. At the inception of the hedge If there is objective evidence of an impairment loss, the relationship, the Company documents the relationship amount of the loss is measured as the difference between between the hedging instrument and the hedged item, the book value of the asset and the present value of along with its risk management objectives and its strategy expected future cash flows (excluding expected future for undertaking various hedge transactions. Furthermore, credit losses that have not yet been incurred). The at the inception of the hedge and on an ongoing basis, the present value of expected future cash flows is discounted Company documents whether the hedging instrument is at the financial asset’s original effective interest rate. The highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash carrying amount of the asset is then reduced through a flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. provision and the amount of the loss is recognized in the This documentation includes the identification of the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. The derivative financial instrument, the item or transaction loans and the related provisions are written off when there being hedged, the nature of the risk to be reduced, is no realistic possibility of future recovery and all of the and the manner in which its effectiveness to diminish collateral guarantees have been realized or transferred to fluctuations in fair value of the primary position or cash the Company. If, in a subsequent year, the amount of the flows attributable to the hedged risk will be assessed. estimated impairment loss increases or decreases due to The expectation is that the hedge will be highly effective an event that occurs after the impairment was recognized, in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows, which the previously recognized impairment loss is increased or are continually assessed to determine whether they reduced by adjusting the provision account. If a future are actually effective throughout the reporting periods write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to to which they have been assigned. Hedges that meet the consolidated interim statement of comprehensive the criteria are recorded as explained in the following income. If there is objective evidence of impairment paragraphs: in financial assets that are individually significant, or collectively for financial assets that are not individually CASH FLOW HEDGES significant, or if the Company determines there to be For derivatives that are designated and qualify as cash no objective evidence of impairment for an individually flow hedges and the effective portion of changes in assessed financial asset, whether significant or not, fair value are recorded as a separate component in the asset is included in a group of financial assets with stockholders’ equity within other comprehensive income similar credit risk characteristics and they are collectively and are recorded to the consolidated interim statement evaluated for impairment. Assets that are assessed of comprehensive income at the settlement date, as part individually for impairment and for which an impairment of the sales, cost of sales and financial expenses, as the loss is or continues to be recognized are not included in case may be. The ineffective portion of changes in the fair the collective evaluation of impairment. value of cash flow hedges is recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income of the period. AVAILABLE-FOR-SALE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS If an available-for-sale asset is impaired, the difference If the hedging instrument matures or is sold, terminated between its cost (net of any principal payment and or exercised without replacement or continuous amortization) and its current fair value, less any impairment financing, or if its designation as a hedge is revoked, any loss previously recognized in the consolidated interim cumulative gain or loss recognized directly within other statement of comprehensive income, is reclassified from comprehensive income in stockholders’ equity from the 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 77 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE effective date of the hedge, remains separated from Other equity investments in which the Company does equity until the forecasted transaction occurs when it is not exercise significant influence the investees’ capital recognized in income. When a forecasted transaction is stock are recorded at cost as their fair value is not reliably no longer expected to occur, the cumulative gain or loss determinable. recognized in stockholders’ equity is immediately carried to profit and loss. Derivatives designated as hedges that i) Property, systems and equipment are effective hedging instruments are classified based on the classification of the underlying. The derivative Property, systems and equipment, including capital leases, instrument is divided into a short-term portion and a and their significant components are initially recorded at long-term portion only if a reliable assignation can be acquisition cost and are presented net of the accumulated performed. depreciation and associated impairment losses. EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES Property, plant and equipment are presented using the This type of derivatives is valued at fair value and changes cost method foreseen in IAS 16, “Property, Plant and in fair value are recognized in the consolidated statement Equipment.” Depreciation is calculated using the straight of comprehensive income. line method based on the value of the assets and their estimated useful life, which is periodically reviewed by the f) Fair value of financial instruments Company’s management. The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active markets at each reporting date is determined DEPRECIATION by reference to quoted market prices or dealer price The estimated useful lives of the Company’s assets quotations (bid price for long positions and ask price for property, systems and equipment are as follows: short positions), without any deduction for transaction costs. For financial instruments that are not traded on an active market, the fair value is determined using Useful lives appropriate valuation techniques. These techniques may include using recent arm’s-length market transactions; Building 25 years reference to the current fair value of another financial instrument that is substantially the same; discounted cash Computer and electronic equipment 3 years flow analysis or other valuation models. Transportation equipment 4 years g) Inventories and cost of sales Furniture and fixtures 10 years Inventories are stated at the lower of historical cost or net Network equipment 6 to 28 years realizable value. Cost of sales include expenses related to Leasehold improvements 5 to 14 years the termination of customers’ cellular and long-distance calls in other carriers’ networks, as well as expenses related to billing, payment processing, operator services and our leasing of private circuit links. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the useful Net realizable value is the sales price estimated in the life of the improvement or the related contract term, ordinary course of operations, less applicable sales whichever is shorter. expenses. h) Investments in associates and joint ventures SUBSEQUENT COSTS The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, and other equity investments systems and equipment is recognized in the carrying amount of the item if it is probable that the future Investments in associates are those in which significant economic benefits embodied within the component influence is exercised on their administrative, financial will flow to the Company, and its cost can be measured and operating policies. reliably. Maintenance and minor repairs, including the cost of replacing minor items not constituting substantial Such investments are initially valued at acquisition cost, improvements are expensed as incurred and charged and subsequently, using the equity method, the result mainly to selling and administrative expenses. thereof is recognized on profit and loss. 78 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE DECOMMISSIONING AND REMEDIATION OBLIGATIONS k) Impairment of non-financial assets The Company recognizes a provision for the present value associated with the Company’s decommissioning and The Company reviews carrying amounts of its tangible remediation obligations to remove its telecommunication and intangible assets in order to determine whether towers and capitalized the associated cost as a component there are indicators of impairment. If there is an indicator, of the related asset. Adjustments to such obligations the asset recoverable amount is calculated in order resulting from changes in the expected cash flows are to determine, if applicable, the impairment loss. The added to, or deducted from, the cost of the related asset in Company undertakes impairment tests considering asset the current period, except to the extent that the amount groups that constitute a cash-generating unit (CGU). deducted from the cost of the asset shall not exceed its Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are subject to carrying amount. If a decrease in the liability exceeds the impairment tests at least every year, and when there is an carrying amount of the asset, the excess is recognized indicator of impairment. immediately in profit or loss. The recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less BORROWING COSTS its disposal cost and value in use. In assessing value in Borrowing costs directly related to the acquisition, use, estimated future prices of different products are construction of production of qualifying assets, which used to determine estimated cash flows, discount rates constitute assets that require a substantial period until and perpetuity growth. Estimated future cash flows are they are ready for use, are added to the cost of such assets discounted to their fair value using a pre-tax discount rate during the construction stage and until commencing their that reflects market conditions and the risks specific to operations and/or exploitation. Yields obtained from the each asset for which estimated future cash flows have not temporary investment of funds from specific loans to been adjusted. be used in qualifying assets are deducted from costs for loans subject to capitalization. All other borrowing costs If the recoverable amount of a CGU is estimated to are recognized in profits and losses during the period in be less than its carrying amount, the unit’s carrying which they were incurred. amount is reduced to its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the consolidated statement of j) Intangibles assets comprehensive income. The amounts expensed for intangible assets are capitalized When an impairment loss is subsequently reversed, the when the future economic benefits derived from such CGU’s carrying amount increases its estimated revised investments, can be reliably measured. According to their value, such that the increased carrying amount does nature, intangible assets are classified with determinable not exceed the carrying amount that would have been and indefinite lives. Intangible assets with determinable determined if an impairment loss for such CGU had not lives are amortized using the straight line method during been recognized in prior years. the period in which the economic benefits are expected to be obtained. Intangible assets with an indefinite life are l) Non-current assets held for sale not amortized, as it is not feasible to determine the period in which such benefits will be materialized; however, Non-recurrent assets that are expected to be recovered they are subject to annual impairment tests. The price primarily through sale rather than through continuing paid in a business combination assigned to intangible use are classified as held for sale. This means that the assets is determined according to their fair value using asset is available for immediate sale and is sale is highly the purchase method of accounting. Research and probable. A non-current asset classified as held for sale is development expenses for new products are recognized measured at the lower of its fair value less cost to sell and in results as incurred. its carrying amount. Any impairment loss for write-down of the asset to fair value less costs to sell is recognized in Telephone concession rights are included in intangible the statement of comprehensive income. assets and amortized over a period of 20 to 30 years (the initial term of the concession rights). m) Financial liabilities Intangible assets also include infrastructure costs paid to INITIAL RECOGNITION AND MEASUREMENT Telmex / Telnor. Financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and financial As a consequence of the acquisition of Avantel, the debt, or derivatives designated as hedging instruments Company identified and recognized the following in effective hedges, as the case may be. The Company intangible assets: trade name, customer relationships and determines the classification of its financial liabilities at concession rights (see note 12). the time of their initial recognition. All financial liabilities are initially recognized at their fair value and, for loans and financial debt, fair value includes directly attributable transaction costs. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 79 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Financial liabilities include accounts payable to suppliers n) Leases and other accounts payable, debt and derivative financial instruments. Leases are classified as financial leases when under the terms of the lease, the risks and benefits of the property Financial assets and liabilities are offset and the net are substantially transferred to the lessee. All other leases amount is shown in the consolidated interim statement are classified as operating leases. of financial position if, and only if, (i) there is currently a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized amounts; THE COMPANY AS A LESSEE and (ii) the intention is to settle them on a net basis or to Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. assets of the Company at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the Subsequent recognition of financial liabilities depends on minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to their classification, as follows: the lessor is included in the consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FAIR VALUE WITH CHANGES TO PROFIT OR LOSS Lease payments are apportioned between finance Financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as or loss include financial liabilities for trading purposes, and to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining financial liabilities measured upon initial recognition at fair balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognized value through profit or loss. immediately in profit or loss, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are This category includes derivative financial instruments capitalized in accordance with the Company’s general traded by the Company and that have not been designated policy on borrowing costs. Contingent rentals are as hedging instruments in hedging relationships. recognized as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. Separate embedded derivatives are also classified for trading purposes, except they are designated as effective Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense hedging instruments. on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the Profits or losses on liabilities held for trading purposes time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased are recognized in the consolidated statement of asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under comprehensive income. operating leases are recognized as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. The Company has not designated any financial liability upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or o) Provisions loss. The derivative financial instruments that cannot be designated as hedges are recognized at fair value with Provisions are recognized when the Company has a changes in profit and loss. present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that Company settles an FINANCIAL DEBT AND INTEREST BEARING LOANS obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the After their initial recognition, loans and borrowings amount of the obligation. that bear interest are subsequently measured at their amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimates Gains and losses are recognized in profit and loss at to settle the present obligation at the end of the period, the time they are derecognized, as well as through the bearing into account the risks and uncertainties inherent effective interest rate amortization process. thereto. When a provision is assessed using estimated cash flows to settle the present obligation, its book value The amortized cost is computed by taking into represents the present value of such cash flows (when the consideration any discount or premium on acquisition and effect in the time value of money is significant). the fees and costs that are integral part of the effective interest rate. Effective interest rate amortization is included as part interest expense in the consolidated p) Employee benefits statement of comprehensive income. SHORT-TERM EMPLOYEE BENEFITS A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation is Employee remuneration liabilities are recognized in met, cancelled or expires. the consolidated statement of comprehensive income on services rendered according to the salaries and wages that the entity expects to pay at the date of the consolidated statement of financial position, including related contributions payable by the Company. Absences 80 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE paid for vacations and vacation premiums are recognized the tax consequences that the Company expects at in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income the end of the period, to recover or settle the carrying in so far as the employees render the services that allow amount of its assets and liabilities. them to enjoy such vacations. Deferred income tax is recognized on temporary SENIORITY PREMIUMS GRANTED TO EMPLOYEES differences between the book and tax values of assets and In accordance with Mexican labor law, the Company liabilities, including tax loss benefits. Deferred tax assets provides seniority premium benefits to its employees or liabilities are not recognized if temporary differences under certain circumstances. These benefits consist of a arise from goodwill or from the initial recognition (other one-time payment equivalent to 12 days wages for each than in a business combination) of other assets and year of service (at the employee’s most recent salary, but liabilities in a transaction that affects neither taxable not to exceed twice the legal minimum wage), payable to profit nor the accounting profit. all employees with 15 or more years of service, as well as to certain employees terminated involuntarily prior to the Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable vesting of their seniority premium benefit. temporary differences related to with investments in subsidiaries, except where the Company is able to control Costs associated with these benefits are provided for the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable based on actuarial computations using the projected unit that the temporary difference will not reverse in the credit method. foreseeable future. TERMINATION BENEFITS The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed The Company provides statutorily mandated termination at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the benefits to its employees terminated under certain extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable circumstances. Such benefits consist of a one-time profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to payment of three months wages plus 20 days wages for be recovered. each year of service payable upon involuntary termination without just cause. Current and deferred tax for the year are recognized in profit or loss, except where they are related to items Termination benefits are recognized when the Company recognized in the “Other comprehensive income” line decides to dismiss an employee or when such employee item in the stockholders’ equity, in which case the current accepts an offer of termination benefits. and deferred taxes are recognized in the stockholders’ equity. q) Statutory employee profit sharing s) Revenue recognition In conformity with Mexican labor law, the Company must distribute the equivalent of 10% of its annual The Company’s revenues are recognized when earned, as taxable income as employee statutory profit sharing. This follows: amount is recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. • Telephony Services – Customers are charged a flat monthly fee for basic service, a per-call fee for local r) Income taxes calls, a per-minute usage fee for calls completed on a cellular line and domestic and international long CURRENT INCOME TAXES distance calls, and a monthly fee for value-added The tax currently payable is based on taxable profit for services. the year, which for companies in Mexico is comprised of the regular income tax (ISR) and the business flat tax • Activation – At the moment of installing the service (IETU). Taxable profit differs from profit as reported in when the customer has a contract with indefinite life; the consolidated statement of comprehensive income otherwise is recognized over the average contract because of items of income or expense that are taxable life. or deductible in other years and items that are never taxable or deductible. The Company’s liability for current • Equipment – At the moment of selling the equipment tax is calculated using tax rates that have been enacted or and when the customer acquires the property of the substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. equipment and assumed all risks. DEFERRED INCOME TAXES • Integrated services – At the moment when the client Deferred income tax is calculated based on management’s receives the service. financial projections according to whether it expects the Company to incur ISR or IETU in the future. The recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities reflects 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 81 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE t) Earnings per share Company uses market risk premium indicators and long-term growth expectations of markets where the Net earnings per share result from dividing the net Company operates. earnings for the year by the weighted average of outstanding shares during the fiscal year. To determine c) Allowance for doubtful accounts The Company uses the weighted average of the outstanding shares, the estimates to determine the allowance for doubtful shares repurchased by the Company are excluded. accounts. The factors that the Company considers to estimate doubtful accounts are mainly the customer’s u) Segments financial situation risk, unsecured accounts, and considerable delays in collection according to the Management evaluates the Company’s operations credit limits established. as two revenue streams (Mass Market and Business Market), however it is not possible to attribute direct or d) Contingencies The Company is subject to contingent indirect costs to the individual streams other than selling transactions or events on which it uses professional expenses and as a result has determined that it has only judgment in the development of estimates of one operating segment. occurrence probability. The factors considered in these estimates are the current legal situation as of the date of the estimate, and the external legal advisors’ opinion. (7) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING JUDGMENTS AND KEY UNCERTAINTY SOURCES IN e) Decommission and remediation provision The ESTIMATES Company recognizes a provision for the present value associated with the Company’s decommissioning In applying accounting policies, the Company’s and remediation obligations to remove its management use judgments, estimates and assumptions telecommunication towers and capitalizes the on certain amounts of assets and liabilities in the associated cost as a component of the related asset. consolidated financial statements. Actual results may differ from such estimates. f) Deferred income taxes The Company prepares future cash flows projections to determine whether it will Underlying estimates and assumptions are reviewed pay ISR or IETU in future periods, in order to estimate regularly. the reversal dates for the temporary differences that result in deferred tax assets and liabilities. The critical accounting judgments and key uncertainty sources when applying the estimates performed as of g) Deferred tax assets Deferred tax assets are the date of the consolidated financial statements, and recognized for the tax loss carry forwards to the that have a significant risk of resulting in an adjustment extent management believes it is recoverable through to the book values of the assets and liabilities during the the generation of future taxable income to which it following financial period are as follows: can be applied. a) Useful lives of property, systems, and equipment h) Financial instruments recognized at fair value In The Company reviews the estimated useful life of cases where fair value of financial assets and liabilities property, systems and equipment at the end of each recorded in the consolidated financial statement do annual period. The degree of uncertainty related to not arise from active markets, their fair values are the estimated useful lives is related to the changes in determined using assessment techniques, including market and the use of assets for production volumes the discounted cash flows model. Where possible, and technological development. the data these models are supplied with are taken from observable markets, otherwise a degree of b) Impairment of non-financial assets When testing discretionary judgment is required to determine assets for impairment, the Company requires fair values. These judgments include data such as estimating the value in use assigned to property, liquidity risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes in systems and equipment, and cash generating units. the assumptions related to these factors may affect The calculation of value in use requires the Company the amounts of fair values advised for financial to determine future cash flows generated by cash instruments. generating units and an appropriate discount rate to calculate the present value thereof. The Company i) Leases Lases are classified as finance leases whenever uses cash inflow projections using estimated market the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the conditions, determination of future prices of products risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other and volumes of production and sale. Similarly, for leases are classified as operating leases. discount rate and perpetuity growth purposes, the 82 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (8) FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS December 31, December 31, January 1, Categories of financial instruments 2012 2011 2011 Financial assets Cash and cash equivalents Ps 597,201 1,372,896 1,250,143 Restricted cash 10,709 52,127 58,121 Accounts receivables 2,406,764 2,018,013 2,240,534 Fair value through profit or loss 88,419 135,212 216,035 Derivative financial instruments 184,911 55,782 Financial liabilities Derivative financial instruments 46,532 16,888 127,549 Amortized cost 13,871,085 14,718,530 12,991,998 a) Financial risk management objectives reviewed by the Company’s management on a continuous basis. The Company does not enter into or trade financial The Company and its subsidiaries are exposed, through instruments, including derivative financial instruments, their normal business operations and transactions, for speculative purposes. primarily to market risk (including interest rate risk, price risk and currency rate risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. b) Market and interest rate risk The Company seeks to minimize the effects of these risks The Company undertakes transactions denominated in by using derivative financial instruments to hedge risk foreign currencies; consequently, exposures to exchange exposures. The use of financial derivatives is governed rate fluctuations arise. Monetary assets and liabilities by the Company’s policies approved by the board of denominated in dollars as of December 31, 2012 and directors. Compliance with policies and exposure limits is 2011, and January 1, 2011 are as follows: (Thousands of US dollars) December 31, December 31, January 1, 2011 2011 2011 Current assets US $ 62,082 117,550 131,409 Current liabilities (124,903) (125,882) (177,566) Non-current liabilities (817,765) (820,471) (780,642) Foreign currency liabilities, net US $ (880,586) (828,803) (826,799) The U.S. dollar exchange rates as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011 were Ps. 13.01, Ps. 13.99 and Ps. 12.35, respectively. As of February 28, 2013, the exchange rate was Ps. 12.86. The Company’s activities expose it to the financial risks of changes in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, because it borrows funds at both fixed and floating interest rates and has contracted principal and interest payments in US dollars. The risk is managed by the Company by maintaining an appropriate mix between fixed and floating rate borrowings, and by the use of cross currency interest rate swap contracts (CCS) and currency swap contracts (CS). Hedging activities are evaluated regularly to align with exchange rate and interest rate views and defined risk appetite, ensuring the most costeffective hedging strategies are applied. The Company’s exposures to interest rates on financial assets and financial liabilities are detailed in the liquidity risk management section of this note. The Company enters into a variety of derivative financial instruments to manage its exposure to foreign currency risk and interest rate risk, including: 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 83 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE US$ 100 Million Syndicated loan CCS During November 2011, the Company closed a syndicated loan of up to the equivalent of US $ 100 million. This loan is divided in two tranches, one in pesos amounting to $512,373,031 and the other in US dollar amounting to US $62,117,156. As of December 31, 2012 US$ 53.3 million (equivalent to Ps. 693 million) and Ps. 365 million have been utilized, of which approximately Ps.246 million remains unutilized as of December 31, 2012. The Company decided to hedge an increase in interest rates and exchange rate risks (devaluation of the peso versus the U.S. dollar) associated with the entire portion of principal and interest of the syndicated loan by entering into Cross Currency Swaps (CCS) with Credit Suisse and Banorte – IXE. The CCSs has been designated as a cash flow hedge for accounting purposes. Fair Value Asset (Liability) Notional December 31, December 31, January 1, Counterparty Amount Terms 2012 2011 2011 Credit Suisse Ps.614 Pays fixed rate in pesos of (1,630) US$44.4 5.06% and receives LIBOR + 400 Credit Suisse Ps.464 Pays fixed rate in pesos of (40,299) US$34.5 11.63% and receives LIBOR + 400 Ixe Ps.128 LPays fixed rate in pesos of (6,233) US$10 11.11% and receives LIBOR + 400 For the year ended December 31, 2012, the change in the fair value of the CCSs amounted to an unrealized loss of Ps. 41,165. This loss was recognized within other comprehensive income in the stockholders equity, net of deferred taxes of Ps. 12,350. U.S. $275 Million Senior Notes Currency Swaps In August 2007, the Company issued senior unsecured notes for U.S. $275 million at a fixed rate. The Company decided to enter into a CS derivative contract to hedge exchange rate risk (devaluation of the peso versus the U.S. dollar) derived from the senior notes. Under this agreement, the Company will receive semiannual payments calculated based on the aggregate notional amount of U.S. $275 million at a fixed annual rate of 7.625%, and the Company will make semiannual payments calculated based on the aggregate of Ps. 3,038 million (notional value) at a fixed annual rate of 8.43%. The Currency Swap information is as follows: Fair Value Asset (Liability) Notional December 31, December 31, January 1, Counterparty Amount Terms 2012 2011 2011 Credit Suisse $ 3,039 Pays fixed annual rate of 8.43% 18,640 12,688 US$275 and receives fixed annual rate in USD of 7.625% 84 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE During October 2010, the Company decided to enter into a CS derivative to hedge the exchange rate derived from the issuance mentioned in the preceding paragraph, for the period between February 2012 and August 2014, under these agreements, the Company will receive and will make the payments listed in the following table: Valor razonable Activo (Pasivo) Notional December 31, December 31, January 1, Counterparty Amount Terms 2012 2011 2011 Credit Suisse Ps. 2,480 Pays fixed annual rate of 8.16% 50,650 12,623 US$200 and receives fixed annual rate in USD of 7.625% Citibank Ps. 929 Pays fixed annual rate of 8.57% 7,638 (5,325) US$75 and receives fixed annual rate in USD of 7.625% In February 2012, the Company entered into a CS derivative to hedge the exchange rate associated with US$100 million of the US$275 million senior notes, for the period between February and August 2015. In May of 2012, the Company canceled the derivative instruments disclosed in the previous paragraphs, recognizing Ps.16,802 as a gain within the statement of comprehensive income. U.S. $300 and U.S. $190 Million Senior Notes Currency Swaps In September 2009 and March 2010, the Company issued senior unsecured notes for U.S.$ 300 million and U.S. $190 million, respectively, at a fixed rate. The Company decided to hedge the exchange rate risk derived from these issuances with CS derivative financial instruments as follows (during the last quarter of 2011, the Company cancelled the hedge of U.S. $65 million entered into with Deutsche Bank A.G. and replaced it with Citibank): Fair Value Asset (Liability) Notional December 31, December 31, January 1, Counterparty Amount Terms 2012 2011 2011 Credit Suisse Ps. 2,885 Pays fixed rate in pesos of 98,431 30,471 US$ 225 9.059% and receives fixed rate in USD of 9.00% Deutsche Ps. 1,320 Pays fixed rate in pesos of (9,754) (57,880) Bank US$100 10.107% and receives fixed rate in USD of 9.00% Citibank Ps. 861 Pays fixed rate in pesos of 7,013 US$65 9.62% and receives fixed rate in USD of 9.00% Deutsche Ps.819 Pays fixed rate in pesos of (19,284) Bank US$65 9.99% and receives fixed rate in USD of 9.00% Merrill Lynch Ps.658 Pays fixed rate in pesos of (4,154) (25,143) US$50 10.0825% and receives fixed rate in USD of 9.00% Merrill Lynch Ps.315 Pays fixed rate in pesos of 2,539 (6,910) US$25 9.98% and receives fixed rate in USD of 9.00% Morgan Stanley Ps.327 Pays fixed rate in pesos of (1,350) (13,007) US$25 10.080% and receives fixed rate in USD of 9.00% 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 85 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE During January and March of 2012, the Company entered into a CS derivative to hedge the exchange rate associated with US$200 million of the US$300 million senior notes, for the period between March and September of 2015. In June of 2012, the Company canceled the derivative instruments disclosed in the previous paragraphs, recognizing Ps.79,206 as a loss within the statement of comprehensive income. Margins calls and required collateral associated with the Company’s derivative financial instruments are established with the counterparties to the agreement depending on their authorized credit lines. The Company does not operate with counterparties that do not offer reasonable lines of credit. As of, December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2010 the Company had Ps.$0, Ps. 28 million (U.S.$2.0) and Ps. 58 million (U.S. $4.7), respectively, held as collateral. c) Market and interest rate sensitivity analysis INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS The Company has completely hedged the interest rate EXCHANGE RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS risk associated with its variable rate borrowings through its derivative instrument hedging strategy as described The following table details the Company’s sensitivity above. analysis to a 10% increase and decrease in the peso against the US dollar. The 10% increase or decrease is d) Other price risks (equity price risk) the sensitivity scenario that represents management’s assessment of the reasonably possible change in foreign During July, August and September 2009, the Company exchange rates. The sensitivity analysis includes only acquired call options denominated “Zero Strike Calls” outstanding foreign currency denominated monetary that have a notional of 26,096,700 CPOs of Axtel’s items and adjusts their translation at the end of the period shares. During the months of June and July of 2010, for a 10% change in the exchange rates. A positive number the Company acquired additional Zero Strike Calls for below indicates an increase in profit or equity where the 4,288,000 CPOs of Axtel, on the same conditions, holding peso strengthens 10% against the US dollar. 30,384,700 CPOs as of January 1, 2011. The underlying of these instruments is the market value of the Axtel’s Peso strengthens 10% against the US dollar: CPOs. The premium paid was equivalent to the market • profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 would value of the notional plus transaction costs. The strike increase by Ps.1,041,501. price established was 0.000001 pesos per option. • equity would increase by Ps.969,032. This instrument is redeemable only in cash and can be redeemed by the Company at any time (considered to Peso weakens 10% against the US dollar: be American options), for a six month period and are • profit for the year ended December 31, 2012 would extendable. The terms and fair value of the Zero Strike increase decrease by Ps.1,145,651. Calls is included in the following table: • equity would decrease by Ps.1,095,470. Fair value Asset (Liability) Notional December 31, December 31, January 1, Counterparty amount Terms 2012 2011 2011 Bank of America 30,384,700 Receives in cash the market $ 88,419 $ 135,212 $ 216,035 Merrill Lynch CPOs value of the notional amount For the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 the change in the fair value of the Zero Strike Calls resulted in an unrealized loss of Ps.46,793 and Ps.80,823, respectively, recognized in the fair value loss on financial instruments, net, line item. 86 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE e) Equity price risk sensitivity analysis Company B represented 7%, 8% and 6% of the Company’s accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 The sensitivity analyses below have been determined and January 1, 2011, respectively. Additionally, revenues based on the exposure to the equity price risk associated associated with Company B for the year ended December with the market value of the Axtel’s CPOs at the end of 31, 2012 and 2011 were 1.9% and 2.7%, respectively. the reporting period. The 10% increase or decrease is the sensitivity scenario that represents management’s The credit risk on liquid funds and derivative financial assessment of the reasonably possible change in the instruments is limited because the counterparties are Axtel’s share price. banks with high credit-ratings assigned by international credit-rating agencies. If the Company’s share price had been 10% higher: • profit and equity for the year ended December 31, The Company does not hold any collateral or other credit 2012 and 2011 would increase by Ps. 8,842 and enhancements to cover its credit risks associated with its Ps.13,521, respectively. financial assets. If the Company’s share price had been 10% lower: g) Liquidity risk management • profit and equity for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 would decrease by Ps.8,038 and Liquidity risk is the risk that the Company will encounter Ps.12,292, respectively. difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash f) Credit risk management or another financial asset. The Company’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure as far as possible, that it Credit risk refers to the risk that a counterparty will will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities default on its contractual obligations resulting in financial when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, loss to the Company. The Company has adopted a without incurring unacceptable losses or risk damage to policy of only dealing with creditworthy counterparties the Company’s reputation. and obtaining sufficient collateral, where appropriate, as a means of mitigating the risk of financial loss from Ultimate responsibility for liquidity risk management defaults. The Company’s exposure and the credit ratings rests with the Company’s board of directors, which has of its counterparties are continuously monitored and established an appropriate liquidity risk management the aggregate value of transactions concluded is spread framework for the management of the Company’s amongst approved counterparties. Credit exposure is short-, mediumand long-term funding and liquidity controlled by counterparty limits that are reviewed and management requirements. The Company manages approved by the management annually. liquidity risk by maintaining adequate reserves, banking facilities and reserve borrowing facilities, by continuously Trade receivables consist of a large number of customers, monitoring actual and forecasted cash flows, and by spread across diverse industries and geographical matching the maturity profiles of financial assets and areas throughout Mexico. Ongoing credit evaluation liabilities. is performed on the financial condition of accounts receivable. The following tables detail the Company’s remaining contractual maturity for its non-derivative financial Apart from companies A and B, the largest customers liabilities with agreed repayment periods. The tables have of the Company, the Company does not have significant been drawn up based on the undiscounted cash flows of credit risk exposure to any single counterparty or any financial liabilities based on the earliest date on which group of counterparties having similar characteristics. the Company can be required to pay. To the extent that The Company defines counterparties as having similar interest flows are floating rate, the undiscounted amount characteristics if they are related entities. Concentration is derived from interest rates at the end of the reporting of credit risk related to Company A and B should not period. The contractual maturity is based on the earliest exceed 20% of gross monetary assets at any time during date on which the Company may be required to pay. the year. Concentration of credit risk to any other counterparty should not exceed 5% of gross monetary assets at any time during the year. Company A represented 15%, 0.2% and 0.1% of the Company’s accounts receivable as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011, respectively. Additionally, revenues associated with Company A for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were 3% and 0%, respectively. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 87 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5+ years December 31, 2012 Variable interest rate Ps 181,921 408,763 373,370 6,466 15 instruments Fixed interest rate 949,927 890,272 873,577 849,231 4,424,371 7,522,440 instruments Capacity lease 179,171 179,171 Ps 1,311,019 1,478,206 1,246,947 855,697 4,424,386 7,522,440 The amounts included above for variable interest rate instruments for both non-derivative financial assets and liabilities is subject to change if changes in variable interest rates differ to those estimates of interest rates determined at the end of the reporting period. The following table details the Company’s liquidity analysis for its derivative financial instruments. The table has been drawn up based on the undiscounted contractual net cash inflows and outflows on derivative instruments that settle on a net basis, and the undiscounted gross inflows and outflows on those derivatives that require gross settlement. When the amount payable or receivable is not fixed, the amount disclosed has been determined by reference to the projected interest rates as illustrated by the yield curves at the end of the reporting period. Less than 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years Total December 31, 2012 Cross Currency Swaps Ps 51,555 320,919 290,256 67,783 730,513 Ps 51,555 320,919 290,256 67,783 730,513 h) Financing facilities i) Fair value of financial instruments Short-term debt of Ps. 280,000 associated with the Except as detailed in the following table, the Company’s Company’s financing facilities as of January 1, 2011 management considers that the carrying amounts of consisted of a revolving unsecured credit agreement with financial assets and financial liabilities recognized in the Banamex in Mexican pesos, renewable on a quarterly consolidated financial statements approximate their fair basis. The interest rate is TIIE + 375 basis points and is due values: monthly. During November 2011 this loan was paid in full. 88 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE December 31, 2012 December 31, 2011 January 1, 2011 Carrying Fair Carrying Fair Carrying Fair amount value amount value amount value Financial liabilities Financial liabilities held at amortized cost: U.S. $275 million Senior Unsecured Notes 3,577,778 1,842,555 3,847,360 2,770,099 3,398,203 3,397,863 U.S. $300 million Senior 3,707,130 3,561,811 Unsecured Notes 3,903,030 2,068,606 4,197,120 3,189,811 U.S. $190 million Senior Unsecured Notes 2,514,015 1,310,117 2,706,508 2,020,214 2,402,418 2,255,813 Syndicated loan 1,057,925 964,663 838,904 626,645 Other long-term financing 251,182 225,166 468,245 454,626 549,472 468,375 Capacity lease 318,984 327,442 453,237 467,619 127,642 130,173 VALUATION TECHNIQUES AND ASSUMPTIONS APPLIED • The fair values of other financial assets and financial FOR THE PURPOSES OF MEASURING FAIR VALUE liabilities (excluding those described above) are The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities determined in accordance with generally accepted are determined as follows: pricing models based on discounted cash flow analysis. • The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and conditions and j) Fair value measurements recognized in the traded on active liquid markets are determined with reference to quoted market prices (includes listed consolidated statement of financial position redeemable notes, bills of exchange, debentures and perpetual notes). The following table provides an analysis of financial instruments that are measured subsequent to initial • The fair values of derivative instruments are recognition at fair value, grouped into Levels 1 to 3 based calculated using quoted prices. Where such prices on the degree to which the fair value is observable. are not available, a discounted cash flow analysis is performed using the applicable yield curve for • Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived the duration of the instruments or option pricing from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets models as best applicable. Foreign currency forward for identical assets or liabilities. contracts are measured using quoted forward exchange rates and yield curves derived from quoted • Level 2 fair value measurements are those derived interest rates matching maturities of the contracts. from inputs other than quoted prices included within Interest rate swaps are measured at the present value Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, of future cash flows estimated and discounted based either directly or indirectly. on the applicable yield curves derived from quoted interest rates and include other adjustments to arrive • Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived at fair value as applicable (i.e. for counterparty credit from valuation techniques that include inputs for risk). the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 89 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE December 31, 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Zero Strike Calls 88,419 88,419 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 46,532 46,532 December 31, 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative financial assets 184,911 184,911 Zero Strike Calls 135,212 135,212 Total 135,212 184,911 320,123 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 16,888 16,888 January 1, 2011 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative financial assets 55,782 55,782 Zero Strike Calls 216,035 216,035 Total 216,035 55,782 271,817 Financial liabilities Derivative financial liabilities 127,549 127,549 (9) ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE Accounts receivable consist of the following: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Trade accounts receivable Ps 4,614,301 4,025,091 4,059,229 Less allowance for doubtful accounts 2,207,537 2,007,078 1,818,695 Trade accounts receivable, net Ps 2,406,764 2,018,013 2,240,534 Given their short-term nature the carrying value of trade accounts receivable approximates its fair value as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and as of January 1, 2011. 90 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Movement in the allowance for doubtful accounts: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Opening balance Ps 2,007,078 1,818,695 1,658,055 Allowance for the year 201,473 186,695 161,860 Effect of exchange rate (1,014) 1,688 (1,220) Ps 2,207,537 2,007,078 1,818,695 Balances at period end In determining the recoverability of trade receivables, the Company considers any change in the credit quality of the trade receivable from the date credit was initially granted up to the end of the reporting period. The concentration of credit risk is limited due to the customer base being large and unrelated. Aging of impaired trade receivables: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 30 60 days Ps 35,418 28,978 30,105 60 90 days 31,282 24,871 27,284 90 120 days 42,719 27,203 29,642 120 + days 2,098,118 1,926,026 1,731,664 Total Ps 2,207,537 2,007,078 1,818,695 (10) INVENTORIES Inventories consist of the following: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Routers Ps 17,209 38,552 41,022 Installation material 19,836 24,276 33,723 Network spare parts 13,622 20,796 26,510 Tools 10,864 13,332 15,261 Telephones and call identification devices 13,734 9,122 11,024 Other 30,206 46,678 38,089 Total inventories Ps 105,471 152,756 165,629 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 91 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (11) PROPERTY, SYSTEMS AND EQUIPMENT Property, systems and equipment are as follows: Computer and TransportaLand and electronic tion Furniture and Network Leasehold Construction in Cost Building equipment equipment fixtures equipment improvements progress Total Balance as of January 1, 2011 430,990 2,717,392 355,631 207,057 26,312,273 391,134 2,088,815 32,503,292 Additions 163 7,635 797 536,424 179 2,440,896 2,986,094 Transfer of completed projects in progress 322,723 24,792 8,065 1,381,776 26,644 (1,764,000) Disposals (9,987) (806,363) (229,000) (1,045,350) Balance as of December 31, 2011 430,990 3,040,278 378,071 215,919 27,424,110 417,957 2,536,711 34,444,036 Additions 247 2,814 2 572,753 1,481,933 2,057,749 Transfer of completed projects in progress 235,402 25,095 5,178 2,411,698 7,190 (2,684,563) Transfer to assets held for sale (817,077) (817,077) Disposals (26) (10,569) (21,307) (31,902) Balance as of December 31, 2012 430,990 3,275,901 395,411 221,099 29,570,177 425,147 1,334,081 35,652,806 Computer Depreciation and TransportaLand and electronic tion Furniture and Network Leasehold Construction in and Building equipment equipment fixtures equipment improvements progress Total impairment Balance as of January 1, 2011 93,226 1,064,654 151,854 134,996 15,069,521 219,569 16,733,820 Depreciation for the 14,286 64,371 75,072 14,458 2,820,714 39,600 3,028,501 year Disposals (4,971) (736,337) (741,308) Balance as of December 31, 2011 107,512 1,129,025 221,955 149,454 17,153,898 259,169 19,021,013 Depreciation for the 14,286 101,517 76,790 14,063 2,776,095 38,459 3,021,210 year Disposals (9,588) (21,208) (30,796) Transfer to assets held for sale (356,615) (356,615) Balance as of December 31, 2012 121,798 1,230,542 289,157 163,517 19,552,170 297,628 21,654,812 Property, systems and equipment, net 309,192 2,045,359 106,254 57,582 10,018,007 127,519 1,334,081 13,997,994 92 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Construction in progress mainly includes network equipment, and capitalization period is approximately six months. During the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 the Company capitalized Ps.61,399 and Ps. 57,157, respectively of borrowing costs in relation to Ps.716,915 and Ps. 611,387 in qualifying assets. Amounts were capitalized based on a capitalization rate of 8.57% and 9.42%, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 interest expenses are comprised as follows: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 Interest expense $ (1,118,912) (1,059,737) Amount capitalized 61,399 57,157 Net amount in consolidated statements of comprehensive income $ (1,057,513) (1,002,580) As of December 31, 2012, certain financial leases amounting to approximately Ps.10 million were guaranteed with the equipment acquired with those leases. The depreciation expense for the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, amounts to Ps. 3,021,210 and Ps. 3,028,501, respectively. NON-CURRENT ASSETS HELD FOR SALE Certain of the Company´s communications towers are presented as held for sale due to a formal plan to sell these assets. The sale took place on January 31, 2013, see note 26. As of December 31, 2012 assets held for sale amounted to $460,462 less liabilities (decommissioning and remediation obligations) of $281,808. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 93 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (12) INTANGIBLE ASSETS Intangible assets with defined useful lives consist of the following: Telephone World Trade Telephone concession Telmex / Telnor Center concession rights rights Customers Trade name infrastructure concession Rights AXTEL Avantel relationships “Avantel” costs rights of use Others Total Balance as of January 1, 2011 571,520 110,193 312,438 179,332 58,982 21,045 30,030 67,871 1,351,411 Additions 5,298 5,298 Balances as of December 31, 2011 571,520 110,193 312,438 179,332 58,982 21,045 30,030 73,169 1,356,709 Additions 14,161 14,161 Balances as of December 31, 2012 571,520 110,193 312,438 179,332 58,982 21,045 30,030 87,330 1,370,870 Telephone World Trade Telephone concession Telmex / Telnor Center Amortization concession rights rights Customers Trade name infrastructure concession Rights and impairment AXTEL Avantel relationships “Avantel” costs rights of use Others Total Balance as of January 1, 2011 336,317 40,070 312,438 179,332 26,337 7,665 11,565 66,915 980,639 Amortization expense 30,307 10,018 4,081 1,673 2,886 1,610 50,575 Balances as of December 31, 2011 366,624 50,088 312,438 179,332 30,418 9,338 14,451 68,525 1,031,214 Amortization expense 30,307 10,018 4,080 1,672 2,886 2,071 51,034 Balances as of December 31, 2012 396,931 60,106 312,438 179,332 34,498 11,010 17,337 70,596 1,082,248 Intangible assets, net 174,589 50,087 24,484 10,035 12,693 16,734 288,622 CONCESSIONS RIGHTS OF THE COMPANY • Concessions of different frequencies of radio The main concessions of the Company are as follows: spectrum for 20 years and renewable for additional periods of 20 years, as long as AXTEL complies • On June, 1996 AXTEL obtained a concession to offer with all of its obligations, and with all conditions local and long distance telephony services, for a imposed by the law and with any other condition that period of thirty years. To maintain this concession the Secretaria de Comunicaciones y Transporte (SCT) Company needs to comply with certain conditions. It imposes. can be renewed for another period of thirty years; Concessions allow the Company to provide basic local • On September 15, 1995 Avantel obtained a telephone service, domestic long distance telephony, concession to offer local and long distance telephony purchase or lease network capacity for the generation, services, for a period of thirty years. To maintain transmission or reception of data, signals, writings, this concession the Company needs to comply with images, voice, sounds and other information of any kind, certain conditions. It can be renewed for another the purchase and leasing network capacity from other period of thirty years; countries, including digital circuits income, value added services, operator services, paging and messaging services, data services, video, audio and video conferencing, except 94 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE television networks, music or continuous service digital (13) INVESTMENTS IN ASSOCIATES AND audio services, and credit or debit phone cards. JOINT VENTURES AND OTHER EQUITY In November 2006, SCT granted the Company, as part of INVESTMENTS the concession of Axtel, a new permission to provide SMS (short messaging system) to its customers. As of December 31, 2012, the investment in shares of associated company through Avantel, S. de R.L. de C.V. In September 15, 2009, SCT granted the Company is represented by a non-controlling 50% interest in the a concession to install, operate and exploit a public equity shares of Conectividad Inalámbrica 7GHZ, S. de telecommunications network to provide satellite R.L., amounting to $9,647. The operation of this company television and audio services. consists of providing radio communication services in Mexico under the concession granted by the SCT. INTANGIBLE ASSETS ARISING FROM THE ACQUISITION Such concession places certain performance conditions OF AVANTEL and commitments to this company, such as (i) filing Derived from the acquisition of Avantel in 2006, the annual reports with the SCT, including identifying main Company recorded certain intangible assets such as: trade stockholders of the Company, (ii) reporting any increase name “Avantel”, customer relationships and telephone in common stock, (iii) providing continuous services with concession rights, whose value were determined by using certain technical specifications, (iv) to present a code an independent external expert appraiser at the acquisition of marketing strategies, (v) to register rates of service, date and accounted for in accordance to previous GAAP. (vi) to provide a bond and (vii) fulfilling the program of The trade name and customer relationships are amortized investments presented when the Company requested the over a three-year period; meanwhile the concession is concession. amortized over the remaining term of the concession on a straight-line basis. At December 31, 2012 the values of During 2011 the Company recognized an impairment the trade name “Avantel” and of customer relationships regarding its investments in Opanga Networks and Eden were totally amortized. Rock Communications for Ps. 17,798 and Ps. 16,735, respectively. Summarized financial information in respect of the Company’s associates accounted for under the equity method is set out below. Ownership Investment amount December 31, December 31, January 1, December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 2012 2011 2011 Conectividad Inalámbrica 7GHZ, S. de R.L. 50% 50% 50% 9,647 9,667 9,808 Opanga Networks 19.8% 19.8% 20% 17,798 17,798 17,798 Eden Rock 10.5% 10.5% 11.7% 16,735 16,735 16,735 Communications 44,180 44,200 44,341 Less impairment (34,533) (34,533) Total investments 9,647 9,667 44,341 December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Conectividad Inalámbrica 7GHZ, S. de R.L Total assets Ps 20,791 20,830 20,864 Total liabilities 1,497 1,497 1,249 Net assets 19,294 19,333 19,615 Share of net assets of associates 9,647 9,667 9,808 Net (loss) income for the period (40) (282) 12 Share of loss of associates accounting by the equity method Ps (20) (141) 6 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 95 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (14) OTHER ASSETS Other assets consist of the following: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Long-term prepaid expenses Ps 170,633 144,785 146,697 Account receivable Telmex (see note 24 (b)) 47,395 139,790 225,654 Guarantee deposits 47,631 48,357 41,983 Advances to suppliers 10,419 11,204 13,427 Other 18,519 14,355 17,695 Other assets 294,597 358,491 445,456 Current portion of other assets 141,439 235,401 303,798 Other long-term assets Ps 153,158 123,090 141,658 (15) LONG-TERM DEBT Long-term debt as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011 consist of the following: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 U.S. $275,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 7 5/8 % Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2017. Interest is payable semiannually on February 1 and August 1 of each year. Ps 3,577,778 3,847,360 3,398,203 U.S. $300,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 9% Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2019. Interest is payable semiannually on March and September of each year. 3,903,030 4,197,120 3,707,130 U.S. $190,000,000 in aggregate principal amount of 9 % Senior Unsecured Notes due in 2019. Interest is payable semiannually on March and September of each year. 2,471,919 2,658,176 2,347,849 Premium on Senior Unsecured Notes with an aggregate principal of U.S. $190,000,000 with an interest rate of 9%, due in 2019. 42,096 48,332 54,569 Syndicated loan totaling U.S. $100 million with variable interest rate from LIBOR + 3.0% to LIBOR + 4.5% and from TIIE + 3.0% to TIIE + 4.5% according to the leverage of the Company. Interest payments are made quarterly. As of December 31, 2011 U.S. $ 53.3 million and Ps. 364.7 million have been utilized. 1,057,925 838,904 Capacity lease agreement with Teléfonos de Mexico, S.A.B. de C.V. of approximately Ps. 800,000 payable monthly and expiring in 2011. Renewed in 2011 of approximately Ps. 484,000 payable monthly. 318,984 453,237 127,642 Other long-term financing with several credit institutions with interest rates fluctuating between 3.60% and 7.20% for those denominated in dollars and TIIE (Mexican average interbank rate) plus 1.5 and 3 percentage points for those denominated in pesos. 251,179 468,245 549,472 Note issuance and deferred financing costs (156,297) (188,681) (141,002) Total long-term debt 11,466,614 12,322,693 10,043,863 Less current maturities 411,969 380,880 375,996 Long-term debt, excluding current maturities Ps 11,054,645 11,941,813 9,667,867 96 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE Annual installments of long-term debt are as follows: Year Amount 2014 Ps 708,958 2015 503,899 2016 3,178 2017 3,577,863 2018 and thereafter 6,260,747 Ps 11,054,645 Note issuance and deferred financing costs directly attributable to the issuance of the Company’s borrowings are amortized based on the effective interest rate over the term of the related borrowing. The Company incurred Ps. 66,849 related to the issuance of its syndicated loan in 2011. For the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011, the interest expense was Ps. 1,118,912 and Ps. 1,059,737 respectively. On November 17, 2011, the Company closed a syndicated loan with Banco Nacional de Mexico, SA, a member of Grupo Financiero Banamex; Banco Mercantil del Norte SA, Institución de Banca Múltiple, Grupo Financiero Banorte; Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch; ING Bank NV, Dublin Branch and Standard Bank Plc. The total amount is U.S. $ 100 million with a four year period, two year grace period of principal and made up of a funded amount and a committed short term revolving facility. The loan is secured by the accounts receivable of certain corporate customers of the Company. As of December 31, 2012 US$ 53.3 million and Ps. 365 million have been funded, while the revolving facility has not been disbursed. The operation contemplates a variable rate from LIBOR+3.0% to LIBOR+4.5% in dollars and a TIIE+3.0% to TIIE+4.5% in pesos, according to the leverage of the Company. Interest payments are on a quarterly basis and the purpose of the loan is to strengthen liquidity, capital investments, debt repayment and other corporate general purposes. Certain debt agreements establish affirmative and negative covenants, the most significant of which refer to limitations on dividend payments and the compliance with certain financial ratios. As of December 31, 2012 and February 28, 2013, the Company was in compliance with all covenants contained in its debt agreements. (16) OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES As of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011 other accounts payable consist of the following: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Guarantee deposit Ps 10,261 11,034 9,746 Payroll and other liabilities (1) 96,441 128,960 88,883 Ps 106,702 139,994 98,629 (1) Payroll and other liabilities mainly include christmas bonus, vacation premium and other benefits 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 97 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (17) EMPLOYEE BENEFITS The cost, obligations and other elements of the Company’s seniority premium liability for reasons other than restructuring have been determined based on computations prepared by independent actuaries at, December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011. The components of the net periodic cost for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 Net period cost: Ps Current service cost 3,527 3,564 Interest cost 1,403 1,270 Actuarial gain (7,593) Amortization of net actuarial loss (453) (453) Ps (3,116) 4,381 Net period (benefit) cost The actuarial present value of benefit obligations of the plans at December 31, 2012 and 2011, and January 1, 2011 are follows: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 Initial balance Ps 21,935 19,972 Benefits paid (343) (1,375) Current service cost and interest cost 4,930 4,834 Actuarial gain (7,070) (1,496) Net projected liability Ps 19,452 21,935 The amount included in the consolidated statement of financial position arising from the entity’s obligation in respect of its seniority premium benefits is as follows: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2012 2011 Total present value of obligations 18,131 20,635 18,686 Amendments to plan 267 866 1,319 Actuarial losses (gains) 1,054 434 (33) Liability recognized for defined benefit obligation 19,452 21,935 19,972 98 / 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The most significant assumptions used in the determination of the net periodic cost are the following: December 31, December 31, 2012 2011 Discount rate used to reflect the present value of obligations 6.5% 7.5% Rate of increase in the minimum wage 3.5% 4% Real rate of increase in future salary levels 4% 4% Average remaining labor life of employees 19 years 21 years (18) PROVISIONS The Company’s provisions as of December 31, 2012 and 2011and January 1, 2011 are as follows: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Decommissioning and remediation obligations Ps 281,808 253,129 223,824 Restructuring provision 59,855 100,000 Total 281,808 312,984 323,824 Current portion of provisions 281,808 59,855 100,000 Long-term portion of provisions Ps 253,129 223,824 Changes in the balance of provisions recorded for the following periods are as follows: December 31, December 31, Decommissioning and remediation obligations 2012 2011 Initial balance $ 253,129 223,824 Additional provisions recognized 3,543 Unwinding of discount and effect of changes in the discount rate 28,679 25,762 Ending balance $ 281,808 253,129 The Company conducted an analysis of the obligation associated with the retirement of property, systems and equipment, mainly identifying sites built on leased land on which it has a legal obligation or assumed the retirement thereof. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 99 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE December 31, December 31, Restructuring provision 2012 2011 Initial balance Ps 59,855 100,000 Additional provisions recognized 63,500 Payments (59,855) (103,645) Ending balance Ps 59,855 In order to implement its strategic plans, the Company has restructured certain of its operations. The cost of restructuring, which consists of compensation and employee severance payments, is included in the statement of comprehensive income as component of operating (loss) income. (19) TRANSACTIONS AND BALANCES WITH RELATED PARTIES The transactions with related parties during the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 are as follows: 2012 2011 Banamex: Telecommunication service revenues Ps 514,287 596,517 Commission and administrative services 14,176 14,811 Interest expense 28,795 22,883 Other related parties: Rent expense 39,914 37,061 Installation service expense 32,027 26,693 Other 5,950 21,691 The balances with related parties as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011, included in accounts payable are as follows: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Accounts payable short-term: Banco Nacional de México, S.A. (1) Ps 434,693 385,289 445,532 Instalaciones y Desconexiones Especializadas, S.A. de C.V. (2) 991 843 949 GEN Industrial, S.A. de C.V. (2) 73 54 162 Total 435,757 386,186 446,643 Accounts payable long-term: Banco Nacional de México, S.A. (1) Ps 33,900 33,900 33,900 (1) Derived from transactions related to master services agreement signed between the Company and Banamex in November 2006. Under this contract, the Company provides telecommunications services (including, local, long distance and other services) to Banamex and its affiliates located in Mexico. (2) Mainly rents and other administrative services. 100/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The benefits and aggregate compensation paid to executive officers and senior management of the Company during the year ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 were as follows: 2012 2011 Short-term employee benefits paid Ps 108,185 67,645 (20) INCOME TAX (IT) AND FLAT RATE TAX (IETU) Under the current tax legislation, companies must pay the greater of their Income Tax or Business Flat Tax (IETU). If IETU is payable, the payment will be considered final and not subject to recovery in subsequent years. In accordance with the tax reforms effective as of January 1, 2010, the IT rate for fiscal years 2010 to 2012 is 30%, 30% for 2013, 29% for 2014 and 28% for 2015 and thereafter. The IETU rate is 17.5 % for 2010 and thereafter. The deferred income taxes are as follows: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Income Tax Ps 1,890,998 1,731,332 1,482,021 Business Flat Tax 190,720 122,060 146,450 Deferred income taxes Ps 2,081,718 1,853,392 1,628,471 The subsidiaries Avantel, S. de R.L., Avantel, S.A. Asociación en Participación, Servicios AXTEL, S.A. de C.V. and Instalaciones y Contrataciones, S.A. de C.V., will pay IETU. The main differences that generated the deferred IETU asset as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1 2011 in these subsidiaries is as follows: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Deferred tax assets: Accounts payable Ps 345,534 286,473 183,830 Deferred revenues 87,308 81,192 98,818 Provisions 30,278 21,948 21,843 Other 17,917 37,815 8,405 Total deferred tax assets 481,037 427,428 312,896 Deferred tax liability Accounts receivable 271,628 281,139 141,129 Telephone concession rights 9,854 11,291 12,728 Property, systems and equipment 7,219 11,186 10,614 Other 1,616 1,752 1,975 Total deferred tax liability 290,317 305,368 166,446 Net deferred tax assets Ps 190,720 122,060 146,450 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT /101 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The main differences that gave rise to the deferred income tax assets as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011 are presented below: December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 Deferred tax assets: Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 599,839 700,066 448,762 Allowance for doubtful accounts 438,602 345,348 281,586 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 26,073 93,736 Accrued liabilities and other provisions 246,221 166,688 315,633 Premium on bond issuance 12,629 14,500 16,371 Property, systems and equipment 661,615 637,900 450,494 Total deferred tax assets 1,984,979 1,864,502 1,606,582 Deferred tax liabilities: Telephone concession rights 55,628 63,215 78,065 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 37,459 Intangible and other assets 38,353 32,496 46,496 Total deferred tax liabilities 93,981 133,170 124,561 Deferred tax assets, net Ps 1,890,998 1,731,332 1,482,021 A reconciliation between tax expense and income before income taxes multiplied by the statutory income tax rate for the years ended December 31, 2012 and 2011 is as follows: 2012 2011 Statutory income tax rate 30% 30% Difference between book and tax inflationary effects 9% 4% Change in valuation allowance (4%) (7%) Non-deductible expenses (8%) (6%) Effect of IETU tax rate 4% IETU effect (11%) (7%) ISR cancellation of subsidiary (2%) Other (3%) Effective tax rate 20% 9% 102/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The roll forward for the net deferred tax asset as of December 31, 2012 and 2011 and January 1, 2011 are presented below: Effects on Effects on December 31, profit stockholders’ December 31, 2011 and loss equity 2012 Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 700,066 (100,227) 599,839 Allowance for doubtful accounts 345,348 93,254 438,602 Fair value of derivative financial instruments (37,459) 61,370 2,162 26,073 Accrued liabilities and other provisions 166,688 79,533 246,221 Premium on bond issuance 14,500 (1,871) 12,629 Deferred IETU 122,060 68,660 190,720 Property, systems and equipment 637,900 23,715 661,615 Telephone concession rights (63,215) 7,587 (55,628) Intangible and other assets (32,496) (5,857) (38,353) Ps 1,853,392 226,164 2,162 2,081,718 Effects on Effects on January 1, profit stockholders’ December 31, 2011 and loss equity 2011 Net operating loss carry forwards Ps 448,762 251,304 700,066 Allowance for doubtful accounts 281,586 63,762 345,348 Fair value of derivative financial instruments 93,736 (69,034) (62,161) (37,459) Accrued liabilities and other provisions 315,633 (148,945) 166,688 Premium on bond issuance 16,371 (1,871) 14,500 Deferred IETU 146,450 (24,390) 122,060 Property, systems and equipment 450,494 187,406 637,900 Telephone concession rights (78,065) 14,850 (63,215) Intangible and other assets (46,496) 14,000 (32,496) Ps 1,628,471 287,082 (62,161) 1,853,392 As of December 31, 2012, the tax loss carry forwards and the refundable tax on assets expire as follows: Tax loss carry Tax on Year forwards assets 2013 Ps 558,544 88,002 2014 111,123 84,424 2015 30,885 2016 24,210 27,901 2017 56,291 2018 434,013 2020 178,932 2021 1,783,597 2022 571,266 Ps 3,661,685 287,503 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 103 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE At December 31, 2012, the valuation allowance of deferred tax assets is Ps 607,378, of which Ps178,321 relate to tax loss carry forwards, Ps 141,554 to estimating doubtful accounts and Ps287,503 to tax recoverable asset. The recoverable tax loss carry forwards includes Ps 1,007,001 from companies in which deferred IETU was calculated. (21) STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY The main characteristics of stockholders’ equity are described below: a) Capital stock structure As of December 31, 2012, the common stock of the Company is Ps 6,625,536. The Company has 8,769,353,223 shares issued and outstanding. Company’s shares are divided in two Series: Series A and B; both Series have two type of classes, Class “I” and Class “II”, with no par value. Of the total shares, 96,636,627 are series A and 8,672,716,596 series B. At December 31, 2012 the Company has issued only Class “I”. Shares Amount December 31, December 31, January 1, December 31, December 31, January 1, 2012 2011 2011 2012 2011 2011 Authorized and issued capital: Series A 96,636,627 96,636,627 96,636,627 73,012 73,012 73,012 Series B 8,672,716,596 8,672,716,596 8,672,716,596 6,552,524 6,552,524 6,552,524 During July 2008 the Company began a program to repurchase own shares which was approved at an ordinary shareholder meeting held on April 23, 2008 for up to Ps 440 million. As of December 31, 2008 the Company had repurchased 26,096,700 CPO’s (182,676,900 shares). During July, August and September 2009, the CPOs purchased through the repurchase program was resold in the market. The acquisition of Avantel also included a Series B Shares Subscription Agreement (‘‘Subscription Agreement’’) with Tel Holding, an indirect subsidiary of Citigroup, Inc., for an amount equivalent to up to 10% of Axtel’s common stock. For this to come into effect, the Company obtained stockholder approval (i) to increase capital by issuing Series B Shares in a number that was sufficient for Tel Holding to issue and pay Series B Shares (in the form of CPOs) representing up to a 10% equity share in Axtel; and (ii) for the subscription and payment of the Series B Shares that represented the shares issued by Tel Holding and any shares issued by stockholders that elected to issue and pay for additional Series B Shares in exercise of their preferential right granted by the Mexican General Corporation Law. On December 22, 2006 pursuant to the Subscription Agreement, the Company received notice from Tel Holding confirming that it acquired 533,976,744 Series B Shares (represented by 76,282,392 CPOs) from the Mexican Stock Exchange (Bolsa Mexicana de Valores, or ‘‘BMV’’) and confirming its intention to issue and pay for 246,453,963 new Series B Shares (represented by 35,207,709 CPOs). The new Series B Shares were subscribed and paid for by Tel Holding through the CPOs Trust on January 4, 2007. 104/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE b) Stockholders’ equity restrictions Stockholders’ contributions, restated for inflation as provided in the tax law, totaling Ps 8,644,068 may be refunded to stockholders tax-free. No dividends may be paid while the Company has a deficit. Additionally, certain of the Company’s debt agreements mentioned in note 15 establish limitations on dividend payments. c) Comprehensive loss income The balance of other comprehensive income items and its activity as of December 31, 2012 and 2011, is as follows: 2012 2011 Net loss Ps (708,869) (2,070,126) Valuation of the effective portion of derivative financial instruments (7,205) 206,952 Effect of income tax 2,162 (62,161) Valuation of the effective portion of derivative financial instruments, net (5,043) 144,791 Net comprehensive income (loss) Ps (713,912) (1,925,335) (22) TELEPHONE SERVICES AND RELATED REVENUES Revenues consist of the following: 2012 2011 Local calling services Ps 3,619,022 4,160,082 Long distance services 1,236,414 1,223,985 Data services 2,796,542 2,594,528 International traffic 655,328 1,246,418 Other services 1,882,426 1,604,392 Ps 10,189,732 10,829,405 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT /105 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE (23) OTHER EXPENSES, NET Other expenses consists of the following 2012 2011 Restructuring cost Ps (190,984) (63,500) Write off of fixed assets inventories (324,409) Impairment of other permanent investments (36,938) Other, net (9,003) 5,397 Ps (199,987) (419,450) (24) COMMITMENTS AND resolutions issued by the Cofetel, and established cost based tariffs for the years 2006 and 2007. CONTINGENCIES The above mentioned mobile carriers challenged the As of December 31, 2012, the Company has the following resolutions issued by the SCT via amparo trial, and commitments and contingencies: on February, 2012, the SCJN ruled that the SCT had to standing to decide on the administrative review (a) Interconnection Disagreements – Mobile Carriers – proceedings filed by Axtel, and that the Cofetel is the Years 2005 to 2007. On the second quarter of the authority that should rule on these administrative year 2007, and the first quarter of the year 2008, the review proceedings. Federal Telecommunications Commission (Comisión Federal de Telecomunicaciones) (“Cofetel”) ruled Therefore, during the following months, the Cofetel interconnection disagreements between the Company will have to decide yet again, the interconnection and the following mobile carriers: Radiomovil Dipsa, tariffs applicable between AXTEL and the mobile S.A. de C.V. (“Telcel”), Iusacell PCS, S.A. de C.V. and carriers mentioned in the precedent paragraphs, and others (“Grupo Iusacell”), Pegaso PCS, S.A. de C.V. consequently, the interconnection tariffs that AXTEL and others (“Grupo Telefonica”) and Operadora shall pay to these carriers is not yet definitely defined, Unefon, S.A. de C.V. (“Unefon”). due to the fact that these new rulings might be, once again, challenged by the parties involved. With respect to Telcel, when the Cofetel issued the (b) Interconnection Disagreements – Mobile Carriers ruling where it determined the interconnection – Years 2005 to 2007. With respect to Telcel, the tariffs for the years 2005 to 2007, both Telcel and Company filed an interconnection disagreement early Axtel challenged such ruling via amparo trial, such on the year 2008, such proceeding being decided in trial being attracted by the Supreme Court of Justice fist instance by the SCT, on the first day of September, (Suprema Corte de Justicia de la Nación) (“SCJN”). 2008, which as mentioned before, arose from a The SCJN decided, in public sessions that took place proceeding filed by AXTEL. In such ruling, the SCT on February 25, 26 and 28 of the year 2013, to deny set the cost based interconnection tariffs of $0.5465 the amparo trials filed by the Company and Telcel, and pesos, $0.5060 pesos, $0.4705 and $0.4179 pesos for therefore confirming the ruling issued in the past by the years 2008, 2009, 2010 and 2011, respectively. Cofetel. The result of this amparo trial, do not creates an economic contingency for the Company due to the Telcel challenged the resolution issued by the SCT fact that during the years 2005, 2006 and 2007, the via amparo trial, and on February, 2012, the SCJN Company paid the interconnection tariffs set forth by ruled that the SCT had to standing to decide on the the Cofetel in the above mentioned disagreements. administrative review proceeding filed by AXTEL, and that the Cofetel is the authority that should determine With respect to Grupo Iusacell, Grupo Telefonica such interconnection tariffs and Unefon, the Company filed an administrative review proceeding, wich was resolved on September Due to the above mentioned SCJN ruling, the 1, 2008 by the Department of Communications and Cofetel will have to set forth the interconnection Transportation (Secretaría de Comunicaciones y tariffs applicable between AXTEL and Telcel, and Transportes) (“SCT”). The SCT decided to revoke the consequently, the interconnection tariffs are not yet 106/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE definitely defined, due to the fact that these new for the termination of long distance calls from the rulings might be, once again, challenged by the parties Company to Telmex with respect to year 2009. In involved. such administrative resolution, the Cofetel approved a reduction in the rates for termination of long distance With respect to Grupo Telefonica, the Cofetel calls applicable to those cities where Telmex does determined on October 20th, 2010, the not have interconnection access points. These rates interconnection tariffs for AXTEL and Grupo were reduced from Ps. 0.75 per minute to US$0.0105 Telefonica applicable to the period between 2008 and or US$0.0080 per minute (depending on the place 2011, which consider the same amounts set forth by where the Company delivers the long distance call). the SCT in the ruling issued on September 1, 2008, that is, $0.5465 pesos per real minute for 2008, Until June 2010, Telmex billed the Company for the $0.5060 pesos for 2009, $0.4705 pesos for 2010, and termination of long distance calls applying the rates $0.4179 pesos for 2011. that were applicable prior to the resolutions mentioned above, and after such date, Telmex has billed the This ruling was challenged via amparo trial by Grupo resultant amounts, applying the new interconnection Telefonica, and its currently on its first stage. Final rates. As of December 31, 2012, the difference ruling on this matter is expected on the first semester between the amounts paid by the Company to Telmex of the year 2014. according to the new rates, and the amounts billed by Telmex, amount to approximately to Ps. 1,240 million, With respect to Grupo Iusacell and Unefon, the Cofetel not including value added tax. determined the interconnection tariffs for the years of 2008 to 2010, on the second quarter of the year 2009, Telmex filed for the annulment of the proceeding with such determination being challenged by the Company the Federal Court of Tax and Administrative Justice via an administrative review proceeding, wich is in the (Tribunal Federal de Justicia Fiscal y Administrativa) process of being solved by the Cofetel. As a result, the requesting the annulment of Cofetel’s administrative interconnection tariffs are not yet definitely defined, resolution. The Company (AXTELl and Avantel) due to the fact that these new rulings might be, once have a contingency in case that the Federal Tax and again, challenged by the parties involved. Administrative Court rules against the Company, and as a result, establishes rates different to those set As a consequence of the rulings issued by the SCT forth by Cofetel. Telmex obtained a suspension for the on September 2008, the Company recognized since application of the interconnection rates established August 2008, the interconnection tariff of: $0.5465 by Cofetel, such suspension came into effect on pesos, $0.5060 pesos, $0.4705 y $0.4179 per real January 26, 2010, but ceased to be in force and minute for Telcel, and of $0.6032 pesos for the other effect as of February 11, 2010, since the Company mobile carriers. decided to exercise its right to leave without effect the suspension by guaranteeing any damages that The tariffs that the Company was paying prior to could be caused to Telmex. Nonetheless, the above the rulings, was of $1.3216 pesos per real minute to mentioned Court revoked the guarantee given to Telcel, and $1.21 pesos per rounded minute to the Telmex, taking into consideration the issuance of other mobile carriers. As of December 31, 2012, the resolution P/140410/189, whereby Cofetel ruled the difference between the amounts paid by the Company same low rates between Axtel and Telmex for the year according to these tariffs, and the amounts billed by 2010. the mobile carriers, amounted to approximately Ps. 2,073 million not including value added tax. In January 2010, the Cofetel resolved an interconnection disagreement proceeding existing After evaluating the actual status of the foregoing between the Company (Avantel) and Telmex related proceedings, and taking into consideration the to the rates for the termination of long distance calls information available and the information provided from the Company to Telmex with respect to year by the legal advisors, the Company’s Management 2009. In such administrative resolution, the Cofetel consider that there are enough elements to maintain approved a reduction in the rates for termination of the actual accounting treatment, and that at the end long distance calls applicable to those cities where of the legal proceedings, the interests of the Company Telmex does not have interconnection access points. will prevail. These rates were reduced from Ps. 0.75 per minute to US$0.0126, US$0.0105 or US$0.0080 per minute, (c) Interconnection Disagreements – Telmex – Years depending on the place where the Company delivers 2009 to 2010. In March 2009, the Cofetel resolved the long distance call. Based on this resolution, the an interconnection disagreement proceeding existing Company paid approximately Ps. 20 million in excess. between the Company (AXTEL) and Teléfonos de Telmex challenged the resolution before the Federal México, S.A.B. de C.V. (“Telmex”) related to the rates Court of Tax and Administrative Justice, and such proceeding is in an initial stage. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 107 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE On May 2011, the Cofetel issued a ruling resolving an (e) Contingency – Payment of Duties. With respect interconnection disagreement proceeding between to the contingency that the Company had for the Telmex and the Company, related to the tariff payment of rights for the years 2001 to 2011 for applicable to the termination of long distance calls the installation and use of a cable in the exclusive from the Company to Telmex, for the year 2011. In economic geographic zone in Mexico related to such administrative resolution, the Cofetel approved a certain landing points in “Playa Niño”, region 86, reduction of the tariffs applicable for the termination Benito Juarez, Itancah Tulum, Carrillo Puerto, and of long distance calls. The above mentioned tariffs Quintana Roo, after several trials and as a consequence were reduced from US$0.0126, US$0.0105 or of several approaches with the General Management US$0.0080 per minute, to Ps.0.04530 and Ps.0.03951 of Ports of the Department of Communications and per minute, depending on the place in which the Transportation, after which, the surface over which Company is to deliver the long distance traffic. Telmex the duties for the for the maritime cable were to be challenged this ruling before the SCT, but the request calculated was modified and considerably reduced, on was dismissed by such authority. Nowadays, Telmex the 4th day of September 2012, it was delivered to challenged such dismissal, before the Federal Court of the Company a new authorization in order to use for a Tax and Administrative Justice, and such proceeding is period of ten years, an area of the Mexican territorial in an initial stage. seafloor, for which the Company paid, for the period from the year 2001 to the third quarter of the year As of December 31st 2012, the Company believes that 2012, the amount of Ps. 2,569 (including adjustments the rates determined by the Cofetel in its resolutions and surcharges). will prevail, and therefore it has recognized the cost, based on the rates approved by Cofetel. The above brings this contingency litigation to an end, due to the fact that the Company made the payment As of December 31, 2009, there was a letter of for the full period of time and a new authorization title credit for U.S. $34 million issued by Banamex in was issued. favor of Telmex for the purpose of guaranteeing the Company’s obligations, which were acquired through (f) The Company is involved in a number of lawsuits and several interconnection agreements. The amounts claims arising in the normal course of business. It is under the letter of credit were drawn by Telmex in expected that the final outcome of these matters will the month of January 2010, claiming that Avantel had not have significant adverse effects on the Company’s debts with such company. As of December 31, 2012, financial position and results of operations. Avantel has been able to recover Ps.395 million of pesos from the amount mentioned above, through (g) In compliance with commitments made in the compensation with regard to certain charges for acquisition of concession rights, the Company services rendered by Telmex to Avantel on a monthly has granted surety bonds to the Federal Treasury basis. The remaining balance of Ps. 47 million of pesos and to the Department of Communications and is recognized in the “other accounts receivable” line Transportation amounting to Ps 5,236 and to other item in the balance sheet. service providers amounting to Ps 1,243,020. (d) Spectrasite Contingency. On January 24, 2001, an (h)The concessions granted by the Department of agreement was entered into with Global Towers Communications and Transportation (SCT), Communications Mexico, S. de R.L. de C.V. (Formerly mentioned in note 2, establish certain obligations to Spectrasite Communications Mexico, S. de R.L. de the Company, including, but not limited to: (i) filing C.V.), with expiration on January 24, 2004, whereby annual reports with the SCT, including identifying Global Towers was to provide to the Company with main stockholders of the Company, (ii) reporting any services for the location, construction, setting up and increase in common stock, (iii) providing continuous selling of sites within the Mexican territory. As part services with certain technical specifications, (iv) of the operation, the Company agreed to lease from filing monthly reports about disruptions, (v) filing the Global Towers 650 sites in a time frame period of services’ tariff, and (vi) providing a bond. three years. (i) The Company leases some equipment and facilities On January 24, 2001, the Company received 13 million under operating leases. Some of these leases have dollars from Global Towers to secure the acquisition renewal clauses. Lease expense for year ended of the 650 sites at 20,000 dollars per site. During December 31, 2012 and 2011 amounted to Ps 2002, Spectrasite Communications México, S. de 641,977 and Ps 567,986, respectively. R.L. de C.V., filed an Ordinary Mercantile Trial against the Company, claiming the refund of the guarantee deposit. On December 15 2011, the trial was ruled in favor of AXTEL releasing the Company from any and all liability, and therefore finalizing this contingency. 108/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE The annual payments under these leases as of December 31, 2012 are as follows: Leases contracts in: Pesos Dollars (thousands) (thousands) 2013 Ps 217,027 10,483 2014 185,584 10,512 2015 149,616 6,702 2016 125,670 4,441 2017 106,716 1,091 2018 and thereafter 206,444 1,250 Ps 991,057 34,479 (j) As of December 31, 2012, the Company has placed purchase orders which are pending delivery from suppliers for approximately Ps. 965,058. (25) IMPACTS OF ADOPTING The Company applied the following optional exemptions INTERNATIONAL FINANCIAL REPORTING to the retroactive application of IFRS: STANDARDS Business combinations The Company elected not to The Company adopted IFRS on January 1, 2012, as required apply IFRS 3, “Business Combinations,” to business by the National Banking and Securities Commission combinations as well as to acquisitions of associates prior (“CNBV”). The consolidated financial statements for to its transition date. the year ending December 31, 2012 to be issued by the Company will be its first annual financial statements that Revaluation as deemed cost The Company has opted comply with IFRS. for using the cost or depreciated cost basis, adjusted to reflect changes in a general or specific price index for The Company has applied the following applicable property, systems and equipment, which include inflation mandatory exceptions to the retroactive application of adjustments through December 31, 2007 in accordance IFRSs as established by IFRS 1 as follows: with MFRS as of the transition date. Accounting estimates – IFRS estimates are consistent with Borrowing costs – The Company has applied the borrowing those of MFRS at the same date. cost exemption as of the transition date. Hedge accounting Hedge accounting is applied only if the hedge relationship meets the criteria established by A reconciliation of the Company’s stockholders’ equity as IFRS as of the transition date. of January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011 is as follows: 2011 January 1 December 31 Stockholders’ equity per MFRS note: Ps 7,633,468 5,740,146 Intangible assetseffects of inflation a) (242,292) (208,018) Property, systems and equipment b) (94,765) Employee benefits c) 55,816 54,956 Deferred employee statutory profit sharing d) (18,581) (18,082) Derivative financial instruments f) 2,536 1,456 Deferred income taxes g) 296,574 326,493 Stockholders’ equity per IFRS Ps 7,727,521 5,802,186 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT /109 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE A reconciliation of the Company’s comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2011 is as follows: December 31, 2011 Net loss per MFRS note: Ps (1,893,322) Effects of inflation in intangibles assets a) 34,274 Property, systems and equipment – borrowing costs b) (94,765) Employee benefits c) (860) Deferred employee statutory profit sharing d) 499 Derivative financial instruments f) (1,080) Deferred income taxes g) 29,919 Comprehensive loss per IFRS Ps (1,925,335) The following notes describe the adjustments associated e) Debt issuance costs with the transition to IFRS: In accordance with IAS 39, debt issuance costs are a) Elimination of inflation in intangible assets presented net of the associated debt given that they are and contributed capital considered to be a component of the effective interest cost. According to MFRS, the Mexican peso ceased to be a currency of an inflationary economy in December 2007, f) Derivative financial instruments since cumulative inflation for the previous three years as of such date did not exceed 26%. According to IAS 29, EMBEDDED DERIVATIVES “Financial Reporting in Hyperinflationary Economies,” For MFRS purposes, the Company recorded embedded the last hyperinflationary period for the Mexican peso derivatives for lease agreements denominated in US was in 1997. As a result, the Company eliminated the dollars. Pursuant to the principles set forth in IAS 39, cumulative inflation recognized within intangible assets “Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement”, and contributed capital, for IFRS purposes. there is an exception for embedded derivatives on those contracts that are denominated in certain foreign b) Borrowing costs currencies, if for example the foreign currency is commonly used in the economic environment in which In accordance with MFRS, the Company had capitalized the transaction takes place. The Company concluded that exchange rate fluctuations, which in accordance with IFRS all of its embedded derivatives fell within the scope of this have been derecognized as they were not considered to exception. Therefore, at the transition date, the Company be an adjustment to interest costs. derecognized all embedded derivatives recognized under MFRS. c) Employee benefits CREDIT RISK ASSOCIATED WITH FINANCIAL According to MFRS, a severance provision and the INSTRUMENTS corresponding expense, must be recognized based on IAS 39, “Financial Instruments: Recognition and the entity’s experience in terminating the employment Measurement”, establishes that both the Company’s relationship before the retirement date. For IFRS purposes, own and counterparty credit risk be considered in the this provision was eliminated as it does not meet the fair value determinate of financial instruments measured definition of a termination benefit pursuant to IAS 19, at fair value through profit or loss, which impacted the “Employee Benefits.” Accordingly, at the transition date, valuation of its derivative financial instruments. the Company derecognized its termination obligation recorded under MFRS. g) Deferred income taxes d) Deferred employee profit sharing The adjustments to IFRS recognized by the Company had an impact on the deferred income tax calculation, In accordance with MFRS, the Company records deferred according to the requirements set forth by IAS 12, employee profit sharing, which for purposes of IFRS has “Income Taxes.” In addition, the Company recognized its been derecognized given that this provision does not deferred income tax liabilities, except to the extent that meet its recognition principles. the deferred tax liability arose from the initial recognition 110/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE of an asset or liability in a transaction which at the time IFRS 10, “Consolidated Financial Statements,” establishes of the transaction, affected neither accounting profit nor the principles for the presentation and preparation of the taxable profit. consolidated financial statements when an entity controls one or more entities. The standard requires the controlling h) Presentation of comprehensive income company to present its consolidated financial statements; modifies the definition about the principle of control and items establishes such definition as the basis for consolidation; establishes how to apply the principle of control to The Company reclassified certain items within its identify if an investment is subject to be consolidated. statement of comprehensive income to conform with The standard replaces IAS 27, Consolidated and Separate the requirements of IAS 1, “Presentation of Financial Financial Statements and SIC 12, Consolidation – Special Statements,” such as the reclassification of certain Purpose Entities. The effective date of IFRS 10 is January expenses, which for purposes of IFRS are considered to be 1, 2013, with early application permitted in certain operating in nature. circumstances, but it must be applied in conjunction with IAS 27 (2011), IAS 28 (2011), IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. This standard does not impact the Company’s consolidated (26) RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING financial statements and has not been early adopted. STANDARDS NOT YET IN EFFECT The following standards become effective in subsequent IFRS 11, “Joint Arrangements,” classifies joint arrangements periods and management is in the process of assessing as either joint operations (combining the existing their possible impact on its consolidated financial position concepts of jointly controlled assets and jointly controlled and results of operations. operations) or joint ventures (equivalent to the existing concept of a jointly controlled entity). Joint operation is STANDARDS AND AMENDMENTS TO BE ADOPTED IN a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint 2013 control have rights to the assets and obligations for the liabilities. Joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby IAS 27, “Separate Financial Statements,” establishes the the parties that have joint control of the arrangement requirements applicable to the accounting of investments have rights to the net assets of the arrangement. IFRS in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, when an 11 requires the use of the equity method of accounting entity elects or is required by the local regulations, to for interests in joint ventures thereby eliminating the present individual financial statements. This standard proportionate consolidation method. The determination does not dictate which entities produce separate financial of as to whether a joint arrangement is a joint operation statements available for public use; it is applicable when or a joint venture is based on the parties’ rights and an entity prepares such financial statements in accordance obligations under the arrangement, with the existence with IFRS. The separate financial statements are those of a separate legal vehicle no longer being the key factor. presented by a controlling entity, an investor with joint The effective date of IFRS 11 is January 1, 2013, with control or significant influence, in which investments early application permitted in certain circumstances, but are accounted at cost or in accordance with IFRS 9. The it must be applied in conjunction with IAS 27 (2011), IAS effective date of IAS 27 (2011) is January 1, 2013, with 28 (2011), IFRS 10 and IFRS 12. This standard does not early application permitted in certain circumstances, but impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements it must be applied in conjunction with IAS 28 (2011), IFRS and has not been early adopted. 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. This standard does not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements. IFRS 12, “Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities,” has the objective to require the disclosure of information to IAS 28, “Investments in Associated Companies and Joint allow the users of financial information to evaluate the Ventures,” prescribes the accounting for Investments in nature and risk associated with their interests in other associated companies and establishes the requirements entities, and the effects of such interests in their position, to apply the equity method when those investments financial performance and cash flows. The effective and the investments in joint ventures are accounted. date of IFRS 12 is January 1, 2013, with early application The standard is applicable to all the entities that own permitted in certain circumstances, but it must be applied control or significant influence over another entity. This in conjunction with IAS 27 (2011), IAS 28 (2011), IFRS standard supersedes the previous version of IAS 28, 10 and IFRS 11. This standard does not impact the Investments in associated companies. The effective date Company’s consolidated financial statements and has not of IAS 28 (2011) is January 1, 2013, with early application been early adopted. permitted in certain circumstances, but it must be applied in conjunction with IAS 27 (2011), IFRS 10, IFRS 11 and IFRS 12. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 111 06 FINANCIAL PERSPECTIVE IFRS 13, “Fair Value Measurement,” establishes a single (27) SUBSEQUENT EVENTS framework for measuring fair value where that is required by other standards. The standard applies to both financial a) On January 31, 2013, the Company completed the and non-financial items measured at fair value. Fair value sale of 883 sites to MATC Digital telecommunications, is defined as “the price that would be received to sell an S. de RL de CV (“MATC”), a subsidiary of American asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction Tower Corporation, in amount of U.S. 249 million. between market participants at the measurement date”. Additionally, the Company agreed to lease certain IFRS 13 is effective for annual periods beginning on or spaces at these locations in terms ranging from 6 after January 1, 2013, with early adoption permitted, and to 15 years, depending on the type of technology applies prospectively from the beginning of the annual installed at each site, for a net cost of approximately $ period in which the standard is adopted. This standard 20 million. does not impact the Company’s consolidated financial statements and has not been early adopted. b) On the same date, the Company completed the exchange of 142 and 335 million of unsecured notes due 2017 and 2019, respectively, for 249 and STANDARDS AND AMENDMENTS TO BE ADOPTED IN 22 million secured bonds and a convertible bond, 2015 respectively, both with due on 2020, plus a cash payment of 83 million to participating holders. IFRS 9, “Financial Instruments,” issued in November 2009 and amended in October 2010 introduces new c) On January 30, 2013, the Company launched its payrequirements for the classification and measurement TV service “AXTEL TV” in Mexico City, Guadalajara of financial assets and financial liabilities and for and Monterrey. derecognition. The standard requires all recognized financial assets that are within the scope of IAS 39 to be subsequently measured at amortized cost or fair value. Specifically, debt investments that are held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortized cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods. All other debt investments and equity investments are measured at their fair values at the end of subsequent accounting periods. The most significant effect of IFRS 9 regarding the classification and measurement of financial liabilities relates to the accounting for changes in fair value of a financial liability (designated as at fair value through profit or loss) attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability. Specifically, under IFRS 9, for financial liabilities that are designated as at fair value through profit or loss, the amount of change in the fair value of the financial liability that is attributable to changes in the credit risk of that liability is recognized in other comprehensive income, unless the recognition of the effects of changes in the liability’s credit risk in other comprehensive income would create or enlarge an accounting mismatch in profit or loss. Changes in fair value attributable to a financial liability’s credit risk are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss. Previously, under IAS 39, the entire amount of the change in the fair value of the financial liability designated as at fair value through profit or loss was recognized in profit or loss. 112/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT [3.1, 3.2, 3.3, 3.4, 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11, 3.13] MEMORY PARAMETERS We submit our second sustainability report, being the current document our first integrated report containing information corresponding to the economic, social and environmental fields in the organization with indicators that correspond to the period from January 2012 to December 2012. This Report, submitted annually, gives continuity to the information submitted in the report for 2011, incorporating indicators that are considered materials for AXTEL. These indicators were determined based on the Strategic Plan assessment of the company. The report structure has been defined taking Guideline G3.1 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) with a self-declared Level B. The information contained in this report shows the performance of AXTEL Corporate offices in Monterrey, as well as the administrative and operation centers where the company is present around the country. The information corresponding to the suppliers, shareholders, clients and/or trade partners is not included in the report. Cristina M. Cuéllar García Social Responsibility ccuellar@axtel.com.mx Tel. 52 81 8114 1244 Adrián de los Santos Escobedo Head of Investors’ relations adelossantos@axtel.com.mx Tel. 52 81 8114 1128 Julio Salinas Lombard Head of Media relations jusalinas@axtel.com.mx Tel. 52 81 8114 1144 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT /113 113 AWARDS RECEIVED DURING 2012 For the fifth consecutive year we achieved the ESR Distinction (Socially Responsible Enterprise) granted by CEMEFI (Mexican Center for Philanthropy). We obtained the Gold Star distinction from Cisco for Customer Satisfaction Excellence. We received the certification as Telepresence Video Master Authorized Technology Provider ATP granted by Cisco. We revalidated Cisco Gold Partner, Managed Services Channel Partner (MSCP) certifications from Cisco and ISO 27001. During 2012 the ISO 9001:2008, ISO 20000-1:2011 and ISO 27001:2005 ISO 9001 BUREAU VERITAS were received, enabling AXTEL to be recognized for its ability to offer and Certification operate ICT managed services. We were recognized with the Certification from Uptime Institute TIER III Certification of Design Documents. This certification validates that the design of our Data Center is concurrently sustainable, that is, it has redundant components and has multiple energy feeding trajectories to the computer equipment. Certification from International Computer Room Experts Association (ICREA) Level 3 S-WCQA Safety World Class Quality Assurance Data Center. This certification validates that our Data Center is a reliable computer room with world class Certified Environment. 114/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT [3.12] GRI INDEX AXTEL REPORT 2012 LEVEL B+ SCOPE SUB-TOPIC REPORT MEASURE PAGE LEVEL 1.1 Statement from top responsible individual in making decisions for the organization. 4 Complete 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 16 Complete 2.1 Name of the organization. 6 Complete 2.2 Main services. 21 Complete 2.3 Operational structure of the organization. 15 Complete Strategy and Analysis 2.4 Location of headquarters of the organization. 9 Complete 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates. 21 Complete 2.6 Nature of the ownership and legal form. 9 Complete 2.7 Markets served. 21 / 63 Complete 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6 / 40 Complete 2.9 Significant changes in the size, structure and ownership of the organization during the 4 / 15 Complete period covered. 2.10 Awards and distinctions received. 6 Complete PROFILE 3.1 Reporting period. 113 Complete 3.2 Date of most recent previous report. 113 Complete 3.3 Reporting cycle. 113 Complete 3.4 Contact point for report matters. 113 Complete 3.5 Process for defining report content. 113 Complete Report parameters 3.6 Report coverage. 113 Complete 3.7 Limitations on report scope or coverage. 113 Complete 3.8 Base in including information in case of joint ventures. 113 Complete 3.9 Data measuring techniques and bases for calculations. 57 / 113 Complete 3.10 Description of re-statement of information provided in earlier reports. 113 Complete 3.11 Significant changes from previous periods in scope, coverage or assessment methods 113 Complete of the report. 3.12 Table of report basic contents. 115 Complete 3.13 Current policy and practice regarding report external verification. 113 Complete 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 115 4.1 Governance structure of the organization. 9 Complete 4.2 Position of chairman of highest governance body. 9 Complete 4.3 Number of independent members in highest governance body. 9 Completo 4.4 Stockholders and employee mechanisms to communicate recommendations or indications 9 Complete to highest governance body. 4.5 Linkage between retribution of members in highest governance body, top directors 9 Complete and executives. 4.6 Implemented procedures to prevent conflict of interest in highest governance body. 9 Complete Government 4.7 Procedure to determine training and experience of highest governance body. 9 Complete PROFILE 4.8 Mission, vision, and internal values, code of conduct and principles relevant for economic, 6 Complete social, environmental performance and implementation status. 4.9 Highest governance body procedures in overseeing identification and management of 9 Complete economic, environmental and social performance. 4.10 Performance evaluation procedures of highest governance body. 9 Complete 4.11 Description of how the organization has adopted a precautionary principle. 9 Complete 4.12 Principles or social, environmental and economic programs developed externally. 29 Complete 4.13 Main associations it belongs to. 29 Partial 4.14 Stakeholders relation the organization has included. 29 Complete Stakeholders participation 4.15 Base for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom the organization is engaged. 29 Complete Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including earnings, exploitation costs, employees retribution, donations and other investments in the community, non-distributed 59 / 60 Complete ECONOMIC PERSPECTIVE Performance benefits and payments to capital providers and governments. EC5 Range in relation between standard initial wage and local minimum wage in places (PMNU 1) where significant operations are performed. 40 / 59 Partial Market presence EC6 Policy, practices and proportion of expense corresponding to local suppliers in places 17 / 59 Complete where significant operations are performed. EC7 Local hiring procedures and proportion of top directors native from the local community in (PMNU 6) areas where significant operations are performed. 15 / 40 / 59 Complete LA1 Breakdown of workers by type of employment, by contract, and by region. 40 Complete SOCIAL Employment LA2 Total number of employees and average turnover, broken down by age group, (PMNU 6) gender, and region. 40 Complete PERSPECTIVE Education LA3 Social benefits for full-time employees, not offered to temporary workers or part-time, 40 Complete and broken down by main activity. training 116/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT Company/employee LA4 Percentage of employees covered by a collective agreement. 40 Complete (PMNU 1 Y 3) relations LA5 Minimum pre-notification Period(s) regarding organizational changes, including if 40 Complete (PMNU 3) these notifications are specified in collective agreements. LA6 Total percentage of employees represented in health and safety joined committees 44 Complete Health and safety in the work (PMNU 1) management-employees, established to support in controlling and counseling regarding health and safety in the job programs. LA7 Rates for absenteeism, professional diseases, lost days and number of fatalities 44 Partial (PMNU 1) related with work by region. LA8 Programs on education, training, counseling, prevention and risk control applied 44 Complete (PMNU 1) to the workers, their families or members of the community related to severe diseases. LA9 Health and safety matters covered in formal agreements with unions. 44 Complete (PMNU 1) Education and LA10 Average number of hours of formation per year per employee, divided by category. 45 Complete training. HR2 Percentage of key distributors or contractors that have been subject to analysis in regards to Investment practices and 17 Complete human rights, and measures adopted as a consequence. SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE HR3 Total number of hours formation of employees regarding policies and procedures related Sourcing (PMNU 1, to human rights aspects relevant for their activities, including the percentage Complete 17 2, 3, 4, 5 of employees trained. Y 6) Human Rights / HR4 Total number of discrimination incidents and the corrective actions taken. Non(PMNU 1, 17 Complete discrimination 2 Y 6) HR5 Company activities where the right to freedom of association and invoke the collective Freedom of (PMNU 1, agreements may run important risks and measures adopted to support these rights. 40 Complete Association 2 Y 3) HR6 Activities identified that involve a potential risk for child exploitation incidents, Child (PMNU 1, and measures adopted to contribute to its elimination. 20 Complete Exploitation 2 Y 5) HR7 Operations identified as a significant risk for being the origin of forced or non-voluntary Forced (PMNU 1, labor episodes and the measures adopted to contribute to its elimination. 20 Complete Labor 2 Y 4) SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact 34 Complete assessments, and development programs. SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed with regards to risks related Corruption 16 Complete with corruption. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures in 17 Partial (PMNU 10) the organization. SO4 Measures taken in response to corruption incidents. 17 Complete (PMNU 10) SO6 Total value of financial support or in-kind to political parties or related 60 Complete Public Policy (PMNU 10) institutions, per country. 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 117 Unfair SO7 Total number of actions due to causes related with monopolistic practices and against 26 / 60 Complete Competition fair competition and its results. Regulation SO8 Monetary value of sanctions and significant fines and total number of non-monetary 60 Complete Compliance sanctions derived from non-compliance of laws and regulations. Customer PR5 Customer satisfaction practices including the results of the customer satisfaction studies. 26 Complete SOCIAL PERSPECTIVE Health and Safety PR6 Legal compliance programs or adherence to standards and voluntary codes mentioned Marketing in marketing communications, included in advertising, other promotional activities, 26 Complete and sponsorships. Communications PR7 Total number of incidents resulting from non-compliance of regulations regarding marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, distributed based 26 Complete on the type of result of such incidents. Customer PR8 Total number of complaints dully supported in regards to privacy and customer 26 Complete Privacy (PMNU 1) information leaks. Regulation PR9 Cost of significant fines due to non-compliance of standards in regards to supply and use 21 / 26 Complete Compliance of organization products and services. EN1 Materials used by weight and volume. 52 Complete (PMNU 8) EN3 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary sources. Complete 55 Materials (PMNU 8) EN4 Direct energy consumption broken down by primary sources. 55 Complete (PMNU 8) EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. 56 Complete EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. 56 Complete ENVIRONMENTAL PERSPECTIVE EN16 Total emissions, direct and indirect, of greenhouse gas emissions, in weight. 55 Complete (PMNU 8) EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 55 Complete Emissions, discharges and waste (PMNU 8) EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved. 52 Complete EN22 Total weight of waste managed, according to type and treatment method. 52 Complete (PMNU 8) EN24 Weight of waste transported, imported, exported or treated that are considered hazardous (PMNU 8) according to the Basil Convention, addendum I, II, III, and VIII and percentage of waste 52 Complete transported internationally. EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of 52 Complete impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products sold, and its packaging material recovered at the end of its useful life, Products 52 Complete (PMNU 8 by product category. and Services Y 9) EN29 Significant environmental impacts in transportation of product and other goods and Conveying (PMNU 8) materials used for the activities of the organization, as well as personnel transportation. 55 Complete PMNU refers to the United Nations Global Compact principle with which the indicator is related. 118/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT Huixquilucan, State of Mexico, April 10 2013 AXTEL S.A.B. de C.V External Assurance Statement for the 2012 AXTEL Integrated Annual Report To the Directors and management of AXTEL, In response to the request from AXTEL, we conducted an independent external assurance of its Integrated Annual Report for its 2012 operations; in this process we reviewed its application of the content and quality principles for Sustainability Reporting, according to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 Guidelines, and the description of the organizational profile, its management approach to sustainability, and the economic, social and environmental performance indicators proposed in these Guidelines. Director’s Responsibility The elaboration and presentation of the 2012 Integrated Annual Report of AXTEL, its content and performance indicators, and the B level self-declaration according to GRI G3.1 Guidelines are the sole responsibility of the Directors of AXTEL. Scope of our work The IDEARSE Centre is responsible to express its conclusions about the independent assurance process conducted for the 2012 Integrated Annual Report of AXTEL, in accordance to GRI G3.1 content and quality principles for Sustainability Reporting and the inclusion of economic, social and environment indicators, based on the methodology and procedures applied in our review. This statement could not be considered as an audit report. Assurance Process The external assurance process was carried out in three stages by applying specific guidelines for collecting and analyzing information: • Review and analysis of the content of the 2012 Integrated Annual Report and the annexes provided by AXTEL. • Interviews with specific executives and managers of various related areas and responsible for the elaboration of the 2012 Integrated Annual Report, to validate cross-sectional information on its sustainability model and its implementation throughout the company. • Information analysis and presentation of a critical-reading report containing the conclusions and improvement recommendations for future reports. During all the process, the application of GRI Guidelines for the report preparation was validated, and the mainstreaming of sustainability in the management approach towards economic, social and environmental performance was assured. We reviewed the alignment with the quality and content principles proposed by GRI, the consistency between the qualitative and quantitative information about specific practices and the application of GRI Guidelines for the content of the report. (All complementary information requested was timely provided by AXTEL and there was no limitation to the access of any evidence). 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT / 119 Conclusions As a result of the external assurance process, we found no significant deviations or omissions in the application of the methodology proposed in GRI Guideline version 3.1 (G3.1) for Sustainability Reporting, as well as any aspect showing significant inconsistencies in the information reported by AXTEL in the texts or indicators of its 2012 operations. These enable AXTEL to self-declare their 2012 Annual Integrated Report as a B level report. Recommendations Additionally, we presented a report to AXTEL Management containing the detail of our external assurance process and the recommendations emerging from it, in order to improve their sustainability reporting practice in future years. Sincerely, Sybil Aréchiga Vargas Jorge Reyes Iturbide External Assurer Director of IDEARSE Centre 120/ 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT 2012 AXTEL ANNUAL INTEGRATED REPORT /121 AXTEL CORPORATIVE OFFICES Bulevard Díaz Ordaz Km 3.33, L1 Col. Unidad San Pedro San Pedro Garza García, N.L. C.P. 66215 www.axtel.mx/sustentabilidad
