TABLE OF CONTENTS About the report 03 Materiality Matrix 09 About Delta Holding 10 Delta Agrar 22 Delta Real Estate 28 Delta Distribution 32 Delta Sport 36 Delta MC 38 Delta Generali 40 Foundation 46 Employees 48 Market Responsibility 60 Environmental Protection 64 Supporting The Social Community 76 Independent Auditors’ Report 86 GRI Indicator References 89 WE ALL WANT A BETTER LIFE. FOR OUR FAMILY, FRIENDS, NEIGHBOURS, FOR OUR CITY, THE COUNTRY WE LIVE IN. FOR ALL OF US. ABOUT THE REPORT Dear All, Delta Holding is pleased to present its fourth annual report This report is intended for people who understand the significance on the responsible and sustainable operations. The report of exchanging experiences for improving society, for those who is in compliance with the Global Reporting Initiative1 (GRI) make innovative decisions and are ready to stand up for their methodology and reporting requirements to obtain B+ reporting principles – for our employees, business partners, customers, level; it contains information on Delta Holding`s operations in suppliers and our global community. 20122. The previous report, entitled “RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS” covered 2011 operations was released in April 2012 and aligned Complete information on sustainable operations is available at with the GRI methodology to obtain C+ level. the Delta Holding’s web site www.deltaholding.rs. For additional questions and further information please feel free to contact us at The company`s socially responsible activities during 2012 are fondacija@deltaholding.rs. linked to the following operational segments: • Employee care Delta Holding • Relations with business partners • Relations with the community 1 https://www.globalreporting.org • Philanthropic activities 2 The Report includes reporting in the territory of Serbia 3 APPLICATION OF REPORTING PRINCIPLES MATERIALITY In making the Delta Holding`s report on sustainable operations Delta Holding`s corporate vision is to develop a strong, global useful to company stakeholders including here employees, company recognisable across its stakeholder base by the values it business partners and the wider social community – the company upholds. The company conducts all of its operations to satisfy the followed the GRI standards. The accuracy of the reported data and needs of its stakeholders. In this respect, the CSR Report provides harmonization of the report with the B+ reporting level standards relevant information to the stakeholders regardless whether they are have been verified by the auditing company KPMG d.o.o. Beograd. in direct or indirect contact with Delta Holding. INCLUSION The Report outlines the way Delta Holding interacts with stakeholders, surveys the level of their satisfaction and defines development plans. Delta Holding welcomes any content and quality feedback on the Report and will duly take the feedback into consideration and inclusion in all subsequent reports. Contact details for providing feedback are located at the beginning of this Report. SUSTAINABILITY Continuous and sustainable development of Delta Holding`s operations is key to the Company`s role in further economic development of Serbia and the region. Memberships in international organisations and active participation in international conferences, trade fairs and seminars are a proof of Company`s strive to introduce the best international practices on Serbian market. The adopted five-year operating strategy clearly defines the activity and takes into the full account all of the prospective changes in the region together with other circumstances which may affect further growth and sustainability of the company’s operation. 4 COMPLETENESS ACCURACY The Report covers the period from January 1, to December The Report contains qualitative and quantitative data, listed with 31, 2012. Financial and economic indicators derive from the highest possible precision and accuracy. In absence of the the report compiled for the Company’s annual meeting. original data, separate calculations were made and listed together This report is available for download from the Company’s with a detailed explanation of the methodology behind them. official web site: (http://www.deltaholding.rs/code/navigate. Financial and economic data are in the Company`s financial php?Id=55&posted=130 Operating results in 2012). statements. BALANCE TIMELINESS The Report contains information on the GRI indicators of relevance The report data will allow the stakeholders to reach timely and to stakeholders. The Results are presented together with all of the informed decisions on cooperation with Delta Holding based on challenges the Company faces in its daily operations. Insight into data from the Report. possible improvements of the operation segments is also given. CLARITY COMPARABILITY Principles of clarity and simplicity were observed and the wording Stakeholder will be able to compare the Report with the similar of the Report is clear and simple. Explanation of certain terms and reports published by other companies. This is enabled by abbreviations is in the footnotes. the application of GRI standards and indicators used for the definition of GRI reporting levels. Data for the reporting period RELIABILITY are also included; the same measurement methods were used throughout the report, where applicable. Application of different According to the reporting principles adopted by the Company, methodology, the reasons and effects of the aberration are also independent evaluation is necessary for ensuring information and listed. data reliability. Accordingly, independent verification of this report was performed by the auditing firm KPMG d.o.o. Beograd. 5 FOREWORD BY THE PRESIDENT OF THE COMPANY Strength of a company or a man is measured not During the reporting period we have implemented a significant innovative only through their ability to achieve success, but project of employing new associates. Through the Young Leaders also through their strength to overcome the crisis Programme, the Company has given 20 new jobs to successful students, or to deal with such a challenge. If prior to the our future managers. global economic crisis success was measured by market growth, today the benchmark of success Employing new staff, maintaining existing jobs, along with providing must be sustainable business. premium quality products and services is the sustainability Delta Holding insists upon. Thanks to the Company`s sustainable organizational model During the crisis Delta Holding has maintained Delta Holding contributed EUR 130 million to the national budget in taxes its direction and preserved its core business and contributions alone; further EUR 2.85 million were distributed in principles despite the difficult economic environment. The necessary donations. Despite all the challenges which lay before it, Delta Holding will optimisation and rationalisation was conducted on the side of business, stay faithful to its CSR strategy, together with the principles of Global while at the same time the Company remained fully committed to its Compact which the Company is a member of. already set objectives in the area of Corporate Social Responsibility. Sustainable business in years of crisis is a true test of the overall We are very proud to state that during 2012 Delta Holding greatly development of Delta Holding from its establishment up to date. We have contributed the Serbian society by giving it the first endowment since the passed this test successfully and the proof of it lies in the pages which Second World War. Day-care Centre for Children and Youth with Disabilities follow. “Sun”, located in Belgrade, immediately proved its multifaceted value – it provides the much needed accommodation for its beneficiaries, but it also has an esthetical value as it won the 2012 Best Serbian Architectural Design Miroslav Mišković Award. President of Delta Holding 6 FOREWORD BY GENERAL MANAGER OF DELTA FOUNDATION What kind of society do we want to leave for By involving the Company in environmental protection projects we gave future generations, and how can we contribute our contribution to the reduction of primary energy consumption and CO2 today towards a better and more predictable emissions the primary cause of global warming. life in our country? Business success has relevance only if we share it with others and that is We constantly ask these and a number of why we are proud of the humanitarian activities carried out by our two similar key questions, fully aware that the Foundations. decisions we make today will affect the future in long-term. For years we have been providing help to those who need it the most – children without parental care and people with disabilities; and in 2012 Our Company believes that success of a business is based on we also gave support to improving the educational system. Ten talented understanding not only the financial and economic circumstances, students were granted scholarships to continue with their studies, while four but before all by realizing the needs of people and the environment teaching development institutions received development grants. that surround us. Aware of our responsibility towards our employees, customers, suppliers, the environment and the community we With a wish to become a role model in this business segment as well, we continuously initiate social changes and stimulate development of the have reinstated the tradition of endowments in Serbia after 70 years of it Company in all business segments. being absent. We have constructed and donated a day-care centre for children and youth with disabilities to the city of Belgrade. The modern Sun In accordance to such business philosophy, we have offered opportunities Centre is today a place where 80 beneficiaries enjoy its modern facilities to our employees our most valuable asset, for professional improvement and learn basic life skills through educational and creative workshops. and career advancement in 2012 also. This year’s innovation included The results achieved encourage us, by thinking of future generations, to training skills to help us maintain a balance between our private and focus our strengths towards sustainable development of Delta and the professional lives. entire community we belong to. The Company’s commitment to fair, long-term relationships with business partners resulted in high satisfaction of our customers, which is confirmed Ivana Mišković Karić by results from extensive surveys. Furthermore, we have additionally General Manager of Delta Foundation strengthened partnerships with our suppliers through joint presence on markets. 7 Value Matrix Very High COMMUNICATION WITH STAKEHOLDERS Importance to Stakeholders For years Delta Holding has been developing partner relations with different stakeholders. To improve these relationships, the Company observed their needs and requirements and included them in strategic planning and social responsibility programs. Delta Holding`s key stakeholders are: • Employees • Business partners (buyers, suppliers, project sub-contractors) • Investors Importance to Delta Holding Very High • Retail client base • Local authorities • Non-governmental organisations 01 High quality, healthy and safe products • Media 02 Development of community through supporting education and developing business through cooperation As a socially responsible company with transparency set as one of the key 03 Development of the employees elements of operations, the Company provides daily information to its 04 Energy efficiency, renewable energy resources, recycling, stakeholders on the activities through subsidiaries’ and two foundations’ decreasing the CO2 emission, water saving web pages, social networks, media, but also in direct communication with 05 Aid to the groups in need the Management and employees. 06 Value chain 9 ABOUT DELTA HOLDING Delta Holding Limited Company was established on February 4, 1991. The Company’s headquarters is located at 7b, Milentija Popovića Street, Belgrade Delta Holding consists today of subsidiary companies and other related parties. The Holding is active in five different business segments; Delta Holding`s core business segments are agriculture and real estate. The company has two foundations and a non-profit organisation “Delta Pak”. The majority of activities are implemented in Serbia, the rest throughout the region (Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, and FYROM) and in Russian Federation. 10 Being one of Serbia’s largest companies, Delta encourages innovation and application of the best international practices in its operations. MISSION We create new companies with passion to improve the society in which we live and work. VISION Our vision as a strong global company is to be recognized by our clients, partners and staff for our VALUES: EXCELLENCE making us the best INNOVATION with which we change the world INTEGRITY inherent to everything we do We always strive for the highest ACHIEVEMENTS CARE FOR PEOPLE as the basis of our success BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Company’s Board of Directors with its impressive driving energy and a clear vision of the future is in charge of strategic planning. It also provides lead for the employees towards a successful implementation of the plans. The Delta Holding`s Board of Directors consists of experienced professionals with a proven track record from both within or outside the company. Their major assets are their leadership skills and their goaloriented culture as well as their readiness to embrace the change. A five-year business strategy was adopted in 2012. It envisages growth of new and existing businesses to simultaneously contribute to the development of both the agribusiness in Serbia and the real estate sector. Implementation of strategic business plans, above all launch of the new endowment, together with further improvements in cooperation with agricultural producers will significantly contribute to the development of the community. At the beginning of the calendar year the Board of Directors holds its annual meeting and informs senior and mid-level management on achieved results and plans for the year ahead. During these meetings special focus is placed on economic and social developments in the region. As a result of high business diversification, the Company`s Board of Directors also holds quarterly meetings, to exchange information and share experience. At unit or division level, top managers also hold monthly meetings, when needed. Board of Directors is in charge of the annual risk assessments conducted to identify potential critical points in the Company’s operations. The risk assessment takes into account different scenarios both within the Company and on the market. It also anticipates major changes in the economic and social environment and asses their potential impact on the company. Delta Holding set up a separate Planning and Controlling Division with the Internal Audit Department. 12 Miroslav Mišković Dejan Jeremić Marija Desivojević Milka Vojvodić Jelena Krstović President Executive Vice President Cvetković Advisor for Finance Vice President for Operations Vice President for and Economy Strategy and Development Milorad Sredanović Dragan Filipović Goran S. Karić Vojkan Glavinić Vice President Vice President Vice President for Vice President for Agriculture Deputy CEO of Delta International for Real estate Generali Osiguranje and Businesses Member of the Executive Board Ivana Mišković Karić Milan Grgurević Aleksandar Čamparević Ana Dišić Head of CEO of CEO of CEO of Delta Foundation Delta AgrarGroup Delta DMD Shopping Malls Živorad Vasić Nemanja Lazić Jasminka Kiselčić Mira Cvijetić CEO of Hotels CEO of Delta Auto Director of Plan and Director of Financial and and Business Units Analysis Department Accounting Department The Board of Directors, with its strong driving energy Milica Glavaš Ivan Vasić Director of Legal Director of IT Department and Corporate Affairs Department 13 COMPANY REVENUES Despite the financial crisis and challenging operating environment, but thanks to the employees’ efforts, Delta Holding achieved an excellent operating result in 2012. Total revenues of the Company amounted to EUR 508 million3 . This figure excludes Delta Generali insurance premiums in the amount of EUR 120 million (49% of the company is owned by Delta Holding) and Delta MC income in the amount of EUR 3,93 million. Delta Holding funds its operation from own sources as well as from loans received from banks and other financial institutions. The Company’s operation is not directly incentivised by the State, although benefits and subsidies are used in performing certain business activities. The benefits and subsidies are all regulated by local legislation and are available to all legal entities. 14 In 2012 the Company allocated EUR 2,850,461 for philanthropic activities and projects designed to improve the quality of life of the marginalized social groups and support the development of culture and education. Delta Holding contributed EUR 130,000,000 to the national budget, in taxes and contributions on salaries and value added tax. Our contribution makes up for 61% of the total funds allocated from the budget towards road construction. According to the National Report4, in 2012 the amount of EUR 213,130,000 was spent in Serbia on the development of highways. 3 Total income reported to the consolidated financial statements of the Company 4 http://www.putevi-srbije.rs/pdf/nac_torino12_lat.pdf 15 Certificates 16 MEMBERSHIPS • United Nations Global Compact – a voluntary initiative of businesses committed to ten universal principles of socially responsible business operation in the area of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Delta Holding has been a member since 2008 active in social inclusion, environmental protection and the development of corporate social responsibility working groups. • International Labour Organization (ILO) – an international organisation responsible for formulating and monitoring implementation of international labour standards. It is a “tripartite” UN organisation bringing together governments, employers and workers to shape policies and programmes which promote universal fair working conditions for all. Delta Holding has been a member of the Group for the Employment of People with Disabilities since 2010. 17 Awards 18 Major events in 2012 • First endowment Day care centre for children and youth with disabilities The Sun; • Complete refurbishment of the Hotel Continental and its re-branding as Crowne Plaza; • The First harvest of the Modi apple variety; • Implementation of the first education-related project of the Serbian Business Foundation; • Young Leaders Project; • Partial refurbishment of the Hotel Park; • Introduction of a robotic operating system for monitoring vermin in Delta Agrar’s farmed fields; 19 20 GROUPS DELTA AGRAR DELTA REAL ESTATE DELTA DISTRIBUTION DELTA SPORT DELTA MC DELTA GENERALI DELTA FOUNDATION 21 • PRIMARY AGRICULTURAL PRODUCTION ON 15,000 HECTARES Crop farming, fruits, vegetables, cattle farming, fish farming • COOPERATION AND BUY-UP Fruits and vegetables, meats and cattle, retail business • AGRO-TRADE Grains, oilseeds, mineral fertilisers • FOOD DISTRIBUTION AND PRODUCTION Sale of seeds, pesticides, agricultural machines, irrigation systems Factories Yuhor, Florida Bel, Danubius, Mioni DELTA AGRAR 22 “Agriculture is our oil” Miroslav Mišković One of the most important companies within Delta Holding system, Delta Agrar produces healthy and quality agricultural products and food. Through continuous improvement of operations and application of international best practices, Delta Agrar is introducing new standards in agricultural production and markets Serbian products as competitive on European markets. Delta Agrar has been in agribusiness since 1993 and today the company is one of the leaders in all segments of agricultural production. It currently employs 1,411 people and in 2012 it generated EUR 227 million in income. Delta Agrar mainly operates in Serbia, with presence in other South East European markets, the European Union, Russia and Switzerland. Total value of exports in 2012 amounted to EUR 35.76 million. 23 PRIMARY PRODUCTION Delta Agrar`s unique-tasting club apple variety Modi was harvested Modern orchards, grain and vegetable fields, fisheries and farms for the first time in 2012. To date, there are only five licensed cover nearly 15,000 hectares of land. producers of this apple variety in the world, and Delta Agrar is the first Serbian company to have exclusive rights to produce During the reporting year Delta Agrar made major investments in and distribute it in Serbia, FYROM, Bosnia and Herzegovina and its irrigation systems, state-of-the-art technology, and staff training Albania. The company planted Fuji Kiku apple variety in early 2013. resulting in impressive operating figures. The orchard is equipped with an anti-freezing system, an irrigation The goal for 2013 is to achieve the best operating results, optimal system, a feeding system and a hail protection system, making it application of agro-technical measures and preserve natural one of the most modern orchards in Europe. resources. To this end Delta Agrar will implement new technologies and its irrigation system will be expanded. Orchard has a modern Ultra Low Oxygen cold facility capable of storing up to 6,000 tons. Thanks to its dynamic atmosphere The Čelarevo orchard is the pride of Delta Agrar. Orchard covers an capabilities, the facility allows storage of the entire apple harvest area of 350 hectares of world-renowned apple varieties including for up to 300 days. The dynamic atmosphere storage capability Gala, Braeburn, Marriri Red, Golden Delicious, Red Delicious, also eliminates the need for chemical treatment of stored apples. Granny Smith, Gold Rush and the club apple varieties Modi and Kiku. 24 The overall apple production in 2012 amounted to 7,550 tons, while the production plan for 2013 is to reach 12,000 tons. The entire production process is in line with the GlobalGAP system5 , which ensures quality required for export. The plan for 2013 is to introduce the IFS standards, which will additionally confirm the quality of fruits. Vegetable is grown on approximately 1,000 hectares of Delta Agrar’s own open fields and cooperative farms. The company mainly grows peas, green beans, potatoes, onions, peppers, celery, cabbage, cauliflower, kale and broccoli. The entire Delta Agrar`s vegetable growing area is irrigated. Production is in line with the GlobalGAP standard, with production and storage processes controlled through its application. In addition to open-space vegetable farming, Delta Agrar is currently setting up its first greenhouse in covering an area of 1 hectare located in the Mačva region. The greenhouse is located over an underground thermal water spring with plans to grow tomatoes and other vegetables on the site. The list of grown cultures include: wheat, corn, soy, sunflower, rapeseed and sugar beet. Livestock production includes raising pigs at five farms with the annual production of over 100,000 animals; and, raising cattle with the annual production of about 5,000 animals. Delta Agrar produces 6 million litres of milk annually at two locations. The company has a fish farm producing annually more than 700 tons of fish, mostly carp. The livestock production is partly sold locally through retail chains with the remaining part exported to the EU. 5 GlobalGAP agriculture and primary food production management system represents a key reference for good agricultural practices in the global market, and it focuses on consumer requirements in terms of agricultural production. http://www.globalgap.org/ COOPERATION AND BUY-UP safety consulting. This enables agricultural producers to adopt world quality standards, such as GlobalGAP and HACCP and achieve high Cooperation and purchase of agricultural products aims to improve crop yields, steady production and enjoy secured placement. The agricultural production and supply of fruit and vegetables from inclusive system of cooperation contributes to development of local Serbia. communities and survival of village households. Buy-up centres for fruit and vegetables have a total storage capacity of 20,000 t, Delta Agrar provides direct support to individual agricultural which ensures full compliance with the so-called “cold chain” in the producers by: distribution of fruit and vegetables. • financing production through supplying fertilizers, seeds, AGRO-TRADE AND DISTRIBUTION pesticides and advance purchase of goods • providing expert monitoring of the technology of growing seeds In the area of agro-trade and distribution, Delta Agrar cooperates and raising cattle with the leading global producers and distributors of pesticides, • securing placement of agricultural products (guaranteed purchase seeds and agricultural mechanization. The company also trades with within next 15 years) cereals, oilseeds and mineral fertilizers. • purchasing of all the market surpluses of produced cultures • providing storage space. Our Partners are leading global agribusiness companies: Pioneer, Bayer CropScience, Syngenta, BASF, Nufarm, Biesterfeld, DanBred, Agricultural producers receive Delta Agrar`s support to develop Deutz-Fahr, Amazone, Kuhn, De Laval, Summit Agro International business plans and have access to financial and product quality and and others. FOOD PRODUCTION “Yuhor” meat and meat processing products are present on the market since 1902. Stability and continuous business development Food production consists of pasta and flour production at the is achieved through maintaining the supreme quality of products, “Danubius” factory in Novi Sad; production and packaging of development of modern production facilities and application of apetisants, muesli, cereals and staple food at “Florida Bel” factory the highest standards in food production. “Yuhor” AD Jagodina in Zemun; production of meat and processed meat products at allowed Delta Agrar to position itself as an important factor in the the “Yuhor” Meat processing factory in Jagodina; and, water-filling fresh meat trade, dominating our market. The company exports of Aqua Gala in the “Mioni“ factory. All products are produced in beef to the EU markets. compliance HACCP system food safety requirements. “Mioni” factory fills still mineral water from a water source near “Danubius“ plant has been manufacturing food since 1918. The Mionica and Valjevo. Aqua Gala Water is pumped from 200m factory is famous for the high quality of its mill products and pasta. which eliminates the need for additional filtering or chemical Danubius has a grain tank with the capacity of 65,000 t. The tank processing. It contains an optimum combination of minerals and is perfect to store and dry cereals, as well as for different transit has a naturally good balance of calcium and magnesium. activities. The modern, computer-guided mill produces 300 tons of the best-quality flour of various types and purposes daily. The pasta factory has the capacity of 7,000 tons per year. “Florida Bel” produces and packs muesli and snack products under the Fun&Fit and JUMBO brands. Its ABC brand includes packages of grain and powder, and fruit products. 27 • SHOPPING MALL AND RETAIL PARK MANAGEMENT Delta City, Belgrade Delta City, Podgorica Delta Park, Kragujevac • HOTEL MANAGEMENT Crowne Plaza Belgrade Park Hotel Belgrade National Hotel Belgrade • MANAGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES NBGP Properties (Apartments, Small Tower, Impulse Hall) • MANAGEMENT OF COMMERCIAL-RESIDENTIAL COMPLEXES Belville complex, Novi Beograd • STRATEGIC PLANNING AND PROJECT DEVELOPMENT DELTA REAL ESTATE 28 “Creating the future” Delta Real Estate`s unique combination of retail, commercial, residential and hotel facilities in Serbia and the region, allows the Company to position itself as the leading real estate company in the region. As such the Company is continuously expanding and improving the urban ambience while preserving the environment. Through application of high international standards in local and regional markets, the Company improves lifestyles of its customers, as well as its business results. It currently employs 313 people and generates revenues in the amount of EUR 38 million. 29 SHOPPING MALLS Delta City Belgrade is the first shopping mall in Serbia. It was developed according to international standards6 and opened in November 2007. It covers an area of 85,000m2, with 30,000 m2 rented. The mall hosts a large number of famous fashion brand stores, a hypermarket, home decoration stores, a multiplex cinema, numerous cafes and restaurants, banks and a range of other businesses. This is one of the first public facilities in Belgrade built to be fully accessible to people with disabilities. The quality of A record-breaking 4.3 million visitors were recorded in 2012, architecture and accessibility of this facility is confirmed with the representing a 9% increase compared to 2011 figures. This is a 2009 Best European Shopping Mall Award presented in Barcelona result of continuous promotion of the mall’s offerings, implemented by the ICSC. in accordance with international market trends. Delta City further expanded its offer in 2012 with several leading Delta shopping malls are the venue of choice for major events and international brands including C&A and Deichmann. The first quality time that families spend together. This is the result of Delta Serbian store of the famous Swedish brand H&M will be opened in Real Estate`s careful planning of numerous cultural, charitable, September 2013. educational events, as well as fashion, sports and music happenings designed to promote the mall. Delta City had more than 8.6 million visitors in 2012, representing an 11% increase compared to 2011 figures. The growth in the HOTELS number of visitors is achieved through continuous research of their needs, keeping up with market trends and constant improvements The Continental Hotel Belgrade was built 30 years ago as the first of the shopping mall`s service range. five-star hotel in Serbia. Delta Real Estate acquired the property in 2008. High professional management standards and staff effort Delta City Montenegro is the first shopping mall opened in the Montenegro. The mall was developed in line with international standards and opened on October 1, 2008. It covers an area of 46,000 m2 of which with 24,000 m2 rented. Modern design, cosy atmosphere, an interesting mix of world-renowned brands together with various cafes and restaurants are the main features of this shopping mall. 6 Project management and development in line with FIDIC (International Federation of Consulting Engineers) 30 kept the quality of service on the level of world`s premium hotels. area. The hotel was refurbished in 2012, when its gastronomic Located within the business complex near the banks of Sava River offer was enriched. With our guests’ needs in mind, the hotel was the hotel has a direct connection to the nearby Sava Congress declared pet-friendly. Centre. For years it has attracted business travellers and served as a venue for business and entertainment events. The Continental The National Hotel is located at city outskirts some eight kilometres Hotel Belgrade ceased to operate under that name in July 2012 at from the city centre and ten kilometres from Airport “Nikola Tesla” the time when its reconstruction began. surrounded with lush greenery and numerous sport facilities. The hotel has 65 rooms with 125 beds and an international customs Refurbishment was done in accordance with the Crowne Plaza terminal. Hotel standards with a desire to improve quality standards. The entire refurbishment symbolically commenced with a donation SUITES AND COMMERCIAL PREMISES of furniture to social care institutions. Furniture valued at RSD 3,183,413 was donated to the Zvečanska Street Centre for Infants, The commercial complex within NBGP Properties d.o.o. is located Children and Adolescents in Belgrade, the Centre for Children in the vicinity of the Continental Hotel (soon to be the Crowne and Adolescents Sremčica in Belgrade, Centre for Children and Plaza Hotel), the Sava Congress Centre and Belgrade`s Kombank Adolescents Veternik from Veternik, SOS Children’s Village Dr Arena. It consists of two buildings with a shared underground Milorad Pavlović from Sremska Kamenica and the Solidarity Serbia garage. Conference halls, advertising space and a lot of cafés and Foundation from Belgrade. restaurants are the main feature of this commercial complex which meets the highest business standards. The new five-star hotel will provide unique service, comfort and a diverse offering to its guests. Hotels characteristic front was DEVELOPMENT OF COMMERCIAL FACILITIES replenished with the latest generation of energy efficient glass windows. The hotel will have 416 modern rooms with 94 luxury The Belville7 complex stands for an entirely new concept in club level rooms, 32 suites and 1 presidential suite. A multiresidential property development. In addition to its excellent functional banquet hall, several restaurants and bars will make it location, it is known for its innovative construction, functionality, a perfect venue for private and corporate events alike. Thus the modern IT-technical solutions and a system of planning and Crowne Plaza will become the place for business meetings or maintaining communal spaces. The complex consists of 14 leisure time with friends. residential blocks, with 1,858 individual flats and over 300 shops. The number of parking spaces exceeds the number of flats. The Park Hotel, is part of the Delta Real Estate Group since 2008. The complex is fully accessible to people with disabilities. While Located in the very heart of the city, it has 124 rooms and 3 suites implementing the project of the residential complex Belville, Delta as well as a modern banquet hall, a restaurant, a café and fitness Real Estate built a completely new road infrastructure at the site. 7 Belville complex is owned by Delta Real Estate (50%) and Hypo Bank (50%). 31 • DISTRIBUTION OF CONSUMER GOODS Beiersdorf, Mars, Diageo, SC Johnson, Ferrero,Buitoni, Maretti, Pufies, Mioni, Florida Bel, Yuhor, • IMPORT, SALE AND SERVICE OF VEHICLES DELTA DISTRIBUTION BMW, MINI, Honda 32 “There is no alternative to success” The Delta distribution group deals with import, sale and transport of consumer goods and cars. It employs 718 persons, with its income in 2012 being EUR 150 million. 33 DELTA DMD Since its establishment in 1997 Delta DMD Company is committed to constant improvement of its services and carefully selected associates. It has grown into one of the leading distributors of consumer goods in Serbia. The Company operates through five regional centres in Serbia and Montenegro located in Belgrade, Novi Sad, Čačak, Niš and Podgorica. The Company provides the following activities: • Consumer goods distribution • Consumer goods wholesale • Logistics and storage In 2012 Delta Motors introduced the following car brands to Serbian Logistics and transportation services are provided by the Delta market: BMW Gran Turismo 6 Series, BMW 7 LCI Series and MINI Transportation System. Its fleet consists of more than 500 vehicles Roadster. On top of the luxury equipment and refined design, all with individual cargo capacity ranging from 2 to 25 tons. The cars offer comfortable and safe driving experience with significantly capacity of the Delta transportation system is 3,000 deliveries a day reduced gas emissions. with 25,000 transported palettes a week. The fact that the company has a long-lasting cooperation with world-renowned companies such as Beiersdorf, Ferrero, Mars, Diageo, SC Johnson is a proof of the quality our operation and services provided to our partners. DELTA MOTORS Delta Holding subsidiaries work with premium partners from all industry segments including the car industry. In 2007 Delta Motors became general and exclusive representative of BMW Group for Serbia and Montenegro. The contract entails the development of wholesale, retail sale and post-sale services for BMW and MINI car brands. Strive towards becoming a synonym of success and distribution of premium vehicles allows Delta Motors to adopt best global practices with a special focus on customers’ care. 34 With the introduction of a new line of BMW BSP-BMW Premium Selection, customers can now make searches on a large number of parameters to select their preferred BMW model. Delta Motors had good results in 2012, despite the financial crisis. The number of vehicles sold was 737, an increase of 27% compared to 2011 figures. DELTA AUTOMOTO The Delta Automoto Company was established in 1996 and became the general representative for Honda vehicles in March 2005. Following the launch of Honda show room in 2006, the company officially started with the sale of Honda vehicles in Serbia. The sale of Honda motorcycles started in 2011 at the same show room. In recognition of the market needs and the need to catch up with global trends the company was consolidated and entered the used cars trade business within the Car Market business unit set up in 2012. Quality, safety and security are main features of the Honda brand. Through professional approach and readiness to adapt to customers, Delta Automoto continuously improves the experience of buying and maintaining customers’ cars. The Company is an active member of the community and acts responsibly when interacting with citizens. At the Adrenaline day event general public was able to test Honda cars and motorcycles Although Serbia as a whole saw a drop of 30 percent in car sales in on a professional racing track, while motorcycle riding instructors 2012 (compared to 2011 figures), the sale of Honda vehicles from provided safety tips to visitors. the Delta Automoto product range increased during the same period. The total number of sold cars was 566. To motivate school and university students to consider careers in science and engineering, the Company and its partners, presented Honda’s humanoid robot ASIMO at the Days of Future event, dedicated in 2012 to robotics. 35 • SPORT NIKE • MODA Aldo, Monsoon, Accessorize, Sergeant Major, Mango • HoReCa DELTA SPORT Costa Coffee 36 “We enrich your life style” Core activities of Delta Sport Company are trade, retail and wholesale of sports and fashion industry and HoReCa. The company was established in 1993 as a part of the Delta Holding. Today it is the leading sports retail chain in the region, applying contemporary operating principles throughout the Balkans. In 2012 Delta Sport reported income in the amount of EUR 100 million; it employs 1,024 people. The Company is the exclusive distributor of the world-famous brand Nike, a franchise partner to Canadian fashion brand Aldo and Spanish fashion brand Mango. Delta Fashion is a part of the company importing famous brands Monsoon, Monsoon Children, Accessorize, and Sergeant Major. Franchise agreement with one of the world’s leading coffee shop chains Costa Coffee has been signed to expand the chain`s network in the Balkans. The goal of the Delta Sport Company is to promote lifestyle philosophy together with unique and quality service, products and ambience. 37 • PRODUCTION Antifreeze Glysantin® in association with B.A.S.F Bicycles for children and adults • SERVICING •RETAIL AND WHOLESALE Representative for Maximal forklifts and warehouse vehicles Authorised distributor of Pirelli tyres Authorised distributor of Petlas tyres Official distributor of Shell oils and lubricants Official distributor of engine and industrial oils and lubricants FAM Authorised distributor of Banner batteries • EXPORT AND IMPORT DELTA MC “Consistency in quality” Delta MC Company was established in 1991 and its activities include production, servicing, wholesale, retail sales, export and import, in cooperation with local and foreign partners. Delta MC`s network covers Belgrade, Kruševac, Novi Sad, Futog and Subotica. Company’s portfolio includes tyres, oils, lubricants and batteries made by world-renowned manufacturers. The Company focuses on the production of bicycles both for children and adults (18-, 21and 26-speed bicycles, MTB (Mountain Bike) and CTB (City Bike). Bicycles match European quality and design. Company cooperates with B.A.S.F on the production of Glysantin®. The Company employs 49 people and generates revenues in the amount of EUR 3.93 million. 39 Delta Generali Osiguranje a.d.o. Belgrade Delta Generali Reosiguranje a.d.o. Delta Generali Voluntary Pension Fund Delta Generali Osiguranje a.d. Podgorica Health Centre “Jedro” DELTA GENERALI Blutek Auto d.o.o. 40 ”Professionalism, commitment, integrity, team work” The power of Delta Generali Group lies in the values it strives to achieve: professionalism, commitment to clients, integrity, team work and aspirations for constant improvement. In compliance with these values, the company constantly develops services providing the clients with safety in all life and business ventures. Delta Generali Group employs 2,291 people, and the insurance companies in Serbia and Montenegro have profited EUR 120 million from insurance premiums. 41 DELTA GENERALI INSURANCE the first most profitable and the second largest insurance company in the market. Delta Generali Insurance is part of Generali Group, Delta Generali Insurance is the largest private insurance company one of the global leaders in insurance business. in Serbia. The company is the market leader in life, health and international travel insurance and one of the leading in the market Delta Generali is registered for all kinds of life and nonof Serbia when it comes to insuring property, motor vehicles and life insurance, covering all the areas of insurance and offers against accidents. With the premiums of EUR 108 million and 20 comprehensive solutions both for individuals and for complex percent market share in 2012, the company has established itself as requests of great corporations. The company has a distribution network in seven regional centres in Serbia (Belgrade, Novi Sad, Sombor, Šabac, Smederevo, Kragujevac and Niš) with 67 offices serving more than 1,720,000 clients throughout Serbia. Delta Generali Insurance processes and pays over 90,000 requests per year. High professional structure of experts for evaluation and liquidation of damage ensures the fastest service of damage payment in the market of Serbia. The company functions in compliance with the standards ISO 9001:2008 and ISO 27001:2005, certificates for confidential information managements received from the independent appraiser. Delta Generali Insurance is particularly proud of the fact that it is the first insurance company in Serbia to receive this significant certificate. DELTA GENERALI REINSURANCE Delta Generali Reinsurance a.d.o. conducts reinsurance activities in the country and abroad. The company represents the link between the parent company Delta Generali Insurance a.d.o. Belgrade and Delta Generali Insurance a.d. Podgorica with the chosen reinsurers from the world market. The final objective is maximum security of portfolios of insurance companies as the best way of offering good service to clients. Mutual levelling of differences is conducted within the parent company Generali PPF Reinsurance, which connects all the countries of Central and Eastern Europe. The company also deals with facultative reinsurance (reinsurance against individual risks) in cooperation with foreign reinsurers, such 42 HEALTH CENTRE “JEDRO” Health centre “Jedro”, founded in 2010, offers a high quality service to patients thanks to the immediately available team of outstanding doctors and University professors as well as to the modern equipment. Located in the 1,500 m2 exclusive premises in Belville buildings in New Belgrade and carefully adapted to needs of patients, this institution has all the important specialist services: internal medicine, pediatrics, gynecology, radiology, ophthalmology, urology, ORL, dermatovenereology, neurology and psychiatry, physical medicine and rehabilitation, cardiology, gastroenterology, nephrology, rheumatology and laboratory diagnostics. as Munich Re, Grant Assurance Corporation and QBE’s Lloyds Health centre “Jedro” provides carefully devised package of Syndicate. Apart from that, Delta Generali Reinsurance has an services for families. Examinations are conducted by expert and excellent cooperation with a great number of foreign insurance experienced doctors. “Jedro” offers general check-ups for the and reinsurance brokers, for example: Marsh Ltd (UK), Aon employees of numerous national and foreign companies and Benfield, Genillard&Co GmbH, JLT Specialty Limited (UK) and Guy Embassies. Carpenter & Co Ltd. BLUTEK AUTO DELTA GENERALI VOLUNTARY PENSION FUND Blutek Auto d.o.o. was founded in 2009 to provide clients with The company for management of the voluntary pension fund complete services of technical vehicle inspection as well as to Delta Generali a.d. Belgrade established in 2006 has two funds supply them with modern equipment. – Delta Generali Basic and Delta Generali Index with over 50,000 members. The company for management of the voluntary pension After getting the license from the National Bank of Serbia, Delta fund Delta Generali has 27 percent share in the Serbian market Generali Insurance became 100% owner of Blutek Auto in 2012. of pension funds and it is the second largest company in Serbia in this segment of business. This company was the first to receive Technical inspection is conducted with hi end equipment the license by the National Bank of Serbia to manage a voluntary guaranteeing a high quality of services for all kinds of vehicles. pension fund. Blutek Auto is the importer and distributor of ACTIA MULLER garage equipment for technical inspection in Serbia, Montenegro and Bosnia and Herzegovina. 43 DELTA GENERALI INSURANCE A.D. PODGORICA Delta Generali also supports a great number of humanitarian and Delta Generali Insurance Podgorica a.d. is the third largest sports activities. As the official partner of Belgrade Marathon, it has insurance company on the Montenegrin market and at the for ten years already ensured all the events organized by Belgrade same time the fastest-growing company in the sector of non-life Marathon, for example the children’s marathon. Apart from that, in insurance. the past seven years the company has awarded from the special fund the best results achieved in Belgrade Marathon. The company was established in 2008, and in 2009 Delta Generali Insurance a.d.o. Belgrade gained the majority share in DC Holding In 2012, at 25th Belgrade Marathon the employees of Delta and became the majority owner of Delta Generali Insurance Generali with their families and friends took part in the Pleasure Podgorica. Today the company has the technical power and support Race with the aim of collecting money for the basketball club “Ikar” of Delta Generali Insurance connected with the local partner from Gornji Milanovac, the only basketball club in Serbia working Čelebić d.o.o. Podgorica, one of the leading companies in the area with children who have mental and intellectual disabilities. of real estate and finance. Delta Generali Insurance, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior Delta Generali Insurance Podgorica is registered for all kinds and local primary schools, for the fifth year in a row organizes the of non-life insurance and functions via the distribution network action “Apple or lemon” dedicated to children’s safety in traffic. consisting of six regional centres with more than 75 selling points, 67 sales agents and 65 employees, ensuring availability of the In 2012 this activity is implemented in 72 primary schools in 59 company’s services throughout Montenegro. towns throughout Serbia, with the participation of over 9,500 schoolchildren. The aim of the project is to educate schoolchildren on traffic safety and raise awareness of drivers of the importance of observing traffic regulations in order to prevent traffic accidents. Observing regulations together with general improvement of traffic culture is the best prevention ensuring safety of all participants in traffic. The action “Apple or lemon” is primarily directed at educating schoolchildren, but also at reminding drivers of the important fact that children are equally active participants in traffic. It is disciplined driving and observing signalization that largely contribute to the reduction of the number of accident victims, particularly children. Projects like “Apple or lemon” have proved to be an excellent form of prevention. The proof for it is the growing number of schools and towns wanting to participate in the action. During last four years 22,200 children from 187 schools took part in this project. 44 45 • DELTA FOUNDATION • SERBIAN BUSINESS FOUNDATION FOUNDATIONS 46 DELTA FOUNDATION’S ACTIVITIES MAP COVERAGE ,, Helping with a heart ” Concurrently with the growth of its business, Delta Holding continuously invests in the progress of the community through philanthropic activities which on behalf of all the subsidiaries, are carried out by the Delta Foundation. In 2012 the Delta Foundation marked its fifth anniversary. Projects implemented by the Foundation are aimed at improving the quality of life of children without parental care and people with disabilities, while funds are also allocated for helping areas ravaged by natural disasters. The Fund for the Future is a unique project, recognised by all relevant experts and the wider community. In 2012 the Foundation carried out 93 philanthropic campaigns and helped 22,116 persons. Out of the total income of the Company, corporate donations in 2012 accounted for EUR 2,850,461, which amounts to 7.61%8 of profits. As an illustration, the Wal-Mart Company in 2011 donated 4.1%9 of its profits. With a view to realising projects aimed at social development, in late 2011 Delta Holding also established the Serbian Business Foundation. 8 Percentage of investment refers to the consolidated financial statements. 9 Source: the Chronical of Philantropy at www.philanthropy.com 47 EMPLOYEES 48 Continuous investment in employees and their advancement is key point to accomplishment of operating results of Delta Holding. Delta Holding had 6,845 employees in 2012. The Company employs 5,977 people of which 5,502 are employed in Serbia and 475 employed in the region. During the year 868 employees were engaged on various types of employment contracts. Number of employees in 2011 and 2012 as at 31 December ** * Delta Broker is no longer part of the Delta Holding system, and accordingly the number of employees in this company is not presented in the report as at 31 December 2012. 10 “Region” refers to the following countries in the region: Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, FYROM 49 Organisational changes in the Company’s operation and ongoing projects led to reduction in the number of employees compared to 2011 figures. As a result of the refurbishment of Belgrade’s Continental Hotel the total number of employees Total number of was reduced by 278. With the introduction of the cross-docking system in the employees with 10 or distribution segment, the number of employees fell by additional 39. In the more years of service situation, redundant employees were informed about further possibilities to work in Delta Holding and a certain number of employees were transferred within the Company. The grand opening of the Crowne Plaza Hotel Belgrade (formerly the Continental Hotel) is planned by the end of 2013. The hotel will employ as many as 250 employees in 130 job positions. SALARY SETTING All the employees are paid in accordance with the regulations of the Serbian Labour 1,071 Law. The average salary in Delta Holding in 2012 was above the average for Republic of Serbia. Salary is set according to the Mercer methodology, which means that final salaries are subject to evaluation results. Annual salaries of top managers, senior and mid-level management, as well as the employees’ are conditioned on the results of the Company, i.e. respective divisions in which they work. This entitles managers and staff to bonuses throughout the year. The average salary per employee in Delta Holding compared to average salaries in the cities where the Company operates * * Minimum net salary in the Republic of Serbia is RSD 115 per hour, which for the average of 176 hours (average on a monthly basis) amounts to RSD 20,240 net, or RSD 27,534 gross. In a month with 184 hours (the legal maximum), the net salary amounts to RSD 21,160, and gross salary to RSD 28.846,45. 50 EDUCATION AND QUALIFICATION STRUCTURE Since the beginning, the business philosophy of Delta Holding was to provide job opportunities to young and talented people. Human Resources Division launched the Young Leaders In recent years, the Company successfully implemented the Delta programme in 2012 to motivate young and talented people; Academy programme. The activity supports new employees the program was available exclusively on-line. During the initial joining the Company straight from university, without any prior phase of the Programme the identity of the Company behind work experience. the Programme was intentionally hidden from participants. Application and the initial testing process were performed on-line. Delta Holding Talent Pool project will be implemented in 2013 to More than 1,000 university graduates applied for the Programme. release the Company`s “potential” – selected mid-level managers Top 20 applicants were selected and trained locally and will be trained to help them further develop within the Company. internationally to familiarise with business practices of companies In 2013 Talents of the Company will be able to attend training on in which they work. various topics arranged into a structured curriculum. Overview of employee qualifications11 11 Data refer to employees in Serbia and the region. 51 Since education is the main driving force of social development, Some of the major training, conferences and fairs which Company Delta Holding is committed to permanent specialization and employees attended in 2012 were improved financial, leadership education of its employees. and foreign languages skill and other areas key to improvements in daily management of the Company. Employee participation at conferences and seminars, local and international, provides an opportunity for an exchange of experiences and application good business practices within the During 2012 a series of open lectures was organised, covering Company. topics such as leadership, marketing, public appearance, emotions in business communication etc. The lecturers were celebrities and experts in these areas. The lectures were open to all Company employees and channel of education will continue in 2013 as well. 92,687 15.50 training hours per employee hours of training 52 In November 2012 the Company signed a contract with the Delta Holding`s employees are particularly proud of the company`s Singidunum University12 to allow Delta Holding employees to efforts to increase inclusion of people with mental disabilities. enrol in master and doctoral studies at discount prices, 50% lower The activity was launched following the employee education than the market ones. on the how to behave around persons with these types of challenges. Education was organized in cooperation with the nonThe Company cooperated successfully for many years with governmental organisation KECMNRO. faculties and vocational schools through a program of specialised internships. Interns spend two months with the Company working The objective of this activity is to increase employee awareness of in different divisions. people with disabilities, but also to enrich the lives of people with disabilities, support their socialisation and assist their families. 12 University Singidunum is a private university duly accredited, pursuant to the Law on Higher Education for Graduate, Post-Graduate and Doctoral Studies, in three scientific fields: social-humanities, natural sciences-mathematics and technical sciences. 53 STAFF DEVELOPMENT AND SATISFACTION SURVEYS business operations in agribusiness was held for the members of the Media Association. In 2012 the Human Resources Division developed software for internal assessment using the 360° (degrees) methodology, whose Given the frequency of pro bono activities, in 2013 a pro bono application started in early 2013. The methodology allowed the policy will be adopted. company to adjust its development and training programmes to individual needs of the employees. INTERNAL COMMUNICATION In 2012 the employees took similar developmental appraisals, Delta Holding insists on efficient and effective internal which were organised in association with the leading companies in communication, because it helps achieve business objectives the local market: Leadership Impact – HUMAN SYNERGISTICS (for faster and speeds up development of the Company. Open top management), Life Style Inventory – HUMAN SYNERGISTICES communication and regular consultation among managers and (for senior and mid-level management), Assessment – HOGAN, employees improves the quality of decision making and strengthens Personality test Myers-Briggs Type Indicator and similar interpersonal relations. Employees can approach their immediate programmes. superiors at any time and schedule a meeting and discuss professional or personal matters. The Company biannually carries The company also performs periodical evaluations of employee out employee satisfaction surveys for the purpose of increasing satisfaction levels to improve communication and organization satisfaction levels. The latest survey was done in 2011. of the work processes. In certain parts of the Company annual Performance Evaluation was introduced. Annual evaluation is Through the internal portal, employees obtain information on oriented mainly towards lower, mid-level and senior management. standards and procedures in different Company divisions (HR, Given the size and complexity of the Delta Holding, the process has IT Division and Corporate Communications Division). Given not yet been included all of the Company employees. In 2012, 59 the importance of the portal for internal communication, it is employees were included in the annual Performance Evaluation, continuously being improved. A new portal was launched in 2012 which accounts for 4.20% of the total number of Delta Agrar Group employees (1% of the overall number of employees). PRO-BONO WORK13 Employees are happy to give free lectures and speeches to students and other interested individuals when invited by educational institutions and organisations. A lecture was held at the Faculty of Economics on Corporate Social Responsibility, while another on 13 Professional engagement done as voluntary work with no compensation 54 allowing more options for interactive communication than the to acts performed under the influence of persons with a business previous. relationship with the Company. It is deemed acceptable to receive and give presents of lesser value or to invite or be invited to lunch, The Delta Holding Company publishes a quarterly newsletter as long as it is part of generally accepted practices and cannot distributed throughout the relevant business community. The influence the reaching of a business-related decision. Newsletter is also distributed to employees to inform them of all subsidiaries’ activities. BENEFITS AND SOLIDARITY AID CODE OF ETHICS AND POLICY OF CORPORATE Through the benefits programme and acts of solidarity at times of SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY crisis, the Company demonstrates its understanding for various needs of its employees. The Code of Ethics and policy of corporate social responsibility are available to all employees at the portal. These documents clearly Benefits programme covers: define the Company’s commitment to observe ethical and socially responsible principles in all segments of its operations. In line with • 24x7 insurance the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact and ISO • New Year’s presents for employees’ children 26000 standards, emphasis is on protection of human and labour • Paid leave rights, reducing corruption, protection of the environment and • A higher number of vacation days community development. Every year, the Company employees and their family member In accordance with the Code of Ethics, managers, employees, and participate in sports activities on a corporate sports day named outsourced employees are responsible to act in the Company’s Tournament 8. best interests, base their judgement on information and opinions of experts and perform tasks assigned to them in a manner that Solidarity aid is available in the event of: does not subordinate personal interests to the interests of the Company, without causing conflicts of interest between them. • Birth of a child • Illness of an employee Managers, employees and outsourced employees are responsible • Illness of an employee’s immediate family member for performing their tasks conscientiously, in accordance with • Death of an employee good business practices and in good faith. • Death of an employee’s immediate family member Under the rules of corporate ethics all offers, gifts, promises of or By implementing the benefits programme and payments of actual gifts in money, items, rights, services and gifts whose value solidarity aid at times of hardship, the Company shows that it exceeds the value of EUR 50 is not acceptable. This also applies understand various needs of its employees. 55 NON-DISCRIMINATION PRINCIPLES Gender structure of the employees Each job vacancy announcement in the Company contains the following non-discrimination statement14: All candidates who are in the process of selection for a position with Delta Holding will be treated equally. Persons seeking employment will not be indirectly or directly discriminated in terms of gender, language, race, colour of skin, age, pregnancy, health condition, nationality, religion, marital status, family obligations, sexual orientation, political or other beliefs, social background, financial standing, membership in political organisations, trade unions or any other personal feature. The rule is for any candidate to be at least 18 years old when being employed. The purpose of selection is to allow the Company to recruit candidates with qualifications, knowledge and skills the most suitable for the vacant position. Moreover, managers decide on education and promotions of their associates or the termination of employment contracts without bias Gender structure and without the above listed prejudices. Employees are obliged to top management respect differences in their communication with clients, business partners and customers. Gender structure all employees As a strong champion of family values, the Company encourages women employed with the Company to have families. Since their positions await them once they return from maternity leave, women will be more inclined to expanding their families. 48% 52% 14 Except from the internal employment rulebook of Delta Holding 56 Age structure of employees The Delta Holding Company approves and supports staff joining organised trade unions. Thus employees are allowed to represent, present, promote and protect their professional, labour and other individual or collective interests. There are six active trade unions within Delta Agrar, as well as two unions within the Delta Real Estate group. Total number of employees union members Intimidation and harassment15 is forbidden in the Company, including Total number of employees included sexual harassment and abuse of the right on protection against harassment. in the employer’s collective agreement Employees receive a notification on the rights and responsibilities in terms of prohibition of mobbing and harassment alongside their employment contracts. The Company has designated a support person to help mobbing prevention and identification available to employees for advice and support. In 2012 no cases of intimidation or harassment, on whatever grounds, were reported, no court procedures were initiated, no under-aged persons were hired, there was no forced labour, nor were there any breaches of human rights of sensitive social groups (national minorities, people with disabilities Total number of employees who signed a special etc.). collective agreement for agricultural work When necessary for a job position to be changed, all employees are presented with a formal offer containing all detailed conditions, with the time frame for declaring their position on the offer and an Annex to the labour contract. 15 Delta Holding Rulebook on the Prohibition of Mobbing and Harassment 57 WORKPLACE SAFETY AND HEALTH All segments of workplace safety and protection are defined by Law and are strictly observed by the Company. There are internal rules and punitive measures for non-observance in accordance with the Law. Most of the workplace related injuries occur in Delta Agrar Group. The largest number of injuries in 2012 occurred in the meat-processing company due to a large number of different sharp objects used in the production. The factory management is in charge of identifying critical points in the production to prevent potentially dangerous situations. The safety measures are constantly being improved to reduce the possibility of human mistakes. These measures have significantly reduced the number of injuries at work – in Yuhor factory from 49 injuries in 2011 to 33 injuries in 2012. All construction sites are visited and monitored on a daily basis, and all identified issues are attended to the same day. For example, employees without the required protective gear will be immediately removed from the construction site. The compliance and employee education on safety regulation is assigned to the construction site coordinator during construction. Although in the year 2012 the number of breaches compared to the number of employees was negligible, in 2013, based on risk assessment, further steps will be taken in terms of promoting workplace safety. Number of injuries at work and number of lost work hours 58 16 IR RATE = 7.71 Total number of working hours 12,193,080 ODR RATE = 0.19 17 Total number of hours of sick leave due to injuries 18,048 LDR RATE = 1.48 18 16 IR rate = Total number of injuries / Total number of working hours x 1,000,000 17 ODR rate = Total number of lost days / Total number of working hours x 1,000 18 LDR rate = Sick leave due to injuries at work / Total number of working hours x 1,000 59 MARKET RESPONSIBILITY 60 The Delta Holding Company unites a large number of diverse Centre and Frensis Institute from Germany. The Factory works activities, but the strategic commitment of all its subsidiaries according to NSF, ISO 22000 and HACCP standards. is identical: range of quality products and services providing customers with safety, trust and satisfaction. At the Danubius factory, thanks to the quality of natural raw materials and new technologies of grinding, drying and storing DELTA AGRAR GROUP, a producer of food and agricultural wheat, different kinds of flour and pasta are produced. All of the products, achieves the high quality of its products by applying products satisfy the strictest of criteria and quality standards in appropriate standards, as well as safety and quality monitoring terms of health safety of food. The factory operates according to systems. The introduction of the HACCP system additionally ISO 9001, ISO 22000 and HACCP standards. improved the system of monitoring product health safety. It is about the application of principles and rules that ensure Prior to sowing its fields Delta Agrar carries out a detailed soil preventative protection of food safety and health safety of foods analyses to determine mineral fertiliser quantities. The aim is that reach end consumers. Safety and security of products are to provide plants with the right quantity of fertiliser to achieve ensured by purchasing raw materials from world-renowned optimum growth. The plant growing process is carried out in line and socially responsible companies, as well as by opting for with the guidelines of the GlobalGAP standards, the key reference responsible distributors that guarantee that quality is maintained point of good agriculture practices on the global market. The until products reach end users. Product detail labels, which contain certificate covers pre-production activities (receiving fodder or all information of relevance, notify customers about nutrition facts seedlings), production activities, and all the way to when the end and product quality. Additionally, when advertising and promoting product leaves relevant farms. The production of agricultural products in the markets, precise and accurate information is cultures per this standard is entirely transparent. Products may not presented. be marketed unless quality controls are previously performed. Delta Agrar farms are set up according to the latest Danish model. The proof of the quality of Delta Agrar products is also in the fact During 2013 Delta Agrar plans to introduce the IFS standards. that Jagodina-based Yuhor is the first local meat processor and producer with the export license. Thanks to its quality policy, in DELTA REAL ESTATE offers healthy and ecologically acceptable recent years Yuhor has won a number of awards for quality. venues for their guests. Hotels are continuously modernised and adjusted to guest requirements; in 2011 the Park Hotel was made Florida Bel is famous for its cereals and keeping up with trends pet-friendly. The hotel restaurant offer diversified menus at all on the health food market. Modern and flexible packaging times to satisfy different tastes (fat-free food, vegetarian food, food materials are selected to ensure the quality of end products and prepared according to the HALAL standard etc.). preservation of product features and quality over a longer period. Product quality is additionally ensured by complying with Guest and visitor satisfaction levels are regularly surveyed through ISO 22000 standards and the HACCP food safety system. opinion polls and customer impressions log. The results of the polls are monitored on a regular basis. Regular quality controls GALA water, a product of Mioni-based factory, has passed tests are carried out in the hotels to ensure food and service quality performed by prestigious local and foreign water quality institutes and room hygiene. In addition to regular controls special teams such as the Republic Health Protection Institute, Army Medical perform ad hoc controls. Based on visitor feedback from web 61 page www.booking.com, the Park Hotel received 7.8 rating within DELTA DMD conducts a buyer satisfaction survey through traditional months of its opening. sales channels once a year. During 2013 the survey was done by means of a questionnaire filled out by customers. The sample was Delta City shopping mall also measures satisfaction levels made based on regional principle (Delta DMD distribution centres), through its customer impressions log. To increase satisfaction i.e. participation of particular region in the overall turnover and level and ensure maximum safety conditions, the shopping mall customer structure. management holds educational, humanitarian and entertainment events on a daily basis, both independently or in association with When filling out the questionnaire customers answered all the other organisations. Events that traditionally take place are charity questions in segments A–F and gave grades 1–5, whereby 1 means exhibitions of unique items made by people with mental and very dissatisfied and 5 is very satisfied. The result of the survey was intellectual disabilities and also events whose aim is to prevent 4,34. illnesses and maintain health. Test results of key customers DELTA SPORT, also applies international experiences in monitoring customer needs and satisfaction. For the purpose of more easily carrying out and monitoring those activities, a Call Centre was established in 2012 as a central point for suggestions and complaints. The Call Centre forwards the input on to persons 0 responsible for respective brands. Members of the DELTA DISTRIBUTION GROUPDelta DMD, Between October 15 and December 15, a key accounts survey was Delta Automoto and Delta Motors operate in line with ISO 9001 conducted. Out of 12 key accounts nine agreed to be surveyed and guidelines. Delta DMD also applies HACCP food safety system, received questionnaires. while Delta Motors adheres to internal quality standards of the BMW Company – QMA (Quality Management Assurance). The questionnaire had six groups of questions: The Delta DMD Company awaits certification of the IFS Logistics A. General, programs and product range B. Promotional activities, standards implemented in 2012, the standards being relative to C. Communication and professionalism (DMD sales representatives, the quality of service in the supply chain. merchandisers), D. Delivery of goods, E. Documentation, F. Complaints, sales representatives, delivery of goods, All three distribution companies pay special attention to surveying documentation, service elements customer satisfaction. Survey results are used for the purpose of upgrading processes and adjusting services to buyer needs. The participants were required to evaluate the accuracy of given statements using a scale from 1 to 5, with 1 standing for – I am very dissatisfied to 5 standing for – I am very satisfied. 62 DELTA MOTORS the importer of BMW and MINI vehicles, also Special focus is placed on safe driving. Although brands BMW, surveys customers on a regular basis, in compliance with BMW MINI and Honda are famous for their quality and safety, Delta rules and procedures. Survey results are forwarded to the Automoto and Delta Motors ensure additional safety in the local Headquarters and used for promoting sales and services. In 2012 market by providing the service of testing vehicles before they are customer satisfaction level was 88.8%, whereas sales service handed in to customers and service users. satisfaction index was 98.5%. The questionnaire for the survey is continuously improved to increase customer satisfaction levels. In 2012 there were no cases of breaches of law and nonadherence to regulations relative to impact of products/services Complaints are monitored through a special form which covers the on health and customer safety by the member states. entire process of service provision allowing easy identification of causes and solutions. The Delta Motors Company has a Call Centre All products are appropriately labelled and contain all necessary that registers questions and complaints, which are then taken into information regarding the origin of components of which they are account when action plans are made. made. When advertising products and implementing other types of marketing communication, the company is careful to present Complaints in sales and after-sales accurate and precise information and consequently there were no customer complaints in this segment either. The Company is very strict when it comes to protecting customers’ private information. In cases when customers are offered the possibility of leaving some of their personal data for promotional activity purposes, they are also guaranteed that provided information will not be utilised for any other purpose other than that clearly indicated in respective questionnaires. In 2012 there were no complaints regarding violations of customer information privacy. During 2013 DELTA AUTOMOTO implement Honda’s procedures to ensure customer satisfaction, which entail a set of questions that have to do with the service provision process – from sale to car delivery. 63 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION 64 In recent years we have often heard predictions on global The Yuhor factory of Jagodina is the first factory within the Delta warming, threats to biodiversity, water shortages and primary Agrar Group to receive the integrated license. The system in energy sources. Is this being taken seriously? Although we do Yuhor, which has the ISO 14 001 certificate, has toxic waters filters not notice those changes in our everyday lives, we inevitably for physically and chemically treatment, allowing the water to be have to think about how to make our operation ecologicallyreleased into the city water tank for further purification. effective if we want to be future-oriented. Pig farms Napredak and Kozara work to further reduce gas One of the most significant activities of Delta Holding – emissions and consumption of primary energy sources. Fuel oil production of food and agricultural products, has been used on the Napredak farm for heating purposes was completely recognised world-wide as an activity with a high environmental replaced by biomass, obtained from shredded soybean straw, impact. Producing life-giving products at the same time leads to whereas the Kozara farm uses geothermal sources. These gas emissions, high water consumption as well as the pollution of steps reduced the amount of CO2 emissions to a minimum underground waters. Due to farmed fields being so widespread, and eliminated the use of primary energy sources for heating biodiversity is threatened. purposes. What is Delta doing in this regard? In order to increase overall efficiency and productivity, to reduce financial expense and mitigate risks for human health and DELTA AGRAR environment, during 2012 three factories and two farms from Delta Agrar were included in the Cleaner Production project, Eleven legal entities within the Delta Agrar group are under launched by United Nations Industrial Development Organisation. obligation to report on waste flows and emissions into the The project entails that a team of experts by monitoring in detail air and water. Of the 11 legal entities, four of them are in the certain units, identifies critical points where it is possible to save process of receiving the integrated license in line with the Law on electrical and heat energy, as well as water and other resources. Integrated Prevention Pollution Control (IPPC): Cleaner production options which Delta Agrar will work on are as follows: replacement of fuels, better combustion and lower • Napredak ad, Stara Pazova – Nucleus pig farm, Rupov Salaš and emission of gasses with the green-house effect, savings of water commercial pig farm Petrović Salaš and reduced amounts of waste waters, multiple uses of purified • Delta Agrar d.o.o. – pig farm Halovo, Zaječar and pig farm waters. Vladimirovac • Kozara ad, Banatsko Veliko Selo – pig farm In the Delta Agrar Group TEAMS software was implemented • Yuhor a.d, Jagodina – meat industry in 2012 as well. TEAMS is a flexible tool for keeping records, organising, filing, integrating, calculating and ensuring the Implementing regulations stipulated per the Law allows an quality of reports on the environment. This software allows the integrated approach to pollution control, which entails reducing compilation of material and energy balances as well as internal raw material and energy consumption to a minimum, prevention and external reports. External reports are sent to the Natural or reduction in gas emissions in air and soil, waste management Register of Pollutants per the PRTR protocol (Protocol on Pollutant and taking into account the cross-border context. 65 Release and Transfer Registers). Since March 2012 IT experts from the Environment Centre have been continuously training staff to use this software. Agriculture requires high water consumption, which is widely deemed to be the most significant resource in 21st century. This is why Delta Agrar dedicates a lot of attention to controlled water usage. Orchards and vegetable gardens are equipped with modern drip irrigation systems which use water economically and contribute to increasing yields by more than 100% compared to fields farmed without this system. In its desire to contribute to the development of innovative solutions Delta Agrar group included the orchard in Čelarevo in the experimental project FP7 ENORASIS. The aim of one of the most important international projects in which PWE “Vojvodina Waters” also participates is to develop a progressive, but primarily Protecting biodiversity of plants and animals is an ever-growing simple and economically acceptable system of water management concern. Delta Agrar estates take great care of protecting bees and irrigation and to offer that system to everyone in agriculture during plant treatment, whereas crops for feeding game are and enterprises managing water resources. collected on uncultivated surfaces within the hunting zone complex. The fields of Delta Agrar where agricultural cultures are produced What is particularly interesting is the fact that the fishery in the there are also wells whose use is allowed by water-management village of Svilojevo, producing carp, amur and silver carp, belongs licenses, as well as measuring devices for monitoring how much to a habitat with protected bird species. The lake nearest to the water is used. village has 150 ha with small river islands of about 50 which were declared as areas of special importance by Resolution of the In order to maintain the structure and fertility of the soil and to Inspector for Environment Protection of Serbia because of very increase yields, the agricultural estates of Delta Agrar group use rare birds living in that region. All activities (cutting rush or cane) the farm manure as an organic fertilizer. At certain places of the in those locations must be specially approved by the Institute for estates there are lagoons and tanks for storing manure. After Environment Protection of Serbia. It is forbidden to burn cane and six-month storage the manure is distributed onto the production los plants in these areas. Moreover, this location does not belong surfaces. This organic fertilizer improves plant growth and at the to the natural reservation of Gornje Podunavlje and is a completely same time renews the micro-flora of the soil in the next 4 or 5 separate area. years. 66 DELTA REAL ESTATE The renovation of the Continental Hotel began in July 2012 and is being done in compliance with the world standards for the Aware of the responsibility towards present and future members Hotel Crowne Plaza Belgrade. The hotel reconstruction is worth of our local communities, the Delta Real Estate Group takes great 30 million euros and will largely contribute to improving energy care of the design, construction and management of buildings. efficiency and environmental protection. The façade glass has Successful construction of complex projects in a safe and been replaced by energy-efficient glasses of the latest generation ecologically acceptable way is a priority for this member of Delta so that heating and electrical energy will be saved. Maximum use Holding. of natural light in the hotel and a high degree of thermal insulation 67 will contribute to energy saving. Magnetic sensors on the windows, to the shopping mall, a certain number of lights are turned off. which have an important role in efficient heating/cooling and There is also the control of accumulated hot and cold air and increased safety of the building, will ensure automatic turning off energy is saved in this way too. The facility has a new free cooling of heating/cooling when the system detects an open window. The system which enables additional energy saving by using fresh integration of the card system in the rooms and installation of fan/ morning air for cooling and airing the facility. The temperature is coil devices will enable heating/cooling to be reduced or turned off automatically adjusted and regulated in relation to current climate immediately after the user leaves the room. conditions outside. In this way energy is saved and the quality of microclimate conditions in the facility is improved, making the stay Moreover, a separate guidance system of smaller units will be in it healthier and more pleasant. A particularly interesting fact is possible depending on the number of guests, planned times of that the system for carbon-monoxide detection has been installed leaving or returning to the rooms (for example, the times when in the underground and storey garage. This system turns on special sport teams go to training sessions and return to the hotel). ventilation when the concentration of this gas exceeds the allowed In the future the Crowne Plaza Belgrade will not use oil as fuel for level. heating sanitary water (bathroom or kitchen water). Instead, water will be distributed from the energy plant in the business apartments Delta City shopping mall has specially designed rooms for NBGP Properties as a side product of heating the cauldrons of collecting and sorting waste material and packaging. After the cogeneration facilities, which will result in great energy saving by tenants unpack the goods, they select cardboard and paper, as well eliminating the emission of poisonous gases. as plastics, and take them to those rooms. Trained workers sort out paper, hard plastics and nylon, bale and give them to specialized The kitchen in the new hotel will use the natural gas from the energy enterprises. plant which releases water vapour as a side product. Thus the distribution of gas will be smaller and there will be no possibility In the section reserved for food preparation the process of sorting of harmful effects because the use of this fuel does not produce waste materials is organized to the smallest detail. There is special any dangerous waste materials. Energy efficiency will be achieved space for waste edible oil with a barrel made exclusively for through the regulators monitoring the work of all chillers and heat collecting this sort of waste, while there is a special refrigerator pumps. In order to reduce energy consumption in the Park Hotel for collecting organic waste from the fast-food restaurants, which and during the works on the Continental Hotel old light bulbs have prevents the process of decomposition during night. Water from been replaced by new ones which save energy. restaurant kitchens is disposed of through specially designed separating sewer, which directly reduces the pollution of waterways. Delta City uses mixed sources of energy – electrical power and Since its opening Delta City has organized and participated natural gas. Electrical power is used for ventilation and cooling, in different actions for raising awareness about the necessity while natural gas is used for heating, thus reducing the emission of environmental protection. In 2012, in cooperation with the of harmful gases into the air. The quality of used gas is periodically Foundation, a manual press for cans has been installed in order to measured in order to maintain the required level. Electrical energy motivate people to participate in the recycling process. in Delta City is saved owing to the installation of special sensors in the whole shopping mall. When daylight gives proper illumination 68 NBGP Properties ltd, in cooperation with DELTA PAK, initiated immediate transport of goods to its destination without storing. designing and production of 35 containers for selective collection In this way the extent of storage space is reduced and stocks are of packaging waste /PET packing/, which should be put in the reduced to minimum, which contributes to substantial saving of business premises of the apartments in March 2013. In this way the electrical energy. tenants of NBGP Apartments will be able to adequately dispose of packaging waste. In order to raise the awareness of employees about environmental protection, Delta DMD has formed an Eco-yard, whose priority DELTA DMD is waste collection, separation and recycling. The yard has been functioning since 2010 in line with the Law on Environmental As a company which within its activities also offers the services of Protection. The entire waste generated in the work process (paper, transporting goods, Delta DMD has great responsibility when it plastics, electronic waste, car batteries, metal) is sorted and put comes to environmental protection. into separate containers (cages). Most of the waste (over 95 percent) consists of waste cardboard and foil. The examination of As a result, during 2012 DMD started the process of renewing this waste by the Institute of Public Health in Belgrade has proved the rolling stock and replacing old non-economic vehicles by that this waste does not contain any harmful materials. new economic ones. As many as 59 old vehicles (43 trucks and 16 passenger cars) were sold and 52 new vehicles have been The recycling process is conducted in cooperation with authorized bought (39 trucks and 13 passenger cars), which have lower fuel collectors and recyclers. Every time the waste is collected, proper consumption and engines with reduced emission of harmful gases. documentation is made in 4 copies. Moreover, the authorized operator Delta Pak monitors the implementation of the recycling Apart from modernizing vehicles, Delta DMD has shown plan in accordance with the legal provisions as well as all changes responsibility in conducting storage activities. In 2012 the soof the legal provisions regulating this area. called Cross Docking practice was introduced, which entails 69 DELTA AUTO AND DELTA MOTORS controlled intake of oiled atmospheric water from all surfaces, as well as the oil/water separator in which oiled water is treated Regular measures of energy saving are implemented by the before releasing into the recipient, the danger of soil and water service for technical maintenance and security of the buildings, pollution is reduced. Regular annual cleaning of the separator but also by the employees of Delta Motors and Delta Automoto, of oiled water from car services, as well as quarterly laboratory raising the level of energy efficiency and saving of electrical power, analyses of waste waters have substantially reduced or eliminated gas and water. the possibility of polluting subterranean waters and waterways. In the past 4 years all the parameters of the analysis have been within The measures taken with the aim of improving energy efficiency allowed and ecologically acceptable limits. and reducing energy needs in the facilities are: During 2012 all the activities of this Company have been directed • Turning off air-conditioning and heating on non-working days towards the prevention and reduction of waste production, (the space of 4,500 m2 in Motors and 5,500 m2 in Automoto is as well as to permanent disposal of waste. Implementation of heated). contemporary models of waste management in 2012 has resulted • Turning off lights after leaving the rooms (only Delta Motors in gradual reduction of the quantity of waste whose production facilities have 1800 light bulbs – most of them are energy-saving) is impossible to prevent. At Group level, since 2009 as many as • Regular servicing, maintenance of gas boiler room and complete 30 analyses of harmful and harmless waste were performed by gas installations in Delta Motors facilities authorized laboratories. In 2012 Delta Motors and Delta Automoto • Permanent reduction of outdoor lighting (it works with 30-50 sent on average 55 percent of the total packaging placed on percent capacity) the market of the Republic of Serbia, while the legally stipulated • Reduction of paper documentation, promoting electronic quantity for that year was 16 percent. Delta Automoto has started business correspondence and two-sided printing negotiations with the foreign principal about returning replaced batteries (IMA batteries) from Honda hybrids to the seat in Reduction of water used for watering green surfaces and England. The agreement with the foreign principal, which should controlled water use in car wash facilities are measures which in the best possible way solve the problem of storing, safe disposal contribute to water savings. and transport of this type of waste, should be realized in 2013. Special attention is paid to the emission of harmful gases from DELTA SPORT the gas boiler room of Delta Motors. Until 2012 the emission of harmful gases was tested once a year and since 2012, testing Delta Sport is the representative of the brands whose producers is done twice a year. Testing is performed by an authorized take great care of materials for producing packaging, as well as laboratory and the results of the measurements are within allowed about the possibilities of reducing its use. Nike brand packs its and ecologically acceptable limits. footwear in boxes which are 100% biodegradable, including dyes Special care is taken of waste waters. By using the system for fully for painting boxes. Brands MANGO and Accessorize do not pack 70 their footwear into cardboard boxes, but into bags which are also organisation SWIFT which is now in charge of collecting cardboard 100% biodegradable. Brand Aldo also sells its footwear without and plastics from the central store house in Leštane and retail additional bags because the boxes themselves have handles for facilities on the territory of Belgrade which are located outside carrying. shopping malls. SWIFT employees collect waste upon request. SWIFT makes a report for Delta Sport about the quantity of The Delta Sport business system, through the legal entity Delta collected waste from the warehouse and the retail facilities. This Coffee, offers catering services as well. All the products are given report includes all the details about the movement of waste and to customers in biodegradable packaging (paper bags, napkins, its recycling. One of the main aims of the SWIFT organisation is wooden spoons, PET cups and so on). All the packaging is marked raising social mobilization and inclusion, which is realized through as biodegradable or recyclable and this also contributes to raising employing unofficial collectors of waste and providing them with user awareness. Delta Coffee cooperates with Eco Service, the regular salary and social contributions. This is one of the reasons service provider for collecting and recycling glass packaging waste why Delta Sport, as a socially responsible company, has chosen the for shops on the territory of Belgrade. SWIFT organisation as its service provider. All legal entities within the Delta Sport system have transferred their obligation of packaging waste management onto the Delta Sport contributes to the reduction of waste production and operator Delta Pak, which is in charge of finding best solutions and use of energy and resources in many ways: operators for collecting and recycling packaging waste imported and generated by Delta Sport, as well as of reporting to relevant • By reducing the number of printers and also the range of authorities about the recycled quantities and of fulfilling national printing and paper use thanks to the installation of 4 network objectives. printers of high performance in the company’s seat. • By observing laws on waste management and in cooperation In 2012 all legal entities within the Delta Sport system fulfilled the with firms N-Copy and Perihard recycling and refilling used toner national objective through Delta Pak in the amount of 16 percent cassettes in all the business units out of overall imported packaging. The national objective was • By installing hand dryers in all the cafeterias of Costa Coffee and fulfilled with approximately 59.74 tons of recycled packaging thus reducing the use of paper towels waste. • By putting special curtains on the main entrances of the retail facilities outside shopping malls, thus reducing loss of heating In the same year an agreement was signed for transporting and energy recycling electronic and electrical waste. During 2012 as many • By installing energy-saving light bulbs at all locations and as 3.26 tons of electronic and electrical waste and 0.02 tons of premises where this is possible, taking special care not to affect fluorescent light bulbs and other light devices were recycled. the quality of work and services. Delta Pak has signed an agreement with the specialized 71 DELTA PAK and formulated a plan for reducing packaging waste for a five-year period, from 2010–2014. The national objectives refer to re-using “A healthy and clean environment is in the interest of all of us. By and recycling 5 types of packaging waste: paper/cardboard, giving the recyclable packaging waste to the authorized operator plastics, glass, metal and wood. Delta Pak facilitated the fulfilment you make your environment nicer and contribute to raising the of national objectives for all of its clients – as many as 64 in the ecological awareness in society as a whole!” previous year. Delta Pak is a non-profit organization in charge of managing Delta Pak created the software for electronic reporting for its packaging waste on behalf of its clients. It involves planning and clients in 2012. During 2013 reporting will be done through a organizing activities of collecting, transport, storing, treatment web application. The placed quantities of packaging material and disposal of packaging waste. In cooperation with collectors will be processed by the software and the next stage will involve and recyclers Delta Pak contributes to the development of the the upgrading of software concerning the electronic database of system of managing packaging waste on the territory of Serbia and generated quantities of packaging waste. improves the hygiene of the entire environment for all of us. In 2012 cooperation began with the Ministry of Energy, After adoption of the Law on Waste Management and the Law on Development and Environment Protection concerning the Packaging and Packaging Waste, Serbia set national objectives management of harmful packaging waste. 72 The total amount of 17,352.90 tons of packaging waste was generated, out of which 29.98% (5,203.15 tons) were recycled. For the sake of comparison, we would like to emphasize that the general national objective was 16%, out of which 3% of waste could be re-used. 73 In 2012 Delta Pak continued to examine the quantities and types of waste generated in outdoor city green markets. The joint study of the Public Company “Outdoor City Markets of Belgrade”, DeltaPak and the non-government organization Partner Centre Belgrade shows that 15% of total waste from the outdoor markets consists of packaging waste, 80% organic bio-waste and 5% of other waste, as well as that the packaging waste of market sellers consisted mostly of paper and cardboard. The aim of this project is to make a programme which would redirect the disposal of organic waste and recyclable materials and substantially reduce the amount of waste in outdoor markets, including the use of plastic bags. Buyers and sellers are educated about ways of waste reduction, re-using and recycling. The project also promotes the use of products made through recycling. Volunteers were involved in the implementation of these projects. Previously lectures were held about the management of packaging waste. Moreover, Delta Pak is willing to offer advice to future postgraduate students in doing their master and PhD papers. The member companies of Delta Holding do not have business activities in industries which affect change in the soil and which entail the process of remediation or soil recovery. We can also confirm that in 2012 there were no major leaks into the environment. Delta Holding fully supports Principle 15 of the Rio Declaration Apart from the activities directed at increasing client satisfaction, and within its means applies prevention measures for environment Delta Pak also carries out socially responsible activities with the protection. It implies that if there is a threat of irreparable damage, aim or raising citizen’s awareness of importance of recycling for the lack of scientific evidence should not be the reason for environmental protection. Therefore in 2012, in cooperation neglecting measures of environment protection. Moreover, these with company Delhaize Serbia, the ECO ISLANDS campaign was measures must be more efficient from the aspect of costs. initiated. On that occasion all citizens were encouraged to collect aluminium cans and glass or PET packaging and to put them into specially prepared containers in front of three TEMPO malls in Belgrade. In the promotional period all those who brought packaging were awarded “green” surprises – seedlings. 74 75 SUPPORTING THE SOCIAL COMMUNITY 76 Delta Foundation was established in 2007 to integrate philanthropic activities of all the members within Delta Holding, efficiently direct company funds towards the community and take initiatives to establish endowments. From its establishment until 2012, EUR 29,740,500 were provided for the needs of the foundation for different corporative donations by all the members of Delta Holding including socially responsible sponsorships and aid for employees in the form of solidarity assistance, scholarships and expert training. 77 FUND FOR THE FUTURE Fund for the Future, the program of supporting the professional development of children without parental care, has been in progress since 2006. The aim of the program is to provide support to young people without parental care in the process of their becoming independent after leaving the social institutions. It is directed at secondary school students in the final grades and to university students. The realization of this program involves the employees of the Delta Foundation, teachers from social institutions SOS Children Village from Kraljevo and 4 institutions in Belgrade for children, professional educators, psychologists and employees (“Jovan Jovanović Zmaj“, “Drinka Pavlović“, “Moša Pijade“ and of Delta Holding. “Centre for secondary school and faculty students”). Agreements about program realization are signed with these institutions every The concept of the program is that young people, by simulating year. At the end of the program scholarship students are not the reality waiting for them in the process of employment and work, required to accept employment in Delta Holding or to return the should focus on future and develop responsibility as the key to the scholarship on any grounds. development of a healthy personality. The program has so far included 179 children and currently the The secondary school program lasts two years. During the program, project involves 37 secondary school and 13 university students. theoretical business trainings are organized twice a month and Out of the total number, 28 students have been employed. Every practical training, which involves visits to different companies, year EUR 50,000 are put aside and so far more than EUR 300,000 is organized once a month. Scholarships as financial incentives have been donated. for taking part in the program, as well as providing a system for awarding and behaviour correcting, are paid out every month. Apart from the members of Delta Holding, the members of the Once a year, at the end of the school year, there is a summer camp donation pool also participate in the realization of the program. with workshops, visits to cultural and historic monuments and The pool consists of three physical and two legal entities (Core organized sports activities. Distribution and Beohemija). They have provided funds for 5 scholarships. Students with scholarships who would like to continue their schooling and enter university are offered the possibility of continuing to receive the scholarship and of getting a job. Depending on their level of education and interests, students are given the opportunity to be employed in Delta Holding or in some of the companies which are partners in this program. The program involves children from SOS Children Village “Dr Milorad Pavlović “ from Sremska Kamenica, “Jefimija” from Kruševac, 78 79 GOODS DONATIONS TO THE CENTRES ENDOWMENT Due to the reform of the system of social care and promotion of In February 2011, on the 20th anniversary of its establishment, Delta the foster care program, geared toward reducing the number of Holding laid the foundation stone for the building Accommodation children in social institutions, the budgets these institutions have for and Day Care Centre for Children and Youth with Disabilities basic needs are constantly decreasing. “Sunce” in Bežanijska kosa. In this way the tradition of endowments has been continued after 70 years in Serbia. Donating goods such as washing detergents, personal hygiene, clothes, footwear, furniture, confectionery products and other By officially delivering the key of this Endowment to the mayor of foodstuffs from the production range of the members of Delta Belgrade on June 28, 2012, Delta Holding donated this modern Holding to a great extent contributes to easier functioning of these centre, worth EUR 2.3 million, to the City of Belgrade. institutions and to the life of the children in them. On the other hand, the budget intended for the purchase of these products can be redirected for other needs. During 2012 DONATIONS WERE DELIVERED TO 51 INSTITUTIONS THE FOLLOWING GOODS WERE DONATED: 16,868 kg OF WASHING DETERGENTS 1,666 items OF CLOTHING The Centre “Sunce” is a two-storey building adapted for people with various physical disabilities. It can accommodate from 70 to 80 24,716 items users who have the following things at their disposal: eight living rooms, nine working and therapy workshops, a sensor room, a gym, 118,537 kg OF FOOD PRODUCTS a household flat for overnight stay, a room for medical care, a dining room and a distributive central kitchen, an office with associates as well as a conservatory. The yard has exercising equipment and 80 a lane with herbs, as well as an orchard. The first endowment of LET’S HELP WITH HEART Delta Holding is at the same time the first centre with services allowing users to spend several days in the Centre when their Thanks to recognizing social needs, the traditional campaign of parents are away. assistance has been established in day-care centres in Serbia. The project started on the anniversary of the Foundation in 2008 The plan for next year is to examine in detail social needs, so that by putting aside a percentage of the turnover in the retail shops the next endowment of Delta Holding can solve permanently of the Delta Group and continued by putting aside during the some of the current problems in the community. The new whole year a percentage of turnovers in Delta Sport retail shops endowment is planned to be built in 2016. (Accessorize, Costa Coffee, Aldo, and Sport Impuls). DECORATING CHRISTMAS TREES IN THE ENDOWMENT The aim of this campaign is the improvement of working conditions and education of people with disabilities. So far 5 The traditional decoration of Christmas trees was organized in day-care centres have been refurbished in Serbia (Belgrade, Niš, 2012 in the Accommodation and Day Care Centre for Children Trstenik, Kruševac and Smederevo). Donations were used for and Youth with Disabilities “Sunce”. Children with challenges and the refurbishment of sanitary facilities, acquisition of building employees of Delta Holding took part in the painting workshops. materials, and purchase of furniture, educational materials, sports On that occasion the Centre organized the New Year celebration. equipment, computer equipment and so forth. The value of There was a performance called “Niggor and Two Christmas donations for all the centres amounted to 30,000 euros. trees” and 100 gift packets were delivered. Special guest Željko Joksimović sang at this celebration. During 2012 the day-care centres “Duga“ in Kruševac (donation amount – EUR 4,000) and “Sunce “ in Smederevo“ (donation amount – EUR 7,000). THERE IS ALWAYS ROOM FOR GOOD THINGS AND GOOD PEOPLE The project has the aim of raising awareness of the opportunities for people with disabilities and is realized through helping special schools in Serbia, in cooperation with Delta Agrar. It is designed for children and young people with physical, mental and intellectual disabilities, with the aim of their overall social inclusion. Thanks to socializing with Marko Stojanović, our wellknown actor and pantomime artist, the children can express their creative side and also learn more about healthy nutrition. 81 The project has been realized in 9 schools, where schools and children were presented with products of the meat industry Yuhor. The value of donations amounted to EUR 11,000 so far. In 2012 the project was realized in 3 schools: “Ivo Lola Ribar” from Kraljevo, “1. novembar” from Čačak and “11. oktobar” from Leskovac. AUCTION FOR THE FOUNDATION’S ANNIVERSARY Delta Foundation delivered the key of the Fiat Ducato to school “Anton Skala” in Stara Pazova, which is specialized for educating children with disabilities. Funds in the amount of EUR 33,700 were collected in the humanitarian fundraiser held in Hotel Continental at ASSOCIATION FOR THE BLIND “HOMER” the beginning of February 2012. At the moment the school has 136 children and the new vehicle will enable their regular attendance Ten years ago the Association for the Blind “Homer” initiated the in classes. The school used the remaining funds to buy equipment project of adapting the most famous world films so that people for the tailor’s workshop where the children will be able to learn with this disability could enjoy the beauty of the seventh art. In this craft. Delta Foundation donated the project for the school cooperation with the National Television of Serbia (RTS), 6 most reconstruction since the teachers, besides great efforts to include popular films in the world have been adapted for people with visual the children in everyday life, have to deal with problems caused by impairments. In this way RTS became the first public service in the dysfunctional old school building. Europe to carry out such a project. GREETINGS CARDS FOR BUSINESS PARTNERS Delta Foundation donated funds to the Association of the Blind “Homer” on the occasion of the Sixth Festival of Adapted and This time Delta Holding sent special season’s greetings cards to its Synchronized World Movies for people with visual impairments. The numerous business partners in the country and abroad – they were donated funds were used for the adaptation of 4 films which were designed in the Association for Cerebral Palsy and Polio of Užice. shown on the Second Channel of the Serbian National TV. The greetings cards were made within the program of working contents and creative workshops. The purchase of these Delta Delta Foundation will be the general sponsor of the Seventh Festival Holding cards enabled the maintenance of workshops and coof World Movies for people with visual impairments in 2013. financing of other activities of the Association. 82 the monthly needs for bread to the 4,350 poorest inhabitants in these municipalities. The value of the donation was EUR 24,000. In the past three years 100 tons of flour worth EUR 46,000 was donated. SERBIAN BUSINESS FOUNDATION SUPPORT FOR THE SOCIAL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS About the Foundation: With the aim of making its business environment stronger, Delta Holding established the Serbian Business Foundation BELGRADE PHILHARMONIC on December 9, 2011. Although the original plan was that the Foundation should start functioning in 2013, thanks to Investing in culture, Delta Foundation has paid special attention good organization, through preparation and additional funds to helping the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra, an institution provided by the Company, the first project was realized one which promotes cultural values in a unique way. The donation year earlier. According to the opinion of the specially formed of woodwind instruments and financial aid for the project of the Program Council, whose members are outstanding people with new building are among the largest projects the Foundation has social credibility, contributes to the quality of work, and the supported. members of the Board of Directors, in May 2012 there was a public competitions for awarding financial grants. So far the donations to the Philharmonic Orchestra for the purchase of instruments and financing tours have mounted to EUR 116,000. The cooperation with the Belgrade Philharmonic Orchestra will continue in the following years as well. FLOUR FOR SOUP KITCHENS According to the daily newspaper “Politika”, in 2011 there were 29,500 and in 2012 as many as 31,400 users of soup kitchens. The meals provided in this manner were the only meals for 60 percent of soup kitchen users. The project of giving aid to soup kitchens in Serbia is realized in cooperation with the Red Cross of Serbia. Fifty three tons of flour was donated in 2012 to soup kitchens in Paraćin, Pirot, Bujanovac, Novi Sad and Kuršumlija. This donation covered 83 Everyone who was interested in the criteria of this competition could find information in daily newspapers, web portals and website mostly visited by students, through direct telephone contact or by sending an e-mail to the Foundation’s address. After the selection of the applications, in compliance with the stated criteria, RSD 30.000.000 were granted to students of basic and postgraduate studies in the country and abroad, as well as to educational institutions and the association of journalists with the aim of improving the quality of reporting. Grants were awarded in the following ways: • 10 student scholarships (for expenses of schooling, living, travelling and insurance) • 4 grants to educational institutions (for expenses of participating in competitions; organization of summer school) • 1 grant to the association of journalists (for educating business journalists in the field of agriculture) Students 84 Educational Institutions Newspaper association RESULTS Since the competition was only launched in school year 2012/2013, the results will be available in 2013, when students completing their studies should bring the acquired knowledge to Serbia, either by finding a job or by giving lectures. The Summer School of Architecture of the Faculty of Architecture in Belgrade was organized In the Petnica Research Station near Valjevo in 2012. 85 Independent Auditors’ Report 86 87 This Report has been prepared in accordance to the requirements set by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) organization. The third generation of GRI guidelines (G3.1) requires companies to report about company profile, management approach and selected key performance indicators. In order to achieve a level “B”, the report needs to provide information about the company itself (G3.1 Profile Disclosures), as well as information on more than 20 selected indicators related to the company’s economic, environmental and social performances (G3.1 Performance Indicators). 88 GRI indicator References, Application Level B 89 GRI indicator References, Application Level “B” 90 GRI indicator References, Application Level “B” 91 Report drafting and preparation: Corporate Communications Department Team members: Tijana Koprivica, CSR Manager of Delta Holding Nadica Milanović, Consultant for Humanitarian Activities Branislava Milunov, Executive Director Public Relations Associates from Delta Foundation, HR Department, Controlling Department, Delta Agrar Group, Delta Real Estate Group, Delta Distribution, Delta Sport Group, Delta MC company, Delta Generali Group Design and preparation for printing: Corporate Communications Department This CSR report is printed on recycled paper.
