COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS COMMITMENT STATEMENT Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our Society. As a member of the Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact and endorse the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. Here we summarize the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in future. '}.<:rt ~ 1,10 f :3(AMAR PRASAD) Executive Director (HR) UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – COP Participants Name : M/s Krishak Bharati Cooperative Ltd. Country : INDIA Sector : Cooperative Sector Annual Time Period covered : 2012 – 2013 (Financial Year AprilMarch) Contact Person : Sh. Amar Prasad, ED (HR) Contact E-mail : amarprasad@kribhco.net Date : 27th August, 2013 Other Relevant Links : www.kribhco.net 1 The brief report on various activities undertaken by KRIBHCO showing its commitment towards Global Compact Principles, as per the suggested proforma, is as under: 1. HUMAN RIGHTS P rinciple 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaim ed hum an rights; P rinciple 2: M ake sure that they are not com plicit in hum an rights abuses. ACTION & OUTCOME  To build productive relationship and enhance customer satisfaction, we organized visits at our Plant at Surat (Gujarat) of co-operative delegates, farmers, students, etc. from all the regions of India. During this year, we organized 17 such Plant visits in which a total of 579 co-operative delegates, farmers, students etc. visited our Plant at Surat (Gujarat).  On continuous basis, KRIBHCO is putting special efforts for the development of employees through various HRD activities such as In-house 2 /External Training Programmes, Lectures/ Presentations etc. These HRD activities are based on identified developmental & functional training needs of employees.  During the year, 70 In-house Training Programmes were organized benefiting 1053 employees. 140 employees were sponsored for 61 External Training Programmes. Training Programmes were also organized which benefited 119 dependents of employees. The beneficiaries of these programs included students and house wives with focus on enhancement of quality of life besides providing an ideal platform for change as in life style for better, happier and healthier family and social life. This is keeping in mind the management philosophy that a satisfied employee at home will contribute more in the work place.  In addition to imparting Apprenticeship training to 22 persons, summer training was also given to 16 students from educational Institutions.  As part of its Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), KRIBHCO has been carrying out Rural Development Activities like construction of school buildings, providing benches, distribution of uniforms and text books to school children, plantation of different trees, construction of roads, check dams, health check-ups and eye camps for villagers with special attention to the weaker sections like Adivasis, for which an expenditure of Rs. 30,00,000/has been incurred. For its adopted villages Kavas and Ichhapore, near the Plant Site, Surat drinking water, roads and electricity etc. are provided free of cost and the approximate expenditure will be aroundRs.50,00,000/-. 3  For first aid facilities, the Society has a First Aid Centre working round the clock in the Plant at Surat (Gujarat) with all the required facilities including Ambulances. KRIBHCO runs a well equipped 20 bedded Hospital in its Township (situated near the PlantSurat, Gujarat) for providing health facilities to the employees and their dependent family members, completely free of cost. For specialized treatments, KRIBHCO has got arrangements with Hospitals in Surat city where the patients are referred to and the cost thereof is paid by the Society.  For creating awareness on health of the employees and their dependent family members, lectures, slide shows, Camps were organized on Life Style Modification, Arthritis, Early Detection of Coronary Disease, Diabetes, Cancer Awareness, Talk for female employees on Gynaecology, Bone Mineral Density (BMD) and Blood Donation Camps were also organized during the year. A Lecture-cum-Slide Show on Bio-medical Waste Management was organized for Hospital Staff. 4  Programs on topics like ‘writing a will’, effective communication skills and self awareness etc were also organised for creating awareness and for the benefit of employees.  First Aid Training was imparted to the Trainees. Hygiene tips of epidemics are also regularly given through CTV for Township residents. Round the clock Emergency treatment for accidents in Hazira industrial area is provided by the Hospital irrespective of residence of the patients.  KRIBHCO believes that a contented employee is an asset to the organization and that its most valuable assets are its employees. Therefore, everything possible is done to take care of the welfare of its employees and their families. KRIBHCO maintains a Township at NOIDA and at our Plant at Surat (Gujarat). KRIBHCO is having more than 1201 housing units to accommodate its employees with all the required facilities like Schools, Clubs, Auditorium, Cooperative Society, Playgrounds etc at our Plant – Surat (Gujarat).  It has also schemes for extending loan facilities for housing facilities of the employees which are extended on liberal terms and conditions.  KRIBHCO provides safe working environment to its employees. The safety set up of KRIBHCO Hazira Plant at Surat (Gujarat) has been established with a vision to achieve its objective “SAFETY FIRST; PRODUCTION MUST.” 5  Safety objectives of the Hazira Plant at Surat have been derived from following VALUES of KRIBHCO:  Creation of safe, efficient and pleasant working environment in the Plant at Surat.  Continual Enrichment of Safety culture of the Plant.  High level of emergency preparedness at all the time.  Extending support to the neighbouring villages, industries and government agencies for any emergency mitigation beyond Plant boundaries.  To achieve the above, state of the art safety systems and infrastructure have been set up. These are well maintained and continually improved upon by a team of highly motivated Fire & Safety personnel. In addition, these systems and infrastructures are got audited by internal safety committees as well as by external experts. KRIBHCO has constituted a Central Safety Committee at Plant level with representation of employees working in various areas like Production, Maintenance and Commercial.  In addition to above, safety training and awareness in KRIBHCO takes top priority. On joining initially, all employees are given induction training on safety. No worker or labour is permitted to work in the Plant at Surat without the induction safety training. Refresher safety training is imparted from time to time. Training sessions on First-Aid are conducted by internal and external doctors. At shop-floor level also, safety related lectures and fire fighting practices are conducted regularly. The safety training includes safe behaviour and conduct in the Plant, general safety rules, hazards in the Plant, use of personal protective equipment, basic fire fighting, response to various emergency conditions etc. Practical fire fighting training is also imparted to various categories of employees at the KRIBHCO Fire and Rescue training ground. During the year 2012-13, more than 5000 persons were imparted safety training.  During the year 2012-13, not a single dangerous occurrence took place. In addition, KRIBHCO received around 20 requests from government agencies for rendering emergency services to neighbouring areas which were promptly honoured and the Society has earned good name for the same. On 29thMarch 2012, an Off-site Emergency Drill was conducted in our Plant at Surat which was jointly organized by the District Administration, Surat and KRIBHCO to test the emergency preparedness of various Govt. and 6 neighbouring industries. The exercise was highly successful for the purpose it was conducted and appreciated by all concerned.  Full protection is given to all female employees from any type of harassment. Provision has been made in the Service Rules and Standing Orders of employees for firmly dealing with such matters.  KRIBHCO strive for the prosperity and growth of farmers, we emphasize on educating them about balanced and integrated use of fertilizers. For this purpose soil testing facility is available free of cost at Kribhco Krishi Paramarsh Kendra at Noida office for farmers & cooperatives. Based on the test reports, farmers are advised about the correct doses of fertilizers and crops suitable for the type of soil.  KRIBHCO organize Farmers Meeting, Crop Seminars, Field Demonstration, Trainings to educate farmers and cooperative societies to enhance crop productivity through balanced use of nutrients. 7  We adopt Cooperative societies with an objective of bringing about overall economic development and improvement in living standards of rural community through integrated rural development with particular emphasis on agricultural development.  Sustainable rural development through effective farm services has been a focus area for the Society.  KRIBHCO having a dedicated team of agricultural professional, continued its efforts towards transfer of latest farm technology to the farming community and has undertaken rural welfare schemes for improving farmers livelihood.  KRIBHCO conducted 3975 field programmes such as Farmers meetings, Soil Testing Campaign, Block demonstration, Field day, Technical Wall Painting, Farm literature campaign, Kisan Mela & Crop Seminar, Cooperative conference, Dealers Conference, Group discussions, Coop. Society adoption, Drinking water & Minor irrigation facility, Human & Health campaign, Income generation programme and new products promotion campaign etc. benefiting 4.77 lakh farmers and cooperative officials across the nation. 8  The Paramarsh Kendra as well as “KRIBHCO Kisan Helpline” continued to provide latest information on whether to farmers enabling them to plan farm operations and mid-term corrections in case of crop failures.  KRIBHCO operates its 63 outlets – Krishak Bharati Sewa Kendras (KBSKs) in the States of Uttar Pradesh, Haryana and Punjab to provide agri inputs and technical knowhow under Single Window Concept.  KRIBHCO is dedicated and concerned for the good of the Society and improving the quality of life of the farmers we serve. The Society has been taking concrete action by focusing primarily on the up-liftment of communities in health, family, welfare, education, environment protection, institution building etc. As part of its health protection programme the Society has initiated a pilot project on Micro Health Insurance through Gramin Vikas Trust to cover the rural masses for health protection. KRIBHCO HAS BEEN AWARDED following Awards/ Letter of Appreciation :• Vishwakarma Rashtriya Puraskar (VRP) and National Safety Award (NSA) was awarded to Hazira Ammonia Extension Plant (HAEP) for the performance year 2010 in a function held at Vigyan Bhavan on 17th Sept. 2012. • The Award for Production, Promotion and Marketing of Bio fertilisers 2011 was presented to KRIBHCO by the Fertiliser Association of India (FAI). • KRIBHCO received the Letter of Appreciation from the Directorate Industrial Safety & Health, Gujarat State for the commendable & humanitarian service rendered by KRIBHCO during the serious fire incident in the hydrocarbon storage installation of Indian Oil Corporation (IOCL) at Hazira which occurred on 05/01/2013. 9 • Performance Excellence Award 2012 by the Indian Institution of Industrial Engineering (IIIE) Received on June 21st, 2013. 2. LABOUR P rinciple 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; P rinciple 4: the elim ination of all form s of forced and com pulsory labour; P rinciple 5: the effective abolition of child labour; P rinciple 6: the elim ination of discrim ination in respect of em ploym ent and occupation. ACTION & OUTCOME  KRIBHCO fully recognize the employees’ right to form associations. In accordance with that, the workmen have formed their own Trade Unions which are registered and recognized for the purpose of collective bargaining. All important decisions affecting the workmen are taken in consultation with the said unions. Complete industrial peace and harmony has been prevailing in KRIBHCO since the setting up of the Society about three decades ago and not even a single man-hour has been lost due to industrial strife.  KRIBHCO does not encourage any form of forced or compulsory labour. No child labour is engaged either directly or indirectly. No discrimination is shown in employment or in extending any type of benefit/advantage on the ground only of gender, place of birth, caste or community.  Women are provided a healthy & safe working environment & equal opportunities, keeping in mind the principles of equality in gender with respect to their working, development and growth. Lady Officers are equally associated in the formulation of policies, be it promotion, recruitment policies or other matters of importance. The physical & mental growth and development of women employees in KRIBHCO is given special attention by imparting them specialized training as well as nominating them in specialized women empowerment seminars, trainings and programs. 10  Workshops are arranged on Women Self Defence in which they are apprised of possible threats faced by working women, safety tips, legal rights, practical demonstration of Self Defence moves.  A Complaint Committee headed by a woman officer as its chairperson has been functioning to resolve their grievances, if any. In order to avoid any incidence of misconduct relating to harassment towards women employees, special provisions have been incorporated in the Conduct, Discipline & Appeal (CDA) Rules of the Society to prevent the same and protect the female employees. 3. ENVIRONMENT P rinciple 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environm ental challenges; P rinciple 8: undertake initiatives to prom ote greater environm ental responsibility; P rinciple 9: encourage the developm ent and diffusion of environm entally friendly technologies. ACTION & OUTCOME  KRIBHCO is fully conscious of its responsibility to the environment. Therefore, care for environment has always been of paramount importance 11 to KRIBHCO. The Society recognizes its responsibility to protect environment and is committed to regulate all its activities using best available technology to mitigate adverse environmental impact, if any that may arise out of its operations. A comprehensive Environmental Protection Plan based on the principle of “Reduce, Re-cycle & Re-use” has been adopted to conserve scarce natural resources.  Various treatment schemes have been implemented since commissioning of the Plant, which has resulted in reduction of water consumption and we have achieved zero effluent discharge from final outlet for the last seven years. Efforts are being made to further reduce water consumption. Tertiary treated sewage water is being used as cooling water make up. Deep hydrolyser is installed in the Urea Plant to reuse the effluent as boiler feed water after treatment.  E-waste disposal has been streamlined through an authorised agency at our Corporate Office, Noida.  Emission of pollutants to air from the various stacks is far below the limits specified by regulatory bodies. An Automatic Ambient Air Quality Station has been installed to continuously monitor the effects of emission from stacks. Six Ambient Air Quality Monitoring Stations have been set up within a radius of 10 kms for periodic monitoring of air quality in surrounding areas. Wet de-dusting system at the Prilling Tower top has been installed and emission of the Urea dust and Ammonia in the atmosphere is well below the specified limits.  To ensure clean and green environment, Society has created a Green Belt by planting more than 500 trees of different species based on Air Pollution Tolerance Index thereby helping to improve the ambient air quality within the complex. Lush green lawns are also developed in an area of 100 acres.  To create awareness among contract workers, an Environment Protection Module video has been prepared which is shown to all the contract workers and only after that they are allowed to work in the Plant premises.  To enrich Marine and Coastal eco-system, society has signed a MOU with Gujarat Ecology Commission, Gandhinagar for the plantation of Mangroves on an area of 100 hectares at village Kantiyajal, District Bharuch, Gujarat. Mangrove is a highly valuable plant species and forms one of the most important eco-systems of coastal and marine area. 12  Environmental Management System (EMS) of the Society has been certified as in-line with international standard ISO 14001. Internal & External Audits are conducted periodically for checking efficacy of the system.  To promote awareness of Environment Protection among Township residents and School children, every year Environment Day is celebrated on 5th June.  Society has adopted rain water harvesting for conservation of water at its Corporate Office and residential housing complex located at NOIDA. 4. ANTI-CORRUPTION P rinciple 10: Business should w ork against corruption in all its form s, including ex tortion and bribery. ACTION & OUTCOME  Vigilance is an integral part of the Management and it provides important instruments for improving performance of an organization.  There is a separate Vigilance Section functioning at Plant and Corporate level. This section takes care of the vigilance functions. Keeping in view the importance of preventive vigilance in checking corruption, periodical inspections of sensitive areas are carried out by CVO and the VOs. Sensitive posts have been identified in various departments and persons holding such posts are periodically rotated to maintain transparency. Procurement files are reviewed by Vigilance on random basis with a view to point out irregularities, if any, and to give suggestions for improvement and corrective actions wherever required.  All officers are required to submit Annual Property Returns on moveable and immoveable properties for the period from 1st January to 31st December every year, which are scrutinized by the Vigilance Department.  To create and broaden the knowledge of vigilance amongst our end users, vigilance awareness week from 29thOctober to 3rd November 2012 was observed wherein apart from oath to maintain transparency and integrity in all areas of public dealings, banners and slogans in Hindi, Gujarati and English were displayed at prominent places in the KRIBHCO Complex. Folders, supplied by CVO, containing the message:”If anybody of this office asks for bribe or if you have any information on corruption or if you are a victim of corruption in this office, you can complain to…”and GOI Resolution 13 on Pubic Interest Disclosure and Protection of Informer (both in Hindi and English) were distributed to all the vendors and contractors.  Individual indulging in unethical activities for personal gains at the cost of the organization lead to wastages, losses and economic decline. Attempt is made to monitor/control/ restrict such persons’ mis-endeavours and promote organizational interest.  Society is committed to bring transparency and accountability in its day to day functioning by adopting “preventive vigilance” as its main theme. During in-house training programmes organized by the Marketing Division ‘power point presentations’ on ‘Preventive Vigilance’ were given by Vigilance officers to sensitize the field staff to encourage voluntary compliance of rules and procedures in discharge of their day-to-day functions;  System of E-tendering is being adopted to ensure complete transparency in procurement of goods and services.  Our Vigilance department has adopted pro-active approach to create incorruptibility in the administration and works for systems improvement and simplification and codification of rules and procedures. The culture of taking independent initiatives and decision-making at all levels is constantly strengthened. We encourage transparency (open-ness), fairness (applying same principles to all concerned) competition in the interest of the organization and Accountability.  It is the endeavour of our Vigilance Team to create an ethos of Organizational Citizenship among all the employees so that there is voluntary compliance of rules and procedures. 14  For the irregularities detected, punitive vigilance is used as a management tool to provide positive discipline in the Society and we adopt ‘zero tolerance’ for corruption irrespective of the position held.  For achievement of the vision of the society, a strategic action plan has been implemented. A) AWARENESS • Seminars, Workshops, Lectures and Debates. • Circulate CVC / Government's Instructions. • Issue In-house articles on Vigilance Awareness. • Giving due protection to the whistle blower/complainant. B) PREVENTIVE VIGILANCE • Simplification of Rules and procedures. • Plugging loopholes of systems/procedures to reduce corruption. • Sensitizing employees about evil consequences of corruption. • Increasing Transparency & Accountability in day to day working. • Effective machinery to deal promptly with complaints. • Regular and Surprise Inspections. • Ensuring high standard of integrity among the employees. • Exploring fresh areas of corruption resulting due to technological advancements and use of I.T. C) PUNITIVE VIGILANCE: • Speedy disposal of vigilance cases and disciplinary inquiries. • Steps to maintain positive discipline. ********** 15
