2012 Corporate social responsibility report 1 Editorial 2012 Identity Card 1 2 Responsible governance Our CSR policy 5 Ethical and transparent governance 12 Our 5-year vision 6 Acting safely 13 Our corporate responsibility 8 CSR in our organisation 14 2 Different perspectives 9 2012 achievements 16 Our stakeholders 10 2012 Panorama 18 Encouraging professional development 3 Our commitments 21 Employee health and quality of life 25 A fresh momentum 22 Different perspectives 26 Recognising everyone’s commitment 23 2012 achievements 27 Respecting equal opportunities 24 Protecting our environment Our commitments 31 Preserving our water resources 39 Our ambitious environmental policy 32 Reducing the impact of our business 40 4 Achievements and projects 34 Helping our partners grow 40 Combating climate change 36 Different perspectives 41 Improving our energy performance 37 2012 achievements 42 Reducing our emissions 38 Being attentive to our customers and suppliers 5 Our commitments 47 Developing sustainable purchasing 52 Acting with our partners 48 Different perspectives 53 Improving the passenger experience in our airports 49 2012 achievements 54 Building loyalty with our lessee companies 51 Committing to civil society 6 Our commitments 57 Strengthening our links with local residents 63 Our social responsibility priorities 58 Soundproofing assistance 64 Innovating for jobs 59 Different perspectives 65 Supporting the regions 62 2012 achievements 66 7 Non-financial ratings Results improving for the last nine years Consolidated efforts by subsidiaries 70 71 Hub télécom, a proactive subsidiary 72 Appendices Governance indicators 74 Method for reporting indicators 77 Opinions from the stakeholders’ panel 75 Table of indicators 78 Community dialogue and international GRI summary 80 76 agreements Abbreviations, acronyms, subject index 81 A digital version of this publication is available This document is available under the «Group» section on our website, www.aeroportsdeparis.fr. Éditorial Augustin de Romanet Chairman and CEO Sustainable development is a major focus for Aéroports de Paris I am happy and proud to introduce, for the first time, the themes developed in this report on the Aéroports de Paris policy on corporate social responsibility. From the time I assumed this position, I indicated to the company’s employees the importance that I attach to protecting the environment, sustainable development, and the responsibilities that we have towards our different stakeholders. I consider this a major focus for Aéroports de Paris. Since our airports represent an interface between France and the world, between territories and a major industry, between local residents and powerful employment clusters, our company feels an intense obligation to conduct its business with the utmost responsibility. Environmental responsibility, firstly, which does not take away from any overall policy, with a particular accent on renewable energy this year. We made two significant investments in geothermal science and biomass, neither of which emit CO2. We can therefore reach a significant portion of energy production that does not produce greenhouse gases, in line with the Grenelle Environment summit objectives and the recent environmental conference. Economic responsibility, secondly, which is embodied in our policy to support local SMES, in our investments to encourage the attractiveness of «Grand Roissy», and in our partnerships with local players in economic expansion. Corporate social responsibility, lastly, which motivates our human resource management policy and our employment integration programmes for young, local job seekers, combating academic failure in under-privileged urban areas and supporting local shared or individual transportation. For Aéroports de Paris, these policies are not a responsibility, but an opportunity – an opportunity to consolidate, strengthen and grow our natural ties with all stakeholders, without whom we would be nothing. It is about taking care of this invaluable relationship, ever stronger when it is shared: trust, another word for «responsibility in the relationship», a relationship which makes sense, that of living together. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 1 2012 Identity Card 1 st Number one in the airport sector in Europe As the gateway to France, which is the world’s most popular tourist destination, Aéroports 1 st Ranked first among airport de Paris is a major international air transport hub. As a result of its location, world-class groups in Europe for freight infrastructure and competitiveness, it is ideally positioned to take full advantage of the and mail expected growth in air traffic over the medium and long term. Aéroports de Paris owns and operates the three major airports in the Paris area (Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Paris-Orly, and Paris-Le Bourget). The company provides airlines, passengers and freight and mail operators with high quality facilities, and a range of services tailored to 2 nd Ranked second among airport their needs. groups in Europe for passenger traffic The Aéroports de Paris group is one of the top ranked airport groups in the word since it 88.8 became a shareholder of the Turkish airport management company, TAV, in May 2012, with 37 airports under management and close to 200 million passengers handled. In 2012, Aéroports de Paris had close to 168 airline company customers at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. million passengers handled in 2012 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly CONSOLIDATED REVENUE (em) 1 st 2010 2011 2,480 (2) 2,502 +5.6% Change in revenue from 2011 Ranked first by Vigeo 2012 2,640 to 2012 in the Aspi Eurozone® transport and logistics index (1) Airlines having made more than 12 movements during the year. since 2011 (2) The Aéroports de Paris Group has adopted a new presentation of its consolidated accounts with effect from financial year ended 31 December 2011. Pro-forma accounts for 2010 have been drawn up in accordance with these changes. NUMBER OF PASSENGERS AVERAGE STAFF AT COMMUNITY INVOLVEMENT (in millions) AÉROPORTS DE PARIS GROUP Excluding the Aéroports de Paris Foundation (em) 2010 83.4 2010(3) 9,550 2010 2.2 2011 88.1 2011 9,092 2011 2.2 2012 88.8 2012 9,035 2012 2.2 +0.8% Change in number of passengers -0.6% Change in number of employees from 2011 to 2012 from 2011 to 2012 (3) Scope excluding group handling companies and commercial joint ventures. 2 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 The airport city Airports are specially designed to handle all the operations involved in the landing and take-off of aircraft. This requires a whole range of related services and creates business 1,000 activities that are directly or indirectly linked across the airport. In all, several hundred companies are involved in airport operations and providing services to passengers. Nearly 1,000 companies Aéroports de Paris MAIN SUBSIDIARIES use the three airports Organising and operating the airport AND INVESTMENTS in the Ile-de-France Retail and services Companies with significant business region and employ over Property (leasing, construction) activities within the Group 117,000 people Airport services to airlines 6,686 & professionals: industrial services, Aéroports de Paris supplies water/energy, car parks 100% Management hectares COMPANIES ADP Ingénierie 100% Airlines and ground-handling Aéroports de Paris owns Alyzia Sûreté 100% 6,686 hectares in Ile-de-France service providers 360 Security companies Hub télécom 100% Air cargo and mail suppliers TAV Airports 38% (1) Shops, restaurants, hotels, banks, TAV Construction 49% (1) car rental, cleaning and maintenance Flights leave for more than Roissy Continental Square 60% companies 360 cities in 115 countries Société de distribution from the Paris-Charles de Gaulle GOVERNMENT SERVICES aéroportuaire 50% Air traffic management: French civil and Paris-Orly airports aviation authority (DGAC) Média Aéroports de Paris 50% Safety and security: border police (PAF) Relay@ADP 49% (2) and air transport gendarmerie (GTA) (1) Held indirectly Customs services (2) Held directly and indirectly For further information Consult the «Group» section on our website, www.aeroportsdeparis.fr INTERNAL ENERGY INTERNAL CO2 EMISSIONS RENEWABLE ENERGY CONSUMPTION (in tep/m2) (in tCO2) in our final internal consumption (%) 2009 3.3070 2009 79,728 2009 1.06 2010 3.3317 2010 85,175 2010 1.03 2011 3.2404 2011 66,290 2011 3.86 2012 3.2997 2012 63,995 2012 8.05 -3.15% Decrease per m of building 2 -20% Change in CO emissions 2 8.05% Share of renewable energy in our from 2009 to 2012 from 2009 to 2012 final internal consumption in 2012 2015 GOAL 2015 GOAL 2015 GOAL -12.5% energy consumption per m2 -25% emissions from 2009 to 2015 Produce 15% of our internal of building from 2009 to 2015 consumption Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 3 1 Responsible governance Our five-year vision page 6 Acting safely page 13 Our corporate responsibility page 8 CSR in our organisation page 14 Different perspectives page 9 2012 achievements page 16 Our stakeholders page 10 2012 Panorama page 18 Ethical and transparent page 12 governance Governance Our CSR policy Become the European benchmark for corporate social responsibility 5 key concepts by building on: Balanced Seeking Customer Value creation Responsible management environmental and supplier for all of governance of human excellence relations our stakeholders resources 5 priorities 2015 Objectives Means Strengthen the internal control and risk management policy, aiming to secure and increase the reliability of the Group’s businesses. Governance Be a responsible player Develop performance in terms of adhering to ethics and national and international standards, creating value for our stakeholders. Encouraging professional development A human resources policy aiming to strengthen individual and shared effectiveness of employees while Employees and seeing this reflected in Group maintaining balanced labour relations vital to our performance in line with participation. development. Continue to control the environmental Define a new, themed environmental policy Environment impact of our business activities and aim including measurable objectives encouraging strong for excellence. roots in the performance management process. Combine managerial, operational, economic and cultural levers in order to establish our role Customers Be one of the best European benchmarks as a service integrator and increase quality of service in customer satisfaction and seek and sustainable for all of our customers. sustainable performance from our purchasing An addition to adherence to our code of ethics suppliers. by all players, develop CSR clauses and monitor suppliers for overall performance. Build up the airport city as a business community for trade. Community Be the European benchmark for corporate social responsibility in our industry. Create added value for all players, our shareholders, local residents and companies in the surrounding areas. Measurement of Non-financial rating page 69 our performance Ranking in socially responsible investment indices (SRI) page 77 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 5 Governance Our five-year vision TEN COMMITMENTS Become the of the Istanbul Atatürk airport, gives the Group a real international dimension. The Customer satisfaction: be one benchmark airport quality of service to passengers and airlines of the best European benchmarks, with group in Europe on has further improved with the opening of Satellite 4 and the A/C link at Paris-Charles a goal of reaching overall passenger satisfaction of 88.1% by 2015. customer satisfaction, de Gaulle. Employees: encourage professional business performance A value-creating strategy development and see this reflected in Group performance in line with and sustainable Our 2011-2015 strategic plan was approparticipation.  development, thanks ved by our Board of Directors in January 2011. It is based on a solid economic moShareholders: continue to improve economic performance and value to the men and del, which combines a stable and incenticreation.  women who work at vising regulatory framework with a strong increase in commercial activities and real Aviation activities: support airlines’ growth and strengthen the Paris-Charles Aéroports de Paris. estate diversification. In accordance with de Gaulle hub. the quality of service objectives of our Retailers: raise business to the level A solid economic model second economic regulation contract (CRE of the leading benchmark companies In 2012, we passed a new stage in our deve2), we are continuing our terminal renoin Europe. lopment and strengthened our options for vation programme. We strive to bring our Property: develop the property sustainable growth. The 38% acquisition performance in all areas to the highest portfolio, its value and performance. of TAV Airports, the management company European level. International: increase the Group’s presence, primarily internationally. S  ecurity: ensure regulatory compliance. HubLink: strengthen the partnership DISTRIBUTION OF WEALTH (em) e71m with Schiphol Group. Property tax (2) Sustainable development and e174m e54m corporate social responsibility: Dividends (1) Economic contribution (2) become the European benchmark e845m e66m by implementing the recommendations Reimbursement of debt Other taxes (2) of the Grenelle Environment summit. e118m e3m Reduce internal CO2 emissions by 25% Net financial expenses Community involvement between 2009 and 2015, while keeping and Aéroports de Paris Foundation quality of service constant and taking Shareholders and banks into account the increase in airport Government and local authorities capacity. e647m Capacity, renovation Suppliers e672m 1.8 e1.8 billion over five years and quality, property is forecast for our investment programme in the regulated scope, Purchase of tangible notably to bring our oldest terminals and intangible assets up to standard. Employees e709m Acquisition of subsidiaries  Employee expenses (salaries, social charges, For more information and investments shareholding, incentives, provisions Consult the «Group» section on our e740m for labour commitments) website, www.aeroportsdeparis.fr (1) Paid in 2012 for 2011. (2) Paid in 2012 for 2012 taxes. Information about financing is presented in the Aéroports de Paris Registration Document, available on our website. 6 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 PROJECTS WE DELIVERED IN 2012 Airport infrastructure Departure lounge with a 7.8 million passenger capacity in Terminal 2E at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. Satellite 4 (Hall M) Simplified layover routes. Commercial areas occupy 6,000 m2; €580m invested. HQE® (High Environmental Quality) certified. First stage of renovation for Terminals A, B, C, D; simplified layover; single area for police and A/C Link security checkpoints; 2,300 m2 of commercial areas; €70m invested. At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, nearly 14,000 m2 of warehousing and 4,000 m2 of offices. HQE® GB3 freight station (High Environmental Quality) certified. Property diversification Delivered to Roissypole and co-financed by the Aéroports de Paris and Schiphol Real Estate groups; Altaï building 13,250 m2 of offices. HQE® (High Environmental Quality) certified. MAIN PROJECTS Airport infrastructure At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, renovation of Terminal 2B and construction of the B/D link, symmetrical Terminal 2B to the A/C link; a €105m investment forecast. Approximately 100,000 m2 of new reception space for our customers; modernisation of some Renovation of Paris-Orly existing areas; grouping together of terminals and new departure lounge; a €400 to €450m investment forecast for the next six years. Property diversification Shopping centre of 110,000 m2 on 12 hectares of land at Paris-Charles de Gaulle; Aéroville opening scheduled for 2013. Aéroports de Paris is the land developer. At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, more than 33,000 m2 of surface area for the Roissypole hotel cluster. Hotel cluster in Roissypole Aéroports de Paris is the land developer. Moving forward with Schiphol Group The HubLink alliance that we formed with the Schiphol Group, management company of the Amsterdam airport, led to shared operations in 2012 several of which fall directly into the category of corporate social responsibility. In particular, we tested the Schiphol Group’s layover pictogram, rolled out its performance assessment measures for cleaning service providers and developed a shared plan for welcoming Chinese passengers. In relation to the environment, we researched potential energy savings in the baggage delivery process and gradually installed solar panels on our respective sites. Exchange programme We continued our shared training programmes and exchanged managers. The training also involved personnel from the Incheon International Airport Corporation which manages the main airport in Seoul. Last year, Aéroports de Paris and Schiphol Group signed a cooperation agreement with our Korean counterpart. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 7 Governance Our corporate responsibility Independent assessment THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT A proactive, ethical Since 2005, we have had our performance The Global Compact is a UN initiative that lays and transparent policy evaluated by an independent, non-finanout ten principles in the areas of human rights, cial rating agency. Conducted annually until labour standards, environmental protection For several years, we have been exercising 2010, this evaluation is now conducted every and anti-corruption. As a Global Compact our corporate social responsibility through two years, so that we can properly implement signatory since 2003, we ensure that we abide a proactive policy of sustainable developactions needed to make progress. It was also by these principles. Each year, we provide proof ment to support our growth. This policy is expanded to the Group. Pages 70 and 71 of of our compliance with these commitments by based on reducing the environmental imthis report show the results of the rating given communicating about our best practices. pacts of our operations, economic and soto Aéroports de Paris SA and its main subsiwww.aeroportsdeparis.fr, «Group» cial cooperation programs benefiting local diaries by the rating agency, Vigeo, in 2012. section, «Sustainable development» tab. communities, social responsibility towards This rating is based on corporate governance, our employees and respect for the interests environmental protection, respect for societal of our customers and suppliers. commitments, human resource management A COMPANY WITH HIGH and respect for human rights, as well as our MARKS IN 2012 Our values behaviour in the market. Aéroports de Paris SA was ranked We conduct our policy in compliance with in 39th place in the list of the 100 human rights and fundamental rights as Transparency leading companies in sustainable defined by the International Labour OrgaEvery year, we report on our sustainable development in the world. nization (ILO). Since 2003, we have been development activities in this Corporate This ranking was established signatories to the UN Global Compact. We Social Responsibility Report, prepared by Corporate Knights, a North also partnered, in 2008, with Transparency according to Global Reporting Initiative American magazine on clean International France, an NGO that focuses (GRI) guidelines. Widely distributed to capitalism. on the fight against corruption. In line with our stakeholders, this report is also made The Group also entered Grenelle Environment (the French Environavailable on our website. In accordance Euronext’s new SRI index, Vigeo ment Forum) recommendations, we made with the provisions of the decree dated 24 Europe 120, which groups seven commitments to reduce our climate April 2012 pertaining to the transparency together the 120 best-ranked footprint. Our approach follows the guideobligations of listed companies, our 2012 European companies for CSR lines of ISO 26000, the CSR standard selecmanagement report also details our emperformance. ted by our Environment and Sustainable ployee-related, societal and environmental In both cases, Aéroports de Paris Development division. policy and provides quantitative data. is the only airport company on the list. An overview of Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate social responsibility (CSR) puts the principles of sustainable development to work in the enterprise. The company voluntarily commits to a CSR process which aims for the business to leave a positive impact on society. It creates a process designed to integrate its stakeholders’ expectations into its strategies and structure. To this effect, it develops a set of social, environmental, ethical and commercial best practices and contributes to local economic development. This process is accompanied by encouraging CSR values and transparent communication regarding the impact of the company’s business activities. 8 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Different perspectives Bernard Cathelain Executive Director and Chief Development Officer How would you describe Aéroports de Paris’ tured in the Global 100 of the world’s most advanced 2012 CSR policy? companies in terms of sustainable development. This is also the year we reached level 3 of the Airport Carbon Bernard Cathelain: This has undeniably been a year Accreditation, the European standard rewarding the best filled with achievements, during which we completed airports for managing their CO2 emissions. And – I might several projects that had been in progress for a long time. as well mention it – we were delighted to receive the I’m thinking particularly of the increase in our renewable prize for best CSR Report from the Conseil supérieur de energy production with geothermal power at Paris-Orly, l’ordre des experts comptables (the Supreme Council which produces 50% of the heating of this airport, or the of France’s Institute of Chartered Accountants). commissioning of our biomass plant at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, which provides one quarter of the heat used in With these awards, is it time to take a break? the terminals. I am also thinking of the opening of Satellite 4 and the A/C link which smoothed out the passenBernard Cathelain: Absolutely not. 2013 will be the ger pathway in Terminals E, F, A and C at Paris-Charles year where we begin to structure energy management de Gaulle and makes them more comfortable at the best with a medium-term goal of making us compliant with environmental standards. the ISO 50001 standard. Regarding corporate social responsibility, we have plenty of projects and will continue Didier Hamon: Awareness of the regional promotion to work towards providing access to employment for our processes that we’re supporting is growing, as is the local residents experiencing difficult circumstances. case with Hubstart Paris® for Grand Roissy. Our strategic employment-integration programmes for local residents, What new actions have you put in place for the fruit of our partnerships with the regional and local local residents? authorities, are strengthening and meeting with as much success as is possible during these difficult economic Didier Hamon: Our stakeholders are extremely conscious times. However, 2012 was also the year when we were reof our economic and social utility. The true challenge that cognised for our efforts. Aéroports de Paris SA is the only we must meet in 2013 is to communicate more extensively airport company in Europe that is listed in the Euronext on the quality and content of our efforts to support local Vigeo Europe 120 index, and the only airport group fearesidents through our numerous programmes. Didier Hamon Environment and Sustainability Director Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 9 Governance Our stakeholders THEIR EXPECTATIONS Environment Noise and soundproofing Economic and social benefits for the territories, Civil society partners in the development of airports in the Ile-de-France region OUR RESPONSES Pages CSR Policy 8 Economic and social cooperation policy 58 Management of soundproofing 64 assistance funds New environmental policy from July 2012, certified environmental management 32 systems, raising awareness among our 76 partners, information and dialogue tools 24 Solidarity purchasing 53 Residents, associations, local 60 authorities, NGOs, influential parties and opinion leaders, and business analysts THEIR EXPECTATIONS Passengers: security, smooth flows, comfort Customers Airlines: quality of airport services, contribution to their competitiveness Retailers and companies using the airports OUR RESPONSES Pages Quality of service standards for passengers and airlines; Service 48 University Collaborative systems for operational partners of the airports (airlines, 49 government services) Innovation 54 Renovation of terminals 7 and new capacities Services to companies 51 Passengers and those accompanying them, airlines, companies using the sites, ground handling companies Financial and airport retailers partners THEIR EXPECTATIONS Economic performance Interests of small shareholders OUR RESPONSES Pages Economic regulation contract, development strategy for property 6 diversification and retailers Code of ethics, Board member 12 guidelines, internal control charters 14 and risk management Main shareholder (the French government), banks, investors, individual shareholders 10 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 THEIR EXPECTATIONS Our employees S ocial balance Professional career paths Employees Motivation Health Quality of life at work All employees Services in the airports OUR RESPONSES Pages Policy to develop employee skills, encouraging mobility, remuneration 22 equality, participatory innovation Corporate agreements on gender 24 equality, disability, employing seniors Health and safety policy; employee 25 benefits Inter-company nurseries, transportation Aéroports de Paris employees, 61 network the works council, trade union organisations, employees at airport companies Business THEIR EXPECTATIONS partners Comprehensible practices, values and selection criteria Respecting their interests in public tenders OUR RESPONSES Pages Purchasing code of ethics appended 52 to the internal regulations Sustainable procurement 52 SME Charter 52 Activities: Plato network, business 63 meetings Service providers, sub-contractors, suppliers The French government, public bodies THEIR EXPECTATIONS  ompliance with laws C Economic regulation contract Economic and social cooperation OUR RESPONSES Pages System for monitoring and controlling 13 compliance 14 8 CSR policy and its application 14 Economic strategy of the Group 6 The French government, European institutions, public bodies and general interest organisations Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 11 Governance Ethical and transparent governance Articles of Association ting, six directors representing the French government and six directors elected by THE EXECUTIVE Aéroports de Paris is a French public limited employees. Two censors participate in the COMMITTEE company governed by a Board of Directors Board meetings in an advisory capacity. The Chaired by the Chairman (Société Anonyme à Conseil d’Administraterm of office for both directors and censors and Chief Executive Officer, tion). Internal regulations set forth the scope is five years, as of 15 July 2009. In 2012, the the Executive Committee of the Board’s responsibilities and its operaBoard of Directors met eleven times. meets weekly. ting procedures. Board Member Guidelines It is responsible for the govern the rights and duties of each direcAssessment of the Board company’s strategic and tor, and a code of ethics relating to share The annual internal evaluation of the Board operational management. transactions and respect for French regulaof Directors for the 2011 financial year was It discusses all matters relating tions on insider trading, breach of insider entrusted to an independent director and to its successful operation trading laws and market manipulation is its results were presented to the Board at its and ensures proper execution appended to the internal regulations. meeting of 25 October 2012. The compariof the decisions made. son with previous assessments (both interThe Chairman and Chief nal and external) shows constantly growing Executive Officer levels of satisfaction by the Board about the REMUNERATION OF Co-opted by the Board of Directors on 12 conditions under which it carries out its misCORPORATE OFFICERS November 2012, Augustin de Romanet was sion. The Board of Directors sets the appointed Chairman and Chief Executive remuneration of the corporate officers after Officer by decree dated 29 November 2012. He succeeded Pierre Graff, who had held Our Special hearing the opinion of the Remuneration Committee and in accordance with the this position since 2003. Committees AFEP-MEDEF recommendations. In 2012, two CSR objectives were included The Board of Directors Three advisory committees contribute to the in the variable portion of senior executives’ quality of the decisions made by the Board remuneration – employment of disabled In April 2009, the Board decided to apply of Directors: people and gender equality. the AFEP-MEDEF guidelines for the corporate governance of listed companies. The Audit Committee WOMEN ON THE BOARD It examines the corporate and consolidated OF DIRECTORS AND ON THE Composition accounts. It regularly reviews the Group’s EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE The Board of Directors is a collegial body major risks with senior management. It The Board of Directors has provided for that determines the Company’s business ensures that risks are effectively tracked an increasing representation of female strategy and ensures its implementation. It and that internal controls are monitored. It directors. As of 31 December 2012, out reports on its performance of this task to the ensures the existence of a process for preof the 12 directors who fall under the General Shareholders’ Meeting. It consists paring and validating financial communiAfep-Medef code (which does not take of 18 members, including six directors apcation. In 2012, it met seven times with an into account the directors elected by pointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeattendance rate of 85.7%. employees), five are women, i.e. 45%. A woman chairs the Executive Committee, which is composed of nine members. The Executive Committee 12 Aéroports de Paris Rapport de responsabilité sociétale d’entreprise 2012 The Strategy and The Remuneration A NEW PORTAL Investments Committee Committee DEDICATED TO It advises on the definition and implementaIt makes proposals on the amounts of COMPLIANCE tion of the Aéroports de Paris Group’s business and changes to the total remuneration of Our portal, «Overview of strategy, in particular as it concerns the divercorporate officers. It advises on the remucompany standards» opened sification of operations, and regularly audits neration policy for the Company’s senior at the beginning of September the actual results. It examines the internal and executives. In 2012, it met twice with an 2012. external growth plans made by the company attendance rate of 100%. It facilitates employees’ access and its subsidiaries. In 2012, it met three times to the main external regulatory with an attendance rate of 72.2%. or contractual documents concerning Aéroports de Paris, as well as the cross-functional internal documents produced by the divisions. Acting safely SIMPLIFIED GOVERNANCE The audit, risk and internal control A comprehensive July 2012 and circulated within the parent company and its main, wholly-owned subcoordinators (ARC), present in each division of the company and in the approach sidiaries. group’s main subsidiaries, are grouped together into a single network. Aéroports de Paris has a comprehensive An efficient system They meet every quarter and an approach to internal control, risk manageOperational Risks and Internal Control ment, and internal audit. This approach is Continuous monitoring Committee gathers the directors twice driven by the Security and Risk ManageThe internal control department of the Audit per year. ment division and the Audit and Internal and Internal Control division designs and Control division. organises the on-going control systems. Its INTERNAL REGULATIONS goal is to continuously monitor the company’s The Aéroports de Paris S.A. internal Internal control and risk management are business activities to control its management. regulations define the permanent rules business control systems assisting in the We therefore ensure the application of the of general discipline and lay out the management of the performance of the standards, procedures and recommendations enforcement process for hygiene, health Group and its entities. Internal control aims which contribute to the implementation of and safety. to improve the efficiency of daily activities. the business strategy set by executive manaThey include rules of ethics and specific Risk management allows for the prioritisagement. In 2012, internal control work was rules specified in the procurement code tion of major risks and ensures that they mostly based on developing tools such as selfof ethics, the code of ethics for trading are managed. Internal audit assesses the assessment questionnaires, internal control and market activities, and the code of quality of the Group’s internal control and reference guides and best practices guides. ethics for information security. ensures that the significant risks are hanThese documents serve to help the divisions dled appropriately. describe their internal control system. FACT The certification issued by the French In 2012, the links between risk mapping, Managing risks Audit and Internal Control Institute the audit programme and the internal The Risk Management department in the (Ifaci) for internal audit activities was control system were reinforced. Security and Risk Management division confirmed in 2012. must ensure that all stakeholders have an Charters and reference guide accurate, collaborative and shared global The Aéroports de Paris Group internal vision of risks and their level of control. In control charter and the risk management 2012, we defined a simplified risk analysis reference guide show how these systems methodology. The directors were invited to are organised: regulatory frameworks and add priority actions identified to reduce mainternal standards, stakeholders, roles and jor risks in developing and monitoring their responsibilities, and associated governance. operational plans and budgets. In 2012, we The group’s internal audit charter defines continued to improve our crisis managethe mission, powers and responsibilities in ment system and created a guide for emerthat area. The charters were updated in gency call-out employees. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 13 Governance Combating fraud for combating fraud (2012-2014), extended to the Group, we have carried out several and corruption major actions. In 2012, we strengthened our prevention plan, notably through an ethics Since 2008, the parent company, and since compliance officer who is responsible for im2011, its four main subsidiaries, have been plementing and organising the plan. In addiMAIN DUTIES OF combating corruption and fraud under a partion, each manager is now invited to commit THE ENVIRONMENT tnership with the association Transparence in writing to distributing ethics rules to the AND SUSTAINABLE International France. Aéroports de Paris SA, staff under his/her responsibility and ensuring DEVELOPMENT DIVISION ADP Ingénierie and Aéroports de Paris Manathat they are understood. We have also put Draw up the support agenda gement renewed this partnership in 2013. in place a select committee to handle fraud, for environmental management In accordance with our second triennial plan chaired by the ethics compliance officer. across the entire Aéroports de Paris S.A. Group. Provide optimal management for noise pollution aid financed by the tax on aircraft noise. CSR in our organisation Develop strategies that enable local businesses and governments to benefit from the dynamism of Paris airports. Help local communities A policy driven • T  wo regional sustainable development units (one for Paris-Charles de in difficulty. Keep local residents informed. at the highest level Gaulle and Paris-Le Bourget and one for Paris-Orly) roll out the economic and social The Group’s corporate social responsibility cooperation, solidarity and information policy is driven from the highest level of strategies to local and territorial stakeUNDERSTANDING INTERNAL senior management. It is proposed by the holders. They organise discussions with CONTROL Environment and Sustainable Development partnership structures and local networks. We regularly communicate, raise division to the Executive Committee. This They represent the company before local awareness and provide training on issues division reports to the Planning and Devepublic and private stakeholders. pertaining to internal control and risk lopment activity cluster, led by the Chief • Five cross-functional activity clusters management. Development Officer, who is a member of handle specific campaigns to inform In 2012, we gave priority to training the Executive Committee. The Audit and Instakeholders and provide assistance to on certification standards and developed ternal Control division and the Security and local residents, in synergy with the regioa support process for divisions to Risk Management division ensure that risks nal units: job, employment and training strengthen their own internal control. are identified and taken into account, and observatories; management of informathey evaluate them periodically. tion to local residents; soundproofing assistance management; partnership manaThree units and five activity gement; Aéroports de Paris Foundation. clusters The Environment and Sustainable DevelopIn 2012, two cross-functional management ment division acts through several units. committees were created by the Environ• The environmental and energy policy ment and Sustainable Development division unit manages the strategic guidelines in to coordinate corporate social responsibithese two areas, ensures technical and lity actions: one with the Human Resources regulatory monitoring, and provides techdivision and the other with the Purchasing nical support to other divisions. division. 14 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 A policy rolled out • T he CSR Club, created in 2011 at AéroTHREE GOVERNANCE PRINCIPLES in all units ports de Paris’ initiative, is an operational think tank composed of 12 large Improve performance in line companies: Adecco, Air France-KLM, with ethical behaviour and national The sustainable development and corporate Bred-Banque Populaire, Casino group, and international standards. social responsibility policy is applied in all of Manage all risks for which Kersus avocats associés, LCL, RATP, the company’s functional and operational Ricoh France, Safran, SNCF, Veolia and the company is directly responsible. units. Each year, the Chairman and Chief Report to stakeholders Aéroports de Paris. Discussing subjects Executive Officer prepares a scoping paper from a global perspective, the club for the divisions. Every three months, the shares best practices. It will organise Environment and Sustainable Development awareness-raising activities and involve division reports to the Executive Committee college students, the executives of tovia a dashboard supplied by the divisions. morrow. • Environment Partners Clubs bring togeOur think tanks ther the environment officers of companies present in the airports. They are To bring together airport stakeholders to places to discuss environmental best pracexamine economic, social and societal chaltices to make the airports eco-friendly. lenges, we have organised business clubs • HRD Clubs are designed to bring HR on our three main sites. executives together to focus on training, • Airport Player Clubs carry out partnership employment, employee quality of life, initiatives to promote and develop the disability and new laws. airport area as a whole. CONTRIBUTIONS FROM DIVISIONS TO CSR POLICY Key horizontal actions CSR focus with other divisions Airports’ divisions Maintaining SME and SMI certification Training and local initiatives Employment policy, human and workers’ Training in CSR, quality of service, CSR clauses Human resources rights, equal opportunities, diversity, in outsourcing contracts, and social actions for health, and training local communities Customer satisfaction Quality of service and Service University Disseminating a customer-centric culture Marketing, retailing and Relationships with the retailers in the Customer satisfaction surveys communication terminals and respecting the customer Services to business users in airports Property and environmental quality of real estate Third-party environmental performance assets Engineering, architecture and Monitoring the environmental quality Environmental quality of the buildings delegated contracting of projects Energy savings, raising awareness Security and protection of personal IT about IT security, and quality of service information and innovation Roll out of innovative projects Innovation activity cluster Monitoring new projects for passengers, airlines and employees Economic and social cooperation, Adherence to the Code of Conduct Finance and Administration communication about economic for Trading and Market Activities, activity cluster, including and social responsibility, implementation CSR criteria in contracts, solidarity Purchasing division of the purchasing policy, and CSR clauses purchasing, and training buyers in contracts Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 15 Governance 2012 achievements AIRPORT SA F ETY Paris-Le Bourget – on the way to certifying its SGS The leading European business airport, Paris-Le Bouget plans to get its airport safety management system (SGS) certified in 2013, thus joining Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. During 2012, everyone at the airport played a role in preparing for the preliminary audit of their SGS in February 2013. This audit, conducted by the French civil aviation safety authority (DSAC), provided the indications necessary to plan the actions required to obtain the certification in April. The certification primarily covers the compliance of operating equipment and procedures, as well as the airport safety management system which guarantees a rigorous reporting process and continuous improvement of safety. Actions planned for 2013 include raising awareness among the personnel most exposed to risks and rearranging the runway end safety areas. SGS certification is recommended by the International Civil Aviation Organisation (ICAO) for airfields RIS K M ANA G E MENT that exceed the the threshold of 150,000 A structure optimised passengers per year. for snowfall In July 2012, a collective «winter service» agreement was signed. It establishes a specific and exceptional system of planning working hours in the event of severe, inclement winter weather. Thanks to this agreement, Aéroports de Paris can provide an optimal response to its continuity of service obligation. This structure facilitates immediate, exceptional mobilisation of operational forces in which employees who are generally not involved in these tasks can also participate on a voluntary basis. These human resources support our Winter Sustainability activity clusters (PVH), put in place at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly in 2011. The PVHs gather activities and resources dedicated to snow and de-icing. They define the rules, procedures and applicable operating modes. AVAILABLE SNOW CLEARING VEHICLES 2012 Compared to 2010 Paris-Charles de Gaulle 125 +67% Paris-Orly 60 +46% 16 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 AIR NAVI G ATION From the ground to the sky As an airport operator, we have been involved in putting in place the Single European Sky project since 2006. The project’s strategic objectives are: handling a tripling of European air traffic volume with a safety level improved by a factor of ten, reducing environmental impact by 10% per flight and reducing air control costs by 50%. We are participating in this initiative in three key areas, subject to strict performance objectives. Research and technology Along with the Amsterdam, Heathrow, C RISIS M ANA G E MENT Frankfurt, Munich and Zurich airports, we A special drill are participating in several projects from the Sesar research and development programme for high-performance air traffic Drills are regularly performed to keep the crisis management system at an optimal level control infrastructures. of efficiency. On the night of 24-25 October 2012, Paris-Orly staged a simulation of a plane crash. This large operation involved a thousand people, including more than 800 present at the airport. The scenario envisioned a jumbo jet, having announced a small Aviation safety fire during landing, coming off the runway while landing. To make the simulation more We have put in place a runway protection realistic, around one hundred extras were brought in from the Paris fire brigade, the lighting system at Paris-Charles de Gaulle French Foreign Legion, Aéroports de Paris and the partner airline to play the roles of for pilots and vehicle drivers and improved victims or passengers’ loved ones. France’s largest civil safety drill of the year went well. the geolocation functions of vehicles at However, two working groups will improve the way in which communication during a Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. This crisis is organised and how families are handled. The next drill should test the effectivehelps increase the level of safety of plane ness of these two key points of crisis management. movements. C OM BATIN G F RA U D Effectiveness of flights Partnership with Transparence International and environment France Positive results We are implementing the Collaborative Decision Making (CDM) concept, for At the end of the 2011-2012 agreement signed between Transparence International France which Paris-Charles de Gaulle was labelled and the Aéroports de Paris group, the results are positive. Our four main subsidiaries met a «CDM-Airport» in 2010 by Eurocontrol, the objectives of their programmes. ADP Ingénierie, Aéroports de Paris Management, the European organisation for the safety Alyzia Sûreté and Hub télécom have implemented ethical rules. At the Group level, we have of air navigation. It has been rolled out at created systems for combating corruption and fraud, and trained and raised awareness Paris-Orly since 2012. Thanks to this tool, among employees on overseas assignments and expatriates. We developed an ambitious we have helped smooth out air traffic and fraud prevention programme for the 2012-2014 period. Transparence International France optimised plane traffic on the ground. At helped us create a benchmark of the practices of eight large corporations to improve this Paris-Charles de Gaulle, the average aircraft action plan. In 2013, we will develop our systems further, promote our commitment to taxiing time for departures was cut by 10% our stakeholders and develop new specific training modules, intended particularly for between 2007 and 2011, saving 17,000 managers, new hires and new executives. metric tons of CO2. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 17 Governance 2012 Panorama 1 2 Corporate Commitment to governance employees New organisation Augustin de Romanet of the Human Resources p.22 succeeded Pierre Graff division as Chairman and Chief p.1 Executive Officer New wage agreement p.23 New agreement The Group enters new p.24 p.8 on disabled workers SRI indices Wage equality between Updating of the internal men and women p.24 control and internal audit p.13 charters Creation of a crossfunctional health, safety and working conditions p.25 New intranet portal committee (CHSCT) dedicated to compliance p.13 Training in asbestos risk p.25 Combating fraud: appointment of an ethics p.14 compliance officer Hardship audit p.25 Participatory innovation p.27 Crisis management: the largest civil safety Certificate training drill in Île-de-France p.17 courses p.28 in 2012 2012 non-financial rating still improving p.70 18 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 3 4 5 Customers and sustainable Civil Environment purchasing society New environmental Opening of Satellite 4 National three-year policy p.32 and the A/C link p.7 commitment to employ Quality of service inhabitants of priority p.58 Our projects and achievements p.34 benchmarks for p.48 neighbourhoods passengers Papa Charlie becomes a 8% renewable energy in Development of supporting organisation our final internal energy p.36 collaborative tools p.49 of beneficiaries of the consumption for airlines Fonds de cohésion p.60 Launch of Collaborative sociale (social cohesion Three HQE® certified fund) Decision Making p.49 buildings delivered p.37 at Paris-Orly Study by our in the new Satellite 4 observatories into Arrival of our new Waiting-time display professional integration p.61 electric vehicles p.38 screens for passengers p.50 of young local residents Air quality accessible Social housing: eight p.38 Visits by lessee p.61 in real time p.51 partnership agreements companies Acquisition of level 3 New sustainable Territories: Grand Paris of the Airport Carbon p.42 p.62 and solidarity purchasing p.52 label for Hubstart Paris® Accreditation policy Controllers for waste Creation of the Plato p.44 Signature of the SME sorting p.52 Grand Roissy economic p.63 Pact network A filter installed to Cultural approach accelerate rainwater p.45 p.53 Employment: to passenger service purification Planèt’AIRport expands its offering with p.66 Our innovation projects p.54 Prépa’Aéro The Aéroports de Paris Foundation combats p.68 school dropout Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 19 2 Encouraging professional development Employee health and quality A fresh momentum page 22 page 25 of life Recognising individual page 23 Different perspectives page 26 commitments Respecting equal page 24 2012 achievements page 27 opportunities EMPLOYEES Our commitments 5 key concepts Recognising Promoting equal Improving health Adapting jobs Developing individual opportunities and quality and skills managerial skills and collective and diversity of life at work contributions 6 priorities 2015 2012 Objectives Key actions Quality of employment Objectivité et transparence Recognition of skills in management conditions des systèmes de rémunération remuneration schemes GPEC (jobs and skills management system) Quality of job management rules defined for a three-year period  ,324 people trained in 2012 6 Managing jobs and skills Skills development and employability  “Mobility spaces” for managers Career and Mobility activity cluster for management of non-managers Assessment of work hardship factors Quality of working Protecting health and safety  udit of health and safety organisation A conditions Organising work time carefully Ongoing actions to support parents 80 ideas generated each year through Promoting employee participation participatory innovation efforts Professional and social relations Agreement on union rights Promoting social dialogue and collective bargaining  anagers’ participation in negotiations M with social partners Preventing discrimination and Higher percentage of women promoting gender equality in management Elimination of the pay gap Non-discrimination Preventing discrimination Agreements on the employment and promoting equal opportunities of people with disabilities for vulnerable groups Testing of anonymous curriculum vitae Signatory to the Global Compact Respect for fundamental human rights Preventing human rights violations  lert procedure in the case of harassment A and mediation system This roadmap shows progress points over the medium term (2012-2015). Starting On-going Advanced Attained Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 21 EMPLOYEES A fresh momentum THE HUMAN RESOURCES A year of ambitious Environment and Sustainable Development division, the national commitment for the DIVISION’S FIVE ACTIVITY projects employment of residents of priority neighCLUSTERS bourhoods for urban development. Development of skills, employment The success of our corporate strategy lies with policies and working conditions the men and women of Aéroports de Paris. Labour law, risk prevention Our employee policy stimulates individual and Managing careers and labour-management relations collective empowerment and social responsiRemuneration and benefits bility within balanced labour relationships. Jobs and skills management Recruitment and development This balance is based on respect for diversity, system of strategic managers equal opportunities, health and quality of life The year 2012 was marked by the unilateral Coordination of the local HR function at work. Several projects that were initiated implementation of the 2012-2015 jobs and and of the division’s internal control in 2012 will start to bear fruit in 2013, partiskills management system (GPEC), in the abcularly with respect to career paths, mobility sence of an agreement with the social parWE LISTEN TO OUR and training. tners. Building on the previous programme, EMPLOYEES the 2012-2015 GPEC puts developing All our employees are regularly asked to A new organisation individual and collective skills at the heart share their perception of the company. In 2012, the Human Resources division was of its priorities. It requires that information The results of this anonymous poll, run reorganised to make it more accessible and on jobs and job trends be shared more by an outside firm, are used to draw responsive to managers and employees. We frequently within the company. Analysis up the employee-satisfaction survey, are gradually restructuring the local HR functools will continue to be developed with a which is presented to employees during tion to improve its overall effectiveness in greater emphasis on the operational aspect. the first quarter of the subsequent 2013. The Human Resources division is also GPEC will thus encourage dynamic career year. The employee-satisfaction taking action at the Group level. It is assisted path management, modifications to our survey helps managers improve by a Human Resources Committee that lays training programmes and support for mobiinternal communication and identify down common Group directions for Aérolity to respond to the company’s challenges improvement actions. ports de Paris SA and its subsidiaries. The and employees’ interests. The professional Since 2011, the survey has included Group Committee presents the company’s appraisal meeting, which was automated questions on psychosocial risks. strategic directions to the social partners. for managers in 2011, will be rolled out in In 2011, we also instituted an annual 2013 for non-managers. survey on managers’ satisfaction with Guaranteeing respect for HR services. human and workers’ rights New career prospects The Human Resources division makes sure Against the backdrop of cost controls and that human and workers’ rights are respecdownsizing at the parent company, we have ted within the group. It plays an active role pursued a hiring control policy and encouin instilling these values in the company’s raged internal mobility. Mobility opens stakeholders and also helps implement the doors to rewarding careers while making CSR policies that fall under its responsibiit possible for the company’s resources to lity. As such, it has developed tools to be continuously adapt and respond to the used during the tendering and contract Group’s needs. Employees have access to a performance phases to ensure service prowebsite dedicated to career mobility where viders’ compliance with employee-related they can consult job openings within the policies. In 2012, it signed, along with our Group. This website maps out the various Supporting mobility projects The Career Path activity cluster advises, guides and supports employees as they pursue their career goals. The Mobility Committee helps by pooling the company’s needs and employee career plans. To accelerate the mobility process, we are now considering relaxing the restrictions in the Articles of Association that limit exchanges with our subsidiaries. 22 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 jobs and their corresponding descriptions namic remuneration scheme and a flexible and provides recommendations and tools promotion plan. Mobility spaces for manato enable employees to play an active role gers, tested in 2011, are being rolled out. in determining their career path. It also These programmes help our employees informs them of the resources at their disidentify gateways between jobs. posal: long-term training, validation of learning through experience (VAE – valorisation Our managers des acquis de l’expérience), career assessOur managers communicate our employeements, skills review, and CV workshops. related policies. They set the objectives for their units in terms of their workforce, deFor managers velop skills and help employees make their Since January 2011, our Managers project career goals a reality. They disseminate corEMPLOYMENT FIGURES has recognised manager performance and porate culture and help prevent risks. We are FOR 2012 provided tools to motivate managers. It increasingly including them in the discussions includes a system for setting clear, measuon our changing employee-related policies Group workforce (1) 9,035 rable, individual goals, a new method for so that they fully embrace the strategic and managing professional development, a dyhuman dimensions. New permanent hires 128 Manager incubators (2) 5 Work-study contracts 225 Recognising individual (1) Excluding commercial joint ventures (2) Aéroports de Paris SA commitments AÉROPORTS DE PARIS SA DATA Discretionary profit Our wage policy aims to reward the contriPay equity sharing (in thousands 7,761 butions made by our employees. The Group In keeping with our commitments, we of euros) is offering interesting remuneration pacconducted the second annual analysis of Average gross premium kages with very good health insurance/ retithe wage gap between men and women. 1,170 (in euros) rement benefits. A budget of €123,000 was allocated to reduce these gaps. We repeat these assessCompulsory profit sharing 15,915 (in thousands of euros) The 2012 wage ments each year. Average gross premium agreement New profit-sharing agreement (in euros) 2,400 For financial year 2012, Aéroports de Paris Diversified employee The wage agreement of 9 February 2012 SA paid its eighth share-holding premium savings at 31/12/2012 77,472 resulted in a company-wide wage increase of and its 25th incentive bonus. A new profit(in thousands of euros) 0.7%, supplemented by a specific measure sharing agreement was negotiated for the concerning the pay scale for entry-level jobs 2012-2014 period. It comprised three criteNumber of investors 8,614 and the inclusion of bonuses in basic salary, ria for 2012: economic performance, cusEmployee shareholding at with the effect of increasing wages. The tomer satisfaction and lost-time injury rate. 31/12/2012 (in thousands 93,870 agreement provides for new funding to close of euros) the salary gap between men and women, Balanced employee savings Number of investors 6,331 and to increase the payment to the Chèque Employees have access to a balanced and Emploi Services Universel (CESU) programme comprehensive employee savings pro79% of Aéroports de Paris employees and the company’s mutual insurance comgramme, composed of a Group savings are shareholders via the Aéroparts fund. pany contribution. The new compensation plan (PEG) and a retirement savings plan These employees owned a 1.7% equity system for managers, launched in 2011, under the collective Group pension plan share at 31/12/2012. accounts for the quality of the manager’s (PERCOG). In 2011, the scale for contricontribution as well as skill development. The butions made to the employee share variable portion of this compensation, which ownership fund under the PEG and into the depends on the extent to which targets were PERCOG funds was negotiated for a period met, is being gradually increased over time. of five years. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 23 EMPLOYEES Respecting equal opportunities Our corporate agreements and proactive A new agreement policy require that we promote social and on disabled workers gender diversity and equal professional The eighth agreement on the integration opportunities among our employees. As the of disabled people was signed in December Group is a signatory to the Global Compact, 2012 for the 2013-2015 period, strengthewe fight against discrimination. ning the provisions of the previous agreement. It targets a 6% employment rate GENDER EQUALITY (as %) Gender equality, and provides for a more ambitious hiring plan, as well as increased purchasing from Women recruited on long-term contracts disabilities, senior relevant sheltered sectors. This agreement establishes a monitoring committee and 2010 33 Communicating indicators. Similar to the previous agree2011 38.2 our values internally ment, it applies to anyone caring for a 2012 31.3 We pay special attention to informing all didisabled child or spouse and establishes Women managers and high-level visions and employees of our commitments. programmes to provide housing and trasupervisors Employees are kept informed through intervel assistance. The Disability team serves nal media and publications, during seminars as the special, dedicated point of contact 2010 32 or at national events. Our managers, staff for disabled workers. Employee volunteers 2011 32.8 representatives and the network of human act as “integration coaches” for new hires 2012 33.6 resources correspondents attend special with disabilities. Women promoted training sessions. Senior employees 2010 4.1 Gender equality The provisions of the three-year corporate 2011 6.2 All employees received a booklet on gender agreement on seniors’ jobs and job reten2012 5.4 equality in 2011 and are given awareness tion, which ended this year, have been training on a regular basis. The third agreemaintained for 2013. Negotiations on the SENIOR EMPLOYEES ment on professional equality between men generation contract will begin in the first 2010-2012 and women covers the 2011-2013 period. half of 2013. In compliance with the latest regulatory Hiring rate (%) 4.9 requirements, its purpose is to ensure equal Diversity pay, promote gender parity and facilitate In 2010, out of a desire to bring about a Part-time (end of career) 31 the reconciliation between professional and more consistent diversity policy, we asked Timetable adjustments 34 personal life. While the proportion of wothe IMS Entreprendre pour la Cité associaTraining (%) 81 men in the company has stabilised at 38% tion to conduct a Diversity diagnostic. The over the past three years, the rebalancing of human resources management tools and Cases of pension buy-back 9 men and women in the corporate hierarchy procedures resulting from this diagnostic is showing solid progress. In 2012, the comare now helping us improve diversity within pany implemented salary adjustment meaour company. sures for 79 employees; in 2011, it did so for 120 employees. DISABLED WORKERS HIRED (number of people) Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA 2010-2012 2013-2015 6% Agreement Actual total Agreement Long-term 11 (minimum) 12 15 (minimum) contracts Disability: targeting a 6% Assisted / fixed-term 20 25 24 employment rate. contracts Work-study 9 5 8 (minimum) contracts Interns 15 15 20 24 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Employee health and quality of life Our workplace health and safety policy is is currently being drawn up. A methoEXPATRIATES based on prevention and the notion that dology has been developed for tracking Group expatriates and French staff work should be adapted to the worker. It employees’ exposure to chemicals, which working abroad are covered by a special is communicated to employees on a regular should lead to implementation of proceprotection scheme that permanently basis. dures and a methodology for monitoring monitors security conditions in the exposure limit values in 2013 and 2014. countries in question. Our organisation We have also worked to identify hazardous, isolated workstations, implemented This alert system operates in real time. Audits were carried out in the countries and programme preventive measures and established the where the Group has permanent sites. technical specifications for the alert equipExpatriates and French staff working Eight committees on health, safety and worment we would like to purchase. overseas have access to an intranet site king conditions (CHSCT) are spread over and are given safety awareness training. the Aéroports de Paris sites, and 20 safety Pedestrian and road traffic officers have been assigned to operating Pedestrian and road risks accounted for FACT and functional divisions. In 2012, we created 68% of workplace accidents in 2009 and A regulatory oversight tool for an inter-departmental CHSCT which will be only 40% in August 2012. In 2013, we “health and safety in working operational in 2013. It will be consulted on will continue to pursue the actions initiaconditions and the environment” cross-cutting issues. A multidisciplinary medited three years ago. Signage has been inswas deployed in all operational units cal and technical commission brings together talled at all of our sites to prevent falls to and will be supplemented in 2013 occupational-health doctors and the officers the ground and on stairways. The analysis with a compliance analysis tool specialising in occupational-hazard prevenof pedestrian routes continued. In 2013, we for the implementation of corrective tion under the leadership of the Director of plan to develop an internal policy for road measures. Human Resources. This commission decides accident prevention and to pinpoint the on additional areas of study to support the “black spots” on the roadways of the three RATE OF ACCIDENTS annual prevention plan. airports. AT WORK Scope: Aéroports de Paris SA Six areas of focus in 2012 Work hardship Accidents at work Our 2012 annual plan for the prevention of In 2012, we completed a hardship audit by 2010 151 occupational risks draws on the 2010-2014 job and by degree of hardship and identi2011 114 Health at Work plan (Plan santé au travail) fied exposure levels. Measures to prevent 2012 141 of the French Ministry for Labour, Employand reduce work hardship are being devement and Health and on the regulatory proloped. An agreement or action plan should Frequency rate visions applicable to work hardship. In 2012, be concluded in 2013. 2010 14.6 it focused on six areas: work hardship, psy2011 11.1 chosocial risks, concurrent activities, chemical risks, isolated and hazardous work, and Psychosocial risks 2012 13.7 Severity rate workplace and commuting accidents. Prevention agreement 2010 1 A methodology agreement on psychosocial 2011 0.6 Conventional risks risk prevention was signed in 2010. Nego2012 0.8 tiations continued with the social partners We have tracked the risk of asbestos at the to reach an agreement on the substance in three airports and in 2012 we developed the first half of 2013. We stepped up our a training course that addresses this issue efforts to educate managers and executives specifically. Traceability procedures for chein 2012. We would like them to better acmical risks are operational, as well as for count for the challenges of preventing psyexposure to asbestos, noise, vibrations chosocial risks in their practices. These risks and ionising radiation. Our staff are made are now factored into the reorganisation aware of the new labelling of chemicals to process, from design to implementation. protect them from the risk of carcinogenic, We conducted a preliminary diagnostic to mutagenic and reprotoxic agents (CMRs). assess the psychosocial risk factors to be A plan to implement alternatives to CMRs included in the Single Document. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 25 EMPLOYEES Different perspectives One structure Our interdisciplinary alert network tasked with detecting psychosocial risks consists of occupational-health doctors, the social department, managers and CHSCT representaCatherine Benet Human Resources Director of tives. An internal mediator has been appoinAéroports de Paris ted to start a dialogue and find appropriate solutions, and to alert the Human Resources division to any collective malaise or problems arising from organisational change. A group resource identifies and treats individual cases of unhappiness at work. Encouraging Quality of life manager involvement and health C.B. : As soon as I took office in 2011, I made it my priority to position the HR function as a strong and legitimate partner for its stakeholders to ensure Work-life balance that our HR policies meet their expectations. To do this, we had to listen more Our employees can take advantage of the closely to managers. In addition to providing them with support and guidance CESU programme as per the conditions set via reliable and innovative solutions, we also had to bring them into the proforth in the agreements on gender equaject management process: engaging with all the other divisions on HR projects lity and the employment of disabled people. means creating a managerial community that shares the same vision, values These cheques are awarded to pay for serand practices alongside a unified HR function at the central and local level. This vices for young children, housing, extracurapproach, which rewards grassroots initiatives, encourages their implementaricular activities and disability support. The tion throughout the Company. We are now experiencing a period of profound company has allocated €450,000 to the CESU change. The Human Resources division will not settle for merely supporting this programme. People with disabilities receive change at the operational level. This new closeness gives us the opportunity to additional aid to adapt their homes and vehireaffirm our role as a responsible employer so that this dimension can be fully cles or to finance a different method of transincorporated into the organisational design. port. Two inter-company nurseries have been available to employees since 2006 and 2009, F.G. : The Paris-Charles de Gaulle site accounts for a significant percentage of respectively, at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and the company’s staff, which implies considerable social responsibilities for my maParis-Orly. An intranet site has just been creanagers and myself. We naturally rely heavily on the support of the Human Reted this year to help employees find housing. sources division. I have high expectations for the new organisation in place since The Health Protection Committee’s intranet 2012, and in particular I expect it to be an effective partner for implementing site provides nutrition, hygiene and fitness mobility policies. I also welcome the initiative to involve managers in developing advice. In 2012, introductory classes in relaxaour HR policies, as this helps us, as a stakeholder, with their implementation. We tion therapy were offered. have therefore been involved, since this year, in the draft corporate agreements relating to our employee-related commitments. This is an important step. The rules defined in this manner will more closely correspond to our operational FACTS realities and will be easier to implement. I believe the framework for our actions Aéroports de Paris is a member of a and discussions is more structured. We will feel better equipped to carry out our network of large companies, moderated social responsibility. The Human Resources division also periodically assesses our by ANACT, to discuss experiences satisfaction with HR services. We can voice new expectations, such as that of of psychosocial risk. jointly reflecting on the conditions for optimising the work environment. Our Occupational Health Department has joined the national Évolution et relations en santé au travail (Evrest) initiative, which monitors occupational health issues. Paris-Charles de Gaulle is OHSAS 18001 Franck Goldnadel Managing Director certified (occupational health and at Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport safety). 26 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 2012 achievements PAR T I CI PAT O RY INN O VAT I O N Screening and fire-safety developments Three initiatives were also selected by our Innov’idées committees. • At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, two employees created a security control staging area for staff, as a way to bypass the passenger lines. This makes priority access to screening checkpoints for staff unnecessary. Passengers see it as a sign of courtesy. Passenger flows have improved by 30%, • At Paris-Orly, an employee equipped the screening checkpoints with a mirror. Security agents can thus verify the baggage carousel load behind them without having to turn their attention away from their control screen and risk letting a suspicious piece of baggage through. This system, which improves security, also benefits the passenger, as baggage is unlikely to fall off because the carousel is overloaded, PAR T I CI PATORY INN OVAT IO N • To increase the responsiveness of the When ideas abound Paris-Charles de Gaulle fire-fighters, an employee designed an oversight system combined with a mapping of the site’s Prevention, health, crisis and welcome 620 fire hydrants, which is enhanced Our employees submit more than 50 ideas each year through the Innov’idées participatory with photos and plans. This information innovation effort. The best proposals are implemented and presented at the special (updates are sent automatically) can be initiative day, which celebrated its 20th anniversary in 2012. The four prizes awarded this consulted continuously, via the intrayear concerned prevention and health, crisis situations and passenger welcome. net and Internet networks, by all those • At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, three people from the Baggage Process activity cluster concerned. The software can be replicaprepared a laminated pocket-sized cheat sheet to help employees who are not ‘welcome ted at the other two airports. specialists’ assist passengers that ask them questions, • A logistics agent suggested that the carts available to passengers be modified so they can quickly transport stretchers to the designated shelter areas in the event of a crisis, • At Paris-Orly, two maintenance technicians invented a system for cleaning the thermoelectric refrigerator plant’s cooling towers which reduces the risks of legionellosis and of accidents, and the arduousness of the task, • A Car Parks and Access Roads manager asked a make-up consultant to give a demonstration to female Car Parks agents who would like to learn how to enhance their image. PAR T I CI PATORY INN OVAT IO N Software to keep the ideas flowing In early 2012, we implemented new software for gathering and processing ideas suggested by our employees. This intuitive tool is accessible to all employees from our intranet and extranet networks. This new interface enables originators of new ideas and their managers to track the fate of their proposals in a transparent manner. In 2012, we processed 80 ideas for improvements in the company’s priority areas of action: efficiency, customer satisfaction, working conditions, the environment and sustainable development. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 27 EMPLOYEES 2012 achievements T R A ININ G Certificate training programmes In September 2012, six safety officers, recruited through internal mobility, were awarded a risk-prevention coordinator diploma after completing a certificate training programme held at our premises. This one-year programme was a combination of classes, personal work and professional experience, with the support of our own network of safety experts and external trainers. In March, a team of five safety officers embarked on a collective VAE (validation of learning through experience). We will capitalise on this success to expand it to other jobs starting in 2013. E M P L O YM E N T / G P E C Finding tomorrow’s talent In order to fill positions that require rare skills, in 1999 we designed an incubator system for young managers coming from prestigious universities or having specialised master’s degrees. These young graduates, hired under long-term contracts, come face-to-face with various corporate issues. We will expand this system to nonT R A ININ G managers who perform technical jobs. We Developing skills also created internal incubators. We participate in numerous job forums to attract Training is a major lever for developing employees’ skills to meet our ambitious strategic young talent, such as the “meeting 2012”, challenges, in particular that of becoming the benchmark European airport in customer held at CNIT-La Défense and targeting satisfaction and sustainable development. The year 2012 was dedicated to implementing young engineers. mandatory and regulatory security and safety training. We also developed individual job training courses to encourage employees to adapt to the company’s new challenges or improve their capacity for mobility. As part of the restructuring of our Property and Information Systems divisions, we offered collective professional programmes for employees of both divisions. We also continued to coach managers on mastering management skills and supplemented the training courses they are offered with sessions on the environment and diversity. We plan to include social responsibility in 2013. EDUCATION AND TRAINING People trained 6,324 Hours of training given 206,026 Investment in continuing education (in millions of euros) 20.7 Internal training modules 200 CSR-related training modules 11 28 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 HE ALT H P R O T E C T I O N Partners and third parties We have developed operating procedures or prevention plans for premises leased to third parties. Procedures have been drafted for the freight and waste-sorting areas. Since 2011, prevention plans have been drawn up with airline service providers in regard to baggage sorting and handling operations. Using cinema to promote safety Our Occupational Health department has posted on its intranet site the twenty or so Napo animated films, coproduced by seven EQUAL OPPOR T U NI TI ES European workplace safety and prevenOur Disability team tion organisations. These silent films show Napo and his partners dealing with risk As it does each year, in 2012 our Disability team conducted awareness-raising campaigns situations. Simple yet effective, they enthroughout the company and introduced three forums on the employment of disabled courage discussion about specific aspects people. During Disability Week, it participated in its second Handicafé at the Environment of workplace safety. and Sustainable Development Centre at Paris-Orly. It also invited workers from the sheltered sectors to present their catering activity in the works council restaurants. As part of our commitment to employment and training, we signed two partnership agreements: one S AF E T Y with the Malleterre vocational retraining school and the other with the national institute for deaf youth (INJS), the model for schools for the deaf throughout the world. The Disability Raising team also takes part in community projects: for the “Les Bouchons d’Amour” association, it collected plastic bottle caps which are then sold to purchase equipment to help beneficiaries awareness lead independent lives. of road risk During the EuroCOMPE N SAT IO N pean Mobility and Helping employees decipher employee savings Road Safety Week from 17-24 SepEmployee savings programmes can be complicated. To help our employees understand tember 2012, we them, we publish a variety of informational and communications materials and have created conducted several an “Employee Savings” intranet page. A new Employee Savings and Pension Plan booklet road risk awarewas provided to all employees in September 2012. More than 150 people attended the ten ness-raising camemployee-savings education days. The CNAV (the national pension fund) organised four paigns at our three pension information days, which were attended by 228 employees and were followed by airports. Visitors to 216 individual meetings. our stands were given information on ecodriving, on good driving practices and on new regulations, CSR and had the option of putting themselves A solidarity investment fund to the test on two-wheel or four-wheel driving simulators. Three information boards Aéroports de Paris selected a corporate mutual fund (Amundi Label Actions Solidaire) in 2009. displayed a checklist of compulsory equipThe socially supportive part of the fund is invested in the investment company France Active ment for drivers, the results of “40 years of that finances projects for the environment, integration and fighting social exclusion. This fund road safety” and the 2011 road accident is known as a socially responsible investment (SRI). report. Visitors could take a quiz to test their knowledge. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 29 3 Protecting our environment Our ambitious environmental page 32 Preserving our water page 39 policy resources Reducing the impact Achievements and projects page 34 page 40 of our business Combating climate change page 36 Helping our partners grow page 40 Improving our energy page 37 Different perspectives page 41 performance Reducing our emissions page 38 2012 achievements page 42 ENVIRONMENT Our commitments 6 key concepts Travel Sustainable Water Energy Air Waste Biodiversity planning Emissions 7 priorities 2015 2012 Objectives Key actions Reduce internal energy Water consumption per passenger 1,6% reduction in water consumption per passenger since 2010 by 5% (compared to 2010).  enE production: geothermal power plant R Renewable energy (RenE) 15% renewable energy in our final (2010) and biomass power plant (2012); internal consumption 8.05% RenE in 2012.  QE® certification of the new freight H Design/construction of new buildings terminal and Satellite 4 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Energy efficiency – HQE® Rehabilitation of existing buildings Implementation of LED lighting systems ACA Level 3 obtained by Paris-Charles Carbon (CO2) footprint Airport Carbon Accreditation (ACA) de Gaulle and Paris-Orly in 2012 for the three main airports and Level 2 for Paris-Le Bourget Travel and transportation Implementation of inter-company Signing of the Paris-Orly PDIE charter after travel plans (PDIE) that of Paris-Charles de Gaulle in 2011. 30% recycling of general waste Trial of a platform manager for improved sorting at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Waste Sorting of passenger waste Implementation of dual-compartment waste bins in the airports in 2012 -5% reduction in the use of  ew equipment limiting consumption N pesticides at Paris-Orly Biodiversity Biodiversity action plan Identification of flora at Paris-Charles de Gaulle This roadmap shows progress points over the medium term (2012-2015). Starting On-going Advanced Attained Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 31 ENVIRONMENT Our ambitious environmental policy We aim for excellence and biodiversity. It will be completed by the implementation of our strategy for sustaiOne ambition nable planning. The implementation of our We have been committed to sustainable depolicy is based on the daily involvement of velopment for over twenty years. We base our units and our workers, but also on the our actions on the ISO 14001 certification longevity of the resources dedicated to it. COMPLIANCE of our primary sites and the development To facilitate tracking of regulatory of energy management systems consistent A consistent organisation compliance, the Environment and with ISO 50001. This proactive approach foWith the support of a network of EnvironSustainable Development division has cuses on the reduction of the environmental ment and Energy Officers across the Group, deployed a tool for regulatory monitoring impacts of the company’s activities. Purthe Environment and Sustainable Developand each division conducts regular external suant to our 2011-2015 strategic plan we ment division provides cross-functional macompliance audits. hope to become the European benchmark nagement of the company’s environmental in sustainable development and corporate policy. It undertakes an annual performance e4,9m social responsibility. review and produces a dashboard built upon several environmental indicators, which is Resources dedicated to action presented to the Executive Committee every Updated in July 2012, our environmental quarter. The Sustainable Development SteeDuring 2012, expenditure policy breaks down into five themes derived ring Committee, created in late 2010 is the to prevent and manage from the Grenelle Environment Summit: decision-making body for application of our the environmental impacts energy, water, air and emissions, waste environmental policy. of our activities represented €4.9 million. OUR STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES 2015 objectives 25% reduction in internal CO2 emissions (compared to 2009). ENERGY 12.5% reduction in internal consumption per square metre(compared to 2009). 15% minimum increase in renewable energy in final internal consumption. 5% reduction in internal consumption per passenger (compared to 2010). WATER Offset newly sealed surfaces by storage capacities. Improve rainwater management. 10% reduction in CO2 emissions from the light utility vehicle fleet (compared to 2010). Deploy the Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly inter-company travel plans (PDIE). 10% reduction in aircraft taxiing times at Paris-Charles de Gaulle (compared to 2007). TRAVEL, AIR AND EMISSIONS Contribute to limiting the use of auxiliary power units of aircraft motors (ApU). Renew Airport Carbon Accreditations for the three airports. Continuous monitoring of ambient air quality at airports; real-time information in collaboration with Airparif. Reduce all of our waste at source. WASTE 30% recycling of non-hazardous waste. 5% reduction in paper consumption (compared to 2010) and adoption of environmentally-friendly paper supply only. Inventory of the flora and fauna at our main sites. BIODIVERSITY 5% reduction in pesticide use (compared to 2010). Recommendations on preserving biodiversity in the planning guides. 32 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Toward a sustainable de Gaulle, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget planning policy airports, as well as the heliport at Issy-lesOur planning projects now address landsMoulineaux, have been certified since 2001, caping, ‘soft transport’, rainwater mana2002, 2005 and 2009 respectively. The integement, renewable energy and the colgrated management system (IMS) at Parislective heating and cooling networks. We Charles de Gaulle, based on compliance THE ENVIRONMENTAL have mandated a specialised firm to study with quality management standard ISO PREVENTION HANDBOOK and design a sustainable planning guide in 9001, management of occupational health In 2012 a group of environmental 2013. We are members of the Advanticity and safety standard OHSAS 18001 and and work-safety specialists at Paris-Charles competitive cluster. This cluster brings togeISO 14001, had its certification renewed in de Gaulle distributed, to one operating unit, ther 172 companies, 30 higher-education March 2012. The Paris IMS was preaudited a handbook on: and research establishments and 31 local in 2012. sorting office and workshop waste; authorities to promote the creation of rethe environmental impacts of work sites; search projects focused on sustainable planInform and raise awareness management of hazardous waste; ning. Research financed by the cluster will to motivate regulatory signage; cover projects in areas as diverse as carbonTo ensure their longevity, these processes and the procedures to follow in the event free energy, water network rehabilitation require the commitment of all employees of pollution. This handbook may be and highway traffic management. at every level in the company. We are systedistributed in other units in 2013. matically training all employees required to Our management work in environmental areas. In addition, training days for new hires, both managesystems are certified ment and non-management, include elements to raise awareness of these issues. Integrated management The Environment and Sustainable DeveOur actions are founded on certification of lopment division distributes a bimonthly the environmental management systems technical environmental watch bulletin and (EMS) of our main sites, in accordance with maintains a system for electronic docuISO 14001. The EMS of the Paris-Charles ment management. A new training programme The technical training programme specialising in environmental issues was revised in 2012. Common core training is designed to present the regulatory framework. Depending on their particular needs, employees can take specific modules on water management, air, waste management and classified facilities. Two additional modules are being finalised: «polluted soils» and «managing energy». A generalist module has also been designed to make managers aware of the environmental problems that they may face. Training on sustainable development, ISO 14001 and environmentally-responsible procedures is ongoing. A course on Environmental and Social Responsibility (ESR) is currently being drawn up. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 33 ENVIRONMENT Achievements and projects Biodiversity Boiler of More than 800,000 trees the biomass Biomass and shrubs inventoried plant at Paris-Charles de Gaulle power plant 1 2 Building GB3 HQE®-certified (2012) 3 freight station 1 Two wood-fired boilers will eliminate 18,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions Ground-based per year (2012) (page 43) solar energy plant Geothermal power Environment and Sustainable plant (2011) Development Centre WEST TERMINAL Paris-Orly SOUTH TERMINAL 2 The 190-kWc solar power plant will supply the Environment and Sustainable Development Electric Centre (2013) (page 43) vehicles 3 Electrical recharging station Wetland filtration Green spaces Complete water Reduced pesticide volumes 3 decontamination (page 44) Dedicated recharging (page 45) station for our fleet of electric vehicles (page 43) 34 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Solar panels on the Paris-Charles roof of the Altaï building Altaï building de Gaulle Vertical garden T3 (Satellite 4) 4 T2B T2A 4 13,250 m2 of office space T2C T2D awarded HQE® certification Satellite 4 and the BBC-Effinergie® label (2012) (page 43) T2F T2E S3 S4 5 T2G 5 100,000 m2, HQE®-certified A/C link Rainwater recovery (2012) (page 43) Rainwater recovery (2012) from the roof of the energy Solar thermal (page 44) plant panels 6 Paris-Le Bourget 6 Fire station Solar energy for hot water at the fire station (2011) Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 35 ENVIRONMENT Combating climate change A high level of requirements of this new standard and to identify the actions to carry out for possible objectives certification. Improving energy Renewable energies performance INTERNAL ENERGYY In line with the recommendations of the Solar energy CONSUMPTION (in GWh primary energy) Grenelle Environment Summit, we made We are committed to producing and using Paris Charles-de Gaulle commitments to fight climate change. Our renewable energy from solar sources. 2010 1 043 2011-2015 strategic plan sets a target A solar power plant of 190 kWc will be 2011 961 for a 12.5% reduction in primary energy delivered at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in 2012 1 055 consumption per square metre of building 2013. On a more modest scale, solar Paris-Orly between 2009 and 2015, requiring an avewater heaters have been in operation rage 2.2% improvement per year in energy on the rooftops of the inter-company 2010 281 efficiency. By this same deadline, sources restaurant at Paris-Orly since 2006 and 2011 290 of renewable energy should represent the the Paris-Le Bourget fire station since 2012 306 equivalent of 15% of our final internal November 2011. Paris-Le Bourget consumption. 2010 13 Underground and 2011 9 25% reduction wood-powered energy 2012 8 in greenhouse gases Our geothermal power plant commissioned The overall objective is to reduce our in 2011 at Paris-Orly produces 150 MWh  Internal energy consumption per square greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by one of heat per year. Unique among airports, metre fell by 3.15% in 2012 compared quarter between 2009 and 2015, for an it provides heating to the terminals, to 2009, for a reduction objective equivalent level of service. In accordance main buildings and hotels at the site. of 12.5% by the year 2015. with this, the Energy unit of the Environment Its operation eliminates 9,000 tonnes of and Sustainable Development division has CO2 emissions per year. In 2012, we also developed a policy based on the ISO 50001 commissioned a biomass power plant at energy management standard. A diagnostic was performed in September 2012 by Afnor to evaluate our situation with respect to the Paris-Charles de Gaulle where two boilers will supply 25% of the heat consumed at the airport. 3,292 These energy savings kWh/year are obtained through the use RENEWABLE ENERGIES of solar water heaters in our final internal consumption (%) at Paris-Le Bourget. Scope: Aéroports de Paris 2010 1.03 2011 3.86 2012 8.05 30% green electricity We entered into an electricity supply agreement at the end of 2012 under which GDF Suez guarantees that 30% of our electricity will come from renewable sources from France. As a guarantee, the energy company will present third-party certifications demonstrating that one third of the electricity we use has indeed been produced by hydroelectric dams, wind farms or solar farms. 36 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Improving our energy performance Managing consumption. The metal halide street lamps at Paris-Charles de Gaulle were replaced by consumption high-pressure sodium lamps. For identical lighting, the power installed is 38% lower. Remote meter reading At Paris-Orly, LED street lamps were chosen To improve our energy performance by to light the roads surrounding the recepLEDs 2.2% annually we will need to manage tion hall. The power installed was reduced LEDs tested for lighting certain aircraft our demand. This means that we must by 40%. We promote the use of natural stands at Paris-Charles de Gaulle have accurate knowledge and precision lighting, economic light sources and autosave 59% on electricity compared management of the energy use in all of mated light management in all new and to high-pressure sodium lamps. our buildings. This is the primary purpose renovated buildings. This procedure is part They generate less light pollution of Gedeon. Dedicated to the remote reaof the interior-lighting master plan that we since the clusters are very directional. ding of 9,213 electrical, heating and cooare implementing in all our terminals. They also attract fewer insects. ling meters at the three airport sites, this WIND AND SUN system is used to monitor use, optimise energy purchasing, detect deficiencies High environmental Since 2011 stand-alone street lamps and evaluate possible gains in energy-saquality equipped with a miniature wind turbines ving projects. With a module for managing and photovoltaic solar panels have energy performance, Gedeon is also a deciWe are building and renovating our main illuminated the walkway linking Orlytech sion-making tool for restoration and demobuildings according to a demanding apto the RER C train station. lition projects. proach in compliance with France’s High Environmental Quality (HQE®) and Low Energy WAVES Diagnosis and action Buildings (BBC) guidelines. In application of the Wave Concept, In 2012, the Property Management division developed in 2011, some baggage sorting began a systematic review of the energy, Three HQE® deliveries in 2012 systems operate in ‘waves’ as needs thermal, technical and regulatory perforCommissioned in 2012, Satellite 4 extends change. mance of the company’s buildings. This over 100,000 m2 and is HQE®-certified, with Implementation of this concept detailed audit was also carried out on elea high performance shell and innovative has reduced energy use, equipment vators, baggage sorting systems and moheating and air-conditioning systems. Open wear and noise pollution. ving walkways. The results of these studies in September, the GB3 freight terminal at contributed to our energy and environment Paris-Charles de Gaulle is HQE®-certified, guidelines that set minimum rules for builas is the new Altaï office building at Roisding design and major building renovation. More efficient sypole, which also has the BBC-Effinergie® seal of approval (see page 43). In 2011, we delivered the building of the Paris-Charles de Gaulle works council, the first fully HQE®-25% In spite of the growing demand for equipment certified service facility completed by AéroIT services, energy consumption ports de Paris. in the two main rooms at Paris-Orly Energy-conscious lighting has fallen by 25% between 2011 Reduction in consumption is also based At Paris-Orly in 2018 and 2012. on equipment performance. The lighting The future connecting building linking the system for certain aircraft stands at Parissouth and west terminals will benefit from Charles de Gaulle was equipped with the experience acquired in the construction high output light sources. These choices of the HQE®-certified Satellite 4 at Parisimproved visibility while reducing electricity Charles de Gaulle. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 37 ENVIRONMENT Reducing our emissions Commitments held from Paris-Orly. Access to Paris-Charles de Gaulle by RER B will be easier. The frequency In July 2012, we obtained Level 3 Airport of trains from the RER B Nord+ project will Carbon Accreditation (ACA) for Paris-Orly be increased between Paris and the airport and Paris-Charles de Gaulle airports, and (one train every six minutes) starting in SepLevel 2 for Paris-Le Bourget (see page 42). tember 2013. AIR QUALITY (in µg/m3) Four years ahead of our objectives, we reNO2 duced the average taxiing time for aircraft A new commitment Paris-Charles de Gaulle (North station) at Paris-Charles de Gaulle by 10%. Anticiby the aviation sector 2011 28 pating the regulatory calendar, we are apAs part of the revision of the Ile-de-France 2012 28 plying an HQE® procedure to our main real plan to protect the atmosphere (PPA) that estate projects and to our requalification should be approved in early 2013, we will Paris-Orly operations. We have reduced our interbe signing a shared commitment for air 2011 29 nal energy consumption per square metre transit in line with the aviation agreement. 2012 28 by more than 3.15% between 2009 and It includes actions designed to limit airport 2012 and our objective for the year 2020 emissions. Tremblay-en-France is 12.5%. By commissioning a geother2011 26 mal power plant at Paris-Orly, a biomass Less fossil fuels 2012 28 plant at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and solar This year we received 19 electric vehicles out water heating units, we are increasing the of 200 that were ordered. We will thus eliParis 18th arrondissement renewable energy portion in our energy minate one third of the emissions from our 2011 40 mix. These green energies already reprefleet of light vehicles. In partnership with 2012 41 sent 8.05% of the internal energy that we the airlines, we contributed to reducing use. Our aim is to bring this figure to 15% use of aircraft auxiliary power units (ApU) NO in the year 2015. by increasing the number of 400 Hz power Paris-Charles de Gaulle (North station) sockets for aircraft at the stands. In 2012, Expanding our actions all aircraft contact stands at Paris-Orly and 2011 11 Terminal 2 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle were 2012 11 Responsible mobility equipped. Paris-Orly As part of our company travel plan(PDE) implemented in 2005, we have undertaken Air quality in real time 2011 12 actions aiming to reduce our employees’ As part of the Survol study conducted by 2012 13 needs for mobility: self-service offices, viAirparif, data on air quality in the vicinity of Tremblay-en-France deo-conferencing, webcams on computer airports in the Ile-de-France region can now workstations. We are pooling our ideas and be viewed in real time on the Airparif web2011 10 actions with the companies present at the site. With its five measuring stations, our 2012 11 three airports as part of the inter-company Cofrac-accredited laboratory continuously Paris 18th arrondissement travel plans(PDIE). The R’Pro’mobilité charter monitors the air quality at the airports. Acof Paris-Charles de Gaulle was thus signed cording to 2009 PRQA data, airports are the 2011 15 in 2011 and that of Paris-Orly in September source of 6% of NOx emissions, 2% of SO2 2012 15 2012. The use of shared transit systems will emissions and 1% of non-methane volabe facilitated when the T7 tramway line is tile organic compounds (NMVOC) and fine For further information opened at the end of 2013, making the terparticulates and 3% of greenhouse gases The website www.entrevoisins.org minus of Metro line 7 only twenty minutes (GHG) in Ile-de-France. provides: the annual report covering air quality measurement and real-time data from measuring stations; INTER-COMPANY TRAVEL PLAN (PDIE) PARTNERS noise measurement data. Paris-Charles de Gaulle  Air France, CIF Keolis, FedEx, GSF Concorde, La Poste and Aéroports de Paris 5 Five measuring stations Air France, the Orly-Rungis Economic Development Association continuously monitor the air Paris-Orly (Ador), Customs, La Poste and Aéroports de Paris quality at our airports. 38 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Preserving our water resources DRINKING WATER Reducing Orly plans to implement a rainwater treatment system using a planted filter in 2013 CONSUMPTION (in thousands of m3) our consumption (see page 45). This process, new for French Internal and external scope. and optimising airports, will complete the Rainwater Treatment System (STEP). The STEPs, consisting Paris-Charles de Gaulle 2010 2,294 treatment of settling ponds and physical and biological 2011 2,406 treatment, are already in use at Paris-Orly 2012 2,359 Reducing demand and Paris-Charles de Gaulle. They make it Paris-Orly Our environmental policy aims to reduce possible to treat rainwater, if necessary, and drinking water use by 5% per passenger meet regulatory requirements for discharge 2010 478 between 2012 and 2015. To fully monitor into the natural environment. Our Cofrac2011 492 consumption at our airports, we have imaccredited laboratory monitors the quality 2012 519 plemented individual water meters for the of this water at the airports. This vigilance Paris-Le Bourget majority of airport clients. We reuse rainwaprevents non-compliant discharges into the 2010 86 ter: for example, at Paris-Orly rainwater is natural environment. 2011 84 used to cool the heating station, resulting in 2012 96 annual savings of 70,000 m3 of water. Surface and ground-water monitoring  These figures represent the total drinking Rainwater collection Our laboratory regularly assesses the quality water consumed at the Paris-Charles de Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly airof water tables located beneath the three Gaulle, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget ports together contain approximately 1,500 airports. Using a network of points equipsites. Aéroports de Paris drinking water hectares of sealed ground surfaces. Rainwaped with piezometers, we are able to track consumption is consolidated for each ter management is thus an important chalchanges in the levels of the tables and their airport in our quarterly dashboard. lenge. The water flowing over these surfaces physical and chemical profiles, and undercan take up pollution. Rainwater is collected take decontamination treatment when neFACTS by a specific collection system then treated, cessary. At the three airports combined, Aéroports if necessary, before being released back into de Paris and its partners consume nearly the natural environment. We are committed Recognised management three million cubic metres of drinking to limiting and offsetting new sealing. The practices water, nearly 30 litres per passenger. development plans of the two main airports In 2012 the Seine-Normandie Water Agenenvision the creation of rainwater retention cy renewed its approval of monitoring of ponds with a capacity of 500 m3 per hecrainwater and waste water discharge by tare. Efficient water treatment We are improving the yields of our treatment Paris Charles de Gaulle Airport, which was originally obtained in 2010. In 2011, the Paris-Orly Airport’s authorisation to discharge rainwater into the natural environment was -1.6% Consumption of drinking systems. Following a number of tests, Parisextended for a period of ten years. water declined by 1.6% per passenger between 2010 and 2012. A comprehensive view Concerning water, our activity is subject to regulatory requirements according to the size of our airports. We manage the complete water cycle at our sites: drinking water supply, waste water collection and the collection and treatment of rainwater. This management covers our own activities and those of third parties. Collected waste water is discharged into regional networks which take it to treatment stations in the Paris urban area. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 39 ENVIRONMENT Reducing the impact of our business Recycling materials Since 2012 passengers have been able to use dual-compartment waste bins. Platform Managing waste managers monitor the bins at Terminal 2E Aéroports de Paris must manage the waste of Paris-Charles de Gaulle and also help our it produces. Regulations require the recypartner companies improve their sorting cling of 75% of non-hazardous waste from and recycling methods (see page 44). NOISE MAPPING our economic activity by the year 2020 and The  ADP laboratory is creating an aircraft a 15% reduction in residues sent for incineration or to engineered landfills. As owner Integrating biodiversity noise map for the French Civil Aviation and operator of airports, we define the rules into our strategy Authority (DGAC). The noise maps are created by calculating noise areas in order for sorting waste, organising waste collecto show the auditory impact of air traffic tion, the placement of containers and the Reducing the use of pesticides near the airports. instructions for the transport of non-hazarOwner of more than 6,000 hectares of land These are used to create exposure maps dous waste produced by our airports. in the Ile-de-France region, Aéroports de (PEB) to assist planning around the Paris plays a major role in protecting biodiairports. They are also used to prepare Developing and sharing versity. We conducted an inventory of the noise pollution maps (PGS), which entitle best practices many animal and plant species living on local residents located in the areas most Aéroports de Paris aims to achieve a 30% land managed by Aéroports de Paris. In affected by noise to receive assistance for recycling rate for its waste materials in 2012 we finalised a policy to improve the soundproofing (see page 64). 2015. To reach this goal, we try to limit the company’s internal knowledge, restore or amount of waste we produce and encouconserve rare species and habitats and imrage our partners to adopt these good prove communication and dialogue. We are TWO NEW BEE COLONIES practices. All administrative offices in the committed to reducing the use of pesticides H  aving already signed an agreement three airports have collection bins for paper by 5% between 2010 and 2015. Starting in with the French Union of Apiculture, and printer cartridges to promote selective 2013, our planning and facility guides will in 2012 Aéroports de Paris set up three collection and recycling. Since the end of include suggestions for the protection of additional beehives at the general aviation 2011, recycling containers for paper and biodiversity. As part of the agreement that airport at Toussus-le-Noble and five cardboard have been located at the base of we entered into with the General Council of others at Paris-Orly. We have 22 beehives each company building. In the terminals, we Seine-et-Marne, in 2013 we will present a at our airports in total. The honey from are installing plastic bottle crushers near the seminar on environmental management of our hives is edible. screening checkpoints. green spaces. FACTS P aris-Charles de Gaulle has identified nine kilometres of hedgerows, 87 species of trees and 94 species of shrubs. Helping our partners grow 5% We are committed to reducing Environmental Partners’ Clubs partners. Membership of the CPEs is open our paper consumption by The environmental performance of the airand free of charge. The Issy-les-Moulineaux 5% between 2010 and 2015 ports is a concern for the businesses and heliport created its own environmental parand only using recycled paper or administrative facilities working there. We tners’ club in 2012. The CPEs of the three paper from certified, sustainablycreated the Environmental Partners’ Clubs airports perform annual reviews of their managed forests from 2014. (CPE) to educate and support our airport activities. 40 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Different perspectives Events for raising awareness Each year the CPEs draw up action plans that are monitored at annual reviews. Club members participate in national events such as National Sustainable Development Week, European Mobility Week, and EuroFranck Mereyde Managing Director at Paris-Orly airport pean Waste Reduction Week by organising actions involving their employees. In 2012, the CPEs organised meetings to provide information on Environmental and Social Responsibility (ESR). A site for open discussions Water, An extranet site for CPE members provides online tools for self-assessment of environmental performances. The site is dedicated a precious resource to dialogue and information on the actions F.M. : One of our guiding principles at Paris-Orly is to regularly improve of working groups, best practices and the control over our impact on the environment. The commissioning of our geolatest environmental legislation. thermal heating plant in 2010 enabled us to reduce our use of fossil fuels and www.ecoairport.fr eliminate 9,000 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year. In 2012 we began work on a planted filter as part of a decontamination procedure that completes our Water management forum physical and chemical rainwater treatment system, the STEP. It will reduce the During Sustainable Development Week we risk of clogging the STEP in the winter when runoff is loaded with de-icing hosted a forum on best practices in water chemicals. The water discharged into the Orge river will thus be of very high management. This forum covered new techquality. This project has been underway for two years already. We worked on niques such as purification, creation of wetthis in conjunction with the experts from the French Civil Aviation Authority lands favourable to biodiversity, the concept of and the Seine-Normandie Water Agency, which provided us with financial virtual water, collection and reuse of rainwater assistance in engineering and construction. and new techniques for air-conditioning of buildings. D.M. : The water agencies are governmental bodies and each agency works in a river basin. Our mission is to promote balanced and joint management of water resources and help maintain the the quality of watercourses and the aquatic environment. Our financial resources are derived from fees paid by residential, industrial and agricultural water users. Our objectives are defined in a six-year water management plan called the SDAGE. The 20092015 Seine-Normandie water management plan sets eight goals, three of which concern companies: 1) the reduction of point sources of traditional pollution, 2) the reduction of pollution by toxic substances and 3) management of water scarcity. In the fight against pollution, we have supported the efforts of the departments of Paris-Orly airport and monitored the three phases of their project: improving water collection; studying the pretreatment of water leading to the choice of a filtering wetland; the work currently in progress. Total financial assistance for the project from the Agency amounts to €2,764,000. Daniel Merlet Regional Director for Paris and the Hauts-de-Seine, Seine-Saint-Denis and Val-de-Marne regions at the Seine-Normandie Water Agency Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 41 ENVIRONMENT 2012 achievements C LI M ATE ACA Levels 1 and 2 Our fight against With the commissioning of the geothermal power plant at Paris-Orly and the biomass climate change has been power plant at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, we have increased our production of renewable rewarded energies. In the future these two facilities will eliminate nearly 27,000 tonnes of CO2 In July 2012, we obtained Level 3 Airport Carbon Accreditation emissions per year. (ACA) for Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle airports, and Level 2 for Paris-Le Bourget. This recognition rewards us for several years of efforts to understand and reduce our greenhouse gas emisACA Level 3 sions. Set up by ACI-Europe, the professional organisation for •  1 In conjunction with the DGAC and Air airports, the ACA recognises and assesses the procedures underFrance, Paris-Charles de Gaulle airport taken by airports to reduce their CO2 emissions. It requires checks has introduced a system for local manato be carried out by an independent third party. Obtaining Level 3 gement of departures (GLD). Created as accreditation means that we have a management system for our direct greenhouse gas emisa result of Collaborative Decision Making sions (heating stations, for example), that we have reduced these emissions, and that we have (CDM), this IT communication tool helps identified and attempted to reduce our indirect emissions (employee travel, aircraft emissions). to reduce the taxiing time of an aircraft, It also means that we are acting with our partners to limit their emissions. Only ten European between the time it leaves the stand airports have obtained Level 3, including the Amsterdam airport. and its take-off. Each year nearly 17,000 tonnes of CO2 are thus prevented from entering the atmosphere, •  2 After Paris-Charles de Gaulle, we set up a PDIE with our partners at Paris-Orly Internal emissions to reduce emissions related to employee Aéroports de Paris* travel, Total 141,793 tCO2 •  3 We have equipped all aircraft stands at Purchases of heat Paris-Orly and Terminal 2 at Paris-Charles de Gaulle with ground-level, electrical Thermal energy 3% plants outlets and installed a device for providing ground-level air conditioning for the 21% 74% Satellite 4 contact stands at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. 2% Purchases of electricity E NE R G Y P E R F O R M A NCE 2 Reducing the appetite of Service computers vehicles 7% Passenger and The energy performance of our equipment employee access and computing rooms continues to make 29% progress. We successfully optimised the air conditioning system for a server and network equipment room in 2012: using 57% 1% more efficient and more homogeneous Ground handling cooling, electricity and cold water use was 4% vehicles greatly decreased and equipment lifetime 1 was extended. This planning policy will be 3 progressively applied to the main computer 2% rooms. We are also continuing to renew PCs, with the systematisation of automatic Airport standby mode and virtualisation of servers. emissions* Aircraft Treatment of With respect to operations, we are testing Auxiliary power units Total 2,089,199 tCO2 waste and a method for switching off display screens (ApU) for aircraft other remotely in the airports after closing. * Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly data. 42 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 HQE Altaï, an intelligent, uncomplicated building Co-investors Aéroports de Paris and the Schiphol Group took reception of the Altaï building on 12 October 2012. Built in the Roissypole business district, this cluster of buildings houses the corporate headquarters of the Servair and Air France-KLM groups. With a surface area of 13,250 m2, Altaï boasts highperformance energy equipment: breathable triple-glazed bay windows, individual heat pumps and centralised energy-use management. This four story HQE®-certified building has received the BBC-Effinergie® seal of approval. HQE Two freight terminals S4, a greener departure Launched in 2012, the GB3 freight terminal at Paris-Charles de Gaulle comprises nearly lounge 14,000 m2 of warehouses and 4,000 m2 of office space. Modelled on the GB2 terminal, it is HQE®-certified with BBC offices. Built in Open on 21 June 2012, Satellite 4 (S4) is a new departure lounge for Terminal 2E at 2008, the GB2 terminal was used to develop Paris-Charles de Gaulle that showcases our environmental know-how. This 100,000 m2 the HQE® standard for the logistics sector. HQE®-certified building has a high performance shell and innovative energy equipment. Energy production is provided by a thermo-frigo pump, a high-yield heating and cooling system. Sized to meet the needs of S4 and part of Satellite 3, this facility generates EMISSIONS annual savings of 10,000 MWh of natural gas for heat production and 10,000 m3 of water. Air conditioning is provided by 45 air-processing stations with energy recovery Electric-powered driving wheels or using the free cooling principle. These systems will reduce the building’s The day we received our first two electric energy consumption by a further 1,000 MWh annually. In total, Satellite 4 is expected vehicles, we put into service the first two to consume 30% less energy than the average of the existing terminals. recharging stations near the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. By the year 2015 the RENEWABLE ENERGIE S other recharging stations for the Aéroports Wood-powered heating de Paris electric vehicle fleet will be installed in the Parisian airports. To reduce our fleet’s We commissioned a biomass power plant at Paris-Charles de Gaulle in 2012. Installed emissions we plan to acquire nearly 200 in the thermo-frigo electric plant, its two 7 MW boilers replace gas boilers. When fully electric vehicles by the end of 2015. operational the new wood-fired boilers will reduce CO2 emissions by 18,000 tonnes. Using wood provided by the forests located a few dozen miles from the airport, they will annually OUR VEHICLES’ EMISSIONS produce 85,000 MWh of heat, enough to supply one quarter of the airport’s needs. (in tonnes of CO2) Scope: Paris-Charles de Gaulle, Solar farm Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget We are building the first photovoltaic power plant at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. Located near the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre (MEDD), it will be 4,000 m2 in 2010 3,508 size. The 190 kWc power plant will be connected to the electricity network in 2013 and 2011 2,898 provide power to the Environment and Sustainable Development Centre. This project will 2012 3,084 be used to test the technology in an airport environment. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 43 ENVIRONMENT 2012 achievements B I O DI V E RS I TY Our arboreal heritage To assess the current situation of plants and wildlife, we conducted an inventory of the trees at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle site in 2012. A total of 800,000 trees and shrubs were counted, including some remarkable specimens, for example Lebanese Cedar trees over 250 years old, a Ginkgo Biloba which could live to 1000 years old, and a Giant Redwood (sequoia sempervirens), one of the largest trees in the world! WAST E E NE R G Y Waste-sorting Gedeon manages controllers A centralised system for management of vital flows, Gedeon takes remote readings Without adequate sorting, most of the non-hazardous recyclable waste collected in the of all electricity, gas and water meters in our bins at Terminal 2E at Paris-Charles de Gaulle would end up in the incinerator. To improve buildings. Gedeon thus provides demand the recycling rate, we sought the help of a job-integration company specialising in waste tracking, detects unusual usage levels and management. During a six-month test period, starting in October 2012, platform managers optimises energy purchasing. It can also be met with waste producers to help them choose the best methods for sorting their waste. used to evaluate possible gains from energyThe platform managers also liaise with the service provider who manages the compactors saving projects. and maintains the site’s cleanliness. Four previously unemployed people now occupy this position in rotating shifts 18 hours daily, seven days a week. The socially-oriented position of Cost-free cooling platform manager is also an environmental project for increasing our partners’ awareness and Why not use winter temperatures to chill the improving our waste recycling. cool water networks at the airports? During Reducing waste the cold season at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, the water in the cooling towers is chilled by the We have been recognised by the Ministry for Ecology for our actions during European Waste outside temperature. Water is sent to a plate Reduction Week since 2010. This year, between 19 and 23 November, we raised awareness exchanger that chills the cool water network among 6,755 employees and 450 students, with 35 partner companies, 15 local authorities used to provide air conditioning to the preand five associations. This involved distributing and putting on line an original film featuring mises. This procedure replaces the traditional stuffed animals made out of recycled materials guarding the new dual-compartment waste electrical compressors. It was put into service bins at our airports. Workshops and conferences held in the Environment and Sustainable in November 2011 and has since generated Development Centres at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly covered the subjects of waste savings of 1,824 MW in cooling energy. Its demanagement and product life cycles. Seventeen booths and activity stalls welcomed visitors signers received the «Trophée des éco-gestes» and distributed information brochures. Corks, aluminium cans and plastic pens were collected environmental award during Sustainable Deveand 250 used mobile telephones were collected by the Air France Foundation. Children and lopment Week. adults viewed sculptures and creative objects fashioned out of recycled objects. Furniture recycling WAT E R A partnership is being confirmed with the neighbourhood association «Les portes de l’Essonne» as part of «La Recyclerie», a social integration project. We are committed to donating used office Rainwater furniture and supplies for reuse. We also provide premises for events. recovery B I O D I V ER S IT Y During construction of the building linking Simplified weed removal Terminal 2A and Terminal 2C at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, two cisterns of 35,000 litres capaTo reduce the use of pesticides in the treatment of aircraft stands and taxiing areas, the city each were installed underground. These maintenance unit has set up a highly localised system of distribution that is triggered only when cisterns are used to collect rainwater capnecessary. Using GPS positioning, areas which have already been treated are identified so they tured from 4,500 m2 of roofs. This water is won’t be treated a second time. Active-substance savings are in the order of 85%. The new used in the sanitary water network and for spray boom will enable savings of up to 60% in application time. watering flower beds. 44 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 WATER Finding out about water Reed beds for pollution To help our partners control control their consumption, during Sustainable Development Maintaining airport activity in winter has certain environmental impacts. A de-icing product must Week we offered an introbe sprayed on the runways. Prior to take off, aircraft often need to be de-iced. These two opeduction to best practices in rations require the use of ice melting agents. At Paris-Orly, for example, more than 1,200 m3 of water management. With formate and propylene glycol are used on average each winter. A portion of these products, the participation of 90 parcarried by rainfall, ends up in the rainwater collection system connected to the rainwater treattners, we held nearly 40 ment system (STEP). As a complement to the current physical-chemical treatment, which does events between 2 and 6 not provide adequate treatment of this type of product, we created a planted filter composed of April 2012, in which 5,00 sand and reeds. This decision followed a number of tests carried out by the technical department employees received awareof the civil aviation authority. Pretreatment takes place in a new «buffer» pond that is 12,000 m3 ness training. Many guides and booklets on in size (biomass and aeration). The final decomposition of the pollutants is provided by a filtering the water cycle were distributed. The best wetland that is 6,700 m2 in size. The «bio-decontaminated» water can be discharged back into eco-actions were rewarded. This year 14 the natural environment. The first filtering wetlands will be created at the airport during 2013. certificates and two sustainable-development trophies were presented to staff and Physical principle behind bio-decontamination companies of Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles Pollution is reduced by 50% in the buffer pond. The water is then sent to the filtering wetland de Gaulle. where the sand performs the final treatment. The reeds aerate the sand to decontaminate the water by recovering the microparticles it contains. Bio-decontamination of winter products 5 Pond 2 4 Planted filter 3 Pretreatment 4 buffer pond 3 5 2 Silt remover 2 6 1 7 6 Pond 1 7 Physical-chemical treatment prior to discharge into the natural environment 1 Delivery of rainwater by the lifting wells Treatable water system Treated water system Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 45 4 Being attentive to our customers and our suppliers Developing sustainable Acting with our partners page 48 page 52 purchasing Improving the passenger page 49 Different perspectives page 53 experience in our airports Building loyalty with our page 51 2012 achievements page 54 lessee companies CUSTOMERS AND SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING Our commitments 4 key concepts Support Develop Customer Develop the growth of sustainable satisfaction business airlines purchasing 8 priorities 2015 2012 Objectives Key actions Be among the leading benchmark T rials with airlines Customer satisfaction companies in Europe  utomatic baggage drop-off A Service University: 2,460 people trained Customer-centric culture Corporate training in customer in the cultural manners of foreign culture passengers Quality of service Quality standards and collaborative 9 participatory approaches to airlines approaches, innovation Quality operational committees Quality structural benchmarks in 2012 Quality of service to passengers Quality standards, innovation €155m dedicated to priority actions 5,800 m2 of new commercial areas More than 20 projects in progress Innovation Integrate innovation in all areas of the company Partner of Paris’ Grands Prix de l’Innovation (Innovation awards ceremony) Quality of service  service forum to improve teams’ A for lessee companies Improve customer satisfaction customer-centric culture Quality of infrastructure Modernise and establish building O  pening of Satellite 4 and the A/C link and buildings standards at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Purchasing ethics Code of Ethics since 2010 S ustainable purchasing policy Suppliers and service Factor CSR into tenders in the new procurement policy providers and contracts S upplier assessment (employee-related aspects) Purchase from SMEs Signature of the SME Pact This roadmap shows progress points over the medium term (2012-2015). Starting On-going Advanced Attained Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 47 CUSTOMERS AND SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING Acting with our partners Our Service University Our customer service Since June 2011, our Service University, locaculture ted at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, has developed dynamic programmes intended for both our An ambition and a challenge personnel and, since 2012, our partners’ Improving customer satisfaction comprises personnel. It includes immersion exercises in FACTS the core of our strategy until 2015. We real-life situations and regular training. An 7  ,249 people attended the Service University are service integrators. Our economic and intranet site is open to employees. Service foin 2012, 45% of whom were external corporate social performance hinges on rums regularly bring together our employees. participants. improving the quality of our service to 3  new scheduled airlines joined us: ECAir passengers, airlines and companies based at our airports. We are striving for significant Making the airport (Congolese airline), Syphax (Tunisian airline) and Transaero (Russian airline). improvement in performance to become cooperative a recognised European benchmark. Our Customer Satisfaction division has driven Airlines expect us to be attentive to their our progress plans for the last four years. A customer quality director operates within each of the site divisions at Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de Gaulle. needs, to provide high-level airport services and first-rate services for our shared customers, the passengers. They want to be involved in the large projects at Aéroports de 86% of airlines are satisfied Paris. In order to meet these expectations, with their relationship with 2012, the year of compliance we have developed structures and processes Aéroports de Paris and 41% Our improvement plans are based on for dialogue. believe that their relationship has strategic and operational programmes, improved, according to our 2012 compliance with quality standards, and Contributing to airlines’ annual satisfaction survey. close cooperation with partners, suppliers competitiveness and concession-holders. In 2012, we put Our Airlines Marketing department, creaemphasis on consolidating compliance ted in 2011 within the Strategy division, standards. A «Service guide» and a «New is tasked with anticipating changes in the infrastructures guide» define the level and aviation market, better understanding airquality of service which the passenger can lines’ expectations and encouraging them expect during his/her time in the airport. The to grow their offerings departing from Paris. service guide pertaining to the passenger This means that we instil an airline-centred experience at arrivals was approved in culture in our employees, primarily through December 2012. The section covering the collaborative tools. In 2012, we launched a passenger experience at departures will be professional section in English intended for finalised in 2013. airlines on the Aéroports de Paris website, OVERALL CUSTOMER SATISFACTION Breakdown for the 2011-2015 period Our second economic regulation contract 2011-2015 (CRE 2) includes 25 indicators 41% 29% pertaining to quality of service, for which we have set aside a budget of €155 million to support priority initiatives. 1% A  tmosphere and comfort Cleanliness: toilet facilities Signposting Other 1% Local initiatives Passenger flows Reception and information 3% 9% 16% 48 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 called «Route development». The company and manage action plans. Each operating has also registered on www.therouteshop. unit holds at least one meeting of the Quacom and had a stand at the 2012 World lity of Service Operational Committee at the Routes forum in Abu Dhabi. terminal per quarter. A DISTINCTION Working together Since 2010, Paris-Charles de Gaulle airThe company Viséo Conseil awarded We work closely with all of our partners port has been a «Collaborative Decision Aéroports de Paris the «2013 customer to coordinate actions centred on quality of Making» (CDM) Airport. This label cerservice» award in the «airport» category service for airlines and passengers. In 2011, tifies our work with the air navigation for all of the information services it offers. Quality of Service Operational Committees authorities and airlines, in particular to were set up in each operating unit. These improve flight punctuality and smooth committees bring together the airlines, traffic flows on the ground. In 2012 we AN OFFERING FOR EVERYONE ground handling companies and Aéroports launched the CdM@paris-orly extranet This year we launched «Résa parking éco», de Paris. They monitor the indicators in our site, which enables all stakeholders to mowhich offers our customers the option second economic regulation contract (CRE 2) nitor runway operations in real-time. of parking farther away from the terminals at the lowest rate. Improving the passenger WHAT PASSENGERS ARE SAYING ABOUT US experience in our airports Passengers have two tools for giving their opinion on our services. Our surveys at departures and arrivals and the website www.ditesnous.fr/en. ditesnous.fr/en changed in 2012. Making the airport information and directions rolled out this year at Orly South. Travellers can also give their opinion on ten services made available to them, after easy having tested them on site, by scanning Intelligent signage a barcode with their smartphone or tablet. The airport on the go In 2011, in addition to completely redesiwww.ditesnous.fr/en Thanks to the «Aéroports de Paris Live» service gning terminal and public-transport signthat we launched in 2011, travellers can access posting, we have improved signposting on all practical information pertaining to their access roads and in car parks. A guidance flight and airport news in real-time. Primarily intended for Frequent Fliers, it is available on our website, www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, in a mobile version from m.adp.fr, on the system has been installed in some car parks since July 2012 to help travellers find a space quickly. This system displays available spaces, located and identified by a coloured 1 million The My Airport application smartphone application «My Airport», and diode. has been downloaded one million by telephone. times since its creation in 2009. Creating a smoother Paris-Charles de Gaulle experience on a smartphone Every year we improve the flow through «My Way», our geolocation application for screening checkpoints. More ergonomic smartphones, guides passengers and helps layout of tables and reception staff helping them to quickly locate services and shops in the passengers prepare for screening saves the Paris-Charles de Gaulle terminals. The valuable time. One queue is reserved for first of its kind in airports in 2011, My Way families during the busiest periods. For EU can be downloaded for free from mobile citizens crossing Schengen borders, we app stores and will be integrated into My have rolled out the one-stop security link, Airport in 2013. We have also supplemented which means passengers don’t need to be this system with touchscreen terminals for screened a second time when making flight Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 49 CUSTOMERS AND SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING connections, and the Parafe automatic biometric recognition system, which reduces Making the airport screening time to just 30 seconds. comfortable Family access Standards of comfort During long weekends and school holidays, and visibility 10,000 ANNUAL VISITS security agents and hostesses, trained by We have continued our action plan for Daily inspections of retail businesses began the Le Rire Médecin charity, welcome young passenger comfort. Our offering of a very in 2012 at Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles children and explain the security checkpoints diverse range of seating is expanding and de Gaulle. to them in a fun way. Each child receives an we are gradually installing new standards Restaurant operators have signed a quality activity book showing Mickey Mouse and for spacious and pleasant toilet facilities. agreement with us. Their concessions his friends at the airport. These standard facilities are a benchmark now receive annual bonuses/penalties, in terms of cleaning and maintenance. according to the level of compliance with Screens for managing time Our cleaning processes are now subject to our standards and customer satisfaction Locally, we deploy display screens at key points demanding quality obligations. In 2012, we levels. in the passenger journey. In 2012, we rolled tested a new tool for measuring cleaning out waiting-time display screens to all screeperformance, adapted from the system of MANAGEMENT TOOLS ning checkpoints and baggage claim areas. our Dutch counterpart and partner, Schiphol, The Passenger Observatory the Schiphol Performance Measurement The annual airline satisfaction survey Welcoming agents (SPM). We are also developing visibility  irline Survey Quality A With the help of our Service University, we standards. We take care of the terminals’ Mystery customers train all of our agents who have contact lighting, which is regulated by an interiorwith passengers in how to welcome them lighting master plan (Sdal). and, since 2012, we have also made our partners’ security staff aware of the issue. In 2011 security agents at screening checkpoints signed a charter committing to developing the welcome they provide. We Varied relaxation and work spaces Departure lounges now offer various amenities for relaxing or working, with play 80% In 2012, the customer are also taking joint action with the borareas for children, video games, Internet satisfaction rate for the bars der police authority with this same goal. A cafes and Wi-Fi terminals, power sockets and restaurants at Paris-Orly concierge service which opened in 2011 at for recharging computers, and shops and increased from 73% to 80%. Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly prorestaurants. Two HD video and music spaces vides a personal service to travellers. are now available in our terminals. In 2012, Window to China To help Chinese tourists prepare their journeys from China, we have set up a website in Mandarin: www. Paris-LifeStyle.cn.com. This site provides practical information for getting to and around our airports. It gives some basic French phrases and an up-to-date list of the top things to do or places to go in Paris. We have also developed a smartphone application in Mandarin which provides similar information and includes translations for more than 150 signs. All the user has to do is take a picture of the sign for the translation to appear. These tools will be extended to other nationalities. 50 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 we expanded our retail and restaurant area Attentive to disabled people by 5,800 m2, primarily thanks to the opeAéroports de Paris is responsible for provining of the A/C link and Satellite 4. We have ding assistance to passengers with disabisigned a partnership with Disney to create lities or reduced mobility in its facilities. In new children’s play areas and have designed 2012, we created an «accessibility» network areas for special events, e.g. broadcasts of with the goal of making 100% of our faciliOUR SERVICES FOR major sports fixtures. ties accessible by January 2015. DISABLED OR REDUCED MOBILITY PASSENGERS Assistance from drop-off to aircraft seat and vice versa Parking and drop-off locations: 92 interactive signalling kiosks Building loyalty with adapted to all types of disability  reception areas 11 our lessee companies Special arrangements at reception desks, checkpoints and in lounges. COMPANIES Services in progress veloping close relationships with customers. It has visited regularly with the companies Measuring satisfaction and for on-site companies and organised four meetings with them. On monitoring compliance: an annual a daily basis, the companies can report prosurvey assesses companies’ satisfaction. Our three main airports house close to 1,000 blems or request a service via a dedicated Mystery visits regularly check that the companies and over 117,000 employees. extranet site. services provided comply with our service These figures are expected to increase, quality standards. The overall satisfaction with the planned Coeur d’Orly business Renovating the premises rate of companies was 77% in 2012, district at Paris-Orly, the expansion of the Renovating existing buildings is one of our against a target of 73%. Roissypole business district and the opening priorities. It helps lower rental expenses and Business activities of the of the new Aéroville shopping and services attain the objectives defined in the Group’s companies using the airport: centre at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. As a environmental policy. We comply with service, retail or industrial activities, planner, developer and investor, we build France’s HQE (high environmental quality) hospitality, airport services, cargo, safety our relationships with the companies located criteria in terms of energy savings and heaand maintenance services. in our airports by ensuring that our services ting and cooling systems. We are also contiTwo guides for new arrivals: meet their expectations. nuing to upgrade communal areas, toilet Setting up at Paris-Charles de Gaulle facilities and hallways as well as renovating (2009), Setting up at Paris-Orly (2011). Encouraging dialogue the signposting in buildings. In all three airThis task is carried out by our Property Maports, we have improved quality controls on FACTS nagement Division, which pays particularly cleaning services. 2,580,000 m2 of buildings, close attention to customer contact roles. including 1,210,000 m2 owned by The 179 participants at the 2012 Service Better operating conditions Aéroports de Paris. Forum outlined the main areas for progress To facilitate our suppliers’ work, in 2012 we 416 hectares of undeveloped land. in information, reception, monitoring tools launched a major project to improve operaand customer support. The sales team is deting conditions. In particular, it guarantees 1,000 companies are located in our airports Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 51 CUSTOMERS AND SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING availability of a delivery bay to retailers. In A decision-making tool June 2012, we also expanded their stoIn 2011, inspired by the experience of our rage areas and staff communal areas. The partner, Schiphol, which manages the Amsprocess is being set up at Paris Charles de terdam airport, we developed an IT deciGaulle and will be rolled out to Paris-Orly in sion-making tool which is shared with our the near future. commercial concession-holders. SUPPLIER FACTS 1,000 contracts per year Developing sustainable €1,350 million in purchases 3,300 suppliers purchasing FACTS CSR 2012 €310,000 in purchases from sheltered companies and the protected sector. Our goal is to reach €600,000 by 2015. Environmental and CSR A new procurement criteria in our contracts policy In 2012, we have worked to integrate In 2012, we formalised our procurement policy based on quality, supplier relations and sustainable purchasing, thereby affirming our environmental and employee-related clauses into our consultations and specifications to which our sub-contractors and suppliers must commit to adhering. In terms of the 42.9% 42.9% of our purchases intention of achieving excellence in econoenvironment, these clauses relate to waste in 2012 were made from mic, ethical, environmental and employeetreatment, transportation, and water and small and medium-sized related areas. This policy is accompanied by a energy management. The employee-related businesses. Purchasing Code of Ethics, appended to our clauses relate to labour laws. Regarding this internal regulations since 2009, which defines latter point, within the context of combating the ethical rules applicable to our suppliers illegal work, in 2012 we acquired a tool that and service providers. This code is provided to verifies the compliance of the information employees in brochure form and appended to provided by our service providers and contracts provided as part of tenders. Since suppliers. 2012, each employee individually commits, in writing, to adhere to the code of ethics. Supplier and sub-contractor A code of ethics tailored to the needs of our self-assessment subsidiaries has been drawn up as part of Since 2009, our service providers and suppliers our partnership with the NGO Transparence have been able to complete a self-assessment International France. Our Purchasing Division using our marketplace TenderSmart.com. The is currently responsible for purchasing within Purchasing division, Human Resources division Aéroports de Paris SA, but its scope will evenand Environmental and Sustainable Developtually be extended to cover the whole Group. ment division have also been working, with Favouring innovative SMEs In February 2012, we signed the SME Pact, the aim of which is to support innovative SMEs so that they can become suppliers to major French groups. The SME Pact brings together 47 major public and private customers as well as 37 professional organisations and competitive clusters. 52 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Different perspectives completion scheduled for 2013, to rewrite the CSR evaluation questionnaires that we offer to companies. A third-party audit may be conducted on certain companies in 2013. Fabienne Speck Director of the Service University, Respecting our suppliers’ Aéroports de Paris interests Since 2010 we have been a signatory to the Ministry for the Economy’s Best Practices Charter, which governs relationships between large companies and SMEs. This Charter requires us to protect and support small businesses. It includes a mediaJoining forces to grow tion facility which can be requested by suppliers and subcontractors. A mediator was appointed for Aéroports de Paris SA together in 2010. Our 60-day payment terms are in F.S. : A tool for our customer satisfaction policy, the Service University plays compliance with the principles of state proan important role by inviting all of the players in the customer service chain to curement contracts and European directive unite and work together to share best practices. It is attended by an increasing 2004-17 dated 31 March 2004, regarding number of participants from outside of the company (22% in 2011 and 45% in the procedures for awarding contracts in 2012). It is in this collaborative spirit that we have included a cultural approach the water, energy, transportation and posin our «Reception and customer relations» programme. In December 2011 tal services sectors. we launched the programme in Terminal 2E of Paris-Charles de Gaulle with Air France, selecting Chinese customers, who are important to understand. In Developing responsible December 2012 we applied the same principle to Indian customers. At CDG1 and CDGA, the «China» operation was carried out with other airlines. At Orly purchasing South, the model was developed for customers from North African countries. In 2013, we will continue the operation at Paris-Orly for Russia and with Air For certain contracts, we have included France for Brazil. These open house days, where the relevant agents met with clauses relating to social integration. In 2012, people from or familiar with the cultures presented, attracted 3,244 people in two contracts were drawn up at Paris-Orly. 2011 and 2012. Aéroports de Paris has been supported in this process by the Local Integration and E.BS. : For our customers’, the quality of human relations more clearly Employment Plan (PLIE) in Orly, Choisy-ledifferentiates airports than the commercial offering. Since the opening of the Roi and Villeneuve-le-Roi (94), as well as Service University at Aéroports de Paris at the end of 2011, we have observed that by the Portes de l’Essonne (91) PLIE. The the customer experience has improved at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and that the service provider commits to performing one airport’s image is gradually recovering. It is the result of joint work, coordinated act of social integration during the term of by the university, from all of the partners of the airports and focused on quality the contract. For several years, we have of service. Air France is particularly sensitive to discussions within this context, worked with companies in the sheltered in particular during series of conferences and shared experiments. The cultural employment sector. In 2012 we signed a approach for welcoming Chinese and Indian passengers, initiated by the Service partnership with Gesat, a consortium in University at the end of 2011, led us to pool our knowledge to raise awareness the sheltered employment sector which of the cultural codes of this strategic clientele amongst our respective employees helps us to identify establishments likely and those of our partners. This successful experiment illustrates the dynamic to meet our requirements. We have also that we are looking for in order to better confront a competitive environment. organised a working group with the Human Resources division and the Environmental and Sustainable Development division in order to improve identification of partnership opportunities with this sector. Estelle Brice Santos Head of Products/Services Marketing and Promotion in Air France’s Long-Haul Customer Experience Department Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 53 CUSTOMERS AND SUSTAINABLE PURCHASING 2012 achievements AI R L I NE S Simca In 2012, our Airlines Marketing Department launched the Simca project (airline marketing information system). This data management tool facilitates analysis of the air transport market, and thereby improves understanding of airlines’ strategies. It will eventually integrate into an information portal which already includes customer records, useful to anyone in the company who works with the airlines. PAS S E NG E R S Vertical PA S S E NGERS garden Innovation At Paris-Charles de Gaulle, in Satellite 4, a vertical garden decorates two exterior Created in 2009, our Innovation division initiates and coordinates innovative projects, patios. These vertical gardens of 172 m2 notably in passenger services. New IT technologies often play a key role in this. In 2012, in total are planted with more than 5,600 we began our process by signing a partnership with the Parisian association Paris Région perennials from 15 different varieties of Lab through which we exchange views with other large companies and work with several plants. The vertical garden is located behind start-ups. large bay windows. It is visible from the inside of the lobby and brings a verdant and Three emblematic innovations natural touch to the departure lounge. My Way Aéroports de Paris is our geolocation service for mobile telephones in the airport. The positioning engine was designed by the start-up Pole Star. The information and I N N O VAT I O N directions terminals for passengers (BIOP) provide customised information on flights, itineraries, journey times and available services, in video or in map form. The passenger just Improving passenger has to scan his/her boarding pass in front of the terminal’s barcode reader, or use the screen’s flows around the touchscreen interface. «Retrouver sa place»: At Orly South, this service enables passengers to locate their vehicles in a car park using a smart terminal. The passenger just has to enter his/ baggage drop-off her registration number into the system. This service will be expanded to other car parks closer to At Paris-Orly, our automated baggage dropthe Paris-Orly terminals in 2013. off system allows travellers to check-in their baggage in less than 30 seconds. It will be In testing rolled out to Paris-Charles de Gaulle in 2013. The baggage drop-off was awarded the We are also testing an information wall on ground transportation in the baggage claim areas prize for Best Baggage Initiative 2012 during at Paris-Charles de Gaulle et Paris-Orly. This giant display groups together useful information the Future Travel Experience Forum held in for getting around the airport and accessing and using transportation. Vancouver (Canada) in September. R E C E P TION «Communication with the passenger» workshops In 2012 we rolled out a test workshop to all of our terminals to educate security checkpoint personnel on how to welcome passengers. Conducted in partnership with the security companies, the workshop included role-playing based on real-life situations during three key moments of the screening process: reception, body pat-downs and baggage searches. 54 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 AI R L I NE S Acting together In July 2012, we launched the «Mon vol préféré» operation with Emirates, Air Canada and easyJet at Paris-Charles de Gaulle. Together with the service companies, our teams monitored the rotation of each airline’s major flights in order to develop lasting improvements in operating methods. We have also expanded the Smart operation, which has been carried out at Paris-Charles de Gaulle since 2010, to Paris-Orly. Smart brings together our employees and the employees of the border police authority (DPAF), several airlines, including Air France, and several airport service providers. Smart leads to improvements for passengers. Since PASSENGER S 2006, we have been cooperating with Air France in the «Réussir Ensemble» scheme to Our new passenger boost our joint performance. pathways PAS S E NG E R S Eventually, the passenger pathway will replicate, in all of our terminals, the principles that Toilet facilities ensure the success of the new Air France hub and the A/C link that were opened this year. We began a major programme to renovate Faster pathways our toilet facilities in 2010. We have seen a significant qualitative jump in the standard The 2012 Air France hub now connects Terminal 2E, Satellite 4 – the new departure lounge of the new facilities, in terms of volume, for international flights –, Terminal 2F and Satellite 3 – the departure lounge for European size, materials and ease of cleaning. Thirty traffic. The connecting flight routes are simpler and faster due to centralisation of the secutoilet facilities have already been installed rity checkpoints and implementation of the single security checkpoint (PIFU), which means in 2012. Greatly appreciated by passengers, there is no need for citizens from the Schengen area to pass through a second security these facilities are a benchmark in terms of checkpoint between two planes. The A/C link brings together police checkpoints, the Parafe cleaning and maintenance. automatic biometric recognition system and security checkpoints into one single area. Relaxation and leisure Once past the security screenings, passengers enter leisure zones where boutiques, bars and restaurants occupy large open areas. Satellite 4 also houses Air France’s largest business lounge and a free museum space for passengers. PASSENGER S Art for travellers In January 2013, we opened our Museum Space for passengers in Terminal 2E of ParisCharles de Gaulle. The first exhibition was organised with the support of the Musée Rodin. «Rodin, the wings of glory» presents 50 of the sculptor’s works, all centred on the theme of flight. His world-renowned masterpieces such as The Thinker, The Kiss and The Age of Bronze are also included in the exhibition. The Museum Space, which is open to all, is open from the first to last flight. Two themed exhibitions will be held every year. Music was also introduced into our airports in 2011, with Jazz Thursdays at Paris-Orly. This weekly get-together from 5 to 7pm has been a resounding success since its creation. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 55 5 Committing to civil society Our social responsibility page 58 Aid for soundproofing page 64 priorities Innovating for jobs page 59 Different perspectives page 65 Supporting the regions page 62 2012 achievements page 66 Strengthening our links page 63 with local residents COMMUNITY Our commitments 5 key concepts Efficient Consultation Economic Social management of with local Solidarity cooperation cooperation soundproofing residents aid 7 priorities 2015 2012 Objectives Key actions Contributing to the economic Hubstart Paris® initiative since 2010 Regional attractiveness development of Grand Roissy and Pole d’Orly Orly International since 2009 Aeropole business incubator service Helping very recently established offering Supporting SMEs companies and enabling SMEs Grand Roissy business meetings to access Aéroports de Paris markets  rand Roissy plato network G and Orly eco-jobs network Cooperation with local Cooperating in the areas of Partnership charters and regional authorities the environment, the community and the economy Sustainable development week Planèt’AIRport offering: rounded Supporting local out in 2012 with Prépa’Aéro, a preparatory employment and training Portfolio of training and support coure leading to the regional AERO Skills training program Circulating information about jobs and business Communicating the information 2011 employment observatories’ report support to job stakeholders for the three airports Initiatives carried out by the Aéroports Solidarity Financing local solidarity projects de Paris Foundation. 2012 – combating school dropout Managing the funds generated Free assistance with the contracting Aid for soundproofing by the tax on noise pollution process enhanced in 2012 with a quality from aircraft (TNSA) mechanism This roadmap shows progress points over the medium term (2012-2015). Starting On-going Advanced Attained Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 57 COMMUNITY Our social responsibility priorities A far-reaching and Paris-Le Bourget. Our Environment and Sustainable Development Centres are our strategy principal means of informing and maintaining dialogue with local residents and elecOur ambition is to be Europe’s benchmark ted officials. airport for social responsibility by 2015. As a FUNDING FOR LOCAL land-developer and major economic player A priority: providing easier RESIDENTS (in millions of euros) in the Ile-de-France region, we have been access to jobs Total: e6,8m gradually structuring and consolidating our More than 117,000 people work in nearly economic and social cooperation policy with 1,000 companies at our airport sites. Over 2.2 a view to achieving this. 346,000 direct, indirect, induced and catalytic jobs are generated by our airports, Three main challenges or more than 8% of the paid employment We are concentrating on three main chalin the Ile de France region. A major porlenges, namely (i) promoting the strong tion of our economic and social coopera4.6 points of the areas in which we are location budget is dedicated to providing emted, i.e., Grand Roissy and Pole d’Orly, (ii) ployment opportunities for local people. Economic and social cooperation enabling local residents and businesses to Funding for partnerships with structures F unds for compensating aircraft noise benefit from the dynamic impetus of the devoted to employment and local econopollution Paris airports and (iii) maintaining ongoing, mic development is managed by a grants transparent dialogue with local residents. committee. FACTS We invest €2.2 million each year in our parAlmost 50% of the 87,200 people tnerships with local authorities, socio-ecoA national commitment employed at the Paris-Charles de Gaulle nomic players in the areas surrounding the in 2012 site live in one of the three surrounding airports, not-for-profit organisations, elecIn 2012, the Group became directly indepartments (2011 data). ted officials and State representatives. volved in the process to support local residents by signing the three-year national Organisation commitment for employment in priority TWO EMPLOYEE at community-level areas. In particular, the Human Resources HANDBOOKS Two regional delegations within our Envidivision committed to hiring 656 young The Paris-Charles de Gaulle employee ronment and Sustainable Development Divilocal residents between 2012 and 2014 handbook CÉDÉGÉ, and the Paris-Orly sion implement our strategy at local level, through traineeships, assisted contracts or employee handbook, list the services i.e., at Paris-Orly, Paris-Charles de Gaulle work-study contracts. available at each site. OUR AID AND COOPERATION STRATEGY Disability and health Sponsorship – support for Job integration and training charitable projects Citizenship and the fight against exclusion Social support Partnerships – giving local residents Vocational training access to airport jobs Mobility Integration through economic activity/ community and solidarity economy Regional enhancement Regions – attractiveness Tourism and promotion Business creation SME/SMI coaching Young children Airport employees – everyday life Housing Transport 58 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Innovating for jobs Planet’AIRport and a year and cover 14 trades. The schemes are open to job seekersin the form of paid work experience. Within the Aéroports de A strategic programme Paris Group, this project brings together the for employment Human Resources division, the Environment We have been investing in job promotion and Sustainable Development Centres and AERO SKILLS schemes adapted to the specific requirethe subsidiary Alyzia Sûreté, which provides Partners ments of the airport sector for the past 15 AIR (sponsor and operator), Afpa, Camas the training for security-related jobs. Since years. Each year our Planèt’AIRport proAéroformations, Greta BIP 93, Prom’hôte September 2012, Prépa’Aéro, a short prepagramme helps 2,000 local residents to find and the Seine-Saint-Denis Chamber of ratory course, has opened AERO Skills up to or keep a job. This programme offers traiTrades and Crafts. more candidates. ning, skills assessment, diagnostic reviews Annual budget (Ile-de-France region): of labour matters, follow-up, advice and Teach’Air and Navitic, e2,215k ongoing socio-professional assistance. It intensive courses includes schemes to promote integration, Alongside its longer programmes, PlaNo. of places per year 665 mobility assistance and housing. Planèt’AIRnèt’AIR also offers short courses such as port is also aimed at local authorities and Preparatory and Teach’AIR or Navitic. Teach’AIR is a regional 335 companies and is backed by six of our parqualifying courses programme organised into 19 tailor-made tnership structures. workshops. Navitic provides an introduction Qualifications achieved www.planetairport.com 222 to IT tools. in 2011-2012 Discovering airport jobs FACTS A wide range The economic and social clusters of the The total number of jobs of training regional delegations organise twice-yearly (direct, indirect, induced and catalytic) «Discovering airport jobs» seminars for job generated by the airports is estimated AERO Skills, training seekers, which take place over five days. We at 346,000, or more than 8% that leads to a qualification provide trainees with information on airport of the paid employment The AERO Skills consortium was launched in jobs and related training courses and orgain the Ile-de-France region. 2011 as part of the Planèt’AIRport mechanise educational workshops and site visits. nism. It is the leading regional provider of At the end of the process, each trainee has training leading to a diploma or qualification a meeting with the companies and training for airport jobs. The training schemes, which bodies likely to provide assistance with a are free of charge, last between four months career project. PLANÈT’AIRPORT AT A GLANCE 2012 OVERVIEW T otal number of beneficiaries: 2,972 Planet’AIRport partnership Partners structures The French Government, local authorities, 209 256 AIR, Association for Regional Interest local Chambers of Commerce and AERO Skills Industry (CCI), Pôle Emploi (the French Adife, urban social development public employment agency), various companies 491 1,737 interest group. The Prépa’Aéro training and Aéroports de Paris. programme was financed by Adife, which Aéroports de Paris grants: e320k in 2013 will become an endowment fund. Other Planet’AIRport financing: e914k First Stade, a government-approved job integration company providing on-request 222 57 transport for member companies Papa Charlie, an association providing  eneral IT training G not-for-profit car rental Mobility assistance Comité Habitat, an association Reception, information, advice supporting access to housing Support towards employment Vocational training Social support, housing Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 59 COMMUNITY Solidarity through Papa Charlie: paving procurement contracts the way to employment We also promote social integration by means of a specific clause in our procureThe Papa Charlie association loans cars ment contracts. In 2012, these provisions to job seekers and the recently-employed concerned a contract for minor demoliPAPA CHARLIE AT A GLANCE for a short period at a low rental rate. This tion work at the Paris-Orly terminal sud. A 92 new vehicles, 256 beneficiaries service benefits people living in the Ile-desecond procurement contract is expected Aéroports de Paris grant: e168.4k France region who do not have a vehito be awarded in 2013 for maintenance Partner funding: e201.2k cle and who cannot use public transport work in both of the Paris-Orly terminals. Contributions from beneficiaries: e94k to get to the airport hubs or their future Since 2005, Papa Charlie has contributed to place of work. The idea has also proviPriority education helping over 4,300 people find jobs in the ded inspiration outside the Paris area: in We support priority education networks Ile-de-France region, over half of which have December 2012, the employment office in (Éclair-RAR-RRS) aimed at primary and been at the airports. the Picardie-Pays de Valois region signed a secondary students in priority education Within the scope of the Global Compact, partnership agreement with Papa Charlie zones or towns located in the airports’ Papa Charlie has been recognized by the UN to expand the scheme to this area. FedEx surrounding towns. We introduce the as an example of best practice in fighting also signed an agreement with Papa Charstudents involved to airport businesses discrimination in respect of employment and lie, which it has been backing for the past and trades and organise educational profession. six years, to help financially-compromised events on sustainable development is«I’M ENTITLED TO WORK employees who are faced with transport sues. We signed partnerships with the EXPERIENCE» problems that could endanger their ability Val-d’Oise education authority for SarWith the General Council of Essonne, to keep their job. celles in 2010, Villiers-le-Bel and Gargeswe signed the «I’m entitled to work lès-Gonesse in 2011, Goussainville in experience» charter to fight against Working towards 2012, and with the Seine-et-Marne education authority for the town of Meaux discrimination in work placements for high integration in 2011-2012 and Mitry-Mory in 2012. In school students from «sensitive» urban areas. 2013 we will expand this scheme to the First Stade education authority of the Seine-SaintMicrocrédit First Stade is a government-approved job Denis area. Papa Charlie helps beneficiaries of its integration company that comes under transport offering to acquire their own the Planèt’AIRport umbrella and employs Schools for a second chance vehicle thanks to its Auto Buy Project very disadvantaged people as local couIn 2010, we signed a partnership agreemicrocredit scheme set up in 2011. riers for 68 member businesses. First ment with the Val-de-Marne «school for a In late 2012, Papa Charlie began working Stade has three vehicles. Since its launch second chance». An initial site was set up to provide assistance to beneficiaries of the by AIR in 2009, it has provided work for in Orly in 2011 and a second in Créteil in Social Cohesion Fund, recognised by Crédit 41 local residents. 2012. We are co-founder of «schools for Coopératif, the bank for social economy players. GIP, Roissy CDG job booster We work alongside the Roissy CDG job booster (GIP), an organisation that groups together various players from the surrounding area concerned by employment and training policies. These players include the French Government, public employment services, local authorities, economic players and social partners. The aim of this organisation is to enable local populations to benefit from airport expansion and, in this regard, it carries out initiatives combining economic development, employment and training. It launched the Step project as a way of securing career paths for seasonal and temporary airport employees. Alongside training organisations Greta, CCIV and Afpa, it has developed a course leading to a certificate in airport English, a language that is essential for working in an airport. 60 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 BREAKDOWN OF JOBS a second chance» in La Courneuve, CergyPontoise, Argenteuil and Sarcelles. The aim Quality of life at BY SITE of these schools is the professional integraour airports Number of companies tion of young people who left the school 2011 total: 969 system more than a year previously. Nurseries 2010 2011 Our airports are equipped with two interParis-Charles Monitoring company nurseries used by residents of all municipalities and set up by us: P’tits de Gaulle 637 656 changes in jobs Loup’ings at Paris-Orly (60 places) and Paris-Orly 203 238 Globe-Trotteurs, a child-care centre, at PaParis-Le Bourget 68 75 Trade, employment and training observaris-Charles de Gaulle (100 places). Globetories have been set up to improve visibility Trotteurs has two facilities: l’Ombr’aile, Total number of employees with respect to employment and changes which is open during atypical hours, and 2011 total: 117,515 in the nature of jobs in the Paris airports. l’Envol, which opens during standard 2010 2011 Job watch observatories are governed by working hours. In 2012, Globe-Trotteurs framework agreements between the French accommodated an average of 220 children Paris-Charles 86,000 87,200 Government, the region, local authorities, each month, with 145 children attending de Gaulle consular services, government job agencies P’tits Loup’ings. Priority is given to parents Paris-Orly 26,745 27,200 – Pôle Emploi, the labour, employment and who work staggered timetables, live more Paris-Le Bourget 2,658 3,115 vocational training directorate, Afpa – and than two hours from their place of work, airport companies including Aéroports de or have no facility close to home. The nurParis. series are managed by Aéroports de Paris, Employee typology the local authorities, the DGAC (French 80% of employees work staggered Three roles civil aviation authority), public services and hours at Paris-Charles de Gaulle, 69% • Survey: every two years, the observatocompanies on site. at Paris-Orly and 44% at Paris-Le Bourget. ries organise a complete survey of busi96% of staff have permanent contracts nesses and public services at the three Social housing (excluding temporary employees). airports, Comité Habitat organises rental housing • Forecast: the observatories carry out around the three airports in tandem with research to assess future job trends in companies, local authorities and housing Gender breakdown (as a percentage) major airport employment sectors, professionals. In 2012, eight partnership Paris-Charles de Gaulle • Share: the observatories create paragreements were signed with private real 62 tnerships with other business intelliestate investors in respect of 300 proper2012 38 gence agencies and with the key social ties. Comité Habitat found housing for 130 Paris-Orly and economic players in the immediate young people hired in 2012 and has housed locality. They contribute to the work of a total of 1,700 people since 1995. Since 64 2012 the Ile-de-France regional observatory 2008, young workers have been housed in a 36 on employment and training (Orefi), the residence containing 213 apartments at the Paris-Le Bourget Pole d’Orly and the Roissy CDG job boosParis-Charles de Gaulle site. A similar project 81 ter organisation. is under review at Paris-Orly. 2012 19 Men W  omen Two studies in 2012 Filéo, an on-request bus In 2012, the observatories published a study network on the professional integration of young Filéo, established in 1998 by the STIF (Ile-deFILÉO AT A GLANCE people living close to Paris airports. They France Transport Union), is an on-demand 24/7 bus network also contributed to a study led by Ecodev for shared transit service for employees at Pa2012 participation from the public development authority EPA Plaine ris-Charles de Gaulle. Operating alongside Aéroports de Paris: e329k de France on future employment trends in regular public transport lines, this network Partners: STIF, General Councils the greater Roissy area for the next 15 to 25 consists of eight bus lines, with two new of Seine-et-Marne and Val-d’Oise, years. This study shows that there are curlines having come into service this year. and the Terres de France urban area rently many employment opportunities in We are the only private company provi504,000 reservations, the unqualified sector but that the level of ding financing for this service and we have 15% of which were made qualifications required will increase between renewed our commitment until 2016 in the on www.fileo.com now and 2020. interest of airport employees. 17,000 customers, 352,500 journeys Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 61 COMMUNITY Supporting the regions Major sites Hubstart Paris® – promoting Grand Roissy The Roissy and Orly hubs have been clasWe have actively supported Hubstart Paris® sified as strategic in the Grand Paris prosince its creation. This joint regional project to ject and our three airports – Paris-Charles promote the region internationally has been de Gaulle, Paris-Orly and Paris-Le Bourget recognised by the public authorities as a way HUBSTART PARIS® – have been identified as major economic to open up Grand Roissy for value creation. In AT A GLANCE sites (TEM) in the Ile-de-France regional 2012, Hubstart Paris® and the Aérotropolis Eu Hosted by the Paris Ile-de-France Regional plan (SDRIF). Activities from our airports rope association were awarded the Grand PaDevelopment Agency (ARD), Hubstart Paris® generated over €30 billion in added value ris label. The second Sustainable Airport Areas has 23 public and private partners including in 2011, representing nearly 5.8% of the seminar was held in Atlanta and attended by the Government, the Ile-de-France region, local region’s GDP. In order to contribute to the 150 participants from around the world who authorities and their development agencies, sustainable economic development of our examined the concept of the sustainable airconsular services, companies and associations. base regions, we are members of various port city. Hubstart Paris® also signed a crossgovernance bodies, participate in joint propromotion agreement with Shanghai Airport THE ORLY PARIS jects to promote the region and help comArea in 2012. Two similar agreements were AGREEMENT AT A GLANCE panies to set up in airport hubs or surrounentered into in 2011, with Memphis and At The Orly Paris regional agreement was ding areas. lanta airport sites in the United States. signed on 18 December 2012 for three www.hubstart-paris.com years, notably by the Ile-de-France region, Pole du Grand Roissy the General Councils of Essonne and (greater Roissy hub) Orly International Val-de-Marne, the Government, consular Under the impetus of the regional Prefect, The actions targeted by the Orly Paris agreeoffices, ADOR and the Pôle Emploi in 2011 and 2012 the Pole du Grand Roissy ment are implemented by project initiator regional division. implemented a governance system compriOrly International, responsible for supporting sing a regional conference and an airport employment and enhancing the value of highDatagora Board made up of members from four potential sectors and the residential economy Budget: €465k areas – the Government, elected officials, in order to contribute to the region’s economic the financial world and associations, within development. In 2012, a Pôle Emploi office 120 which we play an active role. In 2012, the was opened at the Orly International premises airport Board outlined a work programme to display job offers from on-site companies. aimed at regional coherence, transport and This office sets up «Job meetings» for job economic development. seekers and has kicked off two regional marketing initiatives, namely the production of a 345 Pole d’Orly promotional film and brochures and the orgaWe have been working alongside Pole nisation of a business tour. Aéroports de Paris d’Orly since 2005, and play a role in the Other partners governance bodies of the regional agreeDatagora ment on jobs, training and economic deveDatagora, a Grand Roissy resource centre Datagora financing partners lopment. The Orly Paris Agreement, which and value creation company, is a socio-eco French departments (77, 93 and 95), has been renewed for three more years, nomic information centre for French or interthree CCI, the Ile-de-France region, involves a sustainable development charter, national businesses wishing to set up in the three regional development agencies, which we have signed and which commits region. Datagora offers technical support to Paris Ile-de-France regional development us, as a group, to an ambitious action plan. Hubstart Paris® and provides business intelliagency. In December 2012, the commission set up gence about the Paris-Charles De Gaulle and Aéroports de Paris: annual grant of by the Ministry of Ecology to consider the Paris-Le Bourget airport sites. To give greater €120k and provision of premises free future of Paris-Orly, chaired by the region’s consistency to the various Grand Roissy proof charge with an estimated value of Prefect André Viau, submitted its report motion initiatives, in 2013 Datagora and our €80k per annum. and recommended maintaining the airport Aeropole business incubator will join forces  1,300 presentations have been held for in operation. under the Hubstart Paris® brand. 8,000 visitors since 2005. 62 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Supporting SMEs fully-equipped premises, shared services, advice and individual coaching. In 2012, it We help young businesses and support their launched a teleworking area. move to our base regions. We are assisted by Datagora, the Grand Roissy resource The Plato networks centre, with respect to agreements with We are members of the Plato networks, FACTS consular organisations, as well as by our which aim to share the experience of large June 2012 saw the second edition business incubator Aeropole. companies with SMEs. In 2013, the Plato of the Recontres d’affaires du Grand Grand Roissy Économique network will reRoissy (Grand Roissy business meetings). Aeropole, the road to start-up place the Plato CDG network (2011-2012). During this seminar, attended by local The Aeropole business incubator at ParisThis new network will bring together the economic players, nine major principals Charles de Gaulle offers a «road to startChambers of Commerce and Industry presented their procurement policies up» package: nursery, incubator and comof the Val-d’Oise, Seine-Saint-Denis and and met some 150 SMEs. pany hotel. Set up in 2000 by Aéroports de Seine-et-Marne areas, which have been Paris and its partners, it is the only interdegrouped into a single CCI since 1 January AEROPOLE partmental incubator in the Ile-de-France re2013. The Plato Orsa network, set up by Budget: €56.7k gion. It has been awarded the «technopole» the CCI of the Val-de-Marne area, was and «international incubator» labels. Aimed completed in 2012. Since September 2012, 18.9 at young entrepreneurs and businesses we have been taking part in the Plato Écoless than three years old, Aeropole offers métiers network. 37.8 Strengthening our links Aéroports de Paris with local residents Other partners Aeropole financing partners French departments 77, 93 and 95 Aéroports de Paris: annual contribution A bridge to employment Welcome, inform, and cultural exchanges of €18.9k and provision of premises free of charge with an estimated value animate Each year the MDEDD organise the «Disof €600k. covering airport jobs» seminars for job seeOther partners: economic expansion Consultations with local residents close to kers. They also hold several recruitment and committees (77, 93 and 95) and CCI our airports is register in our set of operajob information forums in conjunction with (77, 93 and 95), chambers of trades of ting duties. We have chosen to build a trusthe various players in the employment marMeaux, Val-d’Oise and Seine-Saint-Denis, ting relationship with the local authorities, ket and companies on-site. They form parMedef, Air France. associations and residents, and to promote tnerships with local cultural and educational our sustainable development values among organisations and put in place various exhithem. bitions and activities. Since 2011, Paris-Orly Helping local residents and towns The Environment and Sustainable Developorganises a monthly conference on environmental themes or sustainable development. At Paris-Charles de Gaulle there is a permanent exhibition dedicated to the social res75 companies have been hosted ment Centres (MDEDD), which are located ponsibility of Aéroports de Paris. by the Aeropole business on-site at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Parisincubator since 2002. Orly, are the principal means of conducPartnering local ting dialogue with local communities. Each representatives year, almost 3,000 local residents visit these The MDEDD sign partnership charters with centres, which provide information on the local towns that provide a framework for environmental impact of the airports and the exchange of information and the devethe business opportunities that stem from lopment of joint action plans in the areas of airport activities. The MDEDD actively inithe environment, the community and the tiate partnerships with local towns. economy. There are 37 charters in force at Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 63 COMMUNITY Paris-Charles de Gaulle, including two new A website for local residents MDEDD FORUMS charters signed in 2012 with the towns of The website www.entrevoisins.org provides Paris-Charles de Gaulle Nantouillet and Fontenay-en-Parisis. There general information on the aviation sector, In 2012, three recruitment forums are 17 charters in force at Paris-Orly and in environmental monitoring, current hapOne freight jobs forum 2012, a new charter was signed with the penings at the three airports and practical One reception jobs forum town of Villeneuve-Saint-Georges. In total, information linked to ADP’s policy of econoOne seasonal and summer jobs forum 54 charters have been signed for the two mic and social cooperation. This website is Paris-Orly airports since 2008. The MDEDD frequently intended for local residents, elected officials, One work-study, seasonal and summer jobs forum offer to meet elected officials and bring businesses and the general public. The Entre One «jobs for athletes with disabilities» forum them on airport visits, and take part in local Jeunes feature offers a look at professions or regional initiatives involving environmenin the aeronautics sector from the viewpoint SOUNDPROOFING tal and employment issues of interest to our of a both a professional and an apprentice. Logements ou locaux aidés airports. www.entrevoisins.org Total 2012 since 2004 Aid for Paris-Charles de Gaulle 1,445 21,653 soundproofing Paris-Orly Paris-Le 1,204 11,277 30 30 Bourget We manage a financial aid scheme to help Le Bourget. The Ministry of Ecology anticisoundproofing near the airports. It is funded pates extending eligibility for the scheme’s COST OF WORK (2004-2012) by the tax on aircraft noise (TNSA) paid by airaid to new geographic sectors. This aid is €329.19 million for 32,904 housing units lines for each flight take-off. TNSA revenues attributed on the basis of a favourable opiand 56 service buildings located in the noise totalled €43.51 million in 2012. Our departnion from the Advisory Commission on Aid to pollution map of the three airports, in the ment dedicated to managing government aid Residents (CAAR), composed of the regional amount of €209.53 million for Paris-Charles to residents implements and coordinates the Prefect, the French Civil Aviation Authority, de Gaulle, €119.21 million for Paris-Orly soundproofing aid process and ensures that local authorities, associations and the boards and €0.45 million for Paris-Le Bourget. the funds are properly used. of professional aviation organisations. Amount authorised for work in 2012: €54.01 million, of which €32.76 million Scope of application Tariffs for ParisCharles de Gaulle, €20.80 million This aid applies to certain premises locaThe regulatory base rate is 100% for an for Paris-Orly and €0.45 million ted within the scope of the noise pollution acoustic diagnosis and 95% for work orgafor Paris-Le Bourget. map (PGS) at Paris-Orly and Paris-Charles de nised into grouped applications. Until the end Amount for acoustic diagnosis in 2012: Gaulle. Since 2012, it has also covered Parisof 2013, a rate of 100% applies to diagnosis €3.41 million for 6,093 premises. Information about noise The DGAC provides information for local residents about noise conditions around the airports in the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres using visualisation software to display traffic and noise levels. One of these tools – Vitrail – was designed by Aéroports de Paris, and gives an almost real-time view of aircraft trajectories. It has also been put in place in the town halls of 24 towns in France. Each year the DGAC conducts an information campaign in association with Aéroports de Paris on the soundproofing aid scheme. This campaign can been seen on the website www.entrevoisins.org. Since 2012, the Visiobruit self-service portal has provided residents of Paris-Charles de Gaulle surrounding areas with basic information on acoustics and explains noise level indices used in the aeronautics industry. 64 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Different perspectives and work which meets certain conditions. The funding limit has been raised to €5,000 for exterior roof insulation work and €1,000 per unit for renovation of VMC systems in collective housing units. The limit may be up Élisabeth Le Masson Sustainable Development Manager North, to three times higher for certain social houAéroports de Paris sing. Since 2010 funding may be payable in advance. Assistance with the contracting process and Acting at the heart of quality We provide a free contracting assistance the Grand Roissy service to local residents, which guarantees that work is properly coordinated and costs are enhanced. This service, which is provided employment area upon completion of an acoustic diagnosis, is E.LM. : We have a duty to ensure that local communities in the towns surrouncompulsory for grouped applications and in ding our airports benefit from the dynamic impetus of our business. Our role order to qualify for the 100% rate. It is rein the Roissy CDG job booster organisation (GIP) is one the significant ways in commended in all cases. In 2012, we created which we implement this commitment. As one of the founder members, alonga quality mechanism for companies with a side the region, the Government and local employment and training bodies, view to harmonising the services on offer. we have been providing financial and logistical support for the GIP, which acts in favour of residents in the Grand Roissy employment area, since 1999. Since ENVIRONMENTAL ADVISORY 2010, the GIP has narrowed the scope of its work to employment, integraCOMMITTEES tion, the securing of career paths, and training. 2012 has been a good year. In 2012, 12 Environmental Advisory «STEP employment», the mechanism used to secure career paths for seasoCommittee (CCE) meetings were held: nal and temporary employees, is working well and the airport English training two for Paris-Charles de Gaulle, programme, which is Bulats-certified, has attracted more than 550 participants one for Paris-Orly, two for Paris-Le Bourget since its launch in 2011. In 2013, the GIP will be scaled back, notably due to a and seven for the general aviation airfields. more streamlined governance system, a wider sphere of activity and the creaThese local consultation bodies convened by tion of the Grand Roissy employment and training observatory. the Prefect give opinions on issues concerning the impact of development or operations at N.R. : I have been managing the Step employment project for the Roissy CDG the airport on the environment. GIP since 2010. This project provides a means of securing the career paths of The secretariat is provided by Aéroports temporary and seasonal workers and involves meeting with employees to disde Paris. cuss with and advise them on their choices. We offer employees a series of three individual interviews to review their situation, their professional plans, their needs and the most suitable training opportunities. We also provide advice on how to put together a job application. In certain cases we also provide ongoing assistance over a six-month period. Every Tuesday morning we organise workshops on the various issues involved in securing a career path. In 2012, 500 people contacted us, 108 individual meetings were held and 88 people took part in the workshops. Aéroports de Paris has been very active in setting up the Step employment project, providing an in-depth knowledge of airport jobs and lending logistical support in circulating information to the employees concerned. Nicolas Rivier Training Manager, Afpa Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 65 COMMUNITY 2012 achievements DI V ERS I T Y With the national institute for deaf youth In July 2012, we signed a partnership agreement with the national institute for deaf youth. Each year we will hire students from the institute to carry out a traineeship in our graphics agency. For airport employees who so wish, the institute will also provide awareness-raising sessions on how to communicate with young people who are deaf or hard-of-hearing, in particular though an introduction to French sign language. Increasing young people’s awareness of E M PL O YM E NT women’s rights To celebrate International Women’s Day, the Prépa’Aéro: a path to skills Environment and Sustainable Development Centre at Paris-Charles de Gaulle orgatraining nised an exhibition entitled «Women at the heart of professional diversity». This event Prépa’Aéro, which has been up and running since September 2012, is a short course desiwas aimed at first and second year lycée gned by Planèt’AIRport, which candidates must complete before signing up for its AERO students and elected officials from surrounSkills training programme, which in turn leads to a qualification. This Adife-financed proding towns. grammeis reserved for job seekers in the eastern Val-d’Oise region. It offers short, tailormade courses based around four standalone workshops: basic skills, mobility (finding one’s E M PL O Y M ENT bearings), educational projects, and job search skills. 120 trainees are expected to take part in this course between 2012 and 2013. How young local residents view airport Learning to drive work with Papa Charlie In 2012, we surveyed 35 young Knowing how to drive is essential to working at the airport hubs. Papa Charlie is reviewing a job seekers living project for 2013, which would enable the less well-off to learn car driving basics and sit the in the environs of driving test. The future driver would gain initial experience in a special category of car for Paris-Charles de which no license is required, and would follow on with lessons in a car that requires a license Gaulle and Pariswith the assistance of Planèt-AIRport volunteers and, in particular, First Stade employees. Orly, who provided us with their view Y O U T H E MPL OYM ENT of the working Interactive job information sheets world, in particular for young people in the airports, and their thoughts on their education, their fuSince 2012, the www.entrevoisins.org website has included 60 interactive job information ture career, the geographic proximity of the sheets (in the Entre Jeunes section) to guide and inform young local residents with resairport and their experiences of searching pect to airport professions and the skills required. The sheets are organised by sector and for work. The airports represent an opporprofession, and offer an interactive test entitled «Are you made for this job?», as well as tunity for these young people, and they retwo videos providing first-hand accounts from a permanent employee and a trainee. These present an opportunity for us, because they sheets can be downloaded and printed in PDF. We have also prepared 36 «Airport jobs» meet our requirements. This survey, entitled facts sheets in conjunction with the CDG job centre (Pôle Emploi) and our Economic and «Professional integration of young people social division north. These sheets are distributed by employment agencies and representaliving close to Paris airports» can be downtives of our regional delegations at job forums in which we take part. loaded in French from our website. www.entrevoisins.org http://bit.ly/WyEdep 66 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Q U AL I T Y O F LI F E Aérovert A fitness trail in the heart of CDG In 2013, a 3.8km walking track is expected to be introduced around the Paris-Charles de Gaulle Environment and Sustainable Development Centre, as part of a project put forward by the Aéroport de Paris Property Management division. The track will be in a sheltered area where airport employees, visitors and airline company clients can relax and enjoy the rich plant life. In the future, this walk will be included as one of our initiatives to raise awareness about biodiversity. S O UND PR O O F I N G Quality for local PR OMOTING TH E RE GION S residents Hubstart Live – a virtual Within the scope of the financial aid given for soundproofing work, we provide a model of Grand Roissy free contracting assistance service to local residents, offering ongoing assistance from Presented for the first time in June 2012 at the Futur en Seine festival, «Hubstart Live» is the time that they seek a quote until coman interactive model of the Grand Roissy hub. The project, which is financed by the Ilepletion of the work. In 2012, we created a de-France Regional Council, EPA Plaine de France, Aéroports de France and Datagora, quality mechanism to harmonise the pracuses interactive technology. The user can move around an image of Grand Roissy by tices of construction companies’ design moving his or her hands over a table that captures their movement and access various offices and, as a consequence, improve content, such as development projects or the profile of sites in the region. The first verquality by offering local residents total pacsion of Hubstart Live was up and running in early December 2012 and it is now available kages. This mechanism provides construcon tablets. A smartphone version is expected to appear in 2013. tion companies with guidelines and quality http://bit.ly/13z0w8X requirements. It also aims to promote the use of products that have been awarded quality labels and certificates. L OC AL RES ID E N T S Local culture S ME s Business incubator 2012 was marked by two exhibitions in the Environment and Sustainable Development Centres. To celebrate French Heritage launches teleworking Day, an exhibition entitled «Paris-Orly, an invitation to travel» offered visitors a demonstration by firemen, the opportunity to centre cross a runway, and a tour of the control tower. At Paris-Charles In 2012, our business incubator opened de Gaulle, «Sustainable change» described the history of coma dedicated teleworking and networking mercial aviation’s cult aircraft and presented the concept planes space in the Aeropole premises at the heart of the future. Also in 2012, the Environment and Sustainable of Paris-Charles de Gaulle. The centre has 21 Development Centre at Paris-Charles de Gaulle redesigned its workstations and shared meeting rooms with exhibition centre to make it more welcoming for local visitors. videoconferencing systems. The project was A «cosy corner» is equipped with a wall of living plants and a 50%-financed by the Ile-de-France region. mural by a young painter graces the entrance to the conference room. www.aeropole-roissy.com Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 67 COMMUNITY 2012 achievements S O L I D AR I T Y In-kind and skills sponsorship The partnership management unit of the Environment and Sustainable Development division is responsible for skills sponsorship and voluntary work, as well as sponsorship in-kind. We have a pool of 150 Group employees ready to volunteer on projects proposed by community and general interest groups that we support. In 2012, we organised a scheme for the reuse of Aéroports de Paris goods. These included comS O L I D AR ITY puters, agricultural equipment, and fire vehicles, which were collected and distributed to Aéroports de Paris Foundation associations to combat social exclusion, either in their original state or after repair. Through In 2003, we created the Aéroports de Paris Foundation to develop our sponsorship this scheme, Planèt’AIRPORT, with the help of activities. The Foundation co-finances local initiatives in favour of the most vulnerable volunteers from the IT department, was able populations near the airport sites. Under the auspices of the Fondation de France, it to equip four technical facilities for the simulprovides financial assistance for local solidarity projects. Its executive committee, chaired taneous training of 60 persons in IT skills. All by the Chairman and CEO of Aéroports de Paris, has defined three priority action areas: permanent employees within Planèt’AIRport integration and training, citizenship and the fight against exclusion, and disability and structures also perform skills sponsorship, in health. particular by providing socio-professional assistance to persons with significant problems reCombating school dropout entering the workplace. In 2012, the Foundation contributed to the introduction of new projects aimed at combaE M PL O Y M ENT ting school dropout in secondary schools located close to the airports. €15,000 has been allocated to projects implemented in favour of secondary schools in the Val-de-France area Career discovery and the towns of Gonesse and Goussainville. In order to give young disadvantaged people access to culture, the Foundation also signs multi-year agreements with several important mornings cultural sites. More detail on the Foundation’s activities is available in the Sustainable DeveUnder the initiative of the Seine-et-Marne lopment section of our website. General Council, the Paris-Charles de Gaulle www.aeroportsdeparis.fr, rubrique «Group» Environment and Sustainable Development Centre has launched morning career discovery FOUNDATION FIGURES sessions in partnership with the association Number of projects: 61 Total amount of aid: €623k Airemploi. These mornings, which are aimed at secondary school students in the Seine-et28 14 241,350 184,500 Marne region, involve a presentation of the 38.7 % 29.6 % airport and its various professional sectors. I N T E G RAT I O N Company concierge 7 12 47,800 150,000 service 7.7 % 24.0 % Under our agreement with the Seine-etCitizenship and the fight against exclusion School dropout Marne General Council, we financed a Job insertion and training Disability and health study on a proposed company concierge service. This service would be aimed at D I SAB I L ITY employees at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and In favour of integration and disability would offer local services provided by employees on outreach programmes. The The Paris-Charles de Gaulle Environment and Sustainable Development Centre has selected a proposition will be chosen and validated company in the sheltered sector for the upkeep of its flower beds. Paris-Orly has renewed its parin 2013 in coordination with Aéroports de tnership with the vocational integration assistance association, Les Potagers de Marcoussis (the Paris and the General Council’s outreach Marcoussis Vegetable Growers), which sells baskets of organic vegetables to on-site employees. scheme, Initiatives 77. 68 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 6 Non-financial ratings Results continue to rise page 70 for the last nine years Consolidated efforts by page 71 subsidiaries Hub télécom – a proactive page 72 subsidiary NON-FINANCIAL RATINGS 2012 Results continue to rise for the last nine years A solicited rating since 2003 Since 2003, our performance has been assessed by an independent, non-financial rating agency. THE VIGEO RATINGS SCALE This evaluation was carried out annually until 2010, but will now be conducted every two years Little evidence of commitment to allow us to properly implement actions needed to make progress. The agency Vigeo rates us on six areas, namely corporate governance, the environment, human resources, human rights, Commitment initiated market behaviour and community involvement. For the first time in 2010, the non-financial Consolidated commitment ratings procedure was extended to all Group companies. Aéroports de Paris is the only major European airport group to undergo a solicited extra-financial rating process. Advanced commitment 1 22 2+ 33 3+ 44 4+ 2012 Overall Group Score: 42.5/60 Overall Group score up seven points Vigeo’s audit revealed a high level of commitment by the Group with respect to environ2+ 33 3+ 4mental, social, labour and governance objectives that it can be expected to fulfil. The overall score of Aéroports de Paris SA and its three main subsidiaries – Hub télécom, ADP Ingénierie 2010 Overall Group Score: 35.5/60 and Aéroports de Paris Management – increased seven points on 2010.* 2012 Overall Aéroports de Paris SA Score: 43/60 Aéroports de Paris Foundation approaches 2+ 33 3+ 4excellence Aéroports de Paris SA, whose score rose five points in comparison with 2010, showed a 2010 Overall Aéroports de Paris SA Score: 38/60 consolidated and consistent commitment in all areas of sustainable performance. 2012: 49/60 Corporate governance Performance is deemed robust. The most significant improvements were the consolidation of the Board of Director’s audit committee; the reconciliation of risk and internal control 2+ 33 3+ 4policies; and the inclusion of sustainable development criteria in determining the variable portion of corporate officers’ compensation. 2010: 44/60 The environment 2012: 48/60 Commitment is deemed consolidated and performance approaches excellence. This rating was helped by: a new environmental policy; energy management in accordance with ISO 2+ 33 3+ 450001; the culmination of renewable energy production projects; the commissioning of satellite 4, the Altaï building and a HEQ®-certified freight terminal; and Paris-Charles de 2010: 45/60 Gaulle and Paris-Orly being awarded level 3 Airport Carbon Accreditation. 2012: 41/60 2012: 33/60 Human resources and Human Rights Performance shows evidence of commitment, the strong points being a specific roadmap for 2013-2015, an internal control mechanism for HR procedures, considerable resources 33 3+ 33 3+ dedicated to training and the desire to develop a management culture. 2010: 37/60 2010: 30/60 Market behaviour The Group’s commitment was deemed consolidated as regards customers’ and providers’ inte2012: 44/60 rests and the development of sustainable procurement, and advanced as regards the prevention of corruption. In particular, Vigeo recognised a new organisational model focused on passenger 2+ 33 3+ 4satisfaction, the Service University, and new tools to foster dialogue with airline companies. A new procurement policy includes the development of sustainable procurement. 2010: 39/60 Community involvement Commitment was evident as regards the economic development of the region, local em2012: 39/60 ployment and training, relations with stakeholders and the accessibility of airport services for persons with reduced mobility. Special emphasis was placed on the Group’s efforts to 2+ 33 3+ 4promote the attractiveness of Grand Roissy from an economic perspective and actions enabling local residents to access jobs and training. 2010: 35/60 * In 2010, the Alyzia Group was included in the scope of the study. 70 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Consolidated efforts by subsidiaries The three wholly-owned Aéroport de Paris subsidiaries have all increased their scores and show a consolidated level of commitment (3-). 2012: 34/60 Hub télécom Hub télécom is a telecommunications operator specialised in electronic communication services and networks at airports and sites highly-frequented by business professionals. This 2+ 33 3+ 4subsidiary, which offers the Group’s services and solutions under the brand name Hub one, has been rated on a non-financial basis since 2008. In 2012, the rating agency showed that 2010: 32/60 the company had improved in comparison to 2010 with respect to all criteria assessed. It scored a consistent 3(consolidated) across the board, with an increase of two points in its overall score (34/60 as against 32/60). The areas showing most improvement included sustainable procurement, outflow management, internal control mechanisms and the respect of basic rights. Over the next two years the main improvement will involve the implementation of CSR reporting. 2012: 33/60 ADP Ingénierie ADP Ingénierie, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aéroports de Paris, is a French architecture and engineering firm specialised in the airport sector, for which it designs and performs 2+ 33 3+ 4development, building construction, infrastructure and equipment projects. It also performs complex urban planning projects involving embassies, stadiums, and theatres or concert 2010: 29/60 halls. It acts in the capacity as advisor, main contractor, or contracting assistant. As of 31 December 2012, ADP Ingénierie employed approximately 450 people and had operations in 12 countries, with more than 500 projects underway worldwide. The 2012 non-financial rating represents a substantial change in the company’s performance, with an increase of four points in its overall score compared to 2010 (from 29/60 to 33/60), placing it level 3(consolidated commitment). There is consistent improvement in each area. Vigeo notes that CSR commitments were formalised and the resources set aside for CSR were consolidated. The most advanced commitments were seen in the areas of governance (internal control, audit and anti-corruption measures) and human resources. Future measures will mainly involve improving reporting procedures, developing an environmental offering and rolling the CSR policy out to international sites. 2012: 29,5/60 Aéroports de Paris Management Aéroports de Paris is an airport management company. It also acquires interests in airport corporations. It is directly or indirectly responsible for the operation, management and deve2+ 33 3+ 4lopment of 22 airports with traffic of over 42 million passengers. It has 49 employees, including 28 expatriates, in nine countries. Its 2012 non-financial rating points to a considerable 2010: 25/60 improvement in its overall performance, with a score of 29.5/60, up 4.5 points on 2010 (25/60), placing it level 3(consolidated commitment). Progress was notably evident in the corporate governance domain (35.5/60 in 2012 as against 24.6/60 in 2010). Remarkable improvements were also made in «market behaviour», with the rating increasing to 28/60, from 15.7/60 in 2010. Vigeo gave special mention to the implementation of new control and audit mechanisms and a clearer anti-corruption policy. Improvements were seen in five out of the seven criteria under review, demonstrating an ongoing commitment on behalf of the company. Vigeo recommends that the company place more importance on contributing to the social and environmental progress of its airport manager customers as part of its strategic focus. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 71 NON-FINANCIAL RATINGS 2012 Hub télécom A proactive subsidiary Environment, diversity, PROFILE A CSR policy since quality of life  ISO 9001 certified 2008 In 2012, Hub télécom signed its first agree 420 employees ment on gender equality in the workplace.  2012 revenue: €142m Following the example of Aéroports de Paris, In the wake of this, it also signed an agreeAcquisition of Nomadvance and creation Hub Télécom has, since 2008, been highly ment on telework, with a twofold social of the Hub One brand in 2012 proactive in terms of CSR. In 2010, it signed and economic objective, namely work-life  First sustainable development report: 2010 the Telecom sector’s voluntary commitment balance, integration, the continued employcharter on sustainable development and is ment of disabled persons, and reduced CSR COMMITMENT gradually formalising its CSR policy with the commuting time, on the one hand; and  Developing Green IT product offerings assistance of a 22-person internal network. reducing the environmental impact of transthat help reduce the environmental impact port on the other. The company has also reof its customers’ activities 2012 highlights cently implemented a car share facility, with Sustainable procurement policy 48 vehicles available to employees on a self Improving the energy performance Ethics and sustainable service basis. This solution, which is popular of IT and telecommunications infrastructures procurement with employees for its flexibility, optimises  Managing products’ end-of-life and addressing In 2012, Hub télécom drew up a code of the volume and use of the vehicle fleet. recycling ethics with the help of the NGO Transpa Controlling vehicle fleet emissions rence International France, within the scope Integration and solidarity Promoting ecological conduct within of a partnership signed in 2011 (see page Since 2011, Hub télécom has been offering the company 17), and is gradually rolling out its internal its employees the opportunity to carry out Respecting diversity control mechanisms. Within the context of voluntary work during their leave in associa Quality of life at work its responsible procurement policy, Hub télétion with international aid organisation, PlaSocial initiatives com has invested in a tool for evaluating its nète Urgence. It also uses sheltered sector suppliers in terms of their compliance with companies for catering, paper supply and 1.7tonnes the sustainable development charter. used paper collection services. For further information of paper was collected www.hubone.fr in six months. Waste: day-to-day responsibility Since September 2012, employees at Hub télécom’s four sites sort their paper and plastic cups. The sorted waste is collected by Le Petit Plus, an outreach company in the Seine-Saint-Denis area, which has equipped offices, common areas and cafeterias with specially-adapted bins. The paper will be recycled by paper manufacturer ArjoWiggin at its Château-Thierry plant. Hub télécom raised awareness among its employees well in advance of the operation, with the result that they are very strongly committed to its success. The company is a living example of how to integrate sustainable development on a day-to-day basis, i.e., through sustainable procurement, reduced carbon footprint, waste recovery and across-the-board commitment. 72 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 7 Appendices Governance indicators page 74 Table of indicators page 78 Opinions from page 75 GRI summary page 8O the stakeholders’ panel Community dialogue page 76 Abbreviations and subject page 81 and international agreements index Method for reporting page 77 indicators APPENDICES Governance indicators STAKEHOLDERS FACTS  The Chairman of the Board of Directors fulfils the role of Chief Executive Officer. Members of the Board Term of Office 5 years  Three directors are deemed independent Status: 6 under the criteria specified by the 18 members Appointed by the Shareholders: 6 AFEP-Medef code of corporate Elected by the employees: 6 governance. The independent directors Jurisdiction Registration of directors with the IFA(1) account for half of the directors appointed Independence Report of the Chairman of the Board of Directors by the General Assembly and less than Auditors one-third of all Board members. Board membership is balanced in terms The auditors cannot provide consulting Yes services except for ancillary audit services. of composition, to guarantee shareholders and the market that its tasks will be Shareholders carried out with independence and One share equals one vote. Yes objectivity.  In addition to independence as judged by INVOLVEMENT IN DECISIONS the criteria laid down in the AFEP-Medef code, it should be noted that each director and each observer has agreed, in the Board of Directors directors’ charter set out in the appendix Number of meetings and average 11 meetings attendance rate 76.3% to the internal regulations of the Board of Directors, to retain his independence Internal Regulations and Code of Ethics Oui in terms of analysis, judgement, Strategy decision-making and action (article 6 Audit, strategy and compensation committees Audit Remuneration and investments of the charter). The annual evaluation • Number of members 4 6 3 questionnaire relating to the operation of • Number of meetings 7 3 2 the Board of Directors satisfies Aéroports • Attendance rate 85.7% 72.2% 100% de Paris as to the independence of directors. Annual assessment of Board, result of the 2011 Internal assessment (confidential questionnaire and interview)  Introduction in 2010 of a first annual assessment presented in 2012 High level of and constantly growing satisfaction non-financial criterion in determining General Assembly the variable portion of corporate officer compensation. Turnout at the last General Assembly 86.6% of voting rights  The executives’ remuneration scheme is Percentage of votes cast at the General related to performance, handling conflicts Resolutions adopted by over 84.5% Assembly (3 May 2012) by shareholders of interest and the skills of directors and is presented in the report of the Chairman FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL INFORMATION of the Board, Appendix 2 of the Aéroports de Paris registration document. It can be consulted at:  www.aeroportsdeparis.fr Publication of criteria and amounts Yes (management report, registration document) of corporate officers’ compensation  Compliance with AFEP-Medef code regarding compensation Publication of the amount of fees Yes (management report, registration document) Stock-options, free shares granted No to corporate officers (1) French Institute of Directors The publication of information concerning the Company’s capital structure and any information liable to have an impact in the event of a public offering is set out in the 2012 management report. 74 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Opinions from the stakeholders’ panel Since 2006, we have asked a panel of stakeinformation on the CSR actions in internaMETHOD holders to assess the quality of our Corpotional airports in which the Group has an The report complies with the Global rate Social Responsibility Report and our interest; developing information on the Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) authoritative means of communicating our CSR strategy. link-up with the Schiphol Group, in particuthird generation management and The follow-up of suggestions and comments lar through a recap of the terms of this alreporting guidelines. from stakeholders from one year to the next liance; giving more recognition to the areas illustrates our systematic determination to in which the Group’s actions go above and Collecting stakeholder opinions continuously improve. The members of the beyond regulatory requirements. One of the Opinions were collected on four chosen stakeholders’ panel consider that the report members regrets that sustainable developareas, which are used as an analytical is comprehensive and based on accurate, ment is not first among the ten focus areas framework for the stakeholders consulted: reliable evidence. They feel they are well of the Group’s 2011-¬2015 strategy, given The relevance of the policies and actions represented in it and their views are accuthat the report shows the company to be described; rately expressed and addressed. They appreextremely ambitious in this regard. Stakeholder involvement, their ciate the report’s transparency and fairness identification and the attention paid and feel that it gives a good reflection of the Format to their expectations in the treatment ongoing development of the Group’s social The members of the stakeholders’ panel of the topics; responsibility policy. appreciated: the simplicity and clarity of Including performance in a long term the style; the very instructional graphic global vision; The contents of the report presentation of the following information: Ensuring completeness to provide The stakeholders’ panel considers that the stakeholders’ expectations, medium-term a balanced assessment (strengths and information is clear and of good quality and objectives and related road maps, graphics weaknesses) of performance. that the topics have been given a balanced, showing the location of environmental propertinent and full treatment. The report is jects; the variety of reading levels. Five quality principles easy to understand and well-presented underlying the report and enables comparisons to be made with Areas for improvement Balance: the various types of information previous years. The members of the stakeReaders put forward several suggestions on must be able to be compared objectively. holders’ panel feel that each section of the how to make it easier to remember this reComparison year on year. report is well structured and provides accuport, which they consider extremely dense. Accuracy: the information must be rate facts. Among the report’s strong points, Ideas included grouping summary data such accurate and detailed. panel members in particular noted a good as road maps together at the start of the Clarity: the information must be easy understanding of overall strategy, goverreport to provide a comprehensive view of to understand and use by stakeholders. nance and the relationship with civil society. challenges and objectives from the word Reliability: based on the quality of They welcome the presentation of quantigo; providing an organisational chart of the compilation. tative objectives, the personal viewpoints Environment and Sustainable Development provided in two-way interviews, the instrucdivision; and breaking up the table of GRI tional explanations, and the showcasing of indicators and introducing comparables MEMBERS OF THE 2012 detailed, illustrated actions. (percentages). PANEL Nathalie Chesnais, Sustainable Areas for improvement We will study the comments made in resDevelopment and Quality Director, Servair The members of the stakeholders’ panel ponse to our request for feedback with the Marie-Christine Korniloff, SRI Manager, suggest: providing a clearer differentiation utmost care and address them, wherever Financière de l’Échiquier between the various priority actions to possible, in our 2013 corporate social resYann Le Moullec, Economic make them easier to identify; giving more ponsibility report. Development Manager for the town of Orly Romauld Ramboer, member Factoring in the 2011 comments of the Aéroports de Paris works The stakeholder panel rated the 2011 report as balanced, clear, comprehensive and council reliable. Panel members felt it gave a detailed picture of Aéroports de Paris’ actions and key figures, allowing them to assess changes in the Group from one year to the next. The panel had suggested the following areas for improvement: giving a clearer presentation of structural projects, in particular involving real estate; highlighting Aéroports de Paris’ involvement with local authorities; providing a summary of the stakeholders’ expectations and the Group’s responses; describing the actions taken by Aéroport de Paris in terms of sustainable procurement. These suggestions were taken into account in the 2012 report: the stakeholders’ expectations and the Group’s responses are presented in simple graphic format combined with two-way interviews between a company representative and a stakeholder representative; the main strategic real estate projects and major environmental achievements and projects are presented in table and graphic form. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 75 APPENDICES Community dialogue and international agreements COMMUNICATING WITH AND INFORMING OUR STAKEHOLDERS Information tools Methods of consultation Civil society Websites F orums and exhibitions Annual reports Environmental advisory committees The press Aéroports de Paris Foundation Environment and Sustainable Development Centres Employees Intranet v Annual Social Climate Survey In-house media, newsletter Works council Information and awareness-raising booklets for staff HRD Club for airport-based companies Customers Websites Website • Passengers Magazine: Aéroports de Paris LifeStyle Touchscreens at information points Customer guides A single telephone number 3950 E-newsletters Satisfaction questionnaires • Companies Websites and intranet  iscussions with companies D Customer guides Quality of service operational committees E-newsletters Satisfaction questionnaires Airport orientation committee (AOC) • Companies using Websites and intranet Meetings the airport site E-newsletters Business partners www.tendersmart.com (supplier consultation) Seminars and conferences (service providers, suppliers, Self-assessment questionnaires www.ecoairport.fr subcontractors) Markets and consultations www.tendersmart.com Environmental partners’ clubs Financial Partners Annual reports  eneral Meeting of Shareholders G (the French Government, Shareholder newsletters and Internet guide Shareholders’ club financial institutions, investors, Quarterly results Shareholders’ meetings individual shareholders) Half-yearly results Site visits The French Government,  orking groups W public bodies Annual reports Participation in regional groups Dialogue with Government ministries and agencies COMPLIANCE WITH UN AND ILO PRINCIPLES Aéroports de Paris develops its business in accordance with the principles of the UN’s Global Compact, of which it has been a signatory since 2003. The Group thus confirms its adherence with the fundamental conventions of the International Labour Organisation. Each year, we provide proof of our compliance with these commitments by publishing our best practices recognised by the UN. These correspond to one of the ten principles of the Global Compact and can be accessed on our website www.aeroportsdeparis.fr («Group» tab, «Sustainable Development» section). Principles of the Global Compact and the ILO Actions undertaken Human rights 1. Support and respect the protection of international law on human Improve the quality of service with respect to the reception and assistance accorded to passengers rights within the sphere of influence of the Group. with disabilities or reduced mobility 2. Ensure that the Group’s companies are not complicit in violations Act to combat concealed employment by suppliers of human rights. Labour standard / ILO principles 3. Uphold freedom of association and the effective recognition Individual right to union training of the right to collective bargaining. Agreements on trade union rights 4. Eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labour. Integrate ethical criteria into our specifications applicable to our suppliers and service providers Code of procurement ethics annexed to supplier and service provider contracts to reduce 5. Ensure the effective abolition of child labour. the risk of child labour Frequently renewed agreements on gender equality, the integration of disabled persons, 6. Eliminate discrimination in the workplace and profession. and the employment and retention of seniors Respect for the environment 7. Support a preventative approach to environmental challenges. Aéroports de Paris environmental policy 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Training and environmental awareness raising for all ADP employees responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Technological monitoring and innovation friendly technologies. Fight against corruption 2011-2012 partnership agreement between Aéroports de Paris Group and the NGO Transparency 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion International France on combatting corruption and bribery. Second three-year programme to prevent fraud (2012-2014) for Aéroports de Paris SA 76 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 AÉROPORTS DE PARIS Method for reporting INTHE SOCIALLY RESPONSIBLE indicators INVESTMENT (SRI) INDICES This report concerns Aéroports de Paris’ • S ocial indicators use a social reporting activities from 1 January to 31 December protocol that defines the applicable scope 2012. It has been based on the Global and methods. They are sent to the EnviASPI Eurozone® Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) third generation ronment and Sustainable Development Aspi Eurozone® (Advanced Sustainable management and reporting guidelines. This Division by the Human Resources Division. Performance Indices) is one of the is co-led by the United Nations Environbenchmark European indices for sustainable ment Programme (UNEP) to harmonise the • N ight traffic data are collected by Aérodevelopment and corporate social consolidation of data on sustainable deveports de Paris. responsibility. Companies included in the lopment. These guidelines provide principles Aspi index are selected on the basis of that help organisations deliver a balanced • F or soundproofing aid indicators, the evaluations performed by Vigeo Rating. and reasonable presentation of their econodata come from the review published at Aéroports de Paris, which has been present mic, environmental and social performance the end of December 2012. in this index since 2011, holds the leading (see p. 80). position in the transport and logistics sector. • F or the environmental indicators, AéroControl ports de Paris uses a specific reporting protocol to define the indicator and the and consolidation scope and method of the calculation. Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 Euronext Vigeo Europe 120 brings together The Environment and Sustainable Develop• F or air and emission quality indicators, the the 120 European companies considered ment Division consolidates the sustainable data are provided by the Aéroports de Pamost advanced in the social responsibility development indicators on the basis of data ris laboratory, Cofrac-accredited and cerdomain. This index is established on the submitted by the departments in question. tified to ISO 9001, using methodological basis of a universe of companies belonging guides that include the instructions used. to the Stoxx 1800 index. Companies They are then sent to the Environment obtaining the highest aggregate score in In accordance with the Decree of 24 April and Sustainable Development Division. their benchmark universe are eligible for 2012 on the transparency obligations of inclusion in a Vigeo index. Aéroports de listed companies, the information pu• F or aircraft emissions, the calculations Paris has been included in the Euronext blished in our management report has have been made on the basis of a methoVigeo Europe 120 index since 2012. been reviewed by an independent third dology established by the International party. KPMG reviewed the quantitative Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO) for calIndex GLOBAL 100 and qualitative data published in section The Global 100 project groups together culating the Landing and Take-Off Cycle. 4 «Social, environmental and employeethe 100 most sustainable companies in related data» of Aéroports de Paris’ 2012 management report, with a moderate Changes in scope the world. This index compares companies from 22 countries active in all economic level of assurance as set out in the report • F or the presentation of financial statesectors. Companies are classified on the appearing in appendix 3 of the managements: Aéroports de Paris Group has basis of 12 key performance indicators ment report. adopted a new presentation of its consolisuch as energy production, carbon dated accounts with effect from financial emissions, leadership diversity and • In light of the different collection meyear ended 31 December 2011. Pro-forinvestments in innovation. Aéroports de thods and operating systems in the three ma accounts for 2010 have been drawn Paris ranks 39th in the Global 100 index. airports, the scope of the reports may up in accordance with these changes. vary for certain indicators. • F or corporate data: new scope excluding • F or indicators of the number of emground handling and commercial joint ployees at airports, the census has been ventures. ESI Europe Excellence Europe carried out by the Occupations, Jobs and The Ethibel Sustainability Index (ESI) Europe Training Observatories. includes 200 companies considered leaders in CSR. It is based on ethical and sustainable criteria and provides a comprehensive perspective on the financial performance of the world’s leading companies in terms of sustainability for institutional investors. Aéroports de Paris has been included in the ESI index since 2009. Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 77 APPENDICES Table of indicators AÉROPORTS DE PARIS IN FIGURES 2012 INDICATORS UNITS 2010 Pro-forma (a) 2011 GRI REF. AÉROPORTS Aéroports AÉROPORTS Aéroports AÉROPORTS Aéroports DE PARIS de Paris DE PARIS de Paris DE PARIS de Paris GROUP SA GROUP SA GROUP SA Revenue em 2,480 2,385 2,502 2,473 2,640 2,607 EC1 EBITDA em 922 – 972 – 1,017 – EC1 Net income: Group share/annual profit em 300 238 348 312 341 272 EC1 Investments* em 496 482 686 657 647 616 EC1 Données économiques 2012 INDICATORS UNITS 2010 2011 GRI REF. CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL Number of companies in the airports number 637 203 68 908 656 238 75 969 nd nd nd nd EC9 Jobs at airports (excluding temporary) number 86,000 26,745 2,658 115,403 87,200 27,200 3,115 117,515 nd nd nd nd EC9 Compensation fund for airport noise em 2.61 1.96 na 4.57 2.80 1.77 nd 4.57 nd nd nd 4.57 EC9 (FCNA) Aéroports de Paris Foundation: e na na na 508,500 na na na 573,700 na na na 623,650 EC8 amount granted by the Foundation MARKET PRESENCE Passenger air traffic in millions 58.2 25.2 nd 83.4 61.0 27.1 nd 88.1 61.6 27.2 nd 88.8 EC6 Number of aircraft movements in thousands 491.9 215.6 nd 707.5 506.9 228.5 nd 735.4 491.3 230.6 nd 721.9 EC6 EMPLOYEE-RELATED DATA 2012 (b) INDICATORS UNITS 2010 Pro-forma 2011 GRI REF. AVERAGE HEADCOUNT Aéroports de Paris number 6,958 6,879 6,851 LA1 Subsidiaries number 5,261 2,213 2,184 LA1 Aéroports de Paris Group number 12,219 9,092 9,035 LA1 Disabled workers(1) number 320 335 345 LA13 Average age(2) years 44.8 45.3 45.8 LA13 Proportion of women(2) % 38.2 38.3 38.2 LA13 HIRES AND DEPARTURES Permanent contract hires(1) number 571 263 320 LA2 Hires of under-25 years old(2) number 29 35 29 LA2 Departures (all reasons)(1) number 1,630 613 478 LA2 Promotion rate(2) % 3.8 5.9 5.2 LA2 Replacement rate for permanent jobs(2) % 1.7 2.3 2 LA2 TRAINING Percentage of payroll spent % 6.13 6.6 6.01 LA10 on ongoing training(2) ABSENTEEISM Absenteeism for all causes(2) % 7.06 6.6 6,6 LA7 Absenteeism(2) hours 773,859 715,671 713,555 LA7 HEALTH, SAFETY AND WORKING CONDITIONS Accidents at work(2) number 151 114 141 LA7 Deaths(2) number 0 0 0 LA7 Accidents at work frequency rate(2) % 14.6 11.1 13.6 LA7 Accidents at work severity rate(2) % 1 0.6 0.75 LA7 SOCIETAL DATA 2012 INDICATORS UNITS 2010 2011 Réf. GRI Participants in «Airport and related jobs» number 725 268 305 SO1 seminars Beneficiaries of employment assistance number 1,557 2,002 2,972 SO1 (training, support, mobility assistance) * Investments in tangible and intangible assets excluding acquisition of subsidiaries (€668 million in 2012 for the acquisition of TAV Airports). (1) for Aéroports de Paris Group. (2) for Aéroports de Paris SA. For further information see the notes to the consolidated financial statements available at www.aeroportsdeparis.fr. (a) The Aéroports de Paris Group adopted a new presentation of its consolidated financial statements with effect from financial year ended 31 December 2011. Pro-forma accounts for 2010 have been drawn up in accordance with these changes. (b) New scope excluding ground handling and commercial joint ventures. 78 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 ENVIRONMENTAL DATA 2012 INDICATORS UNITS 2010 2011 GRI REF. CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CDG ORLY LBG TOTAL CURFEW EXEMPTIONS (PARIS-ORLY) Number of exemptions number na 181 na na na 69 na na na 24 na na SO1 between 11.30 pm and 11.45 pm number na 88 na na na 45 na na na 15 na na SO1 NIGHT TRAFFIC BY TIME SLOT (PARIS-CHARLES DE GAULLE) 10 pm midnight local time number 28,487 na na na 27,922 na na na 27,126 na na na SO1 midnight 5 am local time number 22,308 na na na 21,062 na na na 20,371 na na na SO1 5 am 6 am local time number 10,460 na na na 10,226 na na na 9,847 na na na SO1 Total number 61,255 na na na 59,210 na na na 57,344 na na na SO1 NOISE Cases handled number 1,666 971 na 2,637 1,578 1,272 na 2,850 1,445 1,204 30 2,679 SO1 Soundproofed homes and premises number 2,816 1,082 na 3,898 1,762 1,292 na 3,054 3,131 1,820 30 4,981 SO1 Aid granted(1) em 25.4 11 na 36.4 21.2 19.0 na 40.2 32.7 20.8 0.45 54.01 SO1 AIR QUALITY, EMISSIONS AND WASTE Air quality at the airports Nitrogen dioxide rate (NO2) μg/m3 nd 34 nd na 28 29 nd na 28 28 nd na / Particle rate (PM 2,5) μg/m3 19 21 nd na 19 19 nd na 14 16 nd na / Ozone rate (O3) μg/m3 39 42 nd na 41 43 nd na 40 44 nd na / Nitrogen monoxide rate (NO) μg/m3 nd 13 nd na 11 12 nd na 11 13 nd na / Plant emissions CO2 emissions(2) tonne 126,146 24,520 5,451 156,117 93,318 10,708 3,849 107,875 107,913 11,743 4,162 123,818 EN16 NOx emissions kg 94,508 15,508 3,437 113,453 67,272 6,774 2,427 76,473 88,263 7,508 2,624 98,395 EN16 GHG emissions from aircraft CO2 emissions tonne 856,800 288,000 nd 1,144,800 894,600 301,700 nd 1,196,300 878,071 298,838 nd 1,176,909 EN17 NOx emissions tonne 4,032 1,183 nd 5,215 4,225 1,241 nd 5,466 4,225 1,217 nd 5,442 EN20 Vehicle Emissions CO2 emissions tonne 1,917 1, 338 253 3,508 1,458 1,177 263 2,898 1,766 1,067 251 3,084 EN16 ENERGY Share of renewable energy in our final % – – – 1.03 – – – 3.86 – – – 8.05 EN6 internal energy consumption Thermal generation MWh 340,890 145,232 23,976 510,098 259,168 102,531 13,251 374,950 287,968 113,473 18,664 420,105 EN4 Refrigeration MWh 123,825 17,196 na 141,021 118,135 20,162 na 138,297 118,541 19,277 855 138,673 EN4 Portion of cogeneration in energy consumption designed to produce % 42.8 na na na 42.6 na na na 50.0 na na na EN4 heat at Paris-Charles de Gaulle Total electrical power purchased GWh 339 101 32 472 329 100 29 458 338 111 28 478 EN4 per airport (internal + external) Internal energy consumption GWh Aéroports de Paris (hot, cold, primary 1,043 281 13 1,337 961 290 9 1,260 1,055 306 8 1,370 EN3 electricity) energy WATER thousands Water consumption of m3 2,294 478 86 2,858 2,406 492 84 2,982 2,359 519 96 2,974 EN8 thousands Aéroports de Paris portion of m3 1,395 275 21 1 691 1,252 309 13 1,574 1,238 322 14 1,574 EN8 WASTE OIW volume collected tonne 36,887 12,675 1,561 51,123 35,386 10,548 1,362 47,296 34,761 7,048 1,506 43,315 EN22 Landfill % 4 9 31 5.9 1 6 49 3.6 1 4 47 7.9 EN22 Recyclable % 19 18 40 19.5 22 20 23 21.7 23 22 22 23.9 EN22 Incinerated % 77 73 29 74.6 76 75 28 74.7 76 75 30 68.2 EN22 HIW volume collected tonne 2,160 162 42 2,364 2,208 124 70 2,402 2,484 106 27 2,617 EN24 TRANSPORT Share of public transport for passenger % 45.2 36.8 na 42.1 45.3 36.6 na 42.1 45.4 36.5 na 42.3 EN29 access to airports na = not applicable; nd = not available. (1) Amounts at 31 December 2012 do not include the potential increase in coverage rate for certain files. (2) Data verified by a third party (Apave). Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 79 APPENDICES GRI summary FACTS 1. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS T he Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 1.1 Statement from decision-maker p. 1 guidelines, version 3.1, have been p. 5-7, 10-14, 21, 31, 36, 38-40, 42, 1.2 Description of impacts, risks and opportunities implemented using Application B. 47-48, 52, 57, 70, 74 2. ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE T his application level has been the subject 2.1 Name of organisation Cover of external verification by KPMG Audit. 2.2 Products and services p. 6-7, 46-55 2.3 Operational structure p. 3, 6, 12-16, 74 2.4 Headquarters Outside back cover 2.5 Countries of operation p. 2, Outside back cover 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Outside back cover, p.12 2.7 Markets p. 2-3 2.8 Size p. 2, 3, 6-8 LEVELS OF IMPLEMENTATION 2.9 Major changes p. 1, 6-7, 12-13, 70-72 OF THE REPORT 2.10 Awards received p. 2, 8-9, 49, 77, Outside back cover MANDATORY OPTIONAL 3. REPORT PARAMETERS PROFILE OF REPORT Checked by Checked by Self-reported 3.1 Period 2012 a third party the GRI 3.2 Latest report 2011 3.3 Reporting cycle Annuel 2006 GUIDELINES M. Didier Hamon 3.4 Contact person Environment and Sustainable Development division SCOPE OF REPORT 3.5 Process of deciding on content p. 75, 77 3.6 Scope of report p. 2-6, 77 3.7 Limits of scope p. 2-6, 77-79 3.8 Principles of communicating data p. 77 3.9 Measurement methods p. 77 3.10 Reformulations and consequences p. 12, 77-79 3.11 Major changes p. 1, 12-14, 77-79 GRI CONTENT INDEX C 3.12 Table of information location p. 80 VALIDATION BY THIRD PARTIES 3.13 Validation policy and practice p. 75, 77-79 CHECKED BY A THIRD PARTY C+ 4. GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENTS AND DIALOGUE GOVERNANCE 4.1 Governance structure p. 12, 74 B 4.2 Chairman of the Board of Directors p. 74 4.3 Independence of the Board of Directors p. 12, 74 4.4 Supervisory procedures p. 12-15 CHECKED BY A THIRD PARTY B+ 4.5 Scheme for executive compensation tied to performance p. 74 4.6 Managing conflicts of interest p. 12-15 4.7 Qualifications of directors p. 12-13, 74 A 4.8 Values, codes of conduct p. 8, 12-15 4.9 How to manage opportunities and risks p. 12-14 CHECKED BY A THIRD PARTY A+ 4.10 Performance evaluation by the Board of Directors p. 12, 74 EXTERNAL COMMITMENTS 4.11 Precautionary principle p. 5, 8, 13-14 p. 5-8, 12-14, 21-24, 26, 29, 31-32, 38, 4.12 Charters, principles and other initiatives 40-42, 47-49, 52, 62-63, 66, 68 4.13 Membership of associations p. 26, 33, 42, 59, 62-63 DISCUSSIONS WITH STAKEHOLDERS 4.14 List of stakeholder groups p. 10-11 4.15 Selection of stakeholders for dialogue p. 10-11, 75-76 4.16 Dialogue (frequency, type, etc.) p. 75-76 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder 4.17 p. 10-11, 75-76 engagement 5. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS p. 78-79 INFORMATION ON MANAGERIAL APPROACH – Economic performance p. 2, 6-7, 78 – Environmental performance p. 30-45, 78 – Employment, social relations and decent work p. 20-29, 78 – Human rights p. 5, 8, 10-12, 14-15, 20-29, 52, 66, 76 – Society p. 56-69 – Product liability p. 46-55 80 Aéroports de Paris Corporate social responsibility report 2012 Abbreviations and acronyms ACA: Airport Carbon Accreditation Air: Association d’intérêt régional employee savings committee) ISO: International Organization ACI: Airports Council International (association for regional interest) CO2: carbon dioxide for Standardization Adapt: Association pour l’insertion Anact: Agence nationale pour Cofrac: Comité français NOx: nitrous oxides sociale et professionnelle des l’amélioration des conditions d’accréditation (French accreditation OHSAS: Occupational Health personnes handicapées (association de travail (national agency for the committee) and Safety Assessment Series for the social and professional improvement of working conditions) DGAC: direction générale Parafe: Passage rapide integration of the disabled) ARD: Agence régionale de de l’aviation civile (French civil des frontières extérieures Adife: Actions et développement développement (regional aviation authority) (fast border screening facility) d’initiatives en faveur de l’emploi development agency) EMS: environmental management PEB: plan d’exposition au bruit (actions and development of CCI: Chamber of Commerce system (noise exposure plan) initiatives in favour of employment) and Industry ETI: entreprises de taille PGS: plan de gêne sonore (noise Ador: Association pour le CCIP: Paris Chamber of Commerce intermédiaire (medium-sized management plan) développement économique and Industry companies) PHMR: personne handicapée du pôle Orly-Rungis (association Ceevo: Comité d’expansion FCPE: Fonds commun de placement ou à mobilité réduite (a disabled for the economic development économique du Val-d’Oise d’entreprise (corporate mutual fund) person or with reduced mobility) of Orly-Rungis) (economic expansion committee GIP: groupement d’intérêt public Sesar: Single European Sky ATM Afnor: Association française for the Val-d’Oise region) (public interest consortium) Research de normalisation (French standards CHSCT: Comité d’hygiène, Greta: Groupement Siepor: Syndicat intercommunal association) de sécurité et des conditions d’établissements locaux publics d’études du pôle Orly Rungis Afpa: Association nationale de travail (committee for health, d’enseignement (local educational (joint municipal research consortium pour la formation professionnelle safety and work conditions) organisation) for Orly-Rungis) des adultes (national association CIES: Comité intersyndical Hub: interchange platform SO2: sulfur dioxide for adult vocational training) de l’épargne salariale (joint union IMS: integrated management system tep: tonnes oil equivalent Subject index ACA (Airport Carbon Accreditation), Corporate agreements, 22-25 32, 36 Quality of service, 5, 6, 10, 11, 15, 9, 19, 31, 32, 38, 42, 70 Corporate governance, 5, 8-18, High environmental quality (HQE), 19, 47-55, 76 AERO Skills, 57, 59, 66 74, 76 see HQE buildings Retailers, 6, 10, 15, 50-52 Aéropôle, 62, 63, 67 Customers, 5-6, 8, 10, 15, 19, 23, HQE and BBC buildings, 7, 9, 15, Risks, 5, 10, 12, 13, 15, 16-17, Aéroports de Paris employees, 2, 5, 27, 47-55, 70-72, 76 19, 31, 34-35, 37, 43, 70 22-25, 32, 33, 70, 80 11, 15, 20-29, 58-59, 70, 77, 80 Datagora, 62, 63, 67 Hubstart Paris®, 9, 19, 57, 62, 67 Satellite, 4, 6-7, 9, 19, 31, 35, 37, Aéroports de Paris Foundation DGAC (French civil aviation Human rights, 8, 15, 21-22, 42, 43, 47, 51, 55, 70 (solidarity), 6, 14, 19, 44, 57-58, authority), 3, 40, 42, 61, 64 70-72, 76 Schiphol, 6, 7, 8, 43, 50, 52 68, 76, 78 Disability and PHMR, 11, 12, 21, Indicators, see headings and pages Senior employees, 11, 24, 76 Air (quality), 32, 38, 43, 77, 79 24, 26, 29, 51, 53, 58, 64, 68, 70-71, 74, 77-80 Service University, 10, 15, 47, 48, Air France, 7, 15, 42, 43, 53, 55, 72, 76, 78 Innovation, 49, 54, 76, 77 50, 53, 70 63 Diversity, 15, 21-22, 24-25, 28-29, Participatory innovation, 27 Single European Sky, 17 Airlines, 6, 10, 38, 42, 47-49, 60, 66, 72, 76 Integration, solidarity, 14, 19, 29, Site employees, 11, 15, 26, 31, 38, 54-55, 64, 70 Economic and social cooperation, 8, 44, 53, 57-61, 66, 68, 72, 76 61, 67, 68 Airparif, 32, 38 10-11, 14-15, 57-68 International Labour Organization SME, 52, 57, 62, 63, 67 Audits, internal control, 5, 12-14, Economic positioning, 2-3, 6-7 (ILO), 8, 76 Social housing (Comité Habitat), 19, 18, 21, 25, 32, 33, 37, 70-72, Employment figures, 23, 78 Local authorities, 6, 9, 10, 44, 59, 61 74, 80 Employment-training and regions, 57-64 Socially responsible investment (SRI), Biodiversity, 31-32, 34, 40, 41, see «Civil society» Men-women, see Diversity HubLink, 2, 8, 29, 77 44, 67 Energy, renewable energy, 3, 31, see Schiphol Solidarity, see integration, disability Biomass, 1, 9, 31, 34, 36, 38, 32, 36, 37, 42-43, 77, 79 Noise (measurement, Environmental management 42, 43 entrevoisins.org, 38, 64, 66 soundproofing), 10, 38, 40, 57, systems, 10, 15, 32, 33 CCE (environmental advisory Environment and Sustainable 64-65, 67, 77, 79 Stakeholders, 1, 5, 8, 9, 10-11, committee), 65 Development Centres (MDEDD), 43, Non-financial rating, 5, 8, 70-71, 13-16, 22, 26, 49, 70, 74-76, 80 Certifications, accreditations, 8, 32, 44, 58, 59, 63, 64, 67-68, 76 74 Subsidiaries, 3, 8, 12-14, 16, 22, 36, 38, 42, 70, 77 Environment, 1, 3, 5-10, 14-15, Nurseries, 11, 26, 61 52, 70-72, 78 Civil society, local residents, 1, 3, 9, 17, 19, 25, 27-28, 30-45, 51-52, OHSAS 18 001, 26, 33 Suppliers, sub-contractors, 5, 6, 8, 10, 15, 19, 57-66, 68, 70, 76 78 60, 63-65, 67, 70-72, 76-77, Orly International, 54, 57, 62 11, 40, 44, 47, 48, 52-53, 70, CO2, 1, 3, 6, 9, 17, 31-32, 34, 79, 80 Papa Charlie, 19, 59, 60, 66 72, 76 36, 42-43, 72, 79 Ethics, 5, 10-11, 13-14, 16, 47, Passengers, 2-3, 6-7, 9, 10, 15, Sustainable procurement, 19, 47, Collaborative Decision Making 52, 55, 70-72, 76 17, 19, 27, 31, 40, 42, 48-55, 52, 72 (CDM), 17, 19, 42, 49 Filéo, 61 70, 71, 76, 78, 79 TNSA, 64 Commitments, 21, 31, 47, 57 Geothermal, 1, 9, 31, 34, 36, 38, Pesticides, 31, 32, 34, 40, 44 Trade, Employment and Training Communication, information, 16, 42 Planèt’AIRport, 19, 57-60, 66, Observatories, 14, 61, 66, 77 57-59, 63-64, 67, 76 GIP, Roissy CDG job booster, 60, 65 67, 68 Training, 7, 11, 14, 15, 16, 18, Companies (help to), 14, 53, 57, Global Compact (UN), 8, 60, 76 Pôle d’Orly, 57-58, 61-62 23-25, 28, 29, 33 62-64, 67 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 8, Projects and achievements, 6-7, Transparence International France, 8, Companies (on the airport sites), 3, 77-80 34-35, 70-71 14, 17, 52, 72, 76 5, 10, 15, 31, 38, 40, 44, 45, 47, GPEC, 21-22, 28 Property, 6-7, 38 Waste, 19, 29, 31-33, 40, 41-42, 48, 51, 55, 58-62, 64, 68, 76, 78 Grand Paris (Greater Paris), 19, 62 Quality of life, psychosocial risks, 44, 52, 72, 79 Company and inter-company Grand Roissy (Greater Roissy), health and safety at work, 11, 15, Water, 31, 32, 33, 34-35, 39, 41, business commuting plan, 31-32, 57-58, 60-63, 67, 70 21, 22, 23, 25-26, 29, 61, 67, 44-45, 72, 79 38, 42 Grenelle Environment Plan, 1, 6, 8, 72, 78 Aéroports de Paris 291, boulevard Raspail 75675 Paris Cedex 14, France aeroportsdeparis.fr This airport is participating in Airport Carbon Accreditation A French public limited company (SociétéAnonyme) with a share capital of €296,881,806 – Registered with the Paris Trade and Companies Registry under number 552 016 626 – APE 52232 – Designed and produced by: ENERGOGRAD Written by: Anne Lombard, Aéroports de Paris – Artwork: Pascale Michon – Graphics: Lauren Rullier/comillus.com – Photo credits: © Aéroports de Paris with Éric Ancel, Stéphane de Bourgie, Sylvain Cambon, © Idec, Jean-Marc Jouanneaux, GrégoireKorganow, Sébastien Le Clézio Hubstart Paris®, ÉmileLuider / LA COMPANY, Mikael Lafontan and Olivier Seignette, Philippe Stroppa/ STUDIO PONS – Aéroports de Paris Special Printing Office. Tel: +33 (0)1 49 75 62 70 Imprim’Vert® – Printed on PEFC-certified paper.
