Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability Report 2012 Contents Overview About this report 3 Leadership statement 4 Givaudan at a glance 6 Economic performance in 2012 7 Sustainability management Our value chain 8 Our sustainability approach 9 Engaging our stakeholders on the issues that matter 10 Our progress Sustainability performance in 2012 12 Raw materials 14 Employees18 Innovation and development 22 Operations26 Customers and markets 32 Governance/data Operating in a sound and ethical manner 36 Performance data 37 GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance GRI standard disclosures index/UN COP 41 Ernst & Young Assurance Statement 46 GRI checked certificate 48 Overview About this report Overview This is our fourth Sustainability Report covering our global activities. In recognition of the diversity of our audiences, we have produced an easily-accessible Executive Summary in eight languages, as well as a comprehensive Sustainability Report in an interactive pdf format, available online at www.givaudan.com Sustainability management Our Sustainability Programme is built around the interaction with stakeholders in our value chain, and the UN Global Compact Communication issues of importance to them and us. In this Report we on Progress explain how stakeholder dialogue informs our activities. Our progress is documented in five sections relating to As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) each of our Sustainability Programme pillars. we are using this Report to submit our annual Communication on Progress. The GRI standard disclosures index on pages 41-45 Boundary and scope includes references to where each of the ten UNGC principles are covered. Our progress We have an annual sustainability reporting cycle. Our previous Report was published in March 2012. Unless otherwise stated, the social and economic data is global. Environmental health and safety data is limited to Sustainability defined manufacturing locations only. All data is for wholly-owned We use the following definition of sustainability: “Sustainable Givaudan companies, and is for the full financial year development seeks to meet the needs and aspirations of the ended December 2012. present without compromising the ability to meet those of the Third-party validation and assurance future.” Report of the World Commission on Environment and Development: Our Common Future, United Nations, 1987 Governance/Data This report has been prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. We have benchmarked our sustainability For more information contact: reporting against these and assessed our application of the GRI reporting framework to be B+ [add when checked – We hope you find this report engaging and informative. We The report has been GRI checked at this level]. An index welcome your comments and questions, which can be sent to: detailing the indicators on which we have reported and an General enquiries: explanation of how we comply is available on pages 41-45. julie.monnet@givaudan.com The data and commentary in this Report are assured by GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Flavour Division enquiries: ingrid.janson@givaudan.com Ernst & Young in accordance with the principles of the International Standards on Assurance Engagements ISAE Fragrance Division enquiries: linda.harman@givaudan.com 3000. For more information please see the Assurance Statement on page 46. For further information about GRI, please visit www.globalreporting.org Givaudan SA – 03 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Leadership statement As the global leader in the fragrance and flavour industry, we are continually inventing the future. Our new discoveries support our customers’ efforts to improve consumer nutrition, well-being and quality of life – helping them meet the needs of today’s consumers without compromising the future. Our achievements in 2012 demonstrate the progress we have made. Today, our comprehensive Sustainability Programme is integral to the way we operate – driving sustainability principles right across our value chain. Gilles Andrier, Chief Executive Officer. Stakeholder engagement is critical to this. Our sustainability-related dialogue with customers and other key audiences is focused on shared priorities, such as product safety and quality. To enhance our already stringent methodologies, and to ensure we meet everchanging regulatory demands, we have developed a new global Regulatory Compliance Engine. This best-in-class tool will provide faster, more complete and better targeted information for customers, adding protection for their brands and reputations. 2012 was not without its challenges. Global economic uncertainty and increasing pressure on the supply of key raw materials continue to impact our business. Addressing today’s sustainability challenges offers timely opportunities to build deeper and more robust Joe Fabbri, Global Head of Human relationships across our complex supply chain, which Resources, EH&S and Chair of the will result in long-term competitive advantages and value Givaudan Sustainability Programme. to our customers. Operating an effective and responsible raw materials supply chain is critical to our sustainability strategy and, as one of the largest buyers of raw materials in our industry, is 04 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 57 Lost Time Injury Rate (LTIR) % Our comprehensive Sustainability Programme is integral to the way we operate – right across our value chain. Overview pivotal to our business success. In 2012 we strengthened Operationally, against our 2009 baselines, the Lost Time our raw material supply chain through new collaborations Injury Rate (LTIR) across all our manufacturing sites was and partnerships. In December, we announced a three-way reduced by 57%. Meanwhile, water efficiency improved by collaboration with French growers and fragrant plants 9.6%, energy efficiency improved by 11.5%, CO2 emissions research organisation, CRIEPPAM, to help secure the longand waste, per tonne of product, reduced by 16.6% and term supply of lavender. This initiative will expand our 13.1% respectively. range of alliances with external organisations such as Playing a key industry role remains vital. In 2012 we Conservation International, Natural Resources Stewardship continued our sponsorship of the CEW Eco Beauty Awards Circle, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil and our Sustainability management in the USA, and launched a UK award. In November we commitments as a signatory of the UN Global Compact. co-hosted a conference in Singapore sharing best practice From charity work, to eco-efficiency measures and support in responsible sourcing with 100 representatives from for local communities, examples of our employees’ fragrances, food and beverage suppliers and FMCG commitment to sustainability can be found in this Report. manufacturers. Inspirational work by our grass roots Green Teams has Our Sustainability Report also acts as our United Nations shown us that our Sustainability Programme is truly Global Compact (UNGC) annual Communication on delivering continuous improvement across our business – Progress. This is the second year running in which our and beyond. Sustainability Report has met the GRI B+ Application Our progress Our well-supported annual Green Team Awards recognise Level and has been externally assured by Ernst & Young. and reward these efforts. The Givaudan Executive We would like to express our continued strong support Committee selected two winners in 2012 – our Jaguare for the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We will site in Brazil, for combining waste reduction with an continue working to make the UNGC and its principles entrepreneurial income generation project for women on part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of low-incomes, and our site in Argenteuil, France, for its our company and do the same in the areas covered by our support of National Sustainable Development Week. sphere of influence. We support public accountability and Investing an industry-leading spend on Research and transparency, and therefore commit to reporting on Development (R&D) has led to further discoveries which progress annually according to the UNGC COP policy. Governance/Data will keep our business strong for the future. By employing As we continue to progress towards our sustainability Green Chemistry techniques we and our customers can goals, we realise there is always more to do. We would like use fewer raw materials in their products. Equally, by to thank all our stakeholders for their engagement with us, expanding our TasteSolutions™ portfolio, we are helping and look forward to working even more closely with them customers use less fat, sugar and salt whilst creating as our journey continues. great-tasting and cost-effective products. GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Gilles Andrier, Chief Executive Officer  Joe Fabbri, Global Head of Human Resources, EH&S and Chair of the Givaudan Sustainability Programme Givaudan SA – 05 Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Givaudan at a glance We have a market share of approximately 25%, and this industry leadership position is underpinned by a sales and marketing 33 Production sites presence in all major markets. 81 We are active in over 100 countries and have sites and branches in more than 40 countries. Details about our sustainability activities in Brazil, China, Colombia, France, Haiti, Hungary, India, Indonesia, Italy, Laos, Madagascar, Locations worldwide Mexico, the Comoros, the Netherlands, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Venezuela, the UK and the USA are included in this Report. Our products and services 25 % Global industry market share We create fragrances for personal and home care brands (approx.) that range from prestige perfumes to laundry care, and in flavours our expertise spans beverages, savoury, snacks, 9,124 sweet goods and dairy products. For more information, including a full list of our locations, visit www.givaudan.com Full time equivalent Fragrances 47% Flavours 53% Group sales by division Headquarters: Developing 44% Vernier Switzerland Mature 56% Group sales by market 06 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Economic performance in 2012 Overview Our 2012 economic performance data has been calculated based on GRI definitions. More detailed information is available in CHF 4,307 Revenue in 2012 million our 2012 Annual Report. Information about our five-year company strategy and management approach, which includes specific references to health and wellness CHF 2,705 million Sustainability management Operating costs and the sustainable sourcing of raw materials, is also available on our website. Nature of ownership and legal form Givaudan SA, 5 Chemin de la Parfumerie, 1214 Vernier, CHF 152 Payments to Governments million Switzerland, the parent company of the Givaudan Group, is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange under security number 1064593. The company does not have any subsidiaries that are publicly listed. Information on Givaudan SA’s significant shareholders as per art. 20 Swiss Stock Exchange Act can be found on: CHF 265 Payments to providers of capital million Our progress www.six-swiss-exchange.com 982 More detailed financial information about the scale of our organisation and our operational structure is available CHF million in our 2012 Annual Report, page 60-61, which can be downloaded from our website www.givaudan.com Employee wages and benefits of which Governance/Data CHF 64 is defined benefit plans* Awards received during the reporting period Givaudan fragrances won eleven of the fifteen FiFi® Awards in New York in May 2012. Our iPerfumer2, CHF 203 Economic value retained million was announced as winner of the FiFi® Technological Breakthrough of the Year at the World Perfumery Congress. *The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined contribution plans throughout GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance the world, the assets of which are generally held in separate trustee-administered funds. The pension plans are generally funded by payments from employees and by the relevant Group companies, taking account of the recommendations of independent qualified actuaries. The most significant plans are held in Switzerland, USA, the Netherlands and the UK. Givaudan SA – 07 Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability management Our value chain Our business has environmental, social and economic We aim to identify and reduce negative impacts at each impacts across the lifecycle of our products, from the stage of our value chain, and make a positive difference growing and gathering of natural raw materials, and the to the local communities with which we interact. production of synthetic ingredients, to the manufacturing of The infograph below shows the scale of our value chain our products, and their use and disposal. and the link with our five Sustainability Programme pillars: Our value chain Suppliers Transportation Production Transportation Customers Raw >91,000 Inbound deliveries Innovation & >230,000 Outbound deliveries Customers materials development & markets >10,000 >CHF 404 million >6,000 customers raw materials invested in R&D in 2012 More than 35,000 >2,000 9% of revenue briefs/projects issued different suppliers by customers each year Operations 33 production sites More than 360,000 tonnes of product made each year Employees >9,000 employees More than 81 local communities 08 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 6,000 More than We are using this Report to submit our UN Global Compact Communication customers on Progress Overview Our sustainability approach We are committed to enhancing our competitiveness whilst operating a sustainable business model. Our vision for each of the five pillars of our Sustainability Programme is as follows: Sustainability management Raw materials Operations Responsibility in supply Driving operational excellence We source materials in ways that preserve our We continuously drive operational excellence without environment, stimulate the development and well-being compromising the environment or the health and wellof communities and safeguard the efficient use of being of our employees and the communities in which precious resources. we operate. Employees Customers Our progress Passion with purpose and markets We attract, develop and retain talented, creative Product impact professionals who feel passionate and proud of the work done in our Company and who are empowered We actively engage with our customers to ensure that all to contribute to a sustainable society. of our products promote the health and well-being of people and preserve our planet. We do this by encouraging our business partners to support our goals throughout the Governance/Data complete lifecycle of their products. Innovation and development Delivering sustainable creations Givaudan leads in creating consumer-preferred flavours and fragrances that are designed and developed in line Targets and KPIs with sustainability principles in order to satisfy current and future needs. Our eco-efficiency and safety targets were formally set GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance out for the first time in our 2010 Sustainability Report. In addition to these operational targets, we have identified priority sustainability topics for the mid-term, against which we have set specific Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) so we can clearly demonstrate our progress, see See page 36 and our website for more details of how pages 12-13 for details. we manage our Sustainability Programme Givaudan SA – 09 Sustainability Report 2012 Customers Suppliers Engaging our stakeholders on the issues that matter Employees By working together with our stakeholders we can develop practical solutions to common sustainability challenges. We have identified six stakeholder groups which, currently, are of primary importance to the success of our Sustainability Programme. We engaged in structured dialogue with these groups Owners in 2012. & investors This diagram summarises these audiences, the sustainability issues our stakeholders told us were important to them in 2012, and our channels of communication with them. Local communities Public & regulatory agencies Click on each stakeholder to learn more 10 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Risks & materiality analysis The prioritisation of the issues of highest material Overview importance to us and our stakeholders is a critical component of our Sustainability Programme strategy. In 2011 we mapped out the key themes we understand our stakeholders to be most concerned about, as well as those that are considered most important to us on a Materiality Matrix. We reviewed the Matrix in 2012 and confirmed the same themes are still valid. Sustainability management We use our Materiality Matrix, on an ongoing basis, to help prioritise our Sustainability Programme initiatives and the content of our Sustainability Report. It has also been an invaluable tool for focused dialogue with our internal and external stakeholders in 2012. Materiality matrix Our progress High Product Safety Climate Change & Regulation Responsible Workplace Sourcing Safety Biodiversity Economic Sustainable Traceability Performance Innovation Transparency Level of relevance to stakeholders Eco-efficiency Corporate Governance Diversity Stakeholder Dialogue Employee Medium Engagement Sustainable Logistice Community Support Low Medium High Governance/Data Level of importance for Givaudan sustainability success (Click to zoom) GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance We engage in a series of strategic collaborations with relevant organisations and partners to support and inform our work on the most material sustainability issues www.unglobalcompact.org www.sedexglobal.com www.nrsc.fr www.cdproject.net www.unglobalcompact.org www.greenpalm.org www.rspo.org www.aim-progress.com Givaudan SA – 11 Sustainability Report 2012 Our progress Sustainability performance in 2012 Our commitments Raw materials Expand sustainable sourcing focusing on naturals • Work with our suppliers to contribute to sustainability throughout our value chains • Conduct regular reviews of our portfolio and implement improvements through our ethical sourcing programme Employees Engage employees in sustainability thinking and practices • Reduce incidents by strengthening the workplace environment, safety behaviour and awareness • Implement local Green Teams which take local ownership of the Sustainability Programme and support local sustainability opportunities • Embrace diversity throughout our organisation and create a diverse and inclusive workforce • Work together with our local communities on projects and causes that benefit the communities within which we work Innovation Continue to supply products which are safe for people and the environment • Ensure Givaudan products are safe for people and the & development environment when used as intended • Full regulatory compliance of all products • Ensure our products are not persistent in the environment after their use • Reduce animal testing and develop alternative test methods Create superior products in a sustainable way • Promote Health and Wellness through our products • Do more with less, promoting innovative design based on concentrated quality and compacted fragrances Operations Improve eco-efficiency of factory operations with a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water: • Reduce our overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing on eco-efficiency for: ◦◦energy ◦◦carbon emissions ◦◦incinerated and land-filled waste ◦◦water Customers Foster customer partnerships to share responsibility through product lifecycle • Engage with customers to develop new technologies for & markets healthier and sustainable products 12 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Our KPIs Progress we have made Overview • Communicate with all suppliers about procurement • 63 suppliers have been audited, and 106 suppliers joined requirements relating to social responsibility Sedex, of which 71 have completed the Sedex Self • Conduct audits with 200 of our top 400 suppliers by 2015; Assessment Questionnaire 200 of our top 400 suppliers to have joined the Sedex • Co-organisation of AIM-PROGRESS Responsible Sourcing programme by 2015 Forum in Singapore • Identify and develop additional sustainable sourcing initiatives • Collaborative approach to secure the supply and heritage of • Develop third-party certification projects for raw materials French lavender • Build 14 schools in Madagascar by 2014 • 11 schools built in Madagascar since our programme began See page 14 Sustainability management • Conduct ‘Zero is Possible’ behavioural safety programme • SafeStart™ programme rolled out to 14 additional sites, • LTI rate below 0.1 by 2020 35 sites now trained • 100% sites with Green Teams • Our LTI (Lost Time Injury) rate reduced by 57% against our 2009 baseline • Increase the representation of females in our senior leadership positions • Further embedded and supported Green Teams • Build partnerships with non-profit organisations and work • Launched approach to work life balance as part of diversity on charitable themes: Blindness, Family Nutrition and action plan Supporting Local Communities • Continued support for charitable commitments See page 18 Our progress • Fragrance Division compliance with European REACH • Fragrance Division fully compliant with REACH. On track to registration requirements, as they become applicable, in 2010, deliver our 2013 registrations 2013 and 2018 • New SAP-based global Regulatory Compliance Engine • Flavours Health and Wellness programme incremental sales developed target of CHF 100 million; incremental growth from 2009 • On target to beat our forecast of CHF 100 million of to 2013 incremental sales growth for health and wellness products • Completion of biodegradability screening of all our perfumery ingredients • KeratinoSens™ (in-vitro method of testing for skin sensitisation) in review for becoming industry standard See page 22 • Energy consumption: 20% reduction, per tonne of product, • Per tonne of product against 2009 baseline: Governance/Data by 2020 ◦◦11.5% reduction in energy consumption • Water use: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 ◦◦9.6% reduction in municipal and groundwater use (for municipal & groundwater) ◦◦16.6% reduction in direct and indirect CO2 emissions • Direct and indirect CO2 emissions: 25% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 (indirect relates to purchased energy and ◦◦Our total weight of incinerated and land-filled waste not energy used by others i.e. our raw materials suppliers) decreased by 13.1% • Total weight of incinerated and land-filled waste by type and See page 26 GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance disposal: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 • Establish joint initiatives to further progress towards Givaudan • Extended sponsorship of the Cosmetic Executive Women sustainability targets and those of our partners (CEW) Eco Beauty Award to the UK • Co-hosted an AIM-PROGRESS responsible sourcing conference • All of our production sites are on Sedex See page 32 Givaudan SA – 13 Sustainability Report 2012 Our progress Raw materials Responsibility in supply We source materials in ways that preserve our environment, stimulate the development and well-being of communities and safeguard the efficient use of precious resources. Engaging suppliers to drive We are members of AIM-PROGRESS, an association of mainly consumer goods companies seeking to facilitate sustainability and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. Through this membership we are enhancing our supplier and customer partnerships to help As part of our evaluation process, we are encouraging create a more responsible supply chain. During 2012 we our suppliers to join the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange co-hosted a conference in Singapore sharing best practice (Sedex) platform. We have made good progress – 106 of with 100 representatives from fragrances, food and our top suppliers have now signed up against our target of beverage suppliers and Fast Moving Consumer Goods 200 by 2015. (FMCG) manufacturers. (See also page 32 – Customers and markets). To date, 63 audits have been carried out. We began asking our suppliers to take part in Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audits (SMETA) in 2012. These allow us to monitor and validate supplier performance and are conducted by independent auditors who evaluate suppliers against four 84.9% of non-raw materials are purchased locally, pillars: Labour Standards, Health & Safety, Environment 26.2% of raw materials are sourced locally. and Business Practices. 14 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Securing supply of lavender Recent European climate change is thought to have accelerated the proliferation of an insect which spreads a bacteria threatening lavender production. We have established a three-way relationship between ourselves, the French growers’ cooperative France Lavande Sustainability management and CRIEPPAM, a French fragrant plants research organisation, to create a collaborative approach across the supply chain to combat the spread of the disease. Through this alliance, we have pre-financed the development of four plant nurseries to provide certified, healthy lavender plants from CRIEPPAM to the members of France Lavande. Thanks to our long-term involvement, a significant number Our progress of growers have been encouraged to become members of the cooperative. By benefiting from healthy, disease resistant, lavender plants, support in selecting the best varieties, and our advice on the correct processes for oil Quality guaranteed production and refining, the farmers are able to improve product quality. We are expanding our commitment to ethical sourcing of ylang ylang via our exclusive partnership on the Island of Mohéli in Vice President of France Lavande, Alain Couston, said: the Comoros. “Lavender is a precious resource and we have to respect Buying agreed quantities directly from the island guarantees the it. Beyond its fragrance, people love the breathtaking Governance/Data farmers a market. In 2012 we increased our purchases of ylang landscapes it creates and the memories it evokes, but few ylang essential oil, produced using traditional techniques. To meet are aware that it is under threat. The Lavender Day held the firewood supply needed for our increasing demand, we are at Givaudan’s Kleber offices in December was a great establishing new sources of wood and have been supporting a opportunity to share information between industry replanting programme since 2010. professionals, and discuss how we can combat the risk “The production of ylang ylang essential oil is a real challenge. through the Givaudan / CRIEPPAM / France Lavande Constant monitoring is required, from the picking of the flower to partnership. Our willingness to collaborate, share the distillation process. It’s also important that firewood is used knowledge and make things happen is essential for efficiently so that, in the long term, we can produce the volumes the protection of lavender for the future.” of high-quality essential oil that our creation teams need.” GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Eric Marinot, Givaudan Agronomist. Givaudan SA – 15 Sustainability Report 2012 Raw materials Supporting fair trade and In 2012, we used Green Palm certificates to ‘Book & Claim’ 100% of our palm oil usage and undertook a biodiversity in the Amazon Green Palm audit. The World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) considers that there remains a need to offer ‘Book We reported on our ongoing partnership with Conservation and Claim’, a certificate trading system endorsed by RSPO International in our 2011 Sustainability Report. The separate from the physical trade in palm oil, especially conservation area in the Caura Basin in Venezuela is being for products that use complex derivatives of palm oil. expanded from 88,000 ha protected to 148,000 ha in the As we mainly purchase fractions and derivatives of palm next few years. This will benefit four further indigenous oil and palm kernel oil, this system enables us to buy communities, who will have access to international fair certificates to support the production of Certified trade for tonka beans and copaiba balsam. Sustainable Palm Oil. During 2012 the initial community supported through this agreement, the Aripao, have built a new warehouse, enabling them to properly dry and store harvested tonka beans. This improves the quality and allows them to sell at the best possible price. “By building partnerships that bring real benefits to the community, our economic partners and to the biodiversity of the area, we can ensure that vital conservation activity is both enduring and sustainable in the long term.” Fragrance ingredients to support remote communities Juliette Crepin, Natural Product Engagement Manager, Conservation International. Our successful ongoing partnership in Laos, from where we source benzoin, red ginger, cinnamon and beeswax, continues to offer our perfumers access to innovative natural ingredients, while Making progress on palm oil providing additional income streams for local villagers. “The ingredients sourced from Laos are very inspiring. Red ginger We are closely monitoring the availability of traceable palm has an exciting ‘sparkling’ quality and the cinnamon a delicious oil and derivatives, and the commercial feasibility of using it spicy, deep warmth. The beeswax sourced from this area is very in the future. We also continue to work with our suppliers special too, with a rich floral note and creamy quality.” Shyamala Maisondieu, Fine Fragrance Perfumer, Givaudan. to encourage them to use certified palm oil. As members of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), we continue to support the aim of sustainable production of palm oil, and palm oil derivatives, and attended its General Assembly in Singapore in March 2012. Our ultimate objective is to obtain all of our palm oil derived ingredients from certified traceable sources once they become commercially available. 16 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 “By guaranteeing a fair price for the farmers’ entire vanilla crop and ensuring local farmers follow best practices for curing, we are securing the long-term supply of the highest quality vanilla.” Leen Demeris, Global Demand and Supply Manager, Natural Concentrates, Givaudan Overview Backing Fair Trade vetiver Vanilla programme adds value In 2012, significant amounts of the vetiver oil we purchased from Now in its fourth year, our Ethical Vanilla Sourcing Haiti were certified Organic and Fair Trade by ECOCERT. Programme continues to ensure a sustainable and traceable ECOCERT is an independent organic and fair trade certification supply of high quality vanilla beans from Madagascar by company with the goal of supporting entire supply chains through supporting Malagasy vanilla farmers. certification of natural ingredients. During 2012 we financed the creation of three new Sustainability management Laurent Lefebvre, Head of Fair Trade Department for ECOCERT Group, said: schools, bringing the total number developed through the programme to 11; we also supported infrastructure projects “Despite the challenging conditions in Haiti, local people have including a dam and irrigation construction and the continued to commit to build a fair and sustainable vetiver installation of eight wells, providing clean water for more industry. The partnerships established locally with the producers than 5,000 villagers. touch every step of the process. The actors of the supply chain work together closely to find new business ventures, create job We co-financed locally hired and trained technicians who opportunities and improve the living conditions of producers and assist Malagasy communities to become self-sufficient workers, while improving the quality of the product. It’s a real through a System of Rice Intensification (SRI). They win:win situation.” demonstrate best practice in the use of green fertilisers Our progress to improve rice yields, and provide agricultural training for both schoolchildren and adults. A case study about our Ethical Vanilla Sourcing Programme has been highlighted as part of the Raw Materials chapter in a Supplier Workbook. This was developed by Sedex and ethical supply chain consultancy Verité, an NGO specialising in ethical supply chain consultancy and training. It provides practical guidance that will help suppliers who want to take action to Governance/Data improve working standards and minimise their impact on the environment. GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 17 Sustainability Report 2012 Photo: Coca Yang from Kidstrong Our progress Employees Passion with purpose Without the support of our employees we could not turn our sustainability vision into reality. We want our employees to be empowered to contribute to an ever more sustainable society and feel proud of their achievements. Countdown to zero Bogota commercial site in Colombia, demonstrating its versatility and suitability for all our activities. We plan to continue rolling it out to other commercial sites in 2013, We are continuing to make great progress towards our 2020 continuously updating and sharing learning as we go. safety milestone of less than one Lost Time Injury (LTI) * LTI is according to the official Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) definition per 1,000 employees and our ultimate goal of zero LTIs*. In 2012 our performance improved by 57% against our 2009 baseline, currently positioning us one year ahead of the plan. Our improvement plan, cascaded down to every location, is managed by each site’s management committee and supported by our Environmental Health and Safety global network. This ensures everyone is involved and knows how they contribute to the overall success of our safety programme. SafeStart™ training is instrumental to the success of our behavioural safety programme, ‘Zero is possible’. We rolled this out to an additional 14 sites in 2012, bringing the total to 35 sites since 2010. We also extended it to our 18 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Our Lost Time Injury Rate reduced by 57% against the baseline Overview A balanced approach We are fully committed to creating a diverse and inclusive workforce, as well as ensuring a welcoming environment where all employees can maximise their potential. One of our main focus areas in 2012 was to define and communicate our approach to work-life balance. Sustainability management We believe individuals perform at their best when they achieve a balance between work and other aspects of their lives. In March, we published a position statement, explaining and supporting our commitment to this. We ask our employees to manage this process and not view it solely as a company responsibility. Equally, we ask our Rewarding Green Team managers and leaders to carefully evaluate employees’ success requests and to find solutions that are consistent with Our progress their interests and the needs of the business. Our third annual Green Team Awards contest received a range of impressive entries from sites around the world. Our aim is to create an environment where employees The Givaudan Executive Committee selected two facing a work-life balance challenge feel comfortable winners in December. to discuss this with their manager and propose an effective solution. Our Jaguare site in Brazil, for combining waste reduction Many sites already have a number of successful and varied with an entrepreneurial income generation project for activities in place, ranging from Health and Wellness women on low-incomes (featured on page 20) and our programmes to schedule flexibility, which support our site in Argenteuil, France, for its support of National employees in achieving a balanced lifestyle. Governance/Data Sustainable Development Week. Employees in France took part in a number of initiatives, including: a responsible consumption exhibition; a waste Green Teams go online prevention contest; the inauguration of our own beehives; a stand for eco-driving simulation; a ‘no car day’, and were June 2012 saw the launch of Green Stream, a dedicated internal invited to sign up for regular deliveries of locally-sourced online community where site Green Teams can share ideas and organic products. In addition to their trophy, the winning advice. Discussion topics have included recycling, local sourcing sites will each receive CHF 10,000 to spend on of vegetables, and voting on whether or not our full Sustainability sustainability-related initiatives in 2013. GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Report should appear in print or online. We also use it to raise awareness of wider issues and events, such as new research published by NGOs, and our own Green Team Awards. Givaudan SA – 19 Sustainability Report 2012 Employees Charity with real impact New York, USA We are introducing visually-impaired students to fragrance creation. São Paulo, Brazil Our Givaudan Institute continues to support community-based activities. One project trains women on low incomes to become microentrepreneurs. In 2010 we defined the focus of our charitable commitments in three areas: Blindness, Family Nutrition and Supporting Local Communities. Many sites around the world have been taking action in support of our themes, harnessing the power of our employees to really benefit the communities in which we live and work. No funds are used to benefit organisations of a political nature 20 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Ashford, UK Shanghai, China We have established a long-term partnership with the Kent Association for the Blind, to provide We have linked up with local NGO, Roots & Shoots, practical assistance to its blind and partially-sighted to support migrant children. Overview members. Argenteuil, France and Vernier, Switzerland Our employees are enjoying fresh produce while supporting the local community. Sustainability management Paris, France We are helping visually impaired people by creating Our progress scents depicting four works of art. Jigani, India We are supporting a project to assist premature babies with abnormal blood vessel development in Governance/Data their eyes. Cimanggis, Indonesia We financially supported the construction of a second Kids Health Centre. GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 21 Sustainability Report 2012 Our progress Innovation and development Delivering sustainable creations With a long-term goal to have 100% of our new products ‘sustainable by design’, our innovation and development teams continued to strive to find solutions, new technologies and process improvements. Less is better for fragrance footprint overall through using fewer raw materials and requiring less packaging and transport. Some of these benefits are shared with our customers, others, such as Our fragrance development teams have been applying the freeing up valuable production capacity brings a direct creativity usually associated with the art of perfumery to benefit to Givaudan. our very modern concerns about how to make traditional products more sustainable. It all sounds simple. Compacted fragrances, however, need to deliver the same olfactive impact as traditional fragrance – so our perfumers must design them differently to Our fragrance compaction programme has become produce smaller, more effective perfumes that are a strategic priority during 2012, as more concentrated especially suitable for modern consumer product formats products, sustainable packaging and natural themes or which define the quality expected of fine fragrance. continue to be a growing trend. Creating fragrance with higher impact speciality materials can significantly reduce product volumes, reducing carbon 22 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Embracing Green Chemistry Our process research and operations teams in Barneveld, the Netherlands, have worked together to implement a solvent-free manufacturing process for a potent Green Chemistry techniques help prevent pollution at a blackcurrant aroma chemical. The new process is molecular level by optimising the use of energy, materials more robust, reduces emissions of volatile organic and water in the design and manufacturing process. We compounds and waste, and doubles the throughput. have been actively applying Green Chemistry principles across our business in 2012. A team lead by Chris Newman, Senior Research Fellow, Sustainability management Collectively, these activities will guide and move us towards has been reviewing all of the chemistries used in the our ultimate aspirations of greener processes, reduced manufacture of our fragrance ingredients. This laborious emissions and an improved sustainability position. task ensures that we have a good baseline picture from which to establish performance measures for our Applying Green Chemistry techniques has allowed us to manufacturing processes. convert simple and renewable ingredients, such as sugar, Capitalising on data from our SAP/IT systems, we now into difficult-to-obtain molecules usually derived through have a much better knowledge of material consumption botanical extracts. We are working to re-create these and waste generation for our manufactured ingredients. molecules in biological systems to secure a supply of Such data is invaluable in helping us to target natural flavour ingredients that are of consistent quality Our progress opportunities, enabling a much better understanding of the and predictable price, not bound by growing seasons, or impact of portfolio changes on site waste generation and reliant on a specific region or country, which may be hit site environmental improvement targets. by inclement weather or disease. State-of-the-art tools and automated technologies enable In Cincinnati, USA, a team headed by Gary Kleman, rapid parallel screening to identify performing catalysts Senior Research Manager, has successfully developed within a fraction of the time required by traditional and scaled up to production level, a viable natural process approaches. We have invested in developing a Catalysis for making one of the most potent and popular aroma team within our Science and Technology Process Research molecules in the food industry, Pyrika. For the first time group in Dübendorf to identify and optimise these and Governance/Data Givaudan has a secure, commercially viable, natural ensure our processes are sustainable. process for making Pyrika. Vaughn Litteral, Givaudan Research Scientist and Project Manager for the Pyrika Project, said: “The really exciting thing is that this project is just the beginning. Our technological niche fits perfectly with the markets’ demand for natural products and Green Chemistry processes.” GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 23 Sustainability Report 2012 Innovation and development Biodegradability of Expanding our in-vitro capabilities perfumery materials As our KeratinoSens™ in-vitro skin sensitisation test is in the process of becoming an industry standard, we remain committed A further 86 biodegradation tests were completed in our to developing, implementing and routinely using, alternatives to Ecotoxicological Laboratory in Vernier, Switzerland, during animal testing. 2012, to deepen understanding of the biodegradability of In 2012, we expanded our in-vitro capabilities to include methods fragrance materials, and to support our new molecules for evaluating bioaccumulation potential of fragrance materials programme and REACH 2013 registrations. We have now in fish. These have been proposed as an alternative to fish completed the biodegradability screening of all our bioconcentration studies which require the use of large numbers perfumery ingredients, including natural materials. of animals. Using in-vitro methods enables the data required by regulatory Alongside other contributors such as BASF and L’Oréal, agencies to be obtained by measuring the metabolic potential our collaboration with Ovanes Mekenyan at the Prof. to eliminate a particular chemical. The results are used to refine Assen Zlatarov University in Bulgaria continues to assist computer model estimates for bioconcentration factors (BCF). others with their own assessments of fragrance ingredient We use the in-vitro assay in our discovery programme for biodegradability, helping build further industry early screening of new fragrance ingredients and for REACH understanding of this complex and important topic. registration. Our ongoing studies aim to refine the methodology Since 2010, we have provided 110 biodegradation test and improve the ability to predict bioaccumulation of fragrance results for the development of an alternative materials in fish. CATALOGIC biodegradation prediction model. Georg Kreutzer, the manager of our laboratory in Vernier participated in the European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of Chemicals (ECETOC) Workshop on ‘Assessing Environmental Persistence’. Givaudan’s work was referenced as part of the Research Institute for Fragrance Materials’ assessment of natural materials and their behaviour in the environment, presented at the workshop. For more information about our work with ECETOC see page 10 (Engaging our stakeholders on the issues that matter). 24 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Sweet tasting alternatives to sugar To help our customers reduce sugar in their products, we have discovered and commercialised a range of tools to improve the taste of natural sweeteners, making products taste more like sugar. Sustainability management Our sensory taste research has shown that there are a complex range of off-notes associated with natural sweeteners, not limited to bitterness. For example, Stevia also brings liquorice-like off-notes and the lingering Fresh breath with less flavour sweetness that is characteristic for high intensity sweeteners; while luo han guo, or monk fruit, can give a strong fermented, fruity character that will be perceived as Our Evercool™ System was launched in January 2012 and an off-taste in many applications. Our new masking tools enables manufacturers to maintain effective consumerOur progress help address these issues and we also made advancements perceived mouth freshness from lower oral care flavour in our new, natural TasteSolutions™ Sweetness tools for dosage. The cooling sensation continues for up to three both sweetness and mouthfeel enhancement. hours, without interfering with the taste of food. With less flavour required, the shipping and production impact associated with manufacture is also significantly reduced. Compliance engine comes online Governance/Data We maintain stringent methodologies to assure the safety and quality of our products. To enhance these, and to ensure we meet ever-changing regulatory requirements, we have developed a new SAP-based global Regulatory Compliance Engine (RCE). Our Fragrance RCE came online in 2012 and handles the complex product compliance evaluations required by authorities, customers and industry codes of conduct throughout the development process for fine fragrance and consumer products. When launched in 2013, the Flavour Division’s RCE will provide GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance a best-in-class tool providing faster, more complete and better targeted information for our flavours’ customers. Our REACH (Regulation on Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) programme is on track to deliver our registrations in line with the phase-in deadlines in 2013. We are committed to delivering quality data and dossiers for its REACH registrations. Givaudan SA – 25 Sustainability Report 2012 Our progress Operations Driving operational excellence Driving operational excellence lies at the heart of our business. We see it as our responsibility to produce flavours and fragrances without compromising the environment, health and well-being of our employees, or the communities in which we operate. Our operational performance: (against a 2009 baseline) Energy CO2 emissions Waste Water consumption Safety rate -16.6 % -13.1% -9.6 % -11.5% -57% per tonne Incinerated and landMunicipal and per tonne Lost Time Injury Rate of production filled waste per tonne groundwater of production of production per tonne of production Click on each icon to reveal more information 26 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 -16.6 CO2 emission per tonne of production % Overview A strategic approach to eco‑efficiency Only by regularly measuring and tracking our environmental performance can we effectively address any negative impacts. In 2010 we introduced quarterly eco-efficiency reporting for all our manufacturing sites Sustainability management and we used the resulting wealth of data to set ambitious but realistic targets for 2020. In 2012 our Eco Efficiency Leadership Team (EELT) encouraged local Green Teams and local site eco-efficiency management teams to develop site improvement plans and these are now in place at most sites. Our EELT also added consideration of the eco-efficiency of the planned Reducing solvent waste investment as a new requirement in the Capital Expenditure process. In addition, our purchasing In a multi-product manufacturing site it is essential to Our progress department continues its efforts to reduce our reliance on rigorously clean production equipment between the energy from fossil fuels and seeks to ensure new contracts manufacture of different products to avoid cross for the delivery of electricity are green or greener. contamination and ensure the highest quality production. To minimise our environmental impact we have been working to reduce the amount of solvents used in the cleaning process. At our Sant Celoni plant in Spain we have created processes which reuse and recycle solvents, whilst still cleaning effectively. As a result, staff at the site have Governance/Data reduced solvent use by 65% and improved the waste per tonne of production of the site by 5%. CDP Meanwhile, our team at Dortmund in Germany have created a closed loop recycling system for solvents used Our Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) disclosure score was in the production process. As a result, all solvents are 70 out of 100 in 2012, which is 10 points more than the Swiss average score of 60. Our performance score of C (on a scale recirculated eliminating all hazardous waste. Only solvents A-E) demonstrates that we regard the mitigation of risk of climate used up need to be replenished, reducing new solvent use change as a critical issue for our business and that we manage our and its disposal by 39%. GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance carbon impact through rigorous internal data management. Givaudan SA – 27 Sustainability Report 2012 Operations Carbon footprint of related activities Transport incidents Product transport Eight small transport incidents have been reported via our external emergency response provider. All were minor, limited With the help of the transport companies we use to ship to minor leakages or spillages and none led to any negative products to our customers, we established the carbon environmental impact. footprint of our outbound transport. In 2012 this figure was approximately 44,000 metric tonnes which is 4,600 less than in 2011. This figure includes transport by air, ship and road and a significant part of the Travel reduction comes from fewer shipments by air. The reported footprint excludes shipments in APAC, LATAM, South In 2012 employee air travel was responsible for Africa and Egypt as we were only partially successful in approximately 12,000 metric tonnes of CO2 emissions. collecting carbon data from local suppliers in these This is the second year-on-year reduction (7% lower than regions, with several transport companies unable to 2011) and reflects an 8.5% reduction in flown miles. The produce meaningful figures. majority of this data was collected through our global travel agent and we added an estimate, based on purchased We are looking at ways to reduce our reliance on air freight tickets, to cover the countries in Asia which book business transport. All our supply chain managers are working with travel locally. their teams to ensure air transport is used only when necessary. To augment this approach, in September 2012 we started closely monitoring all planned air shipments Employee commuting weighing over 1,000kg. In the first two months alone, After the successful pilot at our US sites, as described in our Flavours Division identified four shipments to be our previous sustainability report, we conducted a global transferred to sea transport, making an additional saving survey of employees’ commuting habits. This was of approximately 32,000 kg of CO2 emissions. organised via our Green Teams and 54% of employees Aytül Gökçe, Global Operations Supply Chain Business participated. Extrapolating the received data and using Analyst, Givaudan Flavours, said: “By monitoring stock standard emission data per transport mode, the carbon transport orders daily we can quickly identify alternative footprint of commuting was estimated at 14,700 metric transport options that satisfy customer needs. I am very tonnes, equating to a world average of 1.56 metric tonnes optimistic that this approach will help us further decrease per year per employee. Apart from raising awareness, the air freight shipments in future.” survey also resulted in a long list of suggestions to reduce this figure. These include introducing: electric charge points for vehicles, online portals for car sharing, cycle to work promotions and a Green Commuter of the Year award. We will evaluate these suggestions with a view to adopting the most effective. 28 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Packaging of finished product Site remediation/one-off waste Our SAP systems allow us to retrieve global data for the We recognise that our environmental responsibilities extend different types of packaging we use. Combining these data beyond the operational life of our sites. Our commitment to with standard carbon footprint information from our site remediation encompasses full compliance with applicable regulations and ensures that land, and sometimes property, can suppliers enabled us to estimate that our total footprint for be reused safely and beneficially in future. In 2012 we continued 2012 packaging activities was 50,500 metric tonnes of CO2. our groundwater remediation at Naarden in the Netherlands with Sustainability management Other emissions groundwater abstracted from three boreholes. Approximately 41,000m3 of groundwater was subsequently treated in the on-site waste water treatment plant. We monitor emissions of NOx, SO2 and Volatile Organic Work also continued to remove a lagoon at our manufacturing Compounds (VOC) arising both in relation to our use of location in Perdo Escobedo, Mexico. The lagoon, which had primary energy sources and relating to our production previously used for disposing of cleaning salts, was cleaned activities. Our emissions of NOx and SO2 per tonne of resulting in 9,445 tonnes of salt being removed and transported to production have decreased by 13.7% and 9.7%, respectively a landfill facility. since 2009. Our reported SO2 emission relates almost In addition to the above one-off waste streams, we keep completely to one location which is still using sulphur Our progress a separate record of waste not related to the daily, normal containing heavy fuel oil as its main energy source. operational activities; which we classify as ‘one-off waste’. VOC data have been collected and aggregated from sites Examples in the context of one-off waste are demolition waste or debris coming from construction activities. In 2012 we recorded which have a regulatory reporting requirement using 850 tonnes of this kind of waste. national reporting guidance. The total quantity of VOC emitted for these sites was 370.6 metric tonnes (against One-off waste streams 431.7 metric tonnes in 2011). Type of material Destination Quantity Location Salts Land filling 9,445 tonnes Pedro Environmental expenditure Escobedo (Mexico) Governance/Data Construction Recycling 850 tonnes Several sites Measuring environmental mitigation and protection debris/ expenditure allows us to assess the efficiency of our demolition initiatives. For the second year we systematically recorded waste our expenditure and calculated the total spend in 2012 was CHF 32.8 million across all manufacturing sites. This can be broken down as follows: • Approximately CHF 3.4 million for prevention and environmental management costs. GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance • Approximately CHF 29.4 million for waste disposal, emission treatment and remediation costs. Givaudan SA – 29 Sustainability Report 2012 Operations Driving operational excellence East Hanover, USA Data drives composting results Pedro Escobedo, Mexico Recycling community waste Mexico City, Mexico Green living Jaguaré, Brazil Recycling wood pallets Cuernavaca, Mexico Supporting sustainable agriculture 30 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Naarden, the Netherlands Responsible water use Moscow, Russia Improving environmental performance Sustainability management Makó, Hungary Eliminating cross-contamination Our progress Jigani, India Conserving energy and water Woodlands, Singapore Governance/Data Chiller system savings Milan, Italy Green office systems GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 31 Sustainability Report 2012 Our progress Customers and markets Product impact Partnerships with our customers allow us to build internal and external knowledge and take action together to meet our shared sustainability challenges across the full lifecycle of products. A powerful solution for functional ingredients are added to PSDs. We do this by applying our TasteSolutions™ tools to create flavours emerging markets which reflect regional preferences. Orange is the most popular flavour, used in approximately Powdered soft drinks (PSDs) often include vitamins and 40% of PSDs. However, consumer preferences vary, in nutrients, which make them an effective way to improve Brazil, for example, consumers want to taste the pulpiness health and nutrition in emerging markets. As water is added of fresh juice, whilst in Indonesia the preference is for by the consumer, PSDs also offer a sustainable transport juiciness and sweetness. solution for markets that do not always have the transport infrastructure for bulky ready-to-drink products. Globally, we have profiled over 180 PSD market products in 23 countries with particular focus on Asia and Latin America, where 70% of the world’s PSD is consumed. In 2012 we continued to invest in our technical tools and Orange is our key area of focus but we have also profiled consumer understanding to support customers developing other local favourites, for example hibiscus flavoured locally-relevant PSDs. We are helping manufacturers products in Mexico. reduce sugar and mask the off-notes created when 32 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Understanding culinary cultures Economic uncertainty and growing consumer understanding of nutrition have affected the way people are thinking about food, creating a resurgence of home cooking and local traditions in the western cultures. Sustainability management Conversely, urban prosperity and more women entering the workforce in developing markets are driving more consumers to demand convenience foods and convenient ways to prepare foods. Consumers demand that food should deliver value for money, be healthy, tasty and provide a great eating experience. Oana Ocico, our Global Marketing Head Savoury, said: “Flavour technology can help our customers deliver against Our progress all these consumer agendas. It enables the development of Ethical awards success delicious tasting foods with less fat, sugar and salt and In 2012, cosmetics company, Lush, launched a joint awards delivers great flavours even when there is a need to add programme with Ethical Consumer magazine. Designed to bring nutritional or functional ingredients. forward the date when ingredients for cosmetics and household “Understanding local culinary cultures also helps us products are no longer tested on animals, they attracted more than deliver the exotic, traditional and local flavours consumers 30 entries from 15 countries. We were shortlisted for the Science desire. People want food to taste authentic and that means prize, for our work on the development of the KeratinoSens™ skin sensitisation test, alongside internationally-renowned organisations tapping into very local preferences. Indonesian food should such as the Center for Alternatives to Animal Testing, USA, and the taste recognisably Sumatran or Javanese, for example, not Governance/Data Joint Research Centre, at the European Commission’s Institute for ‘generically Indonesian’.” Health and Consumer Protection. In 2012, we continued to explore local preferences by conducting a CulinaryTrek™ in China looking at beef noodles. Our flavourists tasted many varieties of different dishes and gained further scientific understanding of the processes and reactions involved in creating the food. This knowledge can be translated into appealing flavours that can help manufacturers deliver healthy products that GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance also taste great. Givaudan SA – 33 Sustainability Report 2012 Customers and markets Customer partnerships As part of our commitment to work with customers to share responsibility for sustainability through the product lifecycle, in 2012 we signed agreements with two key customers in Brazil. These agreements follow the principles of the GreenHouse Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol), the international accounting tool used to understand, quantify, and manage greenhouse gas emissions. In Brazil this forms a public record of company commitments. We have agreed targets in Brazil such as reductions in water and energy usage, waste and CO2 emissions. We also committed to a range of training, education, and social Talking flavour sense responsibility investments including a special focus on In 2012 we launched our latest global flavour language, Sedex adherence. SenseIt™ Mouthfeel, to help customers who want to All of our production sites are on Sedex. Our Selfreduce fat in their products. Crossing cultural and Assessment Questionnaires were renewed in 2012. language barriers, this unique tool enables an effective link between consumer desire, product quality, and flavourists’ creations. Rewarding eco beauty The new language follows the success of SenseIt™ Salt and SenseIt™ Sweetness launched in 2010 and 2011 We continue to support the CEW Eco Beauty Awards in respectively. The three languages enable us to develop the USA and extended this by launching an award in the effective flavour solutions helping customers use less fat, UK in 2012. Our sponsorship of this award is to encourage sugar and salt whilst creating great-tasting and costsustainability to be considered by companies in the beauty effective products. and cosmetics industry and to recognise those companies who are taking significant steps. Weleda Pomegranate Firming Facial Care range won the CEW UK Eco Beauty Awards and Neutrogena Purifying Facial Cleanser won the CEW Eco Beauty Award in the USA. The winners demonstrate that taking an environmentally sound approach is possible without compromising product appeal or efficacy. 34 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 We answered more than 250 sustainability-specific customer queries in 2012 Overview Sustainability management Sharing best practice in Optimising mouthfeel responsible sourcing Using the advanced technologies of our TasteSolutions™ Mouthfeel programme, launched in February 2012, we are Our progress We are a member of AIM-PROGRESS, an association of creating complete mouthfeel solutions for low-calorie 32 consumer goods companies seeking to enable and applications in both dairy and sweet goods. promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. “A successful reduced-calorie product depends on rebalancing and optimising mouthfeel, taste and aroma In 2012, we co-hosted an AIM-PROGRESS responsible correctly” said Esther van Ommeren, Senior Flavourist. sourcing conference to promote responsible sourcing “Whether our customer’s product strategy relates to Health standards. The conference was attended by approximately and Wellness, cost, or indulgence, our investment in 100 representatives from fragrances, food and beverage mouthfeel technology can help.” suppliers and FMCG manufacturers. Speaking alongside Governance/Data major players from the food industry was our keynote speaker Balaji Padmanabhan, Head of Operations, APAC. (See also page 14 – Raw materials). GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 35 Sustainability Report 2012 Governance/data Operating in a sound and ethical manner Givaudan’s corporate governance system is Sustainability management aligned with international standards and The Givaudan Sustainability Programme is under the practices to ensure proper checks and overall control of our Board of Directors. Its strategy, policy and organisational structure are set by our Executive balances and to safeguard the effective Committee. The Executive Committee also appoints one of functioning of the governing bodies of its members as the Sponsor for the Givaudan Sustainability the company. Programme (the Sustainability Chair). D  etails of the system are published on our company website: Delivery of the Givaudan Sustainability Programme is www.givaudan.com/OurCompany/CorporateGovernance supported by a Sustainability Steering Team (SST), led by the Sustainability Chair and whose members are drawn Governance of our codes from all areas of the Company. The Principles of Business Conduct of Givaudan underline The Givaudan Sustainability Programme further benefits our commitment to create an environment where trust and from coordination by an internal Sustainability Programme confidence in the ethics of our endeavours are assured, Management Organisation (PMO), comprised of corporate providing value to our customers, shareholders and responsibility and sustainability specialists who guide the other stakeholders. development and implementation of related initiatives. F  or more information: www.givaudan.com/OurCompany/ Alignment between our SST and PMO teams is achieved CorporateGovernance/RulesandPolicies. through sponsorship and ultimate reporting into the Sustainability Chair. The Executive Committee, led by our Chief Executive Officer, is responsible for implementation of the codes, The sustainability framework is supported by specialist supported by the corporate compliance organisation. teams within Givaudan, such as Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S), Human Resources (HR), Eco-efficiency, Givaudan complies with California Senate Bill 657, the Research & Development, Compliance, Legal, California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, which Communications and Regulatory. These teams also obtain requires retail and manufacturing companies to disclose expert external advice as appropriate. the precautions they have taken or will take to eliminate M  ore information on our sustainability key principles and the GRI index slavery and human trafficking from their supply chains. DMAs sections can be found at www.givaudan.com F  or more information: http://www.givaudan.com/staticweb /StaticFiles/GivaudanCom/Sustainability/Documents/Giv_ childLabourHumanTraffickingSlavery.pdf Environmental Health & Safety (EH&S) Employees Human Resources (HR) Board of Directors Eco-efficiency Leadership Team (EELT) Expert external advice Executive Committee Research & Development as appropriate Sustainability Steering Team (SST) Compliance Sustainability Project Management Legal Organisation (PMO) Employees Regulatory Details of Givaudan’s broader Communications corporate governance system are published on www.givaudan.com 36 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Governance/data Performance data: Social indicators Overview Worldwide employees* By employment type By employment contract Count of HC female Permanent Temporary Total Count of HC female Permanent Temporary Total Asia Pacific 872 11 883 Asia Pacific 861 22 883 Europe, Middle East, Africa 1,412 128 1,540 Europe, Middle East, Africa 1,487 53 1,540 Latin America 400 1 401 Latin America 398 3 401 North America 690 3 693 North America 693 – 693 Total 3,374 143 3,517 Total 3,439 78 3,517 Sustainability management Count of HC male Permanent Temporary Total Count of HC male Permanent Temporary Total Asia Pacific 1,119 2 1,121 Asia Pacific 1,092 29 1,121 Europe, Middle East, Africa 2,849 52 2,901 Europe, Middle East, Africa 2,794 107 2,901 Latin America 726 – 726 Latin America 716 10 726 North America 1,169 – 1,169 North America 1,169 – 1,169 Total 5,863 54 5,917 Total 5,771 146 5,917 Turnover** Employment contracts initiated Contract initiated/ended same period Our progress Age range Age range Age range Age range Age range Age range Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Asia Pacific 116 139 4 259 Asia Pacific 13 14 – 27 Europe, Middle East, Africa 218 236 8 462 Europe, Middle East, Africa 18 25 2 45 Latin America 139 99 3 241 Latin America 9 4 – 13 North America 86 135 20 241 North America 9 10 1 20 Total 559 609 35 1,203 Total 49 53 3 105 Hires H&CL Female 467 Female 33 Governance/Data Male 736 Male 72 Total 1,203 Total 105 Turnover*** Employment contracts terminated Turnover rate (Company leavers/Total HC) Age range Age range Age range Age range Age range Age range Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Asia Pacific 43 128 16 187 Asia Pacific 11.6% 8.9% 8.3% 9.3% Europe, Middle East, Africa 80 248 104 432 Europe, Middle East, Africa 14.4% 8.6% 10.3% 9.7% Latin America 49 100 11 160 Latin America 17.9% 13.2% 11.3% 14.2% North America 36 113 69 218 North America 17.9% 10.5% 11.8% 11.7% GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Total 208 589 200 997 Total 14.8% 9.6% 10.6% 10.6% CL Turnover rate Female 415 Female 11.8% Male 582 Male 9.8% Total 997 Total 10.6% * Based on headcount (HC) and not as Full-Time Equivalent (FTE). ** The Turnover rate considers Givaudan employees with their work contract ended (voluntary or involuntary) during the reporting period. *** Turnover calculation is based on number of terminations divided by total headcount during the reporting period. Givaudan SA – 37 Sustainability Report 2012 Performance data: Social indicators People covered by collective agreements People receiving performance and career development reviews HC Collective Agreement in % HC in% of total HC Yes 30.8% Female 32.4% No 69.2% Male 25.6% [This percentage represents the total number of employees on the Givaudan corporate incentive programme. As part of their participation in this programme, they receive a formal assessment of measures and targets. The percentages shown here are calculated per gender as a division of the sum of all Givaudan employees.] Employees’ categories and composition of governance bodies Male Female Total Job level <30 30 – 50 >50 <30 30 – 50 >50 Senior Management – 66 55 – 11 12 144 Middle Management 37 968 332 46 928 138 2,449 Associates 741 2,727 991 578 1,447 357 6,841 Grand Total 778 3,761 1,378 624 2,386 507 9,434 Composition governance (Leadership Board and Board of Directors) LB/Board in % <30 30 – 50 >50 Female 2 15.4% 0.0% 7.7% 7.7% Male 11 84.6% 0.0% 7.7% 76.9% Injury data 2009 2011 2012 Change 2009–2012 Fatalities 0 0 0 – Number of LTIs 79 48 36 – LTI rate 1.03 0.57 0.44 -57% Lost day rate** N/A 7.73 9.94 – Number of Restricted Work Cases (RWC) 28 37 19 – Number of Medical Treatment (MT) 28 34 27 – Number of Total Recordable Cases (TRC) 135 119 82 – Total Recordable Case Rate*** 1.76 1.41 0.99 -43% Number of lost days N/A 650 819* – Number of hours worked 15,341,093 16,822,092 16,485,046**** – Absenteeism N/A 2.84% 2.90% – Total Recordable Cases Absenteeism – LTI Rate – Lost Day Rate (by region and gender) (by region) Number of Number of Region LTIR L Day Rate Absenteeism***** TRCs TRCs Region Male Female Asia Pacific 0.31 17.41 1.46% Asia Pacific 8 2 Europe, Middle East, Africa 0.55 6.94 3.38% Europe, Middle East, Africa 28 2 Latin America 0.35 15.89 2.60% Latin America 6 2 North America 0.37 5.29 3.28% North America 30 4 Total 2.90% Total 72 10 * Includes 184 days carried over from 2011 ** Number of lost workdays resulting from work-related accidents per 200,000 working hours. Calculation based on scheduled work days lost from the day after the accident *** LTI and TRC are both according to the official OSHA definitions **** 9.4% of these represent external contractors for whom the company is liable ***** Compared to the number of normal available working days, includes correction for employees working on a part-time basis 38 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Governance/data Performance data: Environmental indicators Overview Change 2009 Key performance Indicators 2009† 2012 corrected v 2012 Energy (GJ) Direct energy (from primary sources*) 1,632,591 1,680,483 2.93% Indirect energy: purchased electricity & steam 897,286 963,320 7.36% Total energy 2,529,877 2,643,803 4.50% Energy efficiency (GJ/tonnes of production) Direct energy efficiency 5.31 4.62 -12.86% Indirect energy efficiency 2.92 2.65 -9.11% Total energy 8.22 7.28 -11.53% Sustainability management CO2 emissions (tonnes)*** Scope 1: from direct energy sources 102,468 102,189 -0.27% Scope 2: from indirect energy sources 113,399 110,461 -2.59% Total CO2 emissions 215,867 212,650 -1.49% CO2 emissions efficiency (tonnes CO2 /tonnes of production) Scope 1: from direct energy sources 0.33 0.28 -15.57% Scope 2: from indirect energy sources 0.37 0.30 -17.53% Total CO2 emissions 0.70 0.59 -16.60% Waste (tonnes) Hazardous waste Incinerated 14,729 16,047 8.95% Land-filled 728 278 -61.81% Our progress Recycled 3,062 4,977 62.54% Total hazardous waste 18,519 21,302 15.03% Non-hazardous waste Incinerated 3,286 3,235 -1.55% Land-filled 6,623 6,487 -2.05% Recycled 15,962 24,941 56.25% Total non-hazardous waste 25,871 34,663 33.98% Total incinerated & land-filled waste (HZ & NHZ) 25,366 26,047 2.68% Waste efficiency+ (tonnes of waste/tonnes of production) 0.08 0.07 -13.07% Water intake (m3) Municipal water 2,286,999 2,513,293 9.89% Groundwater 1,070,613 1,073,851 0.30% Governance/Data Municipal & groundwater 3,357,612 3,587,144 6.84% Surface water 7,432,649 5,095,310 -31.45% Total water** 10,790,261 8,682,454 -19.53% Water efficiencyo (m3/tonnes of production) 10.91 9.87 -9.55% Water discharge (m3) To the environment w/o biological treatment 7,513,427 5,025,935 -33.11% To the environment after biological treatment 1,846,091 1,824,272 -1.18% To external treatment facility w/o pre-treatment 271,213 362,086 33.51% To external treatment facility after pre-treatment 1,365,601 1,546,259 13.23% Total discharged water 10,996,332 8,758,552 -20.35% Other data Nitrogen oxides – NOx tonnes**** 104.7 106.7 1.91% GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Sulphur dioxide – SO2 tonnes 360.7 384.6 6.63% VOC (tonnes) 370.6 CFC inventory (kg) 15,713 10,585 -32.64% CFC 11 equivalent inventory (kg) 641 CFC loss-replacement (kg) 1,393 1,080 -22.47% CFC 11 equivalent loss/replacement (kg) 81 Production (tonnes) Production quantities 307,619 363,157 18.05% † Restated data see page 40. **** Quantity is calculated by multiplying the annual fuel consumption by the corresponding * Includes natural gas, light fuel, heavy fuel, liquid petroleum gas, town gas, diesel and gasoline emission factor for fuel type ** Includes sanitary, cooling and process water + Includes incinerated & land-filled waste (HZ & NHZ) *** Greenhouse Gas data are limited to CO2 emissions o Includes municipal and groundwater Givaudan SA – 39 Sustainability Report 2012 Performance data: Environmental indicators Data measurement techniques and the Regarding the corrected figure for waste (incinerated and basis of calculations land-filled), a number of small corrections were made, including taking into account sludge from a biological We replaced our data collection system, Enablon, with waste water treatment plant, which had not previously BlueSuite at the start of 2012. It allows reported data to be been recorded as waste. collected globally using local employees who are trained in how to report and document the data. Each location is The municipal and groundwater baseline figure was responsible for its own accuracy and consistency. adjusted following the discovery of a faulty water meter for which we estimated a correction. Re-statement of information provided in The volume of discharged water increased by 0.6% last year’s Report about 2009 data following corrections at several sites triggered by a review Following checking and validation of quarterly reported to align water flows in and out; the latter volume is not figures, and site audits conducted against reporting always directly measured. definition sheets, a number of corrections have been The corrections to NOx and SO2 emission loads are related made to the baseline 2009 data we reported in our 2011 to the global and documented review of all NOx and SO2 Sustainability Report. With few exceptions, the corrections emission factors and CO2 conversions conducted by the are minor, and for the eco-parameters for which targets are sites for purchased primary energy sources. set, less than 1%. Regarding CFC reporting, the inventory figure was The energy correction includes several small data corrected because the 2009 data for one site was never corrections and one significant change to take into account included. The Loss/Replacement category required a small a total review of all energy use at one location which adjustment following a site audit. resulted in a 15% correction of natural gas usage (most probably arising from a mistake in converting the unit Significant changes from previous period used by the site to the standard unit of global reporting). Early 2012 the activities of one of our manufacturing The CO2 corrections correspond both to the energy locations in the USA, Mount Olive East, were ceased and corrections and to results of a global and documented transferred to the existing main location Mount Olive. review of all CO2 conversion factors for purchased primary energy sources and electricity. 2009 figure reported 2009 figure reported Parameter in SR 2011 in this SR 2012 % change Energy (GJ) 2,513,612 2,529,877 +0.6% CO2 (tonnes) 214,536 215,867 +0.6% Water (M+G) (m3) 3,333,327 3,357,612 +0.7% Waste (tonnes) 25,369 25,366 +0.2% Production volume 309,590 307,619 -0.6% Discharged water 10,913,643 10,996,332 +0.8% CFC (Inv.) kg 15,371 15,713 +2.2% CFC (L/R) kg 1,418 1,393 -1.8% NOx load (tonnes) 99 105 +6.0% SO2 load (tonnes) 364 361 -0.8% 40 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance GRI standard disclosures index Including reference to United Nations Global Compact Overview Part I: Profile disclosures Description Status Page/reference UN Global Compact 1 Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from the CEO Fully covered *4, 5 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 1.2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Fully covered *11 2 Organisational profile Sustainability management 2.1 Name of the organisation Fully covered *6 2.2 Primary brands, products and services Fully covered *6 2.3 Operational structure Fully covered *6 2.4 Location of headquarters Fully covered *6 2.5 Number of countries where the organisation operates Fully covered *6 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form Fully covered *7 2.7 Markets served Fully covered *6 2.8 Scale of the reporting organisation Fully covered *3, 6, 7, 8 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period Fully covered *40 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period Fully covered *7, 19, 33 8 Our progress 3 Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period Fully covered *3 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Fully covered *3 3.3 Reporting cycle Fully covered *3 3.4 Contact point Fully covered *3 3.5 Process for defining report content Fully covered *3, 9, 10, 11 3.6 Report scope and boundary Fully covered *3, 6 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report Fully covered *3 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations Fully covered *3, †60 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Fully covered *40 Governance/Data 3.10 Changes to the company compared to previous report Fully covered *40 3.11 Changes to the information provided in earlier reports Fully covered *40 3.12 Standard Disclosures Table Fully covered *41, 42, 43, 44 3.13 External assurance for the report Fully covered *46, 47 * Sustainability Report 2012 † Annual Report 2012 • Givaudan website GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 41 Sustainability Report 2012 GRI standard disclosures index Part I: Profile disclosures continued Description Status Page/reference UN Global Compact 4 Corporate Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organisation Fully covered *36 4.2 Independence of the Chairman of the Board Fully covered † 63 10 4.3 Members of the Board Fully covered † 63, 64, 65, 66 10 4.4 Shareholders’ and employees’ recommendations Fully covered † 70, 71, 75, 76 3 4.5 Compensation Policy Fully covered † 78-85 10 4.6 Avoidance of conflicts of interest Fully covered † 66 10 4.7 Expertise of the members of the Board and its committees Fully covered † 63-70 4.8 Mission statements and Corporate codes Fully covered *36, †46, 47 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10 4.9 Identification and management of performance, risks and opportunities, and Fully covered *11, †55, 56, 57 1, 2, 3 compliance with agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles 4.10 Assessment of the Executive Committee Fully covered † 68, 69 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary principle Fully covered *24, †56, 57 4.12 Support to external initiatives Fully covered *11, 15, 16, 17, 9 20, 21 4.13 Memberships in associations/interest group Fully covered *11, 35 9 4.14 Engagement of stakeholder groups Fully covered *10, 11 1, 2 4.15 Selection of stakeholders Fully covered *10, 11 1, 2 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder dialogue Fully covered *10, 11 1, 2 4.17 Position on stakeholder concerns Fully covered *10, 11 * Sustainability Report 2012 † Annual Report 2012 • Givaudan website Part II: Disclosures on Management Approach Description Status Page/reference UN Global Compact EC Economic Fully covered † 15-31 EN Environmental Fully covered *5, 11, 12, 13, 7, 8, 9 26-31 LA Labour practices and decent work Fully covered *12, 13, 18-21, 3, 6 † 49-51 HR Human rights Fully covered *14, 17, †46, 47 1, 2, 4, 5, 6 SO Society Fully covered *10, 11, †46, 47 1, 2, 10 PR Product responsibility Fully covered *10, 11, 24, † 56, 57 * Sustainability Report 2012 † Annual Report 2012 • Givaudan website 42 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Part III: Performance indicators Description Status Page/reference UN Global Compact Economic Performance indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Partially covered *7 EC3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan Fully covered *7 EC6 Locally-based suppliers Fully covered *14 1, 2 EC9 Indirect economic impacts Fully covered *15, 16, 17, 19 9 Sustainability management Environmental Performance indicators EN3 Direct energy consumption Fully covered *26, 39 7, 8, 9 EN4 Indirect energy consumption Fully covered *26, 39 7, 8, 9 EN5 Energy saved Fully covered *26, 30, 31 7, 8, 9 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient products Partially covered *22, 23 7, 8, 9 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption Partially covered *26-31 7, 8, 9 EN8 Total water withdrawal Fully covered *26, 39 7, 8, 9 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions Fully covered *26, 39 7, 8, 9 EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions Fully covered *28, 39 7, 8, 9 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Fully covered *26-31 7, 8, 9 Our progress EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Fully covered *39 7, 8, 9 EN20 NOx, SO2, and other significant air emissions Fully covered *29, 39 7, 8, 9 EN21 Total water discharge Partially covered *26, 39 7, 8, 9 EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Fully covered *26, 39 7, 8, 9 EN29 Environmental impacts of transporting products Partially covered *28 7, 8, 9 EN30 Environmental protection expenditures and investments Fully covered *29 7, 8, 9 * Sustainability Report 2012 † Annual Report 2012 • Givaudan website Governance/Data GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 43 Sustainability Report 2012 GRI standard disclosures index Part III: Performance indicators continued Description Status Page/reference UN Global Compact Labour practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce Fully covered *6, 37 6 LA2 New employee hires and employee turnover Fully covered *37 6 LA4 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Fully covered *38 3 LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism Fully covered *18, 26, 38 LA12 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews Fully covered *38 6 LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Fully covered *38 6 Human rights HR2 Screening of suppliers, on human rights Fully covered *12, 13, 14 1, 2, 4, 5, 10 HR6 Measures taken to contribute to the abolition of child labour Fully covered *14, 17, 36 1, 2, 4, 5 Society SO1 Programmes on local community engagement Fully covered *10, 11 4, 5, 6, 8, 9 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development Fully covered *10, 11, †57 7, 8 SO6 Total value contributions to political parties and related institutions Fully covered *20, 21 10 Product responsibility PR1 Health and safety impacts of products Fully covered *24, 25, †56, 57 7, 9 PR3 Information on products and services Fully covered *24, 25, †56, 57 7, 9 PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, related to marketing communications Fully covered *36 * Sustainability Report 2012 † Annual Report 2012 • Givaudan website 44 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance The principles of the UN Global Compact Overview The UN Global Compact asks companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption: Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Sustainability management Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Our progress Environment Principle 7 Businesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Governance/Data GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 45 Sustainability Report 2012 46 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Overview Sustainability management Our progress Governance/Data GRI Index/UN COP/Assurance Givaudan SA – 47 Sustainability Report 2012 48 – Givaudan SA Sustainability Report 2012 Givaudan SA Chemin de la Parfumerie 5 CH – 1214 Vernier, Switzerland T + 41 22 780 91 11 F + 41 22 780 91 50 www.givaudan.com Design: Radley Yeldar www.ry.com Illustration: Coco Tassel www.cocotassel.com Copywriting: College Hill www.thecollegegroup.com
