ontinued Support Statement e at IPPAG Global Promotions are committed to behave in a socially and ethica emplary way and we believe that we are responsible for all the people who work der the IPPAG Global Promotions banner. PAG Global Promotions and it’s Service Partners are committed to a high level o orporate Citizenship, through our Code of Conduct, our partnership with the nited Nations Global Compact Initiative and our Social Auditing Program. ike Oxley EO Human Rights Principles ssessment, Policy and Goals PAG Global Promotions expects employers to respect fundamental human hts, to treat their workforce fairly and with respect. In order to make our position ear we have documented an Ethical Policy based on the Ethical Trading itiative. plementation PAG Global Promotions believes that actions speak louder than words. Throug r network of Service Partners we purchase directly from factories and very sma gent requirements which are purchased from wholesalers using printers to corate items. Due to the nature of our business we need to have a multi-tiered rategy for implementing our Ethical Policy. Human Rights Principles mplementation Cont… or suppliers based outside of Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand n SA8000 based independent third party audit is conducted on every supplier th whom we conduct business and we ensure they achieve reasonable scores fore any work is contracted. On this basis IPPAG Global Promotions can and ll provide copies of these audits, which we hold on file. or suppliers based in Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand he supplier must sign a Conditions of Purchase agreement with IPPAG Global omotions before we conduct any business, which in summary, confirms the llowing. The supplier is prepared to abide with the Ethical Policy in Appendix A and ensure that any third party suppliers in the supplier’s supply chain also comply with Appendix A. Any major breaches of non-compliance either in their facilities or in thirdparty supplier facilities must either be rectified promptly or breaches reported to IPPAG Global Promotions in writing promptly. Human Rights Principles mplementation Cont… The supplier must demonstrate they are implementing the Ethical Policy with an ird party suppliers. There are three options for demonstrating implementation. Third party independent SA8000 based auditing. (SMETA or BSCI audits) Internal auditing if thorough and established procedures are in place. ‘Self-certification’ for factories in Europe, North America, Australia and New Zealand. the supplier fails to comply with either of the above, IPPAG Global Promotions ay, at its sole discretion terminate any agreement or contract that it has with the pplier with immediate effect. Human Rights Principles easurement of Outcomes PAG Global Promotions have in place a Supplier Evaluation Program which ores our suppliers (both EU and Non-EU) using a specific grading criteria which vers areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. ach supplier is reviewed, evaluated and graded accordingly and logged on our pplier database. 2012 IPPAG Global Promotions targeted auditing of our key suppliers which wa hieved and our target for 2013 is to increase the number of ‘Preferred and ecommended suppliers with such auditing. PAG Global Promotions now have a comprehensive supplier database of S1 referred suppliers) and S2 (recommended suppliers). Labour Principles ssessment, Policy and Goals PAG Global Promotions states in our Ethical Policy all areas with regards to bour principles – please refer to Appendix A plementation PAG Global Promotions employees are entitles to Health Insurance and Pensio cheme PAG Global Promotions has a Discrimination Policy – please refer to Antiscrimination Policy easurement of Outcomes embers of Sedex – the not for profit membership organisation dedicated to iving improvements in responsible and ethical business practices in global pply chains Environmental Principles ssessment, Policy and Goals e ask our employees and suppliers to take into account the effect their activities ve on the environment at all times. PAG Global Promotions is committed to minimisation of waste and the recycling materials. here appropriate energy management will be used to help our consumption and so to save energy for the general environment. plementation meeting our commitment we will endeavour to: Legal As a minimum, meet statutory requirements of environmental regulations and standards to which we subscribe. Environmental Principles plementation Cont… Recycle and use of Recycled Materials Recycle and reuse any materials possible and use environmentally friendly products where possible including paper, tins, packaging etc. Waste Management Minimise water product wherever possible and make sure waste materials disposed of in an environmentally safe manner and in accordance with regulations. Suppliers Work in partnership with suppliers and customers to ensure best practice is followed for supply of goods and services. Environmental Principles plementation Cont… Energy Manage all energy supplies and water supplies to obtain optimum consump through management initiatives. We will also endeavour to cut vehicle emis by using eco friendly transport or public transport where possible. Company Awareness IPPAG Global Promotions encourage its employees to act in an environme conscious manner, and will encourage awareness of environmental responsibilities throughout the company. PAG Global Promotions is working to continually carry out and improve our impa e environment. Environmental Principles easurement of Outcomes PAG Global Promotions ensure that when sourcing products from Non-EU coun ey comply with all EU directives such as REACH and ROHS PAG Global Promotions are a WEEE registered company (Waste Electrical and ectronic Equipment) WEE/FC0360QW Anti-Corruption Principles ssessment, Policy and Goals e pride ourselves on our reputation for acting honestly, openly, fairly and ethicall herever we do business. Our reputation is built on our values as a company, the lues of our employees and our collective commitment to acting with integrity roughout our organisation. e are committed to acting professionally and fairly in all of our business dealings lationships wherever we operate. We take a zero-tolerance approach to corrupti all its forms and do not accept it in our business or in those we do business with plementation e uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdicti which we operate and will actively co-operate with law enforcement authorities e investigation and punishment of any act of corruption or bribery by any person mployed by or associated with IPPAG Global Promotions. We work against rruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Anti-Corruption Principles easurement of Outcomes PPAG Global Promotions has an external audit company to do regular udits and they report directly submitted to the CEO. Our books and ccounts are subjected to statutory external audit annually. These audits are sed as one of the methods of identifying any suspicious payments which ould be related to bribery or corrupt behaviour. There has been no such cident reported in the period Full Service Global Solutions For Promotional Products Contact Mike Oxley, CEO Telephone: +44 (0)1727 732620 Email: mike.oxley@ippag.com Web: www.ippag.com
