Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Doing more, together Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 What’s in this report About Clifford Chance 01 Introduction: Doing more, together Clifford Chance is one of the world’s pre-eminent law ﬁrms, with signiﬁcant depth and a range of 02 Corporate responsibility highlights resources across ﬁve continents. As a single, fully integrated, global partnership, we pride 04 Senior and Managing Partners’ ourselves on our approachable, collegial and introduction team-based way of working. We always strive to exceed the expectations of our clients, which 06 Our CR strategy in detail include corporates from all the commercial and industrial sectors, governments, regulators, 08 Clifford Chance Access to Justice trade bodies and not-for-proﬁt organisations. Award 2012 We provide them with the highest-quality advice and legal insight, which combines the ﬁrm’s 10 People: Realising our collective potential global standards with in-depth local expertise. 16 Community: Coming together to make Our principles: a difference Exceeding clients’ expectations 22 Environment: Small footprint, major impact Local excellence, global standards An ambition for success 26 Progress and achievements Investing in talent 28 UN Global Compact and Global Reporting An adaptable and approachable team Initiative (GRI) index Thinking ahead 29 Firm at a glance Strength through diversity This Corporate responsibility report is also Community available online at www.cliffordchance.com Read more about our principles at www.cliffordchance.com Under the rules of certain US jurisdictions, this document may constitute attorney advertising. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Front cover: Community Building strong foundations with Habitat for Humanity More than 1.6 billion people worldwide nearly 50 Cliﬀord Chance volunteers from are homeless or live in appalling conditions, Dubai, Abu Dhabi, Shanghai, Hong Kong and severely compromising their health and ability Bangkok have raised thousands of dollars to to earn a living. Habitat for Humanity, one of support home-building projects. Then, working our 12 global pro bono non-governmental alongside families in desperate need in Jordan, organisation (NGO) clients, believes that China and Thailand, the volunteers helped helping people build a safe, decent place to build safe, secure houses that will give the live can break this cycle of poverty. Fundraising families a new life – and new hope. from friends, family and around their oﬃces, Cover photography: Main image and lady in orange by Mikel Flamm; Lady with bucket by Shawn Reeves Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 01 Doing more, together Since setting our corporate responsibility (CR) strategy at Cliﬀord Chance, we have tried to treat this area of our operations as we would any other part of our business. That means we set targets and measure performance, we consider impediments to progress and celebrate successes. In this, our latest CR report, we take the opportunity to review activity over the past ﬁnancial year, and to evaluate what we have achieved over the past ﬁve years. We also look ahead to the next ﬁve years and set out our CR goals and aspirations. Headline achievements Since 2008/09 People Community Environment Clifford Chance Academy Hours invested in pro bono and Reduction in CO2 emissions participants volunteering work per FTE 26,263 With an average course rating of 323,000 39% With lawyer time worth £97.63m 13 times greater than our 4.6 out of 5 initial target of 3% Read more on p10 Read more on p16 Read more on p22 02 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Corporate responsibility highlights Community Highlights Intermon Oxfam Spain Madrid and Barcelona provided pro bono from 2012/13 cover to the Spanish branch of Oxfam while the organisation’s in-house lawyer was away. Giving two hours of pro bono work a day, our lawyers helped with matters covering a range of issues – including labour, real estate, intellectual property rights and international Across the world we are ﬁnding new ways to work together commerce. – with colleagues, clients and alumni – on our global CR programme. Local inspiration and the energy of individuals at every level within our business ensure that our people, community and environment initiatives generate shared social value wherever we work. Community People Corporate Video knowledgeResponsibility Awards sharing project Global Global To recognise individual and team Who better to learn from than our own commitment across our whole CR experts? That philosophy underpinned the programme, our annual CR Awards Academy initiative to ﬁlm over 100 partners, celebrate people who have made a real lawyers and Business Services professionals impact. Each winner receives £5,000 (or sharing insights on skills such as building local equivalent) to donate to charity. board-level relationships and the importance Our Delhi CR team won the 2012 ‘One Firm’ of effective communication. The project won team award for their lasting impact with the Law Society’s 2012 Award for Literacy India – and the donation will Excellence in Learning and Development. sponsor 15 disadvantaged children through high school. People Community Women’s groups across the ﬁrm address Je suis top! Paris, New York, issues common to professional women Human rights London, Washington, DC everywhere, like raising one’s proﬁle, networking and balancing family and career. Africa In Paris, a recent ‘Women@CC’ event saw Pro bono work and funds from the Clifford French actress Blandine Métayer visit with Chance Foundation have helped the Institute her show – ‘Je suis top!’. Many ofﬁces host of Human Rights and Business build capacity multiple forums and workshops – recent and raise awareness around the UN Guiding examples include ‘Leadership Skills – Principles on Business and Human Rights Success Without Stress’ in London, among national human rights institutions in ‘Female Leadership’ in Paris and an East Africa. ‘Effective Networking Skills’ workshop in the US. Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 03 People Environment Community Out on the Street Environmental Kašperské Hory London volunteering days kids home Our London ofﬁce hosted the inaugural Out on the Street: Europe – a summit Milan and Amsterdam Prague for senior LGBT representatives from Business Services professionals in Amsterdam Since 2008, volunteers from our Prague world-leading ﬁnancial services institutions. got their hands dirty for an annual clean-up of ofﬁce have regularly been visiting the Out on the Street brings together LGBT a wildlife refuge on the site of a former garbage Kašperské Hory children’s home in Prague. and straight leaders from ﬁnancial services dump. In Milan, 50 volunteers and their families The ‘Clifford Chancers’ – as the children call to focus on business opportunities and spent a day tidying up Italy’s oldest regional them – plan and ﬁnance outings and activities leadership strategies for and within the park, clearing the site of everything from bottles for the young people, and join them in LGBT community. to automobile tyres. everything from skiing to scooter riding to educational visits. Environment Green Mark – Gold Standard Singapore Our Singapore ofﬁce was awarded the environmental BCA Green Mark Award – Gold Standard for meeting the exacting standards required by the BCA (Building and Construction Authority), an agency of the Singapore Government. Among other environmental measures, the ofﬁce installed motion sensor lighting controls and energy-efﬁcient lighting, and 90 per cent of electrical equipment is Energy Star rated. Community Community Client pro bono lunch Client pro bono London workshops This year, our London ofﬁce hosted its third annual Corporate Responsibility lunch for Hong Kong clients. The event aims to proﬁle some of the Our Hong Kong ofﬁce teamed up with international and local charities we support Citi, a longstanding client of the ﬁrm, and to share our corporate responsibility work to host two pro bono workshops for and programmes with clients and identify local NGOs. Representatives from over ways we can partner with them for the 30 organisations took part in three-hour charities’ beneﬁt. sessions where Citi and Clifford Chance lawyers advised on topics such as corporate governance, intellectual property rights and employment. 04 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Introduction Shared focus, effective collaboration It’s now ﬁve years since we began to take a more strategic view of our corporate responsibilities. We’ve come a long way since then. Cliﬀord Chance Managing Partner David Childs and Senior Partner Malcolm Sweeting look back at what’s been achieved and consider the ﬁrm’s next steps. While Cliﬀord Chance has a long tradition These include cross-oﬃce initiatives to reduce There is a lot of to be pleased about here, but of pro bono and volunteering work, when our IT-driven energy consumption; the we are far from complacent. we decided to establish a more formalised development of vibrant internal networks Our membership of the UN Global Compact CR programme, integrated with the ﬁrm’s designed to encourage and support diversity provides us with a valuable framework for overall business strategy, we created within our ﬁrm; as well as intensive pro bono understanding our overall performance a platform that has enabled us to focus on mandates, where we have been able to secure against independent benchmarks. This those issues that are most important to our important legal decisions for individuals and encourages us to continue to reﬁne our staﬀ and partners, to our clients and to the their families. understanding of what acting responsibly communities in which we operate. This more We have also sought to strengthen our means at Cliﬀord Chance. For example, this structured approach has allowed us to secure relationships with external organisations to year we have become one of the ﬁrst major real improvements in many of the key areas maximise the impact of our eﬀorts. Our international law ﬁrms to adopt a human identiﬁed. partnerships in our communities and with rights policy (see p7). The ﬁrst step in embedding this new CR NGOs are critical to the success of our CR We continue to set ourselves challenging new strategy was to put in place systems and programme. Over the past ﬁve years, we have objectives for our CR programme, and we processes to provide us with the critical taken an increasingly strategic view of these report each year where we have – and have information we needed to eﬀect change. interactions (see p18), looking for those not – made headway. We believe we are As a result, in every oﬃce we now have an opportunities where the combination of creating the best conditions to secure environmental management system to our skills and geographic base can make progress, and CR is increasingly embedded minimise our footprint; we have created a the most diﬀerence. into how we run the ﬁrm, as well as in our global appraisal process designed to ensure In developing these pro bono NGO cultural and organisational DNA. objectivity and equality in how we evaluate relationships, we have sought to apply much the contribution of all our people; and we We are proud of what we have already of what constitutes best practice in our major have improved the time recording system for achieved, and we are immensely grateful for global client relationships with a view to pro bono and volunteering hours, which the commitment, enthusiasm and energy that emulating their success. helps us see where we may need to provide our people have brought to this area of the additional opportunities for people to get We have also put more focus on looking for ﬁrm’s life and the support we have received involved, or where more communication may ways to collaborate with these same clients along the way from our community partners be needed. around CR. By combining our eﬀorts, we and from our clients. We look forward to are able to mobilise greater resource than we building on this good work together over the Importantly, we have empowered everyone could individually, and our shared experiences next ﬁve years. in Cliﬀord Chance to support us in achieving also deepen our relationship in a way that is our CR goals: we have formal mechanisms personally and professionally rewarding. Malcolm Sweeting David Childs to seek their ideas, to encourage and Senior Partner Managing Partner recognise their contribution and to support The outcome of our eﬀorts has been initiatives that they sponsor. The eﬀorts of phenomenal. Just one example, out of many these individuals and teams are celebrated featured in this report: last year we set every year at the ﬁrm’s CR Awards, with ourselves a three-year target to help 100,000 some 600 nominees and 37 winners so far. people through our community volunteering and pro bono work. We met that goal in just 12 months, as a result of very high levels of staﬀ engagement and more targeted activity (see p19). Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 05 Our vision for corporate responsibility at Clifford Chance To implement an outstanding corporate responsibility programme that has a signiﬁcant and positive impact on our ﬁrm and the communities in which we operate, in support of our ambition to lead the elite of international law ﬁrms. Our strategic CR priorities 2013–18 People Community Environment To improve the diversity of our To do more pro bono and To decrease our environmental partnership community outreach work and to impact, including a further reduction increase the impact of that work in our CO2 emissions Read more on p6 06 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Our CR strategy in detail Aligning CR with our business Our vision is to implement an outstanding To achieve this vision, we must align our CR and over-arching business strategies. Our CR programme is therefore focused on corporate responsibility programme that has those areas that we believe are of greatest relevance to our principal stakeholders and where we have the greatest impact. a signiﬁcant positive impact on our ﬁrm and In this way, our CR activities connect with, and reinforce, the the communities in which we operate, critical areas of our continued success. in support of our ambition to lead the elite In executing our CR programmes, we draw on the expertise, creativity and dedication of the thousands of talented people of international law ﬁrms. working in our ﬁrm. Their eﬀorts are critical to our success. Area Vision 2013–18 Beneﬁts Realising the potential of our To build an inclusive and supportive culture Beneﬁts to clients: Helps us attract high-quality which embraces our diversity and leverages people with diverse backgrounds so we remain People connected to our clients and able to deliver the its advantages and which provides best advice opportunities for the best and brightest individuals from the widest range of Beneﬁts to the ﬁrm: Ensures we attract, retain and develop the people we need to achieve our backgrounds to develop their skills and aim to be the leader of the elite group of broaden their experience international law ﬁrms Partnering to support our To have an outstanding pro bono and Beneﬁts to clients: Cements close, trusting community outreach platform that relationships with our clients as we work together Community to support local communities enables everyone in the ﬁrm to engage enthusiastically and which delivers Beneﬁts to the ﬁrm: Develops the skills and eﬀective assistance to our charitable and motivation of our staff by broadening their experience and horizons, locally and globally not-for-proﬁt partners Safeguarding the To take a responsible and eﬀective approach Beneﬁts to clients: Helps our clients cut through to measuring and managing our own the growing complexity of regulation to implement Environment successful projects environmental impact and to be a leading player in ﬁnding legal solutions for our Beneﬁts to the ﬁrm: Demonstrates to our people, clients to facilitate the implementation of our clients and to the wider world that we are committed to supporting environmental issues sustainable energy technologies and projects Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 07 Our CR governance Human Rights and our UN Global Compact commitments The development of our CR strategy, including our As a participant in the UN Global Compact and an targets and progress, is scrutinised by the ﬁrm’s most active contributor to the development of the UN’s senior decision-making body, the Management Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, Committee, at multiple points each year. Execution of Cliﬀord Chance already has a commitment to support each strand of the strategy is delegated to groups with a and respect internationally recognised human rights. particular focus on the relevant issues, led by our Global We are now one of the ﬁrst international law ﬁrms to Head of HR and Talent (People), our Global Pro Bono have adopted a formal policy. Work is under way to Partner (Community), and our Chief Operating Oﬃcer integrate the policy in a sustainable way across our (Environment). business and operations globally. Read more on p28 Benefits to clients Benefits to firm ships elation ImpArcocv kills ens r esa bet deve our s e to jus sctcoes ngth ter lop n nc tice s de perie stre ad hig a vic h-q ro ex tion e ua B nd lity ess acc a Better un pe ora s skills Co ve ce derst llab op le pro an velop andi e Im to ﬁn , de co ng, nity nce Attract, retain and ct ve our diversity Peop l mu oje erie Impro Our CR m Pr exp to educatio ns strategy de Improve acc n oa Br ess En v iro n m e n t Le u ga d st l so s e an r rin ain lut s ur o u p t a b io n s le e fo Mea age foot nerg r man ental y nm enviro De s mo nstr sue ates ental is commitme t to environm n Sup ports cts implem proje entation of successful 08 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance Access to Justice Award 2012 “Stand up ... now we hug!” In 2012, approximately a third of the refugees seeking asylum before the UN Refugee Agency in Hong Kong were helped by the Hong Kong Refugee Advice Centre. Its work is vital: many asylumseekers simply cannot negotiate Hong Kong’s complex application process. And now – as winner of our 2012 Access to Justice Award – the centre has been able to ramp up its work substantially. Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 09 We’ve really scaled up our policy advocacy to protect and promote refugee rights in Hong Kong. Aleta Miller Executive Director, HKRAC In 2012, the Hong Kong Refugee Advice HKRAC was chosen from more than 60 For individual refugees, the beneﬁt is Centre (HKRAC) helped 254 people. nominations for our third Access to Justice incalculable. Recent successes have included That’s over a third of all the refugees seeking Award. This brings £50,000 from the a member of a religious minority who ﬂed international protection before the UN Cliﬀord Chance Foundation, plus 500 hours persecution in Pakistan. Rejected by Hong Refugee Agency (UNHCR) in Hong Kong. of pro bono and volunteering support. Kong, he was beaten unconscious by a mob They came mainly from Sri Lanka, Pakistan, The previous recipients were the People’s when he returned home. HKRAC staﬀ Somalia, Yemen and India. Almost 40 per Legal Aid Centre in Sudan and the African ensured his second application was successful, cent had been tortured. Prisons Project based in London, whose work and he is now awaiting resettlement. takes place in Uganda, Kenya and Sierra Leone. Asylum-seekers have few legal rights in One HKRAC worker recalls the jubilation Hong Kong. Since the government is not a HKRAC Executive Director Aleta Miller of a successful applicant who walked into the signatory to the 1951 Refugee Convention, described the award as game-changing. oﬃce exclaiming: “Stand up ... now we hug!” refugee status is determined by UN oﬃcials, “We’ve been able to recruit a fourth staﬀ Winning the award had much the same who then assist in facilitating resettlement attorney, plus Hong Kong’s ﬁrst advocacy eﬀect for HKRAC, says Aleta Miller: overseas for most recognised refugees. oﬃcer working on refugee issues. So as well “And the impact it’s having on our services This can take years. as being able to represent about 75 more is incredibly motivating.” clients a year, we’ve really scaled up our policy Many applicants are defeated by the arduous advocacy to protect and promote refugee application process. But since 2007 the rights in Hong Kong.” HKRAC has provided life-changing legal services to over 1,500 men, women and The pro bono hours have involved more than children – as well as counselling and support 20 people from Cliﬀord Chance: “They’ve for people traumatised by their experiences. represented clients directly for us; their research support has freed up our own staﬀ to give more and better representation; and they’re also doing invaluable research into how the existing system can be improved.” 10 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 People Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 11 Realising our collective potential Clients expect excellence from us. To meet their expectations, we must ensure we have great people throughout the ﬁrm, performing at the top of their game. The legal sector is competitive, and we work hard to attract and retain the best and brightest people. That means providing innovative, high-quality development programmes that reﬂect and anticipate the changes in the market; a collaborative and collegial working environment that rewards people who excel – and who help others excel; and opportunities to help those less privileged than ourselves both near and farther aﬁeld. We work alongside our clients to develop new approaches to their most complex business, ﬁnancial, regulatory and risk issues – which means we enjoy the constant challenge of advising on the most interesting mandates. Some highlights 2012/13 54,000 hours of training investment 4,730 participants in the Academy’s 16.3% female partners global curriculum A novel path to improvement Read the story on p12 12 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 People Being the best we can be Our ambition to lead the elite group of international law ﬁrms has clear implications for our people strategy. We must hire, develop and retain truly outstanding people – and equip them with the skills and experience to realise their full potential and deliver their best for clients. Our commitment to seeking and nurturing Frameworks for excellence Lawyers can discuss their career aspirations talent regardless of socio-economic with a career development partner, and As a meritocracy, Cliﬀord Chance is or cultural background recognises two Business Services objectives are set annually committed to setting out clear, transparent imperatives: to secure the best people and discussed regularly. pathways to help people achieve their and to ensure that the ﬁrm is as diverse personal and professional goals, and to A mentoring programme has recently been as its ever-broadening client base. ensuring these are available to everyone. successfully piloted in the London oﬃce for In systematic pursuit of excellence, we have Business Services staﬀ. And secondment Over the past ﬁve years, we have reﬁned our policies over the past ﬁve years as opportunities, both internal and with clients, implemented a global appraisal system that the external environment has changed. We help our lawyers broaden their experience gives people a clear framework to help them have established and enhanced development quickly and build relationships with clients develop and progress. Everyone – lawyers frameworks for all our people, formalised our and colleagues. and Business Services staﬀ – can review diversity aspirations and expanded both our progress and discuss options. It also gives us training oﬀer and our learning platforms. an overview of the skills and experience available across the ﬁrm. A novel path to improvement Oliver Campbell, Global Head of Business Transformation, London organised their work. His ideas for The bound volumes project achieved improving the way they produced ‘bound signiﬁcant time savings and the team volumes’ – aggregating the transaction started to apply the same techniques to documents at the end of a deal – won a prize higher value legal tasks, delivering equally in the ﬁrm’s suggestion scheme, and impressive results. a Business Services team set out to put his That gave Oliver the opportunity to take on ideas into practice. a new role, helping other lawyers develop “The ﬁrm gave us a process improvement more eﬃcient ways of working; now, as The credit crunch changed many people’s specialist – a ‘black belt’ – to run the project,” Global Head of Business Transformation, lives dramatically. For Oliver Campbell, it he recalls. “And I saw that the skills he he aims to qualify as an eﬃciency ‘black opened one of the less-travelled legal career brought had much wider application to the belt’ himself this year. He leads some 40 paths: from fee earner to Business Services. work of lawyers.” active projects, which increasingly involve Oliver had chosen Cliﬀord Chance clients: “We’re particularly keen to improve Intrigued, Oliver asked to spend more time because “the deals it did were truly the way we work as a joined-up team with with the team and his career development groundbreaking”, and joined in 2005. our clients.” partner gave him time out to help. “The ﬁrm But when the ﬂow of deals slowed as a was very supportive,” he says. “They very result of the ﬁnancial crisis, Oliver began quickly oﬀered me a secondment – and to reﬂect on the way he and his colleagues I never looked back.” Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 13 Developing a career – and building a practice Jason Mendens, Partner, Doha For Jason Mendens, partner in a Sydney law Jason undertook extensive training both on It was a tremendous ﬁrm, 2011 brought two events that would Qatar’s legal and political environment and turn out to be life-changing. His ﬁrm merged on business development, and he’s about to opportunity to apply with Cliﬀord Chance, and nearly 8,000 miles start local language lessons. Jason’s mindful away, Cliﬀord Chance opened an oﬃce in that much of what he’s learning is the skills I’d been Qatar. Today, Jason is building our transferable as the ﬁrm opens new practices developing in building Corporate practice there. elsewhere: “There’s a lot of commonality, in both success factors and pitfalls.” a practice. The decision to launch a Qatar Corporate practice came in 2012. Following a global The experience has inﬂuenced the way he selection process, the Corporate team works with associates: “It broadens you as approached Jason to lead the practice – he an individual – you can’t have an ego in a jumped at the chance. “It was a tremendous small oﬃce. Everyone has to pitch in opportunity to apply the skills I’d been together, both in the oﬃce and across the developing in building a practice.” region. Indeed, we encourage associates to see themselves as part of the region rather The support he received is reassuring: than just one oﬃce.” “I’ve had immense help from the other Middle East oﬃces. People who know Qatar well gave me a real feel for the place when I arrived and many cultural insights along the way. Cliﬀord Chance has also been very supportive of my family – which is an important part of making it work.” 14 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 People On balance As part of our drive for greater inclusivity, Ethnic minorities Gender balance – ﬁrm-wide data our aspiration is that 30 per cent of partners 2013 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 should be women. Since we set that goal, Partners* Partners the proportion has risen to 16.3 per cent. New York/Washington, DC 5.2% % Female 16.3% 15.3% 14.5% 14.8% 15.7% We know we must accelerate our progress, but there are no easy solutions – a conclusion London 6.2% Other fee earners conﬁrmed by several important studies we Other fee earners* % Female 49.1% 49.1% 49.0% 48.6% 49.5% have supported. However, we are making New York/Washington, DC 32.0% Business Services improvements on multiple fronts: some London 20.6% % Female 70.2% 70.5% 68.4% 69.4% 70.3% global and guided by improved management data, others addressing factors speciﬁc to Business Services* For additional data by year or by region, particular markets. The 30 per cent target is New York/Washington, DC 49.2% see www.cliﬀordchance.com sharpening our focus at the most senior London 14.6% levels on the interventions that make most diﬀerence – and this is driving important *Self-reporting as ethnic minority changes in areas such as career development, mentoring and training. Protecting the rights of enterprises and the underprivileged Ha-Thanh Nguyen, Associate, Washington, DC Ha-Thanh Nguyen is clear about why bono helping people whose positions she became a lawyer. Her parents were resonate with my own background.” In order to excel we all Vietnamese refugees, escaping war-torn She has played a key role in the Equal need one another. Vietnam by boat and rescued by a US Navy Justice Initiative project described on destroyer two weeks before she was born. page 21. “That refugee background instilled in me a What makes Cliﬀord Chance special, strong urge to ﬁght for the underdog – and says Thanh, is the ﬁrm’s distinctively particularly for marginalised people,” she collegial culture. “That sharing of expertise says. “Cliﬀord Chance, through its extensive and clients, and of pro bono resources pro bono partnerships, has enabled me to across the network, reﬂects a belief that in do that.” order to excel we all need one another.” Thanh joined our Washington, DC For Thanh, perhaps the most valuable oﬃce through an access programme learning experience is the direct contact oﬀering placements to students who are with clients and partners: “The client the ﬁrst aspiring attorneys in their family. contact helps me understand the real “On that placement I worked on a pro bono importance of what I’m doing. And by matter that had real impact on the lives working so closely with partners, I’m able of disadvantaged juveniles. It was a really to beneﬁt from their truly exceptional legal empowering experience.” skills and experience.” Eighteen months on, she says, “I represent corporate clients to make sure their interests and rights are protected – and I also work pro Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 15 Broadening our training delivery Everywhere, the regulatory landscape is We have enhanced training delivery by The Clifford Chance Academy evolving rapidly. We attach great importance adopting new learning platforms. For to high-quality technical training for all our example, we have started to oﬀer selected lawyers, so we can give clients the best advice on negotiating increasingly complex classroom courses with follow-up sessions via webinar to help translate formal learning into 787 instructor-led business skills legislation and anticipating changes ahead. everyday practice. We have greatly expanded programmes At the same time, the range of skills we want our use of e-learning – which is convenient, to share has broadened. Clients want us ﬂexible and gives all our people much greater to be true business advisers, so our legal perspectives must be married with a sharp commercial focus. This depends on building access to the expertise available across the ﬁrm. E-learning was a key factor in our 2012 Law Society Award for Excellence in >1,000 legal training sessions, including courses, closer client relationships and a fuller Training and Development, which cited our seminars and workshops understanding of clients’ operating use of video to ‘capture the business acumen environments. So we have expanded and tactical knowledge of [our] senior leaders programmes that support development in and cascade this throughout the global ﬁrm’ these areas – training in relationship building, (see p2). business development and management – and sector workshops, which include the client’s perspective where possible. 16 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Community Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 17 Coming together to make a difference Turning around the fortunes of Bangudchalard-Nongprue school in Thailand has brought together the fundraising and volunteering eﬀorts of the whole Bangkok oﬃce. Two dozen volunteers worked with students, teachers and residents to build foundations for new water tanks and open a playground for the 200 students. Support from the Cliﬀord Chance Foundation made this possible – and paid for a new dining hall for the school. And their support for schools doesn’t stop there (see p19). This demonstrates the impact we have on individual lives when our people come together to make a diﬀerence in our local communities and further aﬁeld. Pro bono time and other support invested by lawyers, Business Services staﬀ, clients and alumni, alongside funding from the Cliﬀord Chance Foundation, help widen access to justice, education and ﬁnance. Some highlights 2012/13 £19.19m time cost value of lawyers’ 121 not-for-proﬁt board 12 strategic global pro bono pro bono work positions held by partners NGO relationships in place Helping 100,000 people Bangkok More from Bangkok p19 18 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Community Working in partnership, helping communities When we started reporting, 15 oﬃces recorded pro bono time – now 33 do. In 2008, we had just started to recognise the beneﬁts of working alongside our clients to beneﬁt our communities – now it’s built into our strategic client programme. Although the number of pro bono hours has ﬂuctuated since 2008, we are now seeing more positive results. 55,347 4,477 £1m 48 Making an impact Pro bono and community hours community hours invested by Business Clifford Chance Foundation funds joint community projects with with our strategic invested by lawyers Services staff committed in 2012/13 24 clients NGO clients Over the past year, pro bono hours have Our community outreach work is also a key increased 10 per cent, to 55,347 hours; opportunity to engage with clients. Working Foundation funds and support partner engagement has risen, with 121 together strengthens ties – and opens new from our lawyers and Business not-for-proﬁt board positions held by doors for the charities. As well as coServices staff have helped: partners and 71 partners leading relationships operating on speciﬁc initiatives – for with NGOs (a 15 per cent and 29 per cent example, our Shanghai oﬃce invited Abbott Habitat for Humanity p0 increase respectively); and we undertook to volunteer alongside us on our weekend The Institute of Human p2 48 collaborations with 24 clients. educational outings for impoverished Rights and Business children – we create opportunities for clients We recently started exploring how we Asylum Access p20 and community partners to meet. In London could oﬀer a similar level of internationally and Hong Kong, client pro bono lunches Room to Read p21 co-ordinated legal service to selected global and workshops have generated valuable NGOs on a pro bono basis as we do to our The Grameen Foundation p21 introductions (see p3). fee-paying clients. Since 2008, the Cliﬀord Chance Foundation African Prisons Project 2012 report We identiﬁed 12 organisations (see box) has provided a focused, co-ordinated Fair Trials International 2012 report whose work aligns with our themes of approach to our charitable giving. Just widening access to justice, ﬁnance and Save the Children 2012 report over half the Foundation’s total fund of education, and who required our particular £1 million per year helps to drive the A4ID (Advocates for expertise to increase their capacity and development of our global pro bono NGO International Development) broaden their reach. partners, disaster relief and our Access to Anti-Slavery International All 12 relationships have one or more Justice Award (p8). relationship partners, who galvanise the Human Rights Watch The remainder, distributed by each of our ﬁrm’s eﬀorts and co-ordinate our pro bono oﬃces, has helped numerous projects over International PEN and community outreach services and the past year including establishing a funding from the Cliﬀord Chance toll-free counselling hotline to combat Foundation. violence towards women for a German-Iraqi We have formed a global CR committee NGO; providing funding to support a with representatives from each oﬃce to horticultural apprenticeship programme in oversee implementation of the global London; and supporting the ‘160 Girls’ community outreach strategy, and we have project in taking the Kenyan government to made signiﬁcant improvements to our court for failing to prosecute the alleged reporting and monitoring capabilities, attackers of 160 rape victims. reporting on hours worked and the number of people helped (see Helping 100,000 People). Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 19 Helping 100,000 People In May 2012, we launched Helping 100,000 People, a ﬁrm-wide campaign to help 100,000 people by 2015 through our community outreach and pro bono work. Just one year later, we had surpassed our aim: across our global network, we helped 136,478 people in 2012/13. We are now working to help 100,000 people every year. The target helps us gauge the ways we contribute to our communities. And working to meet the target has brought us together to achieve a common goal. Bangkok: Helping create London: a ‘model school’ Helping secure victories for children with autism A few years ago, Wat Sheeprakao school For ‘Deborah’, looking after her autistic My feeling is one of in Samutsakorn province was in such daughter’s needs in the local school system disrepair that attendance was falling. was a struggle. Deborah, who also has overwhelming relief. He now has an autistic spectrum disorder, was the chance of a brighter future, With support from the Cliﬀord Chance Foundation – and additional funds raised by overwhelmed as she tried to secure speech and that is a very good feeling. and language therapy for her 15-year-old. Bangkok colleagues – the school has With pro bono assistance from Cliﬀord The team also helped secure a victory for a refurbished its dining area; put in a Chance, Deborah won the case – and her 13-year-old boy whose parents had fought playground; and built an all-purpose shelter. daughter was able to prepare for exams. for years to get their son in a charity-run The Bangkok oﬃce has also provided books “None of this,” Deborah said, “would be school where he would receive specialist and supplies for the school, which serves possible without your help.” help. Now, he is thriving in his new school. over 100 students, and colleagues have His mother said: “... having you involved ... personally donated to buy fans for the London lawyers have recently helped the made me feel we had a ﬁghting chance. classrooms. National Autistic Society win four diﬃcult My feeling is one of overwhelming relief. cases that will ensure that students like Funding from the Cliﬀord Chance He now has the chance of a brighter future, Deborah’s daughter have the tools and Foundation has helped the school to and that is a very good feeling.” support they need to succeed. employ two additional teachers, which has enabled the school to grow. The improvements have resulted in increased attendance which has secured the future of the school. It is now regarded as a ‘model school’ by the local education authority. New York, Washington, DC, Sydney: Helping women dress for success Teams in the US and Sydney are helping disadvantaged women ﬁnd economic independence by supporting initiatives that provide professional attire, support and career development tools. In New York and Washington, DC, people donated interview-appropriate clothing and accessories to charity Dress for Success. In Sydney, a clothing drive held at a client function with Fitted for Success collected three van loads of clothes to help women looking to enter the workforce. In all, the donations will provide clothing to 200 women. 20 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Community India Access to Our team in India has a longstanding partnership with Literacy India. Last year, volunteers from our oﬃces in Germany run language training and interview preparation workshops to help the women gain formal education staﬀ organised an afternoon of art where children supported by the charity created artwork, used to create beautiful calendars. qualiﬁcations, ﬁnd a job and integrate more fully into society. China Access to education presents The calendars were sold throughout the Losing your sight, you can feel you’ve lost oﬃce, with the proceeds purchasing school opportunities for all members of everything. Audio books help blind people shoes and bags for 50 children. Financial the ﬁrm, including those without regain their independence. Over 20 people support from the ﬁrm also helped to from the China oﬃces have been helping legal training, to help others. transform Literacy India’s dark computer Hong Dandan – a charity that helps disabled centre into a comfortable classroom people build their capabilities – record audio beneﬁting over 30 pupils. books for students with an interest in law. Germany They have recorded nine books since mid-2011 with three to go. We have also The SABA language-teaching project helps sponsored a library project with the charity. migrant women from diﬃcult backgrounds with limited access to formal education, or who are qualiﬁed in their countries but face language barriers. Through the programme, UK Access to We advised Missing People, an NGO that supports the families and friends of missing made a three-year donation to support the opening of the oﬃces by 2015. Japan justice people, in securing a change to the law that will simplify the process that families must go through to ﬁnalise the aﬀairs of a person who After she narrowly escaped female genital mutilation in Cameroon, Mary ﬂed to Japan and found help through the Japan Providing access to justice, from is missing and presumed dead. Association for Refugees (JAR), supported the Americas to Europe and the Global by pro bono assistance from Tokyo lawyers. Middle East, in Asia Paciﬁc So far, we’ve worked on three cases with JAR Over 50 lawyers undertook a due diligence to help people like Mary seek refugee status and in Africa, means using our project to help Asylum Access identify three to start a new life in a safe place. jurisdictions where it will open oﬃces. They advocacy talents to see the rule researched and wrote reports on 28 countries of law upheld as well as giving – then helped identify a shortlist of eight for citizens essential legal advice. additional due diligence. The Foundation has Spain Access to Following the Haiti earthquake in 2010, Madrid-based microﬁnance institution expand its lending and broaden its provision of management skills training to borrowers. The ﬁrm provides pro bono assistance to ﬁnance Nantik Lum set out to make loans to 150 families to help them establish micro farms through which they can become economically WHIDC, and to its clients both directly and through a partnership with NYU Law School. Global By widening access to ﬁnance, independent. The Foundation donated In Togo, 62 per cent of the population lives funds to support the project, bolstered with we use our resources and below the poverty threshold. Foundation wide-ranging pro bono support from our ﬁnancial legal advisory skills, funding has helped Entrepreneurs du Spanish oﬃce. To date 100 farms have Monde, through local charity Assislassimé, particularly in the ﬁeld of been established. set up and train a network of sellers of microﬁnance. US spirulina – a local seaweed extremely rich in proteins, vitamins and minerals – creating a Washington Heights and Inwood new income for the sellers and helping to Development Corporation (WHIDC) is a combat malnutrition. New York non-proﬁt organisation providing microﬁnance to small businesses. Foundation funding has enabled WHIDC to signiﬁcantly Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 21 Access to education Libraries and legal help Room to Read Over 60 million primary school-aged children around the world have no access to education. Room to Read is a charity dedicated to promoting and enabling education through programmes focused on literacy and gender equality in education. Since 2009, we have donated over £175,000 to Room to Read through the Foundation. This has enabled it to establish 27 libraries and publish four local-language children’s books in Vietnam and Cambodia. The ﬁrm has also provided advice on employment law and on setting up foundations and organisations in various countries. In 2012, we identiﬁed Room to Read as one of our global pro bono NGO clients, committing to providing them with pro bono legal advice, volunteering support from Business Services from around our network of oﬃces, as well as further funding from the ﬁrm’s Foundation. Picture courtesy of Room to Read Access to justice Supreme decision Equal Justice Initiative Twenty-four Cliﬀord Chance lawyers in the US have contributed 1,600 hours to Evan Miller and Kuntrell Jackson were EJI. Fifteen people from the US 14 years old when they were convicted of Foundation have been involved with murder and sentenced to mandatory life reviewing programmes and managing the sentences without possibility of parole in relationship. Their work is impacting the US. Through the work of Equal Justice 10,000 young people – and the Court’s Initiative (EJI), they were granted new decision has implications for nearly 250,000 sentencing hearings as the result of a who were prosecuted as adults and remain Supreme Court ruling declaring mandatory in custody. We’re now helping with life terms unconstitutional for juveniles initiatives to ban prosecution of young convicted of homicide. children as adults and end the practice of incarcerating children in adult prisons. Picture courtesy of Richard Ross Access to ﬁnance Life-changing loans Grameen For example, £30,000 helped provide proﬁtable ‘business-in-a-box’ franchising After losing her family and home to a opportunities to Indonesian women by tsunami, Ibu Yusnaini started her life over funding their recruitment and training. with a US$100 loan. The Grameen Our pro bono advice has helped Grameen Foundation makes such loans possible and set up a crowd sourcing website in Uganda helps the world’s poorest, especially women, – and helped them stay compliant with improve their lives. the UK Bribery Act. Our relationship with Grameen now spans We are also proud to have hosted events in ﬁve years, over £100,000 of funds from the London, Hong Kong and Singapore – in Cliﬀord Chance Foundation and many 2012 welcoming Grameen founder, Nobel hours of pro bono and volunteering time Laureate Mohamed Yunus, to London. by lawyers from the UK and the US. 22 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Environment Small footprint, major impact For many oﬃce-based businesses, their environmental footprint has a comparatively low impact. But we recognise that we can have far-reaching inﬂuence. The often groundbreaking work we do with clients – both corporate and government – on their environmental initiatives, impacts and policies has underpinned a succession of important environmental advances in recent years. Of course, this makes it even more important that we manage our own environmental impact. And we undertake environmental initiatives globally and individually to raise awareness and encourage people to use ﬁnite resources sparingly. Here we review some of the achievements of the past ﬁve years and look forward to maintaining our progress in the years ahead. Some highlights 2012/13 39% reduction in CO2 emissions 100% ‘green’-sourced energy in 35 ofﬁces ran environmental from 2007/08 baseline our London ofﬁce and two campaigns largest data centres Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 23 24 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Environment Powerful advice, personal responsibility As well as advising clients on new green initiatives, climate change and sustainability issues, we combine global targets with local initiatives to make us more eﬃcient in our consumption of energy and resources. Groundbreaking client work in project ﬁnance, profoundly inﬂuence Our Frankfurt and Munich oﬃces completed environmental and sustainability practices a reﬁt incorporating waterand power-saving Over the past ﬁve years, we have won awards worldwide. features, and we ran a global campaign, led for work on renewable energy and clean tech by Amsterdam, to reduce paper usage. We projects, enabled businesses to negotiate Managing our footprint also retained ISO 14001 certiﬁcation in our increasingly complex environmental As advisers on such issues, we recognise that London and Amsterdam oﬃces. We aim to legislation and helped governments to set our own environmental policies should be maintain or improve performance across all eﬀective policies. exemplary – and working greener often our oﬃces in the coming year. See page 27 Our expertise in green energy has helped to means working more eﬃciently, which helps for our progress and targets. advance low-carbon generation projects in us deliver value to clients. So ﬁve years ago Raising awareness many countries. In the past three years alone, we set ourselves challenging targets, backed these have included a Polish carbon capture by eﬀective governance structures and an We encourage everyone in Cliﬀord Chance and storage project – one of the world’s environmental management system that is to see managing their environmental impact largest – and a wind project to increase now operational across most of our oﬃces. as a personal responsibility, and many oﬃces Kenya’s entire national power generation organise events such as the local clean-ups in Since then our local oﬃces have worked to capacity by up to 20 per cent. Milan and Amsterdam (p3). reduce our footprint in a number of areas and We have supported the transition to we have made good progress in buildings As a ﬁrm, we also support two global events lower-carbon economies through innovative where we are the main tenant; elsewhere we each year. For Earth Hour every oﬃce structures such as the ﬁrst commercial carbon are working with our landlords to achieve switches oﬀ its lights and many organise credit-assured delivery contracts and the UK comparable results. linked events; our World Environment Day government’s novel Green Deal scheme for activities are described opposite. We also Over the past year, a number of locally driven ﬁnancing energy eﬃciency improvements. recognise outstanding environmental initiatives have helped us to reduce waste and initiatives in our internal CR Awards (p2). But perhaps our most far-reaching consumption. For example, our oﬃce in contribution is our recent work on revising Singapore was awarded the Building and the Equator Principles. These sustainability Construction Authority’s Green Mark principles and monitoring processes, used (see p3), and the London oﬃce was certiﬁed by many of the major institutions involved under the Mayor of London’s Green Procurement Code. Managing our environmental footprint Leaving ever lighter footprints In 2005 our Amsterdam oﬃce pledged to electricity consumption from 8,000 watts to become carbon neutral. It took just four 2,400. New switches allowed lighting to be years to succeed, setting the lead for reduced on brighter days. ﬁrm-wide eﬀorts to reduce our The oﬃce became carbon neutral in 2009 by environmental footprint. oﬀsetting its remaining CO2 emissions. Two Amsterdam’s ‘Green Team’, formed in years later, in 2011, it was awarded ISO 2005, led a campaign focused on lower14001 certiﬁcation for energy management. energy lighting, paper saving and the use Since Amsterdam’s carbon footprint was ﬁrst of renewable energy. measured in 2004, it has shrunk by 55 per Sun-reﬂective foil ﬁtted to the atrium cent. Then, it weighed in at 1,860 tonnes of windows reduced the need for energyCO2 equivalent; today it’s an altogether hungry cooling units in the summer. svelter 830 tonnes, which it continues to Low-energy light bulbs cut the number oﬀset against green initiatives supported by needed per ﬁtting and slashed hourly the whole oﬃce. Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 25 Staff engagement A day of awareness Over the past ﬁve years, oﬃces across Our teams join forces with clients to plant In 2013, the WED ‘Think.Eat.Save.’ our network have supported World trees and ﬂowers, and clean up beaches. Oﬃce anti-food waste campaign aimed to help Environment Day (WED) – the United canteens serve free vegetarian lunches – or, in people learn to reduce their ‘foodprint’. Nations Environment Programme’s annual one case, oﬀered insects on the menu as an Colleagues in Bangkok traded scrap paper global day for environmental action – environmentally friendly protein alternative! (which will be sold to be reused) for a through a variety of innovative greenColleagues visit children’s homes to teach plastic food container to keep their food themed initiatives. young people about how they can make a fresher longer. The London oﬃce ran a diﬀerence. We turn down air conditioning and series of food-knowledge quizzes. And our turn oﬀ lights for the day; host plant sales to teams in the Middle East donated dried raise money for local charities; and partner food to a charity that distributes food with others in the community to put on parcels to workers and families in crisis. environmental fairs and art shows. Working with clients Sustained success Our portfolio of instructions over the past wind power capacity to meet rising tourist ﬁve years show us working with clients, demand, and acted as pro bono counsel regulators and governments to help them in 2012 for the development of one of implement innovative ways to tackle the ﬁrst community hydro schemes to be environmental concerns and meet the implemented in the UK, in Shrewsbury. rising demand for energy sustainably. We received the joint top score for Our pro bono assistance helped create environmental advice in 2010, in PLC’s the EU emissions trading framework for ‘Superleague’ looking at environmental carbon trading in 2008 – a framework practices across the world. The following still in place today – for which we won year saw us win African Power Deal of the the award for Best Law Firm from Year for our work on the 100MW power Environmental Finance in 2009. plant in Rwanda – raising and processing methane gas to use as fuel – followed by In 2010, we assisted a developer in Renewables Legal Adviser of the Year at Cape Verde in setting up an innovative the Infrastructure Journal Awards in 2013. public-private partnership with the Cape Verde government to develop 26 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 Looking back Progress and Key achievements Not achieved Progressing 2012/13 Achieved People Achievement for 2012/13 Achievement for 2012/13 Achievement for 2012/13 16.3% female partners (+ 1.5% on previous year) 62 work experience places offered as part of the PRIME programme in the UK to 5 new business skills courses added to Academy curriculum, including Coaching improve access to the legal profession Skills, Continuous Improvement Ambition Target for 2012/13 Target for 2012/13 30% 30 places 4 courses Community Pro bono and volunteering Partner involvement Achievement for 2012/13 Achievement for 2012/13 Achievement for 2012/13 55,348 pro bono hours, or 18.3 hours per FTE (+10% on previous year) 50% of lawyers undertaking pro bono work (+2% on previous year) 20% increase in partners sitting on not-for-proﬁt boards Target for 2012/13 Target for end 2013/14 Target for 2012/13 51,000 hours, or 16.7 hours per FTE 60% 10% Achievement for 2012/13 Achievement for 2012/13 4,477 business service staff volunteering hours (+10% on previous year) 29% increase in partners leading pro bono relationships, to 71 Target for 2012/13 Target for 2012/13 4,400 15% Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 27 Looking forward Targets We have reviewed the CR targets we set ourselves, aiming to focus on those metrics which best reﬂect our vision for each area of our strategy and which will enable us to evaluate our progress most eﬀectively. Environment People Ambition to achieve a more gender balanced Emissions Achievement for 2013 Achievement for 2013 partnership comprising at least 30% female partners 30% 39% 12 10 Provide up to 10 apprenticeships in the UK by end 2013/14 Provide up to 50 work experience places in reduction in CO2 emissions ofﬁces purchase some/all of our energy from ‘green’ sources accordance with the PRIME initiative by end 2013/14 50 Target for 2012/13 Target for 2012/13 3% reduction from 2007/08 All ofﬁces where available* baseline Community Waste Increase the proportion of lawyers doing pro bono work to 60% (+10%) by end 2013/14 +10% Achievement for 2013 Achievement for 2013 Increase Business Services volunteering hours by 10% end 2013/14 +10% 5% reduction in paper consumption per FTE** 60% of ofﬁces are recycling for multiple types of waste Deepen the ﬁrm’s 12 global NGO relationships so that 10% of pro bono hours are for these clients by end 2014/15 10% Target for 2012/13 Target for 2012/13 10% from 2007/08 baseline Every ofﬁce to recycle at least 25% of all general waste* Environment Decrease our CO2 emissions by at least Achievement for 2013 Achievement for 2013 5% from the 2012/13 baseline by end 2017/18 –5% 32 ofﬁces meeting at least the minimum requirement of 22 ofﬁces ensuring at least 10% of paper has at least 30% Reduce paper consumption by 10% per FTE from the 2012/13 baseline by end 2017/18 Every ofﬁce, where possible, to recycle –10% recycling at least 30% of ofﬁce post-consumer recycled at least 30% of all general waste by end 2017/18 30% paper waste content or comes from FSC, or from internationally recognised, certiﬁed sources Every ofﬁce, where possible, to recycle at showing a low carbon footprint least 50% of ofﬁce paper waste by end 2017/18 50% Target for 2012/13 Target for 2012/13 Every ofﬁce* Every ofﬁce* Every ofﬁce to ensure that at least 15% of paper has at least a 30% post-consumer recycled content or comes from FSC or other internationally recognised, certiﬁed sources 15% *Since setting our environment targets in 2007/08, it has become clear that in some showing a low carbon footprint by end oﬃces, despite our best eﬀorts, it is diﬃcult to secure progress, particularly where we 2017/18 are not the main tenant and are unable to inﬂuence decisions about energy purchase and recyling. **Full time equivalent 28 Clifford Chance LLP Corporate responsibility report 2013 UN Global Compact Cliﬀord Chance is proud to be a participant in the UN Global Compact. Our participation commits us to align our strategies, operations and organisational culture with the 10 Principles, covering human rights, labour, environment and corruption. Our commitments are relevant to the way we operate as a business, including our provision of legal services to both private and public sector clients. The information included in this For example, Cliﬀord Chance we attended the ﬁrst UN Forum The table below shows which report provides a number of lawyers participated in both the on Business and Human Rights indicators support our commitment examples of our work and OECD and the UN peer review in Geneva and plan to attend to the principles of the UN initiatives in these areas. Our of the UK’s anti-bribery laws, again this year. One of our Global Compact. As part of our website and our client brieﬁngs and continue to support other partners, Rae Lindsay, has also commitment to the Compact, provide a fuller picture of some of signiﬁcant anti-corruption been appointed to the World we have prepared a Global the ways in which we advise initiatives, such as the World Economic Forum’s Global Reporting Initiative (GRI ) index clients in relation to human Economic Forum’s Partnership Agenda Council on Human which can be found on our website rights, labour, environmental Against Corruption. Rights. at www.cliﬀordchance.com/ungc. protection, sustainability and We have refocused our GRI We continue to support the In 2013, we have continued our anti-corruption. reporting on the indicators which implementation of the UN active engagement with the UK we believe are most relevant to our As a leading international law Guiding Principles on Business Network of the Global Compact, business and of greatest interest to ﬁrm, we also consider that we and Human Rights. In particular, including hosting its quarterly our stakeholders. have a responsibility to help we are actively involved in raising meeting on the topic of business shape the development of awareness of the Principles and human rights. sustainable and eﬀective laws among our clients and the legal and regulations in these areas. community. In December 2012, Issue areas UN Global Compact Principles Relevant GRI indicators Human rights Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection LA13, HR1, HR2, HR3, of internationally proclaimed human rights. HR5, PR8 Principle 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5 and the eﬀective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms HR1, HR2, HR3 of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the eﬀective abolition of HR1, HR2, HR3 child labour. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of EC7, LA13, HR1 discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach EC2, EN18, EN26 to environmental challenges. Principle 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote EN4, EN6, EN7, EN16, greater environmental responsibility. EN18, EN26, EN28, PR3, PR4 Principle 9. Businesses should encourage the development EN4, EN5, EN6, EN7, and diﬀusion of environmentally friendly technologies. EN18, EN26 Anti-corruption Principle 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all SO2, SO3, SO4, SO6 its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate responsibility report 2013 Clifford Chance LLP 29 Firm at a glance Clifford Chance £1,271m 37 in revenues of our clients work with us in 20 or more ofﬁces International expansion 3,400 legal advisers 60% of Fortune 500 New ofﬁce in Seoul, Republic of Korea Groundbreaking arrangements to offer new legal services announced in Saudi companies are clients Arabia and Singapore Clifford Chance’s continued international expansion and involvement in cutting edge deals and cases has earned it this much coveted title of International Law Firm of the Year. Chambers Global Awards 2013 Notable mandates advising Major awards The banks in relation to Glencore’s Chambers Global International US$44 billion merger with Xstrata Law Firm of the Year Pﬁzer on the US$22 billion IPO of Zoetis Chambers Law Firm of the Year for Europe, the Middle East, Belgium, China, Annheuser Busch InBev on the bank France, Singapore and Russia ﬁnancing of its US$20 billion acquisition of Grupo Modelo IFLR Asia International Law Firm of the Year The Supreme Committee for Qatar 2022 on the FIFA World Cup projects IFLR Financial Regulation Team of the Year SAREB on the divestment of €66 billion of assets Latin Lawyer Deal of the Year www.cliffordchance.com © Clifford Chance LLP, September 2013 Clifford Chance LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England & Wales under number OC323571. Registered ofﬁce: 10 Upper Bank Street, London E14 5JJ. We use the word ‘partner’ to refer to a member of Clifford Chance LLP or members, partners, directors, employees or consultants of Clifford Chance entities who are of equivalent standing and qualiﬁcations. This report has been printed on Hello Silk a paper which is certiﬁed by the Forest Stewardship Council®. The paper is made at a mill with EMAS and ISO 14001 environmental management system accreditation. This report was printed using vegetable oil based inks and by a CarbonNeutral® printer certiﬁed to ISO 14001 environmental management system and registered to EMAS the Eco Management Audit Scheme. Designed and produced by Radley Yeldar. www.ry.com
