Cover: High-performance plain bearings for process pumps GROUP F I N A N C I A L H I G H L I G HT S P RODUCTS AND SERV ICES EARNINGS S I N G L E S TAG E P U M P S 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Standardised pumps, process pumps, circulator Order intake €m 2,257.4 2,132.3 2,075.0 1,934.0 2,179.0 pumps, service water pumps, slurry pumps Sales revenue €m 2,268.2 2,091.0 1,939.3 1,892.8 1,991.7 Earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT ) €m 150.4 133.4 148.9 185.7 208.2 Earnings before taxes (EBT ) €m 132.8 120.5 135.8 172.8 200.1 Earnings after taxes €m 90.3 83.3 90.0 122.4 139.5 M U LTI S TAG E P U M P S Cash flow €m 156.9 137.0 148.5 172.4 183.9 Boiler feed pumps, boiler circulating pumps, booster pumps, pressure booster pumps, high-pressure pumps BA L A N C E S H E E T for reverse osmosis applications, water transport pumps P E RFO RM A N CE / P RO D U CTS A N D S E RVICE S 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Balance sheet total €m 2,177.0 1,974.1 1,861.3 1,645.4 1,421.4 Fixed assets €m 602.0 560.5 515.3 469.3 417.6 Capital expenditure €m 91.4 93.5 72.8 86.6 103.6 SUBMERSIBLE PUMPS Depreciation and amortisation expense €m 58.6 51.0 48.1 43.4 35.0 Well pumps, waste water, sewage and drainage pumps, Current assets €m 1,546.2 1,389.2 1,329.2 1,158.6 990.1 mixers, tubular casing pumps, condensate pumps Equity (incl. non-controlling interest) €m 923.0 869.1 825.6 720.6 605.8 Equity ratio (incl. non-controlling interest) % 42.4 44.0 44.4 43.8 42.6 AU TO M ATI O N A N D D R I V E S PR O F I TA B I L I T Y Control systems, energy-efficient pump drives, pressure 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 booster systems, fire-fighting systems, lifting units Return on sales % 5.9 5.8 7.0 9.1 10.0 Return on equity % 14.8 14.2 17.6 26.1 36.0 Return on capital employed % 7.5 7.4 8.9 12.4 16.1 VA LV E S E MP L OY E E S Butterfly valves, globe valves, gate valves, control valves, 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 diaphragm valves, ball valves, actuators and control systems Number of employees at 31 Dec. 16,207 15,674 14,697 14,249 14,345 Staff costs €m 758.2 698.0 649.8 618.3 614.6 SHARES 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 S E RV I C E Market capitalisation at 31 Dec. €m 769.4 741.0 1,051.2 707.6 574.3 Installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicEarnings per ordinary share (EPS ) € 42.51 40.95 44.09 61.32 70.17 ing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems Earnings per preference share (EPS ) € 42.77 41.21 44.35 61.58 70.43 and valves; modular service concepts and system analyses Dividend per ordinary share € 12.00 12.00 12.00 12.00 12.50 for entire systems Dividend per preference share € 12.26 12.26 12.26 12.26 12.76 Technology that drives success. KSB is a leading international provider of pumps, valves and matching service. Wherever ﬂuids need transporting, we offer efﬁcient hydraulic solutions. We owe the success of our technology to our innovative experts. In our worldwide R & D centres, highly qualiﬁed engineers and technicians turn new business ideas into reality. They create standard and customised products that combine the very best in hydraulics, automation and materials technology. KSB is at the forefront of all three – and wants to stay that way. Our aim is to make ﬂuid transport more reliable, economical and environmentally friendly than ever before. Because that’s what drives our customers’ success. 2 CON T E NT S 18 How can salt be pumped from seawater? A new type of compact system ensures drinking water production from seawater is cost-effective. How do you “bake” the perfect seal for valves? 58 A wide variety of ingredients speciﬁcally geared to the respective application are used for the in-house production of butterﬂy valve sealing elements. How can a magnetless motor generate magnetic forces? 126 Patented rotor laminations ensure that KSB’s high-efﬁciency motor does not require magnetic materials from rare earths. 3 MANAGEMENT AND ISSUES 2012 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 4 Chairman‘s Letter 64 Balance Sheet 6 Board of Management 65 Statement of Comprehensive Income 8 Report of the Supervisory Board 66 Statement of Changes in Equity 14 A Look Back at 2012 68 Statement of Cash Flows 16 KSB Shares 69 Notes 120 List of Shareholdings 123 Supervisory Board 124 Board of Management 125 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG GROUP MANAGEMENT REPORT GENERAL INFORMATION 24 Group Structure and Focus of Business 132 Responsibility Statement 26 Economic Environment 133 Auditor‘s Report 29 Business Development and Events 135 Corporate Governance Declaration 33 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations 136 Corporate Governance Report / Remuneration Report 40 Research and Development 143 Glossary 42 Employees 144 Contacts 44 Corporate Social Responsibility 47 Risk Management 51 Report on Expected Developments COVER Group Financial Highlights Products and Services Global Presence Financial Calendar LEGEND Glossary 4 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management The economic downturn in much of Europe has limited the growth of the companies in the region. 2012 was therefore not a year in which our European business expanded significantly. In view of this fact, the strengthening of our presence in recent years in the growth markets of Asia, South America and Africa has proven all the more important. Thanks to this focus, in 2012 we once again succeeded in expanding our business, and achieved a new record sales revenue of € 2,268 million, just under our target of € 2.3 billion. With our consolidated earnings of € 132.8 million, we similarly almost reached our target of € 135 million. TAKI NG ADVANTAGE OF GROWING OPPORTUNITIES “IN THE SECOND ROW“ Europe is not expected to lead the way in the growth stakes in 2013 either. So it is imperative that we focus even more strongly on more dynamic markets. These don’t just include the economic heavyweights of China, India, Brazil and Russia, but also the “second row” emerging countries and some markets on the European periphery, all of which provide opportunities for lucrative orders. In 2011 we therefore founded four new KSB companies in Peru and South Eastern Europe, and in 2012 also established subsidiaries in Vietnam, Kazakhstan and Ukraine. In 2013 we are planning to set up subsidiaries in three emerging markets in South America and South East Asia. We also have the Middle East and Africa with its resource-rich countries and growing demand for infrastructure in our sights. We essentially want to ensure that we are everywhere where markets are currently showing or in the future are likely to show above-average growth. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 5 C ha i r m an ‘ s L et t er D EVELOP I NG NEW SALES REVENUE OPPORTUNITIES THROUGH STRATEGIC PROJEC TS Geographic expansion is only one dimension of our current corporate strategy, which will shape our development until 2018. We have launched numerous strategic projects to develop new sources of revenue where we have yet to exploit our strengths in full or at all. This applies in particular to our business with standard products, for which we are expanding our logistical structures, as well as for our service and spare parts business. According to our analyses, we can achieve much higher sales in the aftermarket segment in particular. To this end, we will focus even more strongly in sales and service on providing comprehensive support to our customers, including after they have purchased new products. HI GH TRUST I N B RAND How well business develops hinges on the “confidence” factor. This applies first and foremast to the confidence of our customers in their own commercial future as the linchpin for their investment decisions. The lack of confidence in some sectors is currently perceptible in our project business in particular. But even more important is the trust of customers in our abilities and the KSB brand, which promises them “technology that drives success”. Especially in difficult economic times, customers when investing should be sure that by opting for KSB they have made the best choice and one that will ensure their success. To confirm this brand promise, in 2012 we once again laid down important foundations in research and development, as you can read in this report. KSB’s reputation worldwide is founded on advanced product technology, high quality and safety, as well as our industry-leading consultancy expertise, and we will continue to build on this reputation. As shareholders too you can trust in KSB. If you have been familiar with our company for some time, you know that we use the capital entrusted to us responsibly and avoid risks that are difficult to assess. Money and trust – we are always eager to earn both. And we will to continue to show you that sustainable and profitable growth does indeed generate reasonable returns. Yours, Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt, Chairman of the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft 6 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 B OA R D O F MA NAGEMENT M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 7 B oar d o f Man ag em en t From left to right: D R . WOLFGANG SCHMITT joined the Board of Management on 7 April 2006, and has been Chairman of the Board since 15 December 2006. He is primarily responsible for Finance and Accounting, Controlling, Legal & Compliance, Communications, Strategy and the Business Unit Service. Since 1 April 2012, he has also been in charge of the Business Unit Valves. D R . -ING. P ETER BUTHMANN has been on the Board of Management since 1 January 2007. His main responsibilities include Operations, Human Resources, Central Purchasing, Programme Coordination and the Business Unit Submersible Pumps. He is the Human Resources Director and took charge of Sales and Marketing on 1 April 2012. PR OF. DR.-ING. DIETER-HEINZ HELLMANN has been a member of the Board of Management since 1 January 2007 and is responsible for Technology, which includes Research, Development and Business Processes (Technology). In addition, he is in charge of the Business Units Single-stage Pumps, Multistage Pumps, and Automation and Drives. On 1 April 2012, he assumed responsibility for Internal Audits. 8 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 R E P O RT O F T H E SU PERVISORY B OA R D Throughout the last financial year, the Supervisory Board continued to perform its tasks with great care in accordance with the law, the Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure. We regularly advised the Board of Management on corporate management issues and monitored its work. The Supervisory Board was consulted directly and at an early stage with regard to decisions of fundamental importance. The Board of Management informed us about the position of the company, in particular its business, financial and staffing situation, planned investments, as well as corporate planning and strategic and organisational development issues via written and oral reports prepared regularly and on an ad-hoc basis in a comprehensive and timely manner. We continued to meet on a regular basis to discuss selected issues, both with and in the absence of the Board of Management. We discussed all business transactions significant for the company in detail on the basis of the Board of Management’s reports. Any departures in business developments from the plans and targets were reviewed and commented on in detail by the Board of Management. After thorough examination and discussion, we adopted our resolutions on the reports and proposals by the Board of Management. Beyond the intensive work in the plenary sessions and in the committees, the Chairman of the Supervisory Board in particular and other Supervisory Board members were in frequent contact with the Board of Management outside the meetings to discuss the current business development and significant transactions as well as questions of strategy, planning, risk assessment, risk management and compliance. In the period under review, no conflicts of interest arose involving members of the Board of Management or the Supervisory Board that would have been required to be reported to the Supervisory Board or the Annual General Meeting. M AI N FOC US OF WORK IN THE SUPERVISORY BOARD PLENARY SESSIONS AND I N THE C OM M I TTEES Core topics of our discussions with the Board of Management were strategy implementation and the continued development of the corporate organisation. The analysis of the course and impact of the European debt crisis represented an additional focus, as did possible responses to particular developments in some regions and countries, such as the ongoing upheaval in the Arab world. We also closely examined the economic situation and outlook for Asia, particularly China and India. In 2012, five regular Supervisory Board meetings were held. The performance of KSB Aktiengesellschaft and the Group was the subject of regular discussions in the plenary sessions, primarily with regard to order intake, sales revenue, earnings, assets and employment levels as well as the current economic situation, the strategy, and investment, disposal and acquisition projects. We carefully studied our German and international service activities. Given the large number of acquisitions in recent years, we paid continued attention to their structured integration and management to ensure the desired level of profitability. The Board of Management comprehensively and regularly explained to us the ways in which KSB can achieve the planned growth for the coming years, including the underlying methodological and strategic considerations. All investments required to pursue these objectives were M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 9 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Board Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob, Chairman of the Supervisory Board subjected to critical analysis and subsequently overseen by us. Accordingly, we dealt repeatedly with the status of the modernisation and expansion work at our sites, particularly in Asia and South America. In order to obtain a major Chinese order for the supply of pumps, we had to comprehensively expand our local manufacturing facilities. We received several reports from the Board of Management on the status of the order, which is now being processed and will take several years to complete. In a number of countries, the start or expansion of business activities led to property acquisitions. In each case we discussed in detail the long-term suitability of such measures. Against the background of our experiences with the global financial and economic crisis, we also discussed how the ongoing European debt problem affects and may continue to affect our business. We subjected the deliberations of the Board of Management on this subject to critical scrutiny, focusing in particular on the development of reliable instruments for detecting market movements at an early stage, which in turn would enable a rapid response. Repeatedly on the agenda was the development of our corporate organisation. We devoted particular attention in this respect to the structuring of our sales activities. The experiences reported by the Board of Management in relation to measures implemented to date in selected countries highlighted the fact there is still a certain need for modifications in some cases before we can decide on a broader introduction of the revised structures. Another focus of our work was the status – as explained regularly by the Board of Management – of the measures for the development of our corporate culture, which is based on established values. In October, the Supervisory Board held a meeting at the company’s site in Echternach, Luxembourg, where it was able to assess how business was developing there and visit the highperformance production facilities. We also received in-depth information on the situation of selected products and functional divisions of the Group. At the December meeting, we discussed and approved the step acquisition of a Norwegian sales operation in order to use its expertise to expand our own local sales and distribution channels. We have also adopted a 10 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 concept for optimising the separation between operative tasks and Group management functions at KSB AG. As well as better transparency within the Group, we also expect improved cost structures. Another focus of discussions were the course of the outgoing financial year and the plans for 2013. In order to perform its duties efficiently, the Supervisory Board worked with six committees in the past financial year. These prepare the Supervisory Board’s resolutions and the special topics to be discussed in the plenary sessions. In addition, they also make their own decisions – to the extent that this is legally permissible – within the scope of their areas of responsibility. This allocation has proved worthwhile in practice. The Chairs of the committees regularly and comprehensively report in the plenary sessions on the content and results of the work carried out in the committees. The Chairman of the Supervisory Board also serves as the Chair of the Personnel Committee, the Planning and Finance Committee and the Mediation Committee. The Nomination Committee looked at the shareholder representative nominations prior to the Supervisory Board elections at the Annual General Meeting. It met seven times for this purpose in the year under review. The Planning and Finance Committee met four times in the year under review. It focuses on corporate and investment planning and the financial situation of the company. Given our strategic objectives and the aforementioned large Chinese order, which required substantial upfront expenditure, determining longer-term liquidity needs and management was a focus of discussion. This was supplemented with an in-depth analysis of the current and expected cost and earnings situation. The committee members also discussed in detail the quality of the corporate planning and its underlying assumptions. The Corporate Development Committee deals with a number of topics of fundamental relevance. It met six times during the year under review. The areas of strategy monitoring, production management and innovation, and repeatedly the strategic direction of the Region Asia were discussed, including a long-term site concept for China and India. The discussions started in 2011 on securing and optimising the provision of castings to our manufacturing facilities were continued, including deliberations about the possible expansion of our own foundry plants in Germany. The heads of the relevant specialist departments often took part in the committee meetings, along with the responsible members of the Board of Management. In early 2012 we dissolved the Controlling and Sales Management sub-committees and integrated their functions into the work of the Corporate Development Committee. The Personnel Committee held nine meetings in the year under review. It primarily addresses issues relating to the Board of Management’s remuneration, including the terms of the service contracts for the individual Board of Management members as well as other Board of ManM ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 11 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Board agement issues. Decisions on the Board of Management’s remuneration are made in plenary session with the committee acting in a preparatory capacity. In addition, the committee discussed staff development issues with the aim of prioritising the recruitment of candidates for the Board of Management and other management positions from within the company’s own ranks. Particular emphasis in this context is placed on the selection and development of promising employees. In 2012, the committee members again participated in events with potential candidates from various management levels in an effort to foster a direct exchange of ideas. The committee discussed in detail the consensual and early departure of Mr. Jan Stoop from the Board at the end of March 2012 and the resulting succession issues. Also the subject of careful deliberation was the further extension of the term of office of Prof. Dr. Dieter-Heinz Hellmann on the Board of Management. Given the ongoing discussion on organisational optimisation, he will continue to carry out his duties until 31 December 2013. The four meetings of the Audit Committee were always attended by the Member of the Board responsible for Finance and, on several occasions, by the auditors. The committee primarily discussed the 2011 annual and consolidated financial statements, the audit reports submitted by the auditors and the internal auditors as well as the further development of the risk management system and compliance organisation. In particular, the committee prepared the independent examination by the Supervisory Board of the financial statements, the management reports and the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings. In this context, it also defined key audit areas for the external auditing of the 2012 financial statements. The half-year financial report was also discussed with the Board of Management. The committee submitted a proposal to the plenary sessions for the selection of auditors by the Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012 and subsequently commissioned them to carry out the audit of the annual and consolidated financial statements for the 2012 financial year. The declaration of independence by the auditors was obtained in accordance with section 7.2.1 of the German Corporate Governance Code and the auditors’ continued independence was monitored. The committee also discussed the monitoring of the financial reporting process and the effectiveness of the internal control and auditing system. There was no requirement during the financial year under review to convene the Mediation Committee required by section 27(3) MitbestG [Mitbestimmungsgesetz – German Co-Determination Act]. C OR P OR ATE GOVE RNANCE AND STATEMENT OF COMPLIANCE The Supervisory Board continuously monitored developments in corporate governance standards throughout the year. The Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report on corporate governance at KSB in accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code on pages 136 ff. of this annual report. On 5 December 2012 they issued an updated Statement of Compliance in accordance with section 161 AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act] and made it permanently available to shareholders on the company’s web site. With just a few exceptions, KSB Aktiengesellschaft complies with the recommendations set out in the Code in the version dated 15 May 2012. 12 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 AUD I T OF THE ANNUAL AND CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The accounting documentation, in addition to the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings and the audit reports submitted by the auditors, was provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board. The documents were dealt with in detail by the Audit Committee on 19 March 2013 as well as by the Supervisory Board plenary session on 25 March 2013 and explained in depth in both cases by the Board of Management. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board examined the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2012, which were prepared in accordance with the provisions of the Handelsgesetzbuch [HGB – German Commercial Code], as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2012, which were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), and the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings. The Frankfurt am Main office of BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, Hamburg, audited the annual financial statements and the management report of KSB Aktiengesellschaft for the year ended 31 December 2012, as well as the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report for the year ended 31 December 2012, and issued an unqualified auditors’opinion. The key audit areas defined for the auditors by the Audit Committee for the year under review were: Validity of the measurement assumptions as part of impairment testing for financial investments and goodwill reported, including acquisitions and impairment tests, and validity of the measurement assumptions applied for defined benefit pension obligations. The auditors reported their findings on these key audit areas both orally and in writing. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Based on its own final examination results, the Supervisory Board plenary session did not raise any objections to the annual financial statements, consolidated financial statements, management report and Group management report. In accordance with the recommendation of the Audit Committee the Supervisory Board approved the financial statements prepared by the Board of Management; the annual financial statements are thus adopted. After its own examination, the Supervisory Board deems the proposal by the Board of Management on the appropriation of net retained earnings of KSB Aktiengesellschaft to be appropriate and concurs with it. D EP END ENT C OM PAN Y REPORT The auditors also audited the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management in accordance with section 312 AktG and issued the following unqualified opinion on this report: M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 13 R e po r t o f t h e Su p er v i so r y Board “On completion of our audit and assessment in accordance with professional standards, we confirm that: 1. the actual amounts and disclosures in the report are correct; 2. the consideration paid by the company for the transactions listed in the report was not inappropriately high.” The reports by the Board of Management and the auditors were provided in good time to all members of the Supervisory Board and were also discussed by the Audit Committee and at plenary sessions. The auditors attended the meetings of both bodies, reported on the material findings of the audit and were available to provide additional information. The Supervisory Board concurs with the auditors’ findings. Both the recommendation by the Audit Committee and the final results of the Supervisory Board plenary session’s examination did not give rise to any objections to the dependent company report prepared by the Board of Management and to the statement by the Board of Management at the end of the dependent company report. C HANGES ON THE SUPERVISORY BOARD AND BOARD OF MANAGEMENT Mr. Jan Stoop resigned from the Board of Management and the company at the end of March 2012. The Annual General Meeting elected Dr. Thomas Seeberg to the Supervisory Board as the successor to Mr. Richard Lederer, who following last year’s Annual General Meeting on 16 May 2012 left the Supervisory Board, having reached the age limit. Dr. Hermann Nestler and Mr. Werner Stegmüller were re-elected to the Supervisory Board at the same time. Following his assumption of a management role within the company, Mr. Stegmüller resigned as a member of the Supervisory Board on 16 October 2012. Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann was appointed a member of the Supervisory Board in his place by order of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen on 9 November 2012 and 3 December 2012. In accordance with the recommendation of the German Corporate Governance Code, the appointment is limited until the end of the next Annual General Meeting. The Supervisory Board would like to thank the retiring members for their many years of close cooperation. The Supervisory Board would like to acknowledge and thank the Board of Management, the employees and employee representatives of all Group companies for their good work in the year under review. Frankenthal, 25 March 2013 For the Supervisory Board Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) 14 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 A LOOK BACK AT 2 0 1 2 R ELEASE FOR SALE 03 HIGH-EFFICIENCY MOTOR WASTE WATER Visitors at the IFAT in Munich are introduced to new The MegaCPK standardised Production of the magnetless energy-efficient products for chemical pump is launched SuPremE pump drive begins waste water technology on the market. As an innovaat the factory in Halle. It is and biogas applications. The 01 tive development of three significantly more efficient highlight is an impeller proven series, it offers greater than conventional energywith a diameter of 2.20 m, energy efficiency and imsaving motors. as used in specially deproved operating reliability. signed waste water pumps. NEW COMPANY INT E G R AT I O N KSB Vietnam Co. Ltd. The Chinese valve companies commences operation in new KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., facilities. 80 kilometres Ltd. and Dalian KSB AMRI north-east of Ho-Chi-Minh Valves Co. Ltd. join the Group City, work starts on a factory together with 7 other comcomplex which will house an panies. assembly facility for standard pumps, a valve warehouse, BUI LD I NG SERVI C ES a service workshop and a test SERVICE KSB AG takes over 80 percent facility. KSB acquires the French of the shares in Danish company ST II (Société de company T. Smedegaard A / S travaux et Ingénierie near Copenhagen. Some Industrielle). It specialises 90 employees produce circuin the maintenance and lator pumps for heating servicing of valves in nuclear and cooling systems at the power stations. TEST PREMIÈRE main production facility 05 The first full-load test and at the branch factory in with feed pumps for the Beinwil am See, Switzerland. Fangchenggang power 02 plant in China is conducted at the Frankenthal test bed facility for large pumps. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 15 A Lo o k Back at 2 0 1 2 P OWER STATI ON PUMPS KSB supplies feed water pumps for the Dutch 10 coal-fired power plant in Eemshaven. With a drive 08 rating of 38 MW, they are among the most powerful units in the world. CONTINUING EDUCATION The first 20 graduates IN N OVAT I O N of KSB’s internal Pump & A jury of trade journalists Applications Professional and industry experts votes continuing education proREEL the KSB SuPremE highgramme celebrate their KSB AG acquires the efficiency motor “Best Prodachievements. The distance remaining 20 percent of uct of the Year 2012” and learning course provides shares in REEL s.r.l., the winner of the “Plus X participants with in-depth Ponte di Nanto. The Italian Award”. The KSB drive AWAR D knowledge of pump techcompany has been a impressed in the “Heating The MegaCPK wins the nology and the various areas development partner and and air-conditioning” prod“Global Centrifugal Pumps of application. component supplier for uct group in the category New Product Innovation integrated pump drives for “Innovation, High Quality, Award”. (Frost & Sullivan). INFORMATIVE VISIT many years. Functionality and Ecology”. Dirk Niebel, the German P OLAND Minister for Economic KSB expands its service Cooperation and Developoffering with the new Service ment, visits the factory Centre South in Przyszowice in Frankenthal. He was inin Poland. The team there formed about innovative mainly repair pumps for the projects such as the use of energy sector. pumps as turbines in developing and emerging countries. NEW C O M PA N I E S FOUND ED Three new sales companies commence work in Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus, further expanding 09 12 KSB’s sales network in Eastern Europe and Asia. 16 M A NAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 KSB S HARE S Improved sentiment in the equity markets KSB shares up at year end Dividend planned at last year’s level In 2012, the world’s leading stock exchanges performed much The stock exchanges in Europe, the US and Japan all increased better than in 2011. Although the problems of sovereign debt against this background. The German DAX rose by 29 % in in Europe and the US still dominated the capital markets, the 2012, and the Euro Stoxx 50 by 14 %. The Nikkei rose by mood brightened in the second half of the year. 23 %. The Dow Jones, which in contrast to the aforementioned indices had not fallen in 2011, rose by 7 %. In the euro zone, additional stabilisation measures by the European Central Bank contributed to this improvement. BuyDAX SEES SIGNIFICANT PRICE GAINS back programs for government bonds and clear commitments In 2012, the DAX more than recovered from the price drops to the euro strengthened the confidence of many investors in seen in the previous year. At the end of 2012 it stood at European shares and the common currency. 7612 points, up 29 % over the 2011 year-end value. In the US, the budget negotiations and the dispute over the During the course of 2012, investors had to live with large so-called fiscal cliff unsettled market players. However, the more price fluctuations. The increase at the beginning of the year robust economy supported the stable upwards movement in was reversed in April due to the downgrading of the creditthe stock markets compared with Europe. worthiness of several European countries and growing economic worries. In June, the DAX reached its annual low, Finally, the measures taken by the central banks in Europe and slightly below its initial level at the beginning of the year. The the US ensured that there was liquidity in the capital markets, turnaround started following the decisions taken at the EU from which shares as material assets also benefited. summit during the summer. The DAX grew strongly in the second half of the year, supported by stable economic growth in Germany compared with other countries. DIVIDEND DEVELOPMENT 2012 (proposed) 2011 Ordinary share Dividend € 12.00 € 12.00 Dividend yield 2.6 % 2.6 % Preference share Dividend € 12.26 € 12.26 Dividend yield 3.0 % 3.1 % Ordinary share Preference share ISIN DE0006292006 DE0006292030 Reuters symbol KSBG KSBG _p Bloomberg symbol KSB KSB3 Share capital € 22.7 million € 22.1 million Shares in free float Approx. 20 % 100 % Year-end closing price 30 Dec. 2012 € 464.50 € 413.55 Market capitalisation 31 Dec. 2012 € 769.4 million M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 17 K S B Sh ar es KSB S H A R E S G A I N I N VALUE DIVIDENDS UNCHANGED The KSB shares performed well in this economic environment. At the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2013, the Board The closing price of the preference shares was more than 5 % of Management and Supervisory Board will propose to pay higher than a year ago, and the price of the ordinary shares an unchanged dividend of € 12.26 per preference share and grew by around 3 %. € 12.00 per ordinary share. After significant price gains at the beginning of the year, the IMPROVED EARNINGS PER SHARE ordinary shares reached their year-high in February, and the Earnings per share are higher than in the previous year due preference shares their year-high in March. Both share classes to higher consolidated earnings. They totalled € 42.51 after then came under pressure as a result of declines in the stock € 40.95 in 2011 for the ordinary shares, and € 42.77 after markets, and between June and November hardly moved at all. € 41.21 in 2011 for the preference shares. Towards year end, the KSB shares also finally benefited from the positive market sentiment. Both share classes ended the year with overall gains. The market capitalisation of the company at the end of 2012 was € 769.4 million, just under 4 % higher than at the previous year end. K S B S H A R E P R I C E D EVELOPMENT IN € KSB ordinary share KSB preference share 600 500 400 300 January 2012 December 2012 20 March 2013 H Y D R AU L I C S “ How can salt be pumped from seawater?“ Wojciech Golembiewski (l.) and Andreas Wieland of the Start-up Projects team “Reverse osmosis is the most commonly used process for producing drinking water from the sea. Our unique 4-in-1 technology revolutionises this method. With a pump, motor and energy recovery unit, the new compact system can reduce electricity costs by up to 50 percent.“ Wojciech Golembiewski Scenario: earthquake in Indonesia. In the disaster salination system’s membrane, while the residual zone in the Indian Ocean, the German technical pressurised concentrated brine must be removed relief organisation THW needs to quickly supply the from the membrane tank. This pressure is recovered population with sufficient drinking water. This is and directly used to drive the axial piston motor – done with the aid of a mobile seawater desalination a highly economical procedure. The 4-in-1 technology system which is based on the principle of reverse of the SALINO ® Pressure Center is unique on the osmosis . In this process, seawater is forced through market, combining the functions of a high-pressure a semi-permeable membrane to remove salt particles. pump and booster pump with an energy recovery unit and drive. Instead of two electric motors only Small and medium-sized systems for producing one motor is now necessary. The new SALINO water are also used in stationary operation in the system is energy-efficient and requires only minimal hotel industry and in shipping. Extremely high space thanks to its compact design – an advanpressure is required to separate the salt from the tage not only for mobile use by the THW technical water. Part of the fluid flow penetrates the derelief organisation in disaster zones. Hydraulic module | SALINO ® Pressure Center The SALINO® Pressure Center is designed for reverse osmosis systems with a capacity of up to 480 cubic metres per day. All components are resistant to seawater and dimensioned with low life cycle costs in mind. In test runs the new compact unit used approximately two kilowatts of electricity per hour for the desalination of one cubic metre of seawater with a salt content of 35,000 ppm. 22 With sales revenue up € 177.2 million, the KSB Group achieved a new record of € 2,268.2 million. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 23 GR OUP M ANAGEMENT REPORT 24 Group Structure and Focus of Business 26 Economic Environment 29 Business Development and Events 33 Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations 40 Research and Development 42 Employees 44 Corporate Social Responsibility 47 Risk Management 51 Report on Expected Developments 24 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT GR OUP S T RU C TU R E A N D F O C U S OF BU SINESS 13 newly consolidated companies 74 operating companies work in 36 countries KSB AG Board of Management manages the Group The KSB Group’s mission is to supply customers around the MARKETS AND LOCATIONS world with top-quality pumps and valves as well as related Within the KSB Group, centrifugal pumps account for systems. We also provide a wide range of services to users of approximately 70 % of sales revenue. These pumps, as well these products. as valves, are sold to engineering contractors, OEMs and end users or, in some cases, distributed via dealers. The same In the year under review, 74 operating companies in 36 counapplies to control and monitoring systems, and to package tries were dedicated to achieving this mission. Eight Group units with pumps and valves. companies exercised a holding company function. The best developed sales market for these products is Europe, KSB AG , Frankenthal, Germany, as the parent company, where KSB operates its main manufacturing facilities in directly or indirectly holds the shares in the companies belongGermany and France. KSB AG’s main plant in Frankenthal is ing to the Group. Besides KSB AG itself, the companies in its largest in Europe, ahead of those in Pegnitz (Bavaria) and the KSB Group with the highest sales revenue are Halle (Saxony-Anhalt) in Germany, and La Roche-Chalais in France. KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris), France KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China The second-largest market for KSB products is currently the KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S. A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil Region Asia / Pacific, followed by the Region Americas and GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA the Region Middle East / Africa. Outside Europe, KSB’s biggest KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany manufacturing facilities are in Brazil, China, India and the KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India USA . KSB manufactures products and components in a total of 22 OR GA N I S AT I O N, M A N AGEM ENT AND C ONTR OL countries; they are sold through the Group’s own companies KSB AG’s Board of Management manages and controls the or agencies in more than 100 countries. With their products, KSB Group. The strategy and instructions formulated by the Group companies serve customers in the manufacturing the Board of Management are implemented within an organisector (industry), the chemical and petrochemical industries, sation that is structured into three areas of responsibility: the energy industry and building services, transport equippumps, valves and service. At the centre of this organisation ment manufacturers and operators (e. g. ships, rail vehicles), are the Business Units with their areas of focus, which act water supply and waste water utilities and mining companies. as interfaces between Sales and Operations. The top-selling markets for our products in 2012 were the manufacturing and energy supply sectors. All organisational units base their activities on the Group strategy. It aims to ensure sustainable, profitable growth that In terms of sales revenue, the KSB Group is one of the world’s will secure both KSB’s future and financial independence in leading suppliers of centrifugal pumps, and ranks among the the medium and long term, in order to achieve and defend a world’s top-ten valve manufacturers. We succeed in maintaining leading competitive position in attractive markets. this market position through our good, long-term relationships with our customers and suppliers. Our highly trained and Management is monitored by a Supervisory Board consisting motivated employees as well as the high quality of our prodof twelve members. The Annual General Meeting of shareucts have also helped cement our reputation. holders appoints six members of the Supervisory Board, with the remaining six being delegated by the employees under the terms of the Mitbestimmungsgesetz [German Co-determination Act]. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 25 Group S tructure and Focus o f B u si n e ss MA N AG E M E N T PA R AM ETER S WI THI N THE KSB GROUP The company is authorised by a resolution passed at the The current target variables for managing the Group are the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 to purchase comdevelopment of order intake and sales revenue as well as pany shares totalling up to € 4,477,196 of the registered profitability, which we primarily measure on the basis of preshare capital by 18 May 2015. The Board of Management tax return on sales. shall be entitled to: (1) Sell company shares purchased on the basis of this authorisation either on the stock exchange or When setting our targets, we are guided on the one hand by by another means that safeguards the rule of equal treatment developments in the market, and on the other by the perforof all shareholders; (2) Sell the shares with the consent of the mance of our key competitors. Supervisory Board, excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, if the shares are sold for cash and at a price that is not D I S C L O S U R E S P U RSUANT TO SEC TI ON 3 1 5 (4 ) OF THE HGB materially lower than the market price for company shares AN D E X P L A N ATO RY R EP ORT of the same type and with the same features at the time of the A summary of the disclosures required by section 315(4) of sale. This authorisation is limited to the sale of shares which the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] overall represent no more than 10 % of the existing share is given below and explanatory information is provided capital on the date on which such authorisation becomes pursuant to sections 175(2) and 176(1) of the AktG [Aktieneffective or, if the amount is lower, the date this authorisation gesetz – German Public Companies Act]. Information is is used. The 10 % limit shall include the proportional amount disclosed only to the extent that it applies to KSB AG. for shares issued within the scope of a capital increase during the term of the authorisation excluding subscription rights KSB AG ’s share capital amounts to € 44.8 million, of which or for the maximum number of shares that can be issued for € 22.7 million is represented by 886,615 no-par value the purpose of servicing warrants and convertible bonds; ordinary shares and € 22.1 million by 864,712 no-par value (3) Sell the shares with the consent of the Supervisory Board, preference shares. Each no-par value share represents an excluding shareholders’ subscription rights, to third parties for equal notional amount of the share capital. All shares are the purpose of acquiring companies, parts thereof and / or bearer shares. They are listed for trading on the regulated financial interests in companies as well as within the scope of market and are traded in the General Standard segment of the corporate mergers or (4) Redeem the shares. KSB AG has not Frankfurt Stock Exchange. yet made use of this authorisation to purchase treasury shares. Each ordinary share entitles the holder to one vote at There are no resolutions by the Annual General Meeting KSB AG ’s Annual General Meeting. Klein Pumpen GmbH, authorising the company’s Board of Management to increase Frankenthal, holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary the share capital (authorised capital). shares; the KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds the majority of the shares of Klein Pumpen GmbH. The KSB AG is managed by a Board of Management that, in preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend accordance with its Articles of Association, must consist of at rights and progressive additional dividend rights. Detailed least two persons and in the year under review initially information on the share capital and shareholders holding an comprised four persons, and from 1 April three persons. The interest of more than 10 % is provided in the Notes. Holders Supervisory Board decides on the appointment and terminaof preference shares are entitled to voting rights only in the tion of the mandate of members of the Board of Management cases prescribed by law. The issue of additional ordinary in accordance with the statutory provisions. shares does not require the consent of the preference shareholders. Similarly, the issue of additional preference shares Amendments to the company’s Articles of Association are redoes not require the consent of the preference shareholders solved by the Annual General Meeting. If the amendments provided that the subscription rights do not exclude newly only affect the wording of the Articles, they can be approved issued senior or pari passu preference shares. by the Supervisory Board. 26 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT EC ONOM I C EN V I R O N M E N T Energy sector is reluctant to invest Weakening economic momentum in China and India Lower growth in mechanical engineering In 2012, after a positive start, the global economy grew only Weak demand from the industrialised countries of Europe and moderately. Global growth was held back by the problems of the US also affected the export-oriented economies of Asia. the euro zone, which lowered the confidence of many investors This was particularly evident in the weakening economic moin a healthy economic development. Growth also slowed in mentum in China. At times, the restrictive monetary policies emerging countries such as China, Brazil and India, not least implemented to fight inflation also slowed growth in the because of the spillover effects of the European debt crisis. country. Japan’s export-dependent economy continued to sufThe world’s largest economy, the US economy, grew only slightfer deflation with falling prices and a strong yen. The South ly, with political factors playing a role in this. Korean economy too grew only moderately despite considerable demand from the Middle East and Africa. S L OW E R G R OW T H I N I ND USTR I AL AND E ME R G I N G E C O N O M IES WORLD MARK ET OF CENTRIFUGAL P UMP S AND VALV ES In the euro zone, which is especially important for KSB’s business, production declined despite the German economy remaining buoyant. The individual countries were affected Middle East / Africa 9 % in different ways. The necessary consolidation slowed down Asia / Pacific 34 % public sector procurement, especially in southern Europe. Given the uncertainty over the future of the euro zone and its Europe 30 % individual members, private companies too were reluctant to invest in new plants and buildings. Americas 27 % The bright spots in Europe were the positive economic trends in Germany, Austria and Switzerland as well as in Sweden Source: DIW Berlin and Norway. In Russia, economic growth was slightly above the global average. The expansion in energy supply, investment in the chemicals and petrochemicals industries, as well as measures in the water and waste water industry boosted India’s economy was hampered by high interest rates, domesdemand for industrial goods. Across Europe, however, the numtic problems and inadequate infrastructure. Projects in the ber of new major projects was lower than in 2011. construction sector were delayed, and production volumes of capital goods fell sharply. In the Middle East, buoyant oil revenues meant that countries had the financial resources to expand their infrastrucThe economic growth enjoyed by several South-East Asian ture and build new residential complexes for their growing countries was encouraging and driven mainly by domestic populations. Many investors, however, put their plans on demand. These countries included Indonesia and Thailand, as hold due to the political tensions in the region. The markets well as Myanmar, where the growth resulted from the altered in Saudi Arabia and Qatar nonetheless grew strongly. In political situation. Indonesia, with its mineral and coal deposAfrica, several countries south of the Sahara also recorded its, has benefited from the boom in the mining industry, as positive economic growth. has Australia. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 27 Economic Environme nt High-performance components: Sewatec ® volute casing pumps and Isoria ® butterfly valves used in a bioethanol plant. In the Americas, the world’s largest economy, the US economy, In 2012, the production growth rate in China too for the first managed only slight growth. The expiry of stimulus measures time in several years fell below 10 percent, while the sales at the end of the year and the prospect of spending cuts in the revenue of Japanese mechanical engineering companies actupublic sector dampened the optimism of many investors. ally fell. In the US, mechanical engineering business grew Declining gas prices had a positive effect on energy-intensive slightly thanks to sales for the continuing re-industrialisation industries in the country, however. Overall, there was only process. a slight increase in equipment investment. In Canada the price of crude oil allowed continued investment in the oil sands In international comparison, the German mechanical engiindustry. neering sector performed well. According to the German Engineering Federation (VDMA) it achieved a production The South American markets overall recorded only moderate value of around € 196 billion and an estimated growth rate growth, largely as a result of the significant slowdown in of 2 %, matching the record level of 2008. More than 25 % the Brazilian economy. The construction of new refineries in of the mechanical engineering exports went to China, the US Brazil and the continued growth of the mining sector in and Russia. Chile both offered opportunities for orders. L OW E R G R OW T H I N M EC HANI C AL ENGI NEER I NG The mechanical engineering sector continued to grow, albeit at a much lower rate. Worldwide the sales revenue of companies in this sector rose by around 3 %; in the previous year, the growth rate had been in double digits. 28 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT L OWE R G R OW T H I N THE P UM P AND VALVE M AR KET MANUFACTURERS CONTINUE TO ADVANCE INTO THE In the pump and valve market, the opportunities in the EMERGING COUNTRIES general and project business varied widely. Demand for standThe weakness of the European market led the pump and valve ard products in the construction and general industries manufacturers that are based here to focus even more strongly remained lively, especially in the first half of the year. On the on non-European countries. Accordingly, the competition other hand, the lower number of major projects dampened in the markets of Asia, Latin America and the Middle East sales of engineered pumps and valves in particular. This was increased. Several companies set up new production facilities especially true for the energy industry, which planned and for pumps or valves in the regions. constructed very few new power generation plants last year. As a result of generally lower spending, the price war which Various pump manufacturers also began to streamline their started last year in relation to power plant pumps and valves product portfolio to focus on a narrower range of applicacontinued. tions and therefore sold off individual business units. At the same time they tried to consolidate activities in their chosen Some special application areas offered good sales prospects. focus areas through acquisitions. This was especially true of These included new petroleum production and processing the companies that crowded into the oil and gas market. plants, as well as loading facilities and tankers for transporting liquefied natural gas to consumers. Due to the high The consolidation trend continued in the pump and valve demand for energy and other commodities, capital goods for industry. However, the number of valve suppliers is still mining were also in demand, as were pumps for the hysignificantly higher than the number of pump suppliers. Espedraulic transport of solids. Demand from energy companies cially for many smalland medium-sized valve suppliers, for goods to modernise their district heating systems and being too small is increasingly becoming a competitive disimprove energy use also grew encouragingly. advantage, as more and more customers require products to be supplied close to where they are used. Against this background, reputable pump and valve manufacturers were largely able to maintain their growth. According Companies that produce significant volumes of both pumps and to the VDMA, sales of liquid pumps by German companies valves are still the exception. In 2012 however, following a rose by 3 %, and of industrial valves by just 1 %. merger, a third large company offering both product groups and a wide portfolio emerged in the market alongside KSB and a US manufacturer. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 29 Economic Environme nt Busine ss D e ve lopme nt a nd Ev e n ts BUS I NE S S D E V E L O P M E N T A ND EVENT S Order intake growth for pumps, valves and service Consolidated sales revenue increases by € 177.2 million Realignment initiated in the service market Our business with pumps, valves and service was characterIncoming orders for valves increased by 8.9 % to € 392.0 milised on the one hand by regional differences in the developlion. Like last year, marine valve sales drove the increase, ment of key sales markets, and on the other by the implemenas did increased orders from the chemical, petrochemical and tation of strategic projects. Our increased activities in the water industries. In the power plant sector, sales of highvalves market and in mining, and the intensification of our pressure valves proved as difficult as those of pumps. business with standard pumps had a positive effect on order intake and sales revenue. In the project business, the The nominally strongest growth was recorded in service, with reluctance of energy companies to invest once again limited an order intake of € 374.5 million, 14.6 % higher than in new business with pumps and valves for power plants. the previous year. The first-time consolidation of seven European service companies contributed in particular to this inHI G H E R O R DE R I NTAKE I N ALL THR EE BUSI NESS UNITS crease; there was also higher demand for our services from Purchase orders received by the Group for our products and customers outside Europe. services totalled € 2,257.4 million, € 125.1 million or 5.9 % up from the previous year. The volume of new orders increased DOUBLE-DIGIT ORDER GROWTH OUTSIDE EUROPE in all three Business Units – Pumps, Valves and Service. The In our European home market, the-year-on-year increase in 13 newly consolidated companies contributed € 44.4 million order intake was only moderate. Our Group companies to this increase. received orders worth € 1,345.1 million, 2.7 % up from the previous year. The order intake of the European companies in the Region varied considerably. The strongest growth was S A L E S R E V E N U E B Y SEGMENT recorded by the French company KSB S. A. S., driven by strong exports, and by the Russian company OOO “KSB”. Service 16 % Despite the difficult market conditions in Southern Europe, our three Spanish companies, as well as our Italian sales company all managed to increase their order intake. KSB AG, in Valves 17 % Pumps 67 % contrast, with its relatively high share of power plant business, saw orders decline by 2.1 % to € 801.5 million. The four operative companies in the Region Middle East / Africa improved their order intake by 12.0 % to € 118.3 million. Higher levels of orders received came especially from For our main product, pumps, order intake rose by 3.1 % to the water and waste water industry, the African mining indus€ 1,490.9 million, with orders for single-stage pumps and try and the construction industry in the Middle East. for automation products and drives growing strongly. Order intake for multistage pumps, used in power plants, for example, was more subdued. The high pressure on prices in the project business meant that new orders had to be selected with greater emphasis on profitability and returns. 30 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT In the Region Asia / Pacific, the order intake of our local Group CONSOLIDATED SALES REVENUE INCREASES BY 8. 5 % companies grew by 11.1 %. This increase to € 398.9 million The sales revenue generated by our Group companies, as resulted from the increased order levels recorded by our anticipated, grew faster than order intake and reached Chinese companies, the growing business in South-East Asia € 2,268.2 million. New business and longer-term project and the growth of our two South Korean subsidiaries. The two orders billed during the year under review contributed to Indian Group companies suffered from weak overall ecothe increase of € 177.2 million, corresponding to a growth nomic growth and the postponement of investment in key rate of 8.5 %. In addition, the newly consolidated comcustomer industries, in particular the energy sector. panies added € 44.4 million to overall sales revenue. Order growth in the Region Americas was primarily attributPump sales generated € 1,517.1 million – an increase of 7.7 %. able to the strong demand in mining. The main beneficiary Sales revenue increases were recorded for singleand multiwas our US subsidiary, GIW Industries, Inc., which manufacstage pumps, submersible pumps, as well as for automation tures pumps for hydraulic solids transport, and our company products and drives. in Chile. Overall, the American Group companies improved their order intake by 10.5 % to € 395.1 million. In 2012, the strongest growth in percentage terms was in valve sales, which rose by 14.9 % to € 385.6 million. Significant contributions came from the valves business in Asia, which we strengthened in 2011 by opening a plant in China and acquiring a company in South Korea. New KSB location: cutting-edge circulator pumps from the Calio range are produced at Smedegaard’s factory in Beinwil am See. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 31 Busine ss D e ve lopme nt a nd Ev e n ts The sales revenue we generate with service activities increased At the same time we continued to develop our strategy in in 2012 by 14.0 % to € 368.2 million, thanks to the sales some areas, and initiated new measures in order to implerevenue contributed by the newly consolidated service comment it. In 2012 this applied to three areas in particular: our panies and the increased service business outside Europe. service and spare parts business, our products and services for the mining industry and our general business with standard HI G H E R S A L E S R EVENUE I N ALL R EGI ONS pumps and valves. Like in the previous year, consolidated sales revenue increased in all four Regions. In 2012, the Group companies in Europe PUSHING THE SERVICE AND SPARE PARTS BUSINE S S generated sales revenue of € 1.369,3 million, which was an In the year under review we placed a new focus on the so-called increase of 4.2 % over the previous year. The strong growth in aftermarket business, which we plan to strengthen throughsales revenue achieved by our French subsidiary KSB S.A.S., out the Group. It perpetuates sales revenue from our customespecially in the valves business, was outstanding. KSB AG ers through consultancy and maintenance contracts, spare increased its sales revenue by 2.1 % to € 828.2 million, with parts deliveries, involvement in conversions and performance the billing of several power plant contracts with longer terms adjustments. Our strategic goal is to significantly increase contributing significantly to this. the share of this business in our overall sales revenue by 2018. In the Region Middle East / Africa, local Group companies This requires that we continue to open and expand own service improved their sales revenue by 14.4 % to € 112.7 million, centres as well as provide more intensive post-purchase supprimarily thanks to the significant increase in business recordport to our customers. To achieve the above objective, we will ed by our companies in South Africa and Pakistan. substantially increase the number of our customer contacts and implement further structural measures. The highest percentage increase in sales revenue at 19.2 % was posted by the companies in the Region Asia / Pacific, LEVERAGING OPPORTUNITIES IN MINING which achieved total sales revenue of € 408.6 million. KSB For the trouble-free hydraulic transport of solids, our customShanghai Pump Co. Ltd. and KSB Australia Pty. Ltd. were ers in the mining regions need us to provide local support, the main contributors to this increase. including spare part stocks and repair and replacement services. For this reason, we set up additional service centres in The American subsidiaries increased their sales revenue Australia, Chile, Indonesia and South Africa in the year under volume by 12.6 % to € 377.6 million, mainly driven by the review. business development in the United States and Chile. These centres also help sell our slurry pumps and the pumps AD DI T I O N A L S T E PS I N THE I M P LEM ENTATI ON OF THE used in the processing cycle for the newly extracted materials. GR O U P S T R AT E G Y We are seeking to improve the competitiveness of our product To ensure that our corporate strategy is successful, we have range for the mining industry even further by implementing been implementing a large number of individual projects a series of strategic measures. since the beginning of 2010. During the year under review, these contributed significantly to order intake and sales revenue growth. 32 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT E XPAN S I O N O F O U R GENER AL BUSI NESS A new plant for standard products was established in Jundiaí In 2012, due to the difficult market situation in the project in Brazil in 2012. It will initially produce valves and will business we focused in particular on expanding the general officially open in April of this year. business with standard pumps and valves. We succeeded in increasing the volume of incoming orders in selected counIn 2012, Russia was the fastest growing market for us in tries. Europe. To make best possible use of the opportunities there, we increased the number of our sales offices from eight to ten. To strengthen the business, we, among other things, expanded We now also serve our customers from Nizhny Novgorod our distribution network in Brazil, increased the size of our and Kazan in the Volga region. In addition, our Russian comsales team in Russia, and trained consultants and users of our pany founded three subsidiaries in the neighbouring states products in several European countries. of Kazakhstan, Ukraine and Belarus. With the acquisition of 80 % of the shares of T. Smedegaard A/S PRODUCTION START IN GERMANY AND INDIA (Smedegaard Group) in February 2012, we also rounded off In the year under review, two innovative products – the our range of building services products. The company manuMega CPK standardised chemical pump and the SuPremE factures circulators for heating and cooling systems in residenhigh-efficiency motor – went into production and have tial, commercial and industrial buildings at its base in Glostrup attracted a lot of interest in the market. They have won (Copenhagen) and in Beinwil am See in Switzerland. several awards and were also the centre of attention at ACHEMA, the world’s largest trade fair for the process inC ON T I N U E D E X PA N S I ON I N THE B R I C C OUNTR I ES dustry in Frankfurt. Despite the economic slowdown in several emerging markets, we believe that the prospects of the so-called BRIC countries Before starting production of the Mega CPK in Pegnitz and are still promising. Therefore, in the year under review we Nashik (India), we thoroughly trained our sales staff so that opened new facilities in Brazil, Russia and China to manuthey are able to provide knowledgeable advice to our cusfacture and test our products locally. tomers on the use of the pump. In China, where our new valve plant in Changzhou started The new energy-efficient SuPremE magnetless motor is operations in 2011, the focus of our investment activities was manufactured by our factory in Halle, which also produces on the development of a test facility for power plant pumps. submersible motors for waste water pumps. This is being built at the site of our joint venture in Lingang near Shanghai and will go into operation during the course of the year. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 33 Busine ss D e ve lopme nt a nd Ev e n ts Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Positi o n an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s NE T AS S E TS, F I N A N C I A L P O S IT ION A ND R ESU LT S OF OPER AT IONS Increase in consolidated earnings (EBT) to € 133 million Continued solid equity ratio Cash flows from operating activities significantly increased The trend in order intake and sales revenue basically conThe ratio of other expenses to total output of operations defirmed the forecasts we made in the previous year’s report. clined from 17.8 % to 16.5 %. In absolute terms, they have We also almost reached our earnings target. changed little, and now total € 377.7 million compared with € 383.9 million in the previous year. RE S U LT S O F O P E RATI ONS Earnings before taxes Financial income / expense changed by € – 4.4 million overall. The KSB Group generated earnings before taxes of € 132.8 This primarily reflects lower interest income due to declining million, compared with € 120.5 million in 2011. We thus investment interest rates. This contrasted with lower depreciaachieved a return on sales of 5.9 % (previous year: 5.8 %). tion / amortisation of financial assets. Increase in output of operations Earnings after taxes Total sales revenue increased by 8.5 % thanks to improved The income tax rate increased by 1.1 percentage points, up business development. Work in progress and inventories of from 30.9 % in 2011 to 32.0 %. Earnings after taxes at finished goods totalled € 23.9 million, € 35.1 million lower € 90.3 million (previous year: € 83.3 million) have therefore than in the previous year. Thus, total output of operations grew increased less markedly (8.4 %) than earnings before taxes more slowly than sales revenue, totalling € 2,293.8 million, (10.3 %). or 6.6 % above the 2011 figure (€ 2,151.4 million). Earnings attributable to non-controlling interest increased Change in cost structure from € 11.3 million to € 15.6 million, primarily due to the Other income rose from € 33.4 million to € 44.3 million. improved results of operations of our companies in India and This was primarily attributable to higher income from current the US. They also increased relative to earnings after taxes assets. (17.3 % compared with 13.6 % in the previous year). The cost of materials increased by 7.9 % due to factors such At € 74.7 million, earnings attributable to shareholders of as rising purchase prices. We were unable to pass these on KSG AG were thus € 2.7 million higher than in the previous fully to our customers due to the continuing pressure on prices. year (€ 72.0 million). As a percentage of total output of operations, the cost of materials (€ 985.2 million) increased from 42.4 % in the preEarnings per share vious year to 42.9 % in the year under review. Earnings per ordinary share were € 42.51, compared with € 40.95 in the previous year, and € 42.77 per preference Staff costs rose by 8.6 % to € 758.2 million in absolute terms. share, compared with € 41.21 in 2011. In relation to total output of operations, this meant an increase of 0.7 percentage points. Reasons for the increase Profit situation at parent company KSB AG included collectively agreed salary increases and the higher KSB AG generated pre-tax earnings (under HGB ) of € 38.0 number of employees, especially following the first-time conmillion, around € 1.5 million more than the prior-year figure solidations. But we have also increased staff numbers at our (€ 36.5 million). Taking into account the taxes to be paid, companies in Chile and the US in response to positive busithe net profit for the year amounted to € 31.1 million after ness development. The KSB Group employed on average € 29.4 million in 2011. Sales revenue increased by 2.1 %. 710 more people than in the previous year. Compared with Due to significantly lower inventory changes, total output of the previous financial year, average output per employee operations decreased by 0.5 %. Strong price pressure and improved from € 139 thousand to € 141 thousand. higher costs, especially material costs, also weighed down on earnings in the parent’s annual financial statements as in the consolidated financial statements. 34 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Stable dividend The Business Unit Service too posted strong growth, with With earnings after taxes almost unchanged compared with sales revenue up 14.0 %. EBIT grew from € 42.8 million to the previous year, we will propose to the Annual General € 50.7 million. Meeting on 15 May 2013 the distribution of a dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and € 12.26 per preference share FINANCIAL POSITION (including a preference dividend right of € 0.26), as in the Principles and objectives of financial management previous year. Central financial management in the KSB Group performs its duties within the framework of the guidelines laid down by Segment results the Board of Management. We base the nature and scope of In line with our management and reporting structures, our all financial transactions exclusively on the requirements of segment reporting format is by business unit. our business. The aim is to ensure liquidity at all times and to finance our activities at optimum conditions. With respect In the Business Unit Pumps, sales revenue was 7.7 % higher to our export business, we hedge foreign exchange and credit than in the previous year. From this we generated EBIT of risks to the greatest extent possible. We continuously im€ 91.3 million (versus € 81.9 million in 2011). prove our receivables management methods with the goal of settling our outstanding amounts by their due dates. The Business Unit Valves posted an increase in sales revenue of 14.9 %. EBIT, at € 8.8 million, was well above the figure for the previous financial year of € 2.5 million. COS T S T RU C TU R E I N I N C OME STAT EMENT (in %) 2012 17.3 2.7 34.8 45.2 2011 18.8 2.5 34.1 44.6 Other expenses Depreciation and amortisation expense Staff costs Cost of materials BAL AN C E S H E E T S T RU C TU R E Assets (in %) 1.3 2012 4.7 21.2 1.8 21.0 31.6 18.4 2011 4.6 21.8 2.0 21.5 33.4 15.5 1.2 Intangible assets Property, plant and equipment Non-current financial assets Deferred tax assets Inventories Receivables and other current assets Cash and cash equivalents Equity and liabilities (in %) 2012 42.4 25.5 32.1 2011 44.0 20.1 35.9 Equity Non-current liabilities Current liabilities M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 35 Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Positi o n an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s Hedging financial risks Equity Our primary tool for minimising the foreign exchange risks The KSB Group’s equity amounts to € 923,0 million (previous inherent in our export business are currency forwards. This year: € 869.1 million). This includes KSB AG’s subscribed applies both to transactions already recognised and to future capital of € 44.8 million as in the previous year. The capital cash flows from orders on hand that are still being processed. reserve remains unchanged at € 66.7 million. Revenue reserves We transact most of our foreign currency business in US doltotal € 685.7 million (previous year: € 642.0 million), inlars. There is only a relatively low level of foreign currency cluding the proportion of earnings after taxes attributable to liabilities. shareholders of KSB AG of € 74.7 million (previous year: € 72.0 million). € 125.8 million (previous year: € 115.6 milWe regularly monitor the interest rate risks associated with lion) is attributable to non-controlling interest. Due to the our financing activities. To avoid the negative effects of significant € 202.8 million (10.3 %) rise in total equity and interest rate fluctuations on the international capital markets, liabilities, the equity ratio declined slightly (42.4 %; previous we conclude interest rate hedges (interest rate swaps) where year: 44.0 %). necessary. These are used exclusively to hedge variable-rate loans against rising interest rates. Non-controlling interest mainly relates to the following companies: KSB Pumps Limited, India (€ 39.1 million), We reduce the risks resulting from changes in prices on the PAB GmbH, Germany (€ 18.1 million), KSB America Corprocurement side for orders with extended delivery dates by poration, USA (€ 14.2 million), GIW Industries, Inc., USA agreeing cost escalation clauses or, in the case of fixed-price (€ 13.7 million) and KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., China contracts, by including the expected rate of cost increases in (€ 12.1 million). our sales price. Liabilities We limit the risk of default by taking out credit insurance, The largest item under liabilities continues to be provisions arranging advance and partial payments, and agreeing bank for employee benefits, including, also as the largest item, penguarantees. To ensure long-term liquidity, we agree on paysion provisions. These were increased by 5.1 % to € 270.9 ment terms and conditions with our customers in the project million as at the reporting date. A large number of the pension business that reflect the cost trend curves of order completion plans currently in use in the KSB Group are defined benefit as far as possible. models. We will be reducing the associated risks, such as demographic changes, inflation and salary increases, for example By agreeing sufficient credit lines with our banks, we can always by introducing defined contribution plans for new employees. respond to fluctuating liquidity needs. In support of this, we use rolling monthly cash flow planning. In selected countries Our obligations for current pensioners and vested benefits of we also rely on cash pooling structures that allow optimised employees who have left the company account for just over use of the available resources within the Group. In order to be half of the amount recognised in the balance sheet. The rest able to provide the necessary collateral in the project busirelates to defined benefit obligations for our current employees, ness, corresponding guarantee volumes are made available. who have an average remaining period of service of around Adequate proportions are confirmed for a period of more 15 years. than one year. Our credit and guarantee lines total around € 973 million (previous year: around € 959 million). The remaining provisions for employee benefits, which, in contrast to pension provisions, are predominantly current, fell slightly from € 133.6 million to € 127.1 million. 36 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Other provisions are virtually unchanged year on year. They Liquidity include non-current components of € 16.2 million (previous The KSB Group’s net financial position, i. e. the difference beyear: € 16.9 million) for warranty obligations. The excess tween interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand and relates to provisions for mainly current uncertain liabilities. financial liabilities on the other, declined from € 187.0 million to € 141.2 million. Contributing factors were increased Non-current liabilities increased significantly from € 61.7 spending on financial assets and the funds provided to finance million to € 208.0 million. Thus the share of non-current working capital following the increase in business volume. liabilities in total capital also increased from 3.1 % to 9.6 %. Due to the favourable capital market conditions, in December Sources and application of funds 2012 we took out a new loan against borrower’s note in the Cash flows from operating activities amounted to € 94.1 milamount of € 175 million. It is divided into repayment tranches lion, a year-on-year increase of € 57.8 million. As well as of 3 to 10 years. At year-end, the remaining commitments improved earnings and increased depreciation / amortisation, from the loan against borrower’s note placed in 2009 stood significantly lower amounts tied up in inventories and at € 6 million. During the year, this total was reduced by receivables had a positive impact on cash flows. This contrast€ 44 million through early redemption. ed with less funds released from liabilities. Current liabilities remain virtually unchanged (€ 505.0 million In the year under review, we expanded our investment activicompared with € 509.5 million at year end 2011). Financial ties, primarily in property, plant and equipment. In contrast, liabilities decreased by € 12.3 million. Here too the early rewe spent less on the acquisition of consolidated companies. demption of the 2009 loan against borrower’s note has had Accordingly, cash flows were virtually unchanged at € – 99.4 an impact; we repaid € 12.5 million before actual maturity. million (previous year € – 102.7 million). In contrast, other liabilities rose from € 235.7 million to € 245.8 million. Trade payables decreased by € 2.3 million to Cash flows from financing activities changed from € – 35.9 € 204.0 million. Taking into account the increase in total million to € + 102.9 million due to the new loan against equity and liabilities, the share of current liabilities in total borrower’s note that was taken out. This increase was counequity decreased to 23.2 % (previous year 25.8 %). tered by the early redemption of large portions of the loan against borrower’s note from 2009. In the previous year, we Contingencies and commitments repaid more bank loans than we took out. The KSB Group’s off-balance sheet contingent liabilities totalled € 14.1 million as at the reporting date (previous year: The KSB Group’s cash and cash equivalents from all cash € 10.9 million). These arise mainly from collateral and perflows together increased from € 305.7 million to € 401.0 milformance guarantees. lion (including € 14.8 million of cash used to secure credit balances for partial retirement obligations, which is available There are no other extraordinary obligations and commitfor immediate use at any time, after € 16.6 million the prements beyond the reporting date. Other obligations and comvious year), although this includes changes in exchange rates. mitments fall within the scope of what is needed to continue business operations, such as obligations from long-term rental, We assume that, in future, we will continue to be able to meet lease and services agreements (in particular information our outgoing payments largely from operating cash flow. technology and telecommunications) and from purchase comFrom today’s perspective, we are therefore not planning any mitments. additional external financing measures. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 37 Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Positi o n an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s NET A S S E T S Due to the increased business volume, also reflected in the Our total assets rose by 10.3 % to € 2,177.0 million. The main higher total output of operations, inventories increased by reason for this was an increase in cash and cash equivalents 7.6 % to € 457.2 million. They tied up around 21 % of our due to the liquidity increase following the placement of the new resources (previous year: just over 22 %). loan against borrower’s note. Increased non-current assets, higher inventories and an increase in receivables and other As a result of the increased sales revenue, trade receivables assets also contributed to this change. were € 20.6 million above the figure at the end of the previous year. The value of customer orders in progress, measured acAround 28 % is attributable to fixed assets, as in the previous cording to the percentage-of-completion method, increased by year. € 8.6 million, mainly due to declining customer advances for in-process customer orders. As a result, receivables and other Intangible assets and property, plant and equipment with a current assets made up around 32 % of total assets (previous historical cost of € 1,160.7 million (previous year: € 1,076.7 year: around 33 %), taking into account the change in total million) have carrying amounts of € 563.2 million (previous assets. year: € 520.5 million). Above all the acquisition of the Danish Smedegaard Group and the first-time consolidations of older Cash and cash equivalents account for around 18 % of assets KSB companies in the year under review resulted in goodwill (previous year: approx 16 %). The cash inflow associated increasing by € 9.0 million. with the placement of the new loan against borrower’s note is reflected here. An even stronger increase was countered Investments in property, plant and equipment amounted to by the early redemption of a significant part of the loan against € 81.5 million, above the prior-year figure of € 62.3 million borrower’s note, expenditure on non-current assets and the and depreciation (€ 52.1 million after € 45.7 million in 2011). provision of funds to finance working capital following the The highest additions at € 23.1 million (previous year: € 15.4 increase in business volume. million) relate to technical equipment and machinery. The focus of our investment activities remained the Region Europe, Inflation and exchange rate effects predominantly Germany and France. Outside Europe, the There were no consolidated companies within the Group highest additions were again made at our plants in Brazil, China, whose financial statements were required to be adjusted for India and the USA. We maintained our policies for measuring the effects of inflation. depreciation and amortisation in the year under review. The translation of financial statements of consolidated comThe investments in financial assets amounting to € 9.8 million panies that are not prepared in euro gave rise to a difference related primarily to an additional cash capital increase with of € – 13.9 million (previous year: € – 15.2 million). This was our local partner in a company in China where we hold a nontaken directly to equity. controlling interest and the acquisition of a small service unit in France. Taking into account the opposing effects of the SUMMARY OF THE ECONOMIC SITUATION OF THE G R O U P first-time consolidation, the carrying amount of financial At the end of 2012, the economic situation of the KSB Group assets fell by € 1.3 million to € 38.8 million. was stable at a high level. We consider this a good basis for achieving continued success in the coming years. 38 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT RE MU N E R AT I O N O F THE B OAR D OF M ANAGEM ENT To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remunera( R E MU N E R AT I O N R E P ORT) tion, the variable remuneration component consists mainly The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied of components determined on the basis of a multi-year when determining the remuneration arrangements for the assessment. They are partly based (60 %) on the degree of imBoard of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft. It is prepared plementation of the corporate strategy and its actual market in accordance with the recommendations of the German success, and partly (20 %) on the return on investment measCorporate Governance Code (item 4.2.5) and explains the ured according to the “economic value added” method based remuneration system in place for Board of Management memon a past average value over a medium-term horizon. The bers. This system is geared towards sustainable corporate remaining short-term share (20 %) is based on the development development. It is adopted by the Supervisory Board plenary of the net financial position in the respective financial year as session based on the recommendation of the Personnel Comcompared with the planned development. The total amount mittee and reviewed at regular intervals. The same applies to of the variable remuneration components is limited in order individual Board of Management compensation amounts. to take extraordinary, unforeseen developments into account. The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional are structured as clearly and transparently as possible. The possibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at total amount of remuneration for the individual Board of the discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than Management members is determined based on various paramethree monthly salary payments per financial year in recogniters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the remution of any special performance of individual members of the neration include the responsibilities of the individual Board Board of Management. Such decisions are only made on an of Management members, their personal performance, the irregular basis, meaning that they do not necessarily have to economic situation, the company’s performance and prospects be made annually. as well as customary remuneration amounts when taking peer companies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere Furthermore, when Board of Management contracts are conwithin the company into consideration. cluded it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Management member in the event of his or her Board of ManageThe remuneration of the Board of Management consists of ment tenure being terminated prematurely without good fixed and variable components. Fixed components are granted reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus beneincluding fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with fits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, item 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). No widow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % of other payments have been promised to any Board of Manthe maximum annual salary and is paid out as a monthly agement members in the event of termination of service; simibasic remuneration. All Board of Management members are larly no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover equally entitled to the accompanying fringe benefits which offer. If the employment contract is terminated for good reason include the private use of a company car, payment of insurfor which the Board of Management Member is responsible, ance premiums and any payments associated with a postthe company shall not make any severance payments. contractual non-competition clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Board of Management in the year under review. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 39 Ne t A sse ts, Financia l Positi o n an d R e su l ts o f Ope rati o n s On 19 May 2010 – using a legally permissible option – the Our ICS is subject to a continuous development and improveAnnual General Meeting again resolved not to disclose the ment process, and we are in regular contact with our audidetails of the compensation for individual members of the tors. We analyse current financial reporting issues together, Board of Management for a period of five years. The total resuch as, for example, announced changes to the accounting muneration of the members of the Board of Management for principles and regulations. If it becomes necessary to adapt their activities in the 2012 financial year was € 2,620 thouexisting codes, guidelines or regulations or issue new ones, sand. No stock options or other share-based payment arrangethis is done promptly and communicated to the entire Group. ments are granted to members of the Board of Management. Additional disclosures on the remuneration of the Board of Corporate Governance Declaration Management can be found in section IX. of the Notes to the The updated Corporate Governance Declaration pursuant Consolidated Financial Statements. to section 289a of the HGB will be made accessible to the public from 27 March 2013 at www.ksb.com > Investor D E P E N DE N T C O M PANY R EP ORT Relations > Corporate Governance Declaration. Transactions made and measures taken in 2012 were mainly attributable to goods and services supplied to affiliated comIn addition to the Corporate Governance Report (including panies. KSB AG billed a total of € 327.8 million (previous year: the Statement of Compliance in accordance with section € 289.7 million) for these goods and services, and purchased 161 of the German Public Companies Act), the Corporate goods and services from affiliated companies for a total value Governance Declaration includes relevant information on of € 108.2 million (previous year: € 99.8 million). corporate governance practices applied at KSB AG that go beyond statutory requirements. Also described are the workIN T E R N A L C O N T R OL SYSTEM ing methods of the Board of Management and Supervisory ( D I S C L O S U R E S P UR SUANT TO SEC TI ON 3 1 5 (2 ), Board, and the composition and working methods of the NO. 5 O F T H E HGB ) committees of the Supervisory Board. Our internal control system (ICS) serves to ensure that regular financial reports and consolidated financial statements are REPORT ON POST-BALANCE SHEET DATE EVENTS properly prepared. Key elements of the ICS are – in addition No significant events occurred after the balance sheet date to the risk management system that is described in detail that would have a material effect on the company’s net assets, elsewhere in this management report – guidelines and regulafinancial position and results of operations. tions which include, among other things, standard accounting and valuation policies. They must be applied to the full extent by all Group companies. There is a clear separation of functions and the four-eye principle is applied. Reviews of our Internal Audits departments ensure that this happens. Our accounting practices also include regular analytical plausibility checks using time series analyses and actual / budget variance analyses. These reviews enable us to identify significant changes early on, which we then examine for accounting and valuation discrepancies. The results are discussed at management level. 40 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT RES E ARCH AN D D E V E L O P M E N T Compact system reduces the cost of seawater desalination Carbon fibre composite materials put to the test Electric motors offer savings potential Commercial success requires technical innovation, and this even less energy and already fulfill the requirements to be met applies to all European mechanical engineering companies by water pumps in Europe from 2015 in line with ErP regucompeting on the world market. To maintain our technologlations. In overhauling the type series we have also created two ical lead in pumps, valves and related systems, we therefore additional sizes. continuously invest in our research and development, and in 2012 spent € 45 million on it in the Group. Worldwide, 440 CARBON FIBRE MATERIALS INSTEAD OF METALS of our employees worked in research and development, Carbon-fibre-reinforced polymers are primarily used today in seeking to create market-geared standard type series, or to the aerospace industry and in high-performance sports. But translate the technical requirements of our customers into the application area for these materials is set to expand. Our engineered products. materials experts are participating in a working group called MAI Carbon that is funded by the Federal Ministry of EducaD R INK I N G WAT E R F R O M THE SEA tion and Research. A total of 73 companies and educational In the year under review, we developed a compact unit for and research institutions are working together in the area of seawater desalination based on the reverse osmosis principle. basic research. For us as manufacturers of pumps and valves The process requires very high pressures to separate the salt it is important to determine the extent to which components from the water. However, only a part of the volume flow penemade of these materials can replace conventional materials. trates the membrane as so-called permeate , while the presOne of the advantages of using carbon fibre materials is the surised concentrated brine has to be discharged from the memweight; pumps today are mostly made of metal and are therebrane tank. The new SALINO® Pressure Center uses this fore relatively heavy. In addition to their low weight, polymers pressure to drive an axial piston motor arranged on a common are generally more chemically resistant to aggressive fluids shaft with an axial piston pump. The compact unit combines than metallic alloys. In a first step, our specialists check whether all the functions pumps can assume in this type of seawater bodies, casings or impellers can also be produced using the desalination: high pressure generation, pressure loss compenstandard methods used to produce and process carbon-fibresation and energy recovery. A separate booster pump is not reinforced polymers. needed; in addition, the system requires only a single electric motor and just one frequency inverter. As there is no piping As reported, in 2011 we started to expand the technical facilbetween the individual components, the SALINO® Pressure ities we use to carry out cavitation tests. We continued these Center is extremely compact and therefore particularly suitmeasures in the year under review and have thus created an able for mobile use in container systems. Its design means that expanded range of test options. Using improved test facilities it can reduce energy costs by up to 50 % compared with conin Frankenthal and Pegnitz we were able to check in comparventional recovery systems that use pressure exchangers or ative material studies the behaviour of metallic, intermetallic Pelton turbines . KSB is the first manufacturer to offer such and polymer materials under cavitation conditions. The finda compact system for the reverse osmosis process. Since Ocings will be included in a newly created database in which we tober 2012, several pilot plants have been in operation in the will systematically gather information on the properties of Middle East, and the market launch is scheduled for the midcertain materials. This information in turn will help us develop dle of this year. a new cavitation-resistant polymeror intermetallic-based coating. Every year the physical effect of cavitation causes Another example of the work carried out by our hydraulic considerable damage to pump impellers worldwide. experts is the further development of the Etanorm® pump series. The improved pumps, which have proven their worth over decades with more than 1.5 million produced, now use M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 41 Re se arch and D e ve lopme nt The world’s most popular standardised water pump: 43 sizes of the Etanorm ® range have been enhanced by KSB engineers (here: Etanorm ® equipped with high-efficiency motor, speed control and monitoring system). ENERGY-EFFICIENT ELECTRIC MOTORS chronous or asynchronous motor operating principles. In As almost 100 % of pumps are equipped with an electric mocooperation with renowned universities and colleges they tor, KSB began to develop and produce its own drives over designed and calculated new pump drives using computer80 years ago. One of its innovation highlights is the highly based calculation programs. Following extensive simulations efficient SuPremE motor. Apart from this drive we also build of the operating behaviour, they created several prototypes, a whole series of special motors. They are made to order and which they tested in experimental series on test benches in can have ratings of several hundred kilowatts. They include Frankenthal. This work will be continued in the coming years. canned motors for chemical pumps and submersible motors for large boiler recirculation and well pumps. The latSince 1 January 2013, only energy-efficient circulators may be ter are completely filled with water for technical reasons. sold in Europe in accordance with the relevant ErP RegulaThis means both the rotor and the stator and its winding are tion . For this reason, we have developed a “smart” generation completely surrounded by liquid. The design places high of glandless pumps in close cooperation with the staff of technological demands on the insulation and the manufacturthe KSB subsidiaries of the Smedegaard Group. With the Calio ing process, as such drives in some cases need voltages of up type series we have modernised our building services product to 10,000 volts. In order to be able to offer users such specialrange, and will present it to our customers at this year’s trade design very-low energy pumps, KSB engineers worked on the fairs. technological improvement of these motors in the year under review. They investigated the potential of the various syn42 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT EMP L OYE E S First-time consolidations increase Group headcount Communication strengthens leadership and values culture Distance learning provides in-depth knowledge of pumps At KSB we need employees at every workplace who, besides TRAINING IN SEMINARS AND ONLINE having specific knowledge and skills, also bring with them We offer our employees a varied training programme so that a high level of motivation and a desire for positive change. they can develop their skills and adapt to new challenges. It Finding these people, familiarising them with our corporate encompasses foreign language and IT courses, technical and culture and promoting their professional skills on an ongoing business training courses and seminars on personal develbasis is a key corporate task. It is also part of our effort to opment and project management. To develop each employee be a preferred and competent partner to our customers around according to their tasks and skills, we determine their indithe world. vidual training needs every two years. The programme, which is tailored to this need, is supplemented with external semiNU MB E R O F E M P L OY EES I NC R EASES nars and training courses. At year-end, the number of employees working on behalf of our customers across the Group was 533 higher than in E-learning is a proven training method, especially for employ2011, bringing the total to 16,207. This growth of 3.4 % is ees not working for one of our large companies. In the year largely due to the first-time consolidation of 13 smaller under review, we trained around 3,500 employees via the subsidiaries in Europe and China. 508 employees joined the “KSB E-Academy” Internet platform created in 2011. Group as a result. Individual companies within the Group also increased the size of their workforces, primarily to imDISTANCE LEARNING COURSES FOR KSB ENGINEERS A N D plement our strategic projects. TECHNICIANS KSB is a company driven by technological innovation. HighL E AD E R S H I P A N D C OR P OR ATE C ULTUR E ly specific knowledge of pumps and their applications is For employees to be motivated in their work, professional required to develop customised solutions. This can only be and communicative management is required. We provide provided to a limited extent by vocational and higher-educacontinuous support to our managers at every level to achieve tion programmes. For this reason, we created the internal this. One important tool is standardised leadership feedback, “Pump Applications Professional” training in 2011. In the which we carried out simultaneously for 8,203 employees in year under review, the first 20 employees in Germany suc2012. They were all asked to give feedback to their direct cessfully completed the one-year distance learning course. line manager on their leadership and management skills. 6,280 Encouraged by the very good experiences so far, we will employees took advantage of this opportunity, and more continue with this form of teaching, and in October 2012 a than 75 % of the participants in the anonymous survey rated second group began their training. the cooperation with their line managers as “very good” overall. FINDING AND DEVELOPING TALENTS Globally we look for the best experts and managers. Their The way we act and interact with each other and with our work in research and development, production, sales and customers and suppliers is guided by defined KSB values. We in other disciplines is expected to contribute to driving KSB consider them part of our corporate culture, which we want forward among top international companies. To achieve new to strengthen and develop. To this end, in 2010 we started goals, we need committed young professionals with fresh using so-called value dialogues, in which managers talk with ideas. With our future engineering needs in mind, we have their direct reports about the KSB values and their relevance established relationships with universities and colleges in for day-to-day work. In the year under review, more than 1,000 employees participated in such dialogues. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 43 Employe e s Europe as well as in Brazil, China and India. We guide stuCOMMITMENT AND A WILLINGNESS TO ACCEPT CH A N G E dents from different disciplines to our company at an In a time in which markets and competition are changing early stage through work experience, integrated training dramatically, we have to adjust to new circumstances. Our programmes and degree project (thesis) placements. employees have succeeded magnificently in many areas in this respect. In their workplaces they achieved large and We also teach practical skills and theoretical knowledge small process improvements, succeeded in advancing strategic to 363 trainees and students at three German plants as part initiatives, and completed their tasks with a high degree of of our company’s vocational training programme, which personal responsibility. At the same time they participated in encompasses four dual work / degree programmes. A key the project teams that have prepared the structural changes element of our training concept is personality development, that will be implemented this year. including social and environmental responsibility. The Board of Management thanks all employees for their In the year under review, we spent € 9.0 million on vocationachievements and their willingness to contribute to these al training in Germany. We also invested around € 3.0 milimprovement efforts. Special thanks too go to the members lion at the Halle site in a new social and educational training of the employee representative committees, including the centre. There our trainees can prepare for their future careers Executives’ Committee. They showed great commitment and using state-of-the-art machining equipment and manual workresponsibility in protecting the interests of our staff in 2012. stations. Specialised knowledge and skills needed: participants of KSB’s internal “Pump Applications Professional” course acquire intensive knowledge about pumps and their applications. 44 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT COR PORAT E S O C I A L R E S P O N S I BILIT Y Innovative products for efficient energy use Ecological model plant built in Brazil Aid and education projects on four continents We believe that sustainable management and ongoing success This applies, for example, where we build new manufacturgo hand in hand. By acting in an ecologically sound and soing facilities or refurbish existing plants. At our plant in cially responsible manner, we contribute to the preservation Nashik in India, where we set up a biogas system in 2011, we of the environment and the establishment of fair social interhave expanded the internal energy supply system to include action. As a company that identifies with these types of conwind and solar systems. We use these systems to produce clean duct, we have signed up to the United Nations’ Global Comelectricity for our production lines. pact in 2010. This pact between the UN and companies and organisations aims to bring about a higher level of social In 2012, our Brazilian subsidiary built a plant in Jundiaí that and economic justice. By joining, we have committed ourselves is exemplary in many respects. The production facility, which to continuously working towards improvements in the areas will be officially inaugurated this year, sets a high standard of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection both in terms of environmental protection and occupational and business conduct. health and safety. In Jundiaí, several tanks collect 100,000 litres of rainwater for use in industrial processes and for saniE F F IC I E N T I N N OVAT I O NS FOR C LEAN ENER GY tation and fire protection purposes. Solar energy heats the In the year under review, we launched a number of products hot water for the employees’ wash rooms, and before waste onto the market that enable the use of renewable energy or water leaves the plant it is carefully filtered. State-of-the-art reduce a plant’s power consumption. Where customers use manufacturing equipment ensures that as little waste as these products to save energy, they benefit from lower expossible is generated. penses, we as manufacturers benefit from increased sales revenue, and the environment benefits from reduced pollution. Production employees in Jundiaí benefit from a pleasant and health-friendly work environment. Natural ventilation This applies, for example, to our high-efficiency electric mocreates an optimal environment, with a complete air extors, series production of which started in 2012. These innochange taking place six to nine times per hour. Transparent vative drives already surpass the requirements the EU has put roof and wall elements provide natural light while blocking in place for the efficiency of electric motors from 2015 onUV rays from entering. Buildings have disabled access, and a wards. Moreover, our so-called synchronous reluctance morest area for truck drivers with its own sanitary facilities tors do not require magnetic materials such as rare earths, has also been included. whose production has considerable environmental impact in their countries of origin. MEASURES THAT SAVE ENERGY Worldwide we try to use water and energy resources carefully, F OC U S O N P E O P L E A N D THE ENVI R ONM ENT and make savings wherever possible. To this end, we analysed As a manufacturing company we try to use natural resources the electricity and water consumption of our plants in Brazil, as efficiently as possible and keep the environment clean. Germany, India, Indonesia and South Africa, and on the basis We avoid risks to humans and the ecosystem, and strictly comof our analysis defined cost-reducing measures. ply with the laws and regulations on occupational health and safety and environmental protection, with KSB internal We can also save electricity in our production facilities by guidelines in many cases imposing even stricter standards making greater use of natural light to illuminate the halls. In on our conduct. 2012 we implemented such measures primarily at our site in Ankara, Turkey. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 45 Corporate S ocia l Re sponsib i l i ty Education programme: young Brazilians extend their school knowledge by acquiring fundamental office communication skills on the job. We also replace old machines with new, more efficient In order to also tap the energy potential of mountain rivers machines for energy reasons wherever possible. Where this and streams, we are planning with GIZ to deploy pumps runis not economically viable, we use supplementary technology. ning in reverse as turbines. They are less expensive than conIn India, for instance, various energy-saving devices such as ventional turbines and require significantly less maintenance. frequency inverters have been integrated into our production machines to reduce electricity costs. Through our French subsidiary we are supporting a humanitarian project run by an aid organisation that is active in E L E C T R I C I T Y A N D WATER FOR AFR I C A Niger. It involves the local construction of wells, and we have The collaboration agreement signed by KSB with GIZ – agreed to invest € 45 thousand by 2014. The water extracted Deutsche Gesellschaft für Internationale Zusammenarbeit from the wells can be used to cultivate fields in the Sahel and [German Agency for International Cooperation] in 2012 also supply schools and hospitals with water. shows that sustained commitment in developing countries and commercial benefit are reconcilable. Together, we are working on projects for decentralised electrification in Uganda that involve the use of a prototype of our river turbine adapted to local conditions by our experts. From 2013 onwards the small hydropower system will supply a village located on the Nile with electricity. So that local people can later take over operation and maintenance of the system, we involved them in the project right from the start. 46 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT We are also using our business contacts in France to promote COMPLIANCE WITH LEGAL AND ETHICAL STANDARDS the wells project. In 2012, we presented the project to our We believe that the reputation of our company strengthens customers at the World Water Forum in Marseilles. Some of the confidence customers and business partners have in us. them took the opportunity to get involved in it themselves, We therefore aim to prevent possible misconduct by indivithe current aim being to build another 200 wells. Together dual employees from harming our reputation. In 2012, we with the aid organisation, we also presented the project at implemented a comprehensive e-learning programme on our French sites in Gennevilliers, Lille and Châteauroux. As a compliance issues such as corruption prevention and cartel / result, a large number of employees decided to support the anti-trust law. By providing such specific knowledge to our project either financially or with voluntary work. employees, we protect them from engaging in misconduct. The programme was primarily directed at those who are F OC U S O N T R A I N I N G AND ED UC ATI ON in direct contact with suppliers and customers, and was Children and young people shape the future if they are well offered in seven different languages. In Europe, more than educated. We are therefore committed to providing long-term 2,000 employees took part, in the Middle East / Africa, 290, educational opportunities to young people. As a founding memin the Region Asia / Pacific, 620, and in the Americas, 660. ber of the Wissensfabrik – Unternehmen für Deutschland e.V. The e-learning programme will be continued in the coming [Knowledge Factory – Companies for Germany] we are comyears. mitted to educational work, primarily in kindergartens and primary schools. Since 2005 we, together with more than 100 The high standards to which we have committed ourselves by other companies, have supported various projects to awaken signing up to the Global Compact also apply to our supplichildren’s interest in science and technology. In 2012, we ers. We expect them too to commit to the social, environmentrained teachers to carry out learning experiments and practital and economic values defined by the UN. For this reason, cal exercises in their classes, and supported early language in the year under review we analysed as a first step the main development with a storytelling project. suppliers of KSB AG using a guideline to determine the extent to which their business meets the standards of the Global GLO BA L S O C I A L C O MM I TM ENT Compact. The answers received provided us with informaOur social commitment isn’t just limited to Europe. Instead tion on companies that supply more than 50 % of the total we are active in many different places around the world purchase volume of our parent company. This year we will where we can make a difference. Our Asian companies, for expand the survey to include the suppliers of all Group sites. example, support several educational institutions through the KSB CARE aid fund. In 2012 we renovated schools in Indonesia and Thailand, and in India we paid for new school uniforms at one school. In the US, our local companies gave money to charitable organisations that look after young children and the poor. We supplied discarded computers to an anti-drugs programme in Brazil in which members build new computers from stillfunctioning components. We also continued our programme to introduce Brazilian teenagers from disadvantaged backgrounds to our companies and the working world. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 47 Corporate S ocia l Re sponsib i l i ty Risk Ma na ge me nt RI S K M ANAG E M E N T Increased competition in emerging markets Continued price pressure in project business Provisions against credit losses and liquidity constraints As an organisation that operates throughout the world, the Controlling and Finance and Accounting also perform imporKSB Group is exposed to both global and regional risks. Our tant monitoring tasks in the management of risks and opporrisk policy is designed to enable us to grow sustainably and tunities. Accounting is responsible for preparing the annual profitably. We seek to safeguard our opportunities and reduce and consolidated financial statements in clearly defined subthe risks associated with our business and where possible processes. avoid them completely. In order to be able to recognise early on all the developments and events that could jeopardise the We assess and communicate risks that could have an adverse continued existence of our Group, we use quarterly previews effect on our net assets, financial position and results of opof our earnings and financial situation as well as monthly, erations as well as our reputation according to the following Group-wide reporting of key performance indicators. We comcategories: pare these regularly with our strategic corporate planning. MARKET / COMPETITION We have also implemented a system used by our management Our business is affected by changes in the economic and to continuously identify and record the relevant risks of our political environment. Current economic developments as well business, assess these risks and report them to Group headas high levels of public debt in the US and some European quarters. All Business Units, corporate departments and Group countries are generating uncertainties in the demand for our companies are included in this risk management system. The products. responsible managers are required to supply the relevant business and financial indicators for their areas each month. In the project business, we are dependent on industries with As well as creating quarterly forecasts on business trends, long investment cycles, and these are still holding back on they also report recognised risks to Group headquarters twice awarding contracts. Because of the ongoing overcapacity on a year. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board the supply side, the pressure on our products’ selling prices receive a risk report based on this information at least twice continues. We are countering the risk of short-term business per financial year. Particularly critical issues are reported and demand fluctuations by monitoring the development of on an ad-hoc basis by the managers in charge. macro-economic conditions in our markets and, where necessary, adjusting capacity and implementing savings measures. This process and the responsibilities of management are documented in our Risk Management Manual. Managers are The success of our pumps, valves and service business for the encouraged to take timely action to prevent or limit damage power generation industry depends on global energy demand that may result from the occurrence of risk events. as well as on the regulations introduced as part of energy and environmental policy. In Germany in particular the power plant The Internal Audits department is integrated into the risk market is currently undergoing change due to the so-called management system as part of our control system. When “energy turnaround” initiated by the Federal Government. As planning audits, it prioritises areas according to potential the operators of nuclear power plants were large consumers risks and is provided with all the necessary information. The of our products and services, we have lost business volume that auditors ensure that all audited units adhere to the applicable needs to be replaced by increasing sales in other countries guidelines, actively participate in the risk management sysand in other areas of application for our pumps and valves. If tem, and control or avoid their risks. Information obtained this substitution means higher costs, it may have a negative by Internal Audits on both the recognised risks and the couneffect on earnings. termeasures introduced in response forms an integral part of the reporting to the Board of Management and the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board. 48 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Because of ongoing uncertainties in energy and environmenPROJECTS / PRODUCTS tal policy, the construction of new power plants will also Contracts with longer terms, especially in connection with be delayed in countries outside Europe. Once the decisions to major projects, can involve a variety of risks. There may be build new facilities are taken, we can expect improved opcost overruns, staff shortages, technical difficulties or quality portunities in the project business. problems – including possible penalties – that reduce our margins. We therefore train our staff in project management Realisation of many major projects is also pending in the and enable them to identify risks associated with longer-term markets of the Middle East as well as North Africa. The contracts at an early stage. Our project managers are probackground to this is the continuing instability in several vided with appropriate management tools and oversee clearly countries. The current lower number of new orders entails structured approval processes. Training in project managehigh price and delivery time pressure, to which we must ment is also important in order to effectively implement our adapt. We see opportunities in some countries such as Saudi strategic projects. Arabia, Kuwait and Oman as well as in the sub-Saharan region, where we offer our pumps and valves for infrastructure Orders including newly designed products involve both techprojects for water and energy supply as well as for improved nical and financial risks. We limit the technical risks to the waste water treatment. The imposition of export restrictions extent that we define intermediate steps in product developrelating to some countries in the region can in principle put ment and subject partial solutions to assessments. This also both orders in hand and order opportunities at risk. We do not applies to the pumps that we are supplying as part of a major expect any new political sanctions to be imposed against Chinese order for a new power plant type. We minimise individual states. financial risks by using appropriate contractual clauses, and ensure that advances cover our costs. In the growing markets of the BRIC countries, competition is increasing among pump and valve manufacturers. Local supAcquiring companies or establishing joint ventures forms part pliers benefit in part from more favourable cost structures. of our strategic development and enables us to strengthen With our strategic measures we are aiming to open up these our product portfolio. Such steps inevitably also involve risks markets further. The current competitive situation, however, as we have to integrate new employees and harmonise procould delay our planned growth. cesses and products into an existing programme. Accordingly, the associated opportunities and risks are carefully considOverall, our strategic projects aim to increase the number of ered beforehand. potential opportunities for sustained profitable growth. It cannot be excluded, however, that in the course of implementation of the strategy, changes in the markets or in technical requirements will necessitate a reassessment of those opportunities. For this reason, it is probable that we will not be able to bring all our strategic projects to fruition as intended and will have to adapt them to new circumstances, if necessary. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 49 Risk Ma na ge me nt F IN A N C E S / L I Q U I DI TY PROCUREMENT Acquisitions usually lead to an increase in intangible assets. We have recently been subjected to strong commodity price Adverse changes in the market environment or delayed and procurement time fluctuations due to market volatility. integration of our acquisitions may affect the commercial Where we are unable to offset cost increases or pass them on and financial development of a new unit. This can lead to to our customers, this can have a negative impact on our an impairment of goodwill. earnings. Shortages or delays in our supply chain for raw materials and components can also lead to the impairment In the project business we see risks for our margins and liquidof our business activities. ity. As well as the continued pressure on our selling prices, which is reducing our profit margins, these include unfavourTherefore, we are actively seeking to identify alternative and able contract conditions such as reduced advances and tougher better value supply sources, especially in Asia, using the purcontractual penalties. We counter this risk by paying careful chasing power that results from pooling the requirements of attention to the approval processes in the tender phase, and all KSB plants worldwide. constantly monitoring our net financial position. In this way we are able to recognise and avoid liquidity shortages. Where TECHNOLOGY / RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT necessary, we secure sufficient liquidity by agreeing correIt is essential to our future success that we have a product and sponding credit lines early on. service range that is suited to the market in terms of technology, price and delivery time. The changing needs of our cusLitigation, governmental and regulatory proceedings too can tomers and new standards and regulations make it necessary affect our business. to continuously develop and improve our products and services. Research and development for innovations consumes signifiWe use foreign exchange hedges to reduce the risks from cant financial and human resources, and the resulting products transactions involving different currencies. These are generally are not always successful. currency forwards, which we use both for transactions that have already been recognised and for future cash flows from To avoid any negative impact on earnings, it is important to orders still to be processed. By strengthening our production recognise the market-related or technical risks early on. To sites worldwide, we can realise natural currency hedging in this end, we are constantly updating our development process, currency markets that continue to be volatile. which incorporates various control levels. As sales employees are regularly included in this process, risks arising from To prevent the loss of receivables, we have established a strict changes in markets or applications can also be taken into credit management system and use trade credit insurance. account in good time in the evaluation. 50 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT E NVIR O N M E N T We counter this risk with demand-oriented measures, systemOur production activities in particular are subject to numeratic human resources planning and international recruitment ous environmental protection laws and regulations. There processes. is a risk that losses will result from environmental damage not covered by insurance. Therefore, at all company sites Changing market conditions can have a negative impact on officers monitor compliance with laws and regulations as well the funded status of our pension obligations. We are currentas with internal KSB rules, which in some cases exceed the ly developing a model to minimise this risk. prescribed environmental standards. OTHER RISKS As part of acquisition projects, we examine existing properties The manipulation and loss of electronic data can lead to serifor possible contamination before purchase. If we discover ous commercial disadvantages. We minimise this risk through any contamination, we set aside provisions to pay for the secure access procedures and data backup systems. By cennecessary clean-up work. tralising the IT systems of our various operating units, we can implement high security standards and thus further reduce In markets where environmental regulations are becoming the risk of data loss or corruption. more stringent, there is a risk that our products and own or purchased services may cause infringements that lead to us Other potential risks associated with the activities of our emlosing our market authorisation and which damage our repuployees include dishonest conduct or violations of laws that tation. A change in rules on liability in environmental procould damage the reputation of KSB. We counter these risks tection can also increase the risks for our business success. by organising regular compliance training. Our memberships of national and international professional associations ensure that we become aware of imminent OVERALL ASSESSMENT changes in environmental law early on. Overall, we did not identify any risks in the 2012 financial year that could significantly or permanently impair the net S TA F F assets, financial position or results of operations. To achieve our ambitious growth and profitability targets, we need qualified personnel at all our locations, including, for example, technical specialists. Due to the demographic change in some countries, the competition for these and other highly skilled professionals is increasing, and will intensify if economic recovery sets in. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 51 Risk Ma na ge me nt Re port on E xpe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts RE PORT ON E X P E C T E D D E V E L OPMENT S Overall economic development remains uncertain Global expansion of the aftermarket business Growth sought in order intake and sales revenue MA R K E T DE V E L O P M ENT AND SALES OP P ORTUNI TIES Pumps Our planning is based on the assumption that the world For pumps and related automation products we expect order economy will continue to grow only moderately, and that the intake to once again rise this year. This increase will partly gross domestic product in our European home market will result from the expected market growth, and partly from the stagnate or increase only slightly. It is therefore imperative fact that we will implement our Group strategy as planned. that we take advantage to the greatest extent possible of the opportunities present in non-European markets. Our strong We will continue to expand our standard pump business in presence in these regions and our wide range of globally 2013 and 2014. The European market, however, will only alcompetitive products will help us in this respect. The economic low us to increase our production volumes to a limited extent. prospects for the BRIC countries are relatively bright, and Instead, we aim to expand with these products mainly in the economic growth could also well accelerate in other emerging emerging markets of Asia and South America, but also in the economies. Middle East. This year we will have access to improved logistics structures and an expanded network of sales offices and Overall, however, the economic situation remains plagued by distributors in all those regions. uncertainties that make it difficult to forecast developments. These include the financial problems of the euro zone and the To strengthen this business, we have also launched a product political tensions in the Arab world. offensive. This includes the introduction of an improved standardised water pump, which we will manufacture in an identical design on three continents. In February, we started producing this new product in Germany; production starts are due to follow in India, South Africa and China. GR O S S D O M E S TI C P RODU C T GR OW T H (WOR LD) World Investment activity in the chemical and petrochemical indus2013 3.5 % (Forecast) tries suggests that they continue to hold good potential for 2012 3.2 % pump sales. In particular, we aim to take advantage of the North America opportunities arising from the development and expansion of 2013 2.2 % (Forecast) production facilities in Asia and the Middle East. We also ex2012 2.3 % pect, as reflected in our acquisition activities, that the success Latin America of Asian plant engineering contractors in this sector is leading 2013 3.6 % (Forecast) to a geographical shift in demand. 2012 3.0 % European Union 2013 0.2 % (Forecast) 2012 – 0.2 % Asia (excl. Japan) 2013 7.1 % (Forecast) 2012 6.6 % Source: International Monetary Fund 52 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT In the year under review, we created new sales and service Growing demand is expected for smaller high-pressure pumps, facilities for our customers in the mining industry. As a result, as used in power plants with combined gas and steam turwe expect to receive more orders for our slurry pumps and bines. It is likely that new plants of this kind will be build, esreplacement components. As mining companies are currentpecially in the USA, now that additional gas sources are bely not expanding their mining capacity to any great extent, ing tapped. As well as fossil-fuelled plants, China is planning we are focusing on their modernisation and replacement needs to build new nuclear power plants with improved safety. instead, and will also be strengthening our service organisaThere will also be order opportunities this year where energy tion to this end. suppliers modernise their district heating installations or build new ones. The market for power station pumps will remain difficult this year. Plans are in place for coal and lignite power plants that In regions where population growth is placing a strain on will be needed in the coming years. Realisation of these projects drinking water supplies, wells, waterworks and pipeline in many countries is slow, however. Thus, suppliers of techpumping stations need to be constructed. In the Middle East nical equipment still have overcapacity, and there is continued and Africa new water engineering projects could therefore pressure on the prices of feed, condensate and cooling water result in growing demand for appropriate pumps. We also pumps. expect increased demand for waste water pumps and waste water treatment mixers and agitators from the Middle East, unless the political situation there deteriorates. High-level production technology: production of a boiler recirculation pump destined for use in a power plant. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 53 Re port on E xpe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts More and more customers are basing their investments on Growth prospects for power plant valves are moderate whether they will improve the energy efficiency of their due to a low willingness to invest among energy companies. plants. We can benefit from this trend with our systems for Much the same market conditions therefore apply to our continuously variable pump speed control and our magnetvalves as to our pumps. less KSB SuPremE high-efficiency motor. In 2013 and 2014 we will once again aim to increase the Valves overall volume of our valve orders. We foresee growing demand for our valves from general industry and from the chemical and petrochemical industries. Service There is clear potential for order growth in Asia and the Based on our aforementioned aftermarket strategy, we plan Middle East in particular. In some countries of the Middle to expand our business with services and spare parts for East and North Africa there are opportunities to equip new pumps and valves. New service companies will contribute water pipelines with our large valves. For this application to this planned expansion. area we can offer our Mammouth butterfly valves, which are up to 5 metres in diameter. As well as traditional services such as inspections, maintenance, repairs and installation of new equipment, advising The order situation in the Asian shipyards suggests that there customers about increasing energy efficiency will also gain in will be only modest growth in orders placed with suppliers. importance. The orders for our System Efficiency Service However, more tankers and loading facilities are set to be built that analyses existing plants for ways of reducing energy conto transport liquefied gas from the producer to the consumer sumption have doubled in the past year. Based on such countries. With our cryogenic valves, we have been the leadanalyses, customers often decide to implement modernisation ing supplier for this application for many years. The fact measures where these will demonstrably reduce operating that we are now able to offer marine-grade remote monitoring costs. We plan to expand our System Efficiency Service in the and control systems for these products has improved our coming years. business prospects in this interesting section of the market. The expansion in our product range took place as part of the Service work in major power plants, which declined in 2012, acquisition of the South Korean company Seil Seres Co. Ltd. is expected to increase only slightly this year. Our increased in 2011. involvement in servicing conventional plants has partially made up for the loss of orders for regular maintenance inspections We also see good order opportunities for our valves in industhat used to be carried out at German nuclear power stations trial facilities in which new fire-fighting systems are built. until 2011. The growing valves service in French nuclear Here sales will be enhanced by the fact that our butterfly valves power plants, which is carried out by currently more than are certified to meet a number of national fire safety stand200 service technicians, is opening up new prospects. The ards in Europe and the Americas. same applies for services in plants that use renewable energy. 54 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT More energy efficiency: technical overhauls of pumps by KSB Service help to extend pump service life and reduce electricity costs for pump operation. When biomass is used as an energy source, our mixers and Higher order intake will depend not just on market developagitators continuously feed nutrients to the micro-organisms ment however, but also on how we are able to implement our in the fermenters. We have developed a safety concept for strategic projects. inspections and time-saving repairs of such mixers, and plan to launch it onto the market this year. In Germany alone Europe there are around 5,000 biogas production plants that require The over-indebtedness and financial problems of the southern regular servicing. European countries and the weakness of the French economy are casting a dark cloud over the economic climate in Europe. This year, we expect a further increase in our service order This is reflected in the low investment willingness in many intake with higher growth rates outside Europe. This trend is European countries at the beginning of the year. In Russia, by set to continue in 2014. contrast, the growth in infrastructure investment and in the modernisation and expansion of industrial facilities is set to OU T L O O K F O R T H E GR OUP AND THE R EGI ONS continue. The growth prospects of our Group companies are determined by the strong regional differences in market development. We Demand in the general business is expected to remain the see outstanding business prospects in Asia and the Middle East same or rise only slightly in the current financial year. Here in particular, as long as the named risks remain manageable. we are relying on our new products for industrial applications and building services being successful to achieve our growth objectives. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 55 Re port on E xpe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts Project business, contrary to initial expectations, is now not ent on oil revenues. A high crude oil price in the producing expected to significantly recover in 2013. At the same time, countries will create good conditions for further development the trend for plant engineering contractors, industrial compaof the infrastructure. Several of these countries are also connies and energy suppliers to move their planning and purfronted with the task of housing a growing population. We can chasing centres to non-European regions and purchase their participate in these different projects with our water and equipment there is continuing. This may intensify the compewaste water engineering products as well as with our pumps tition among pump and valve manufacturers in Europe. and valves for building services. Added to this are the efforts of the oil-producing countries to process their main commodIn Service, our new aftermarket concept aims at increasing ity themselves and to establish new industries in order to the number of consultancy and service contracts concluded reduce their dependency on oil and gas exports. For this they with customers and at strengthening our spare parts business. need application-specific pumps and valves. Impetus for growth can also be expected from our new service centres in Poland and Italy. In Saudi Arabia, which is very important for our regional business, we have restructured our activities. We now have Overall, we expect that our business in Europe will only 175 employees in the country to respond to customers’ sales, grow modestly. For our European companies exports to nonproduction and service requirements. This year and next European regions will remain important. will probably see the implementation of several major energy, water supply and waste water treatment projects in Saudi Middle East / Africa Arabia. The economic development of this Region is highly dependOther centres of activity include the United Arab Emirates, Qatar and Oman, as well as Iraq. There is also demand for GR O S S D O M E S T I C P ROD U C T GR OW T H (B R IC ) our products from African countries as a result of infrastrucBrazil ture projects and investment in the mining industry. 2013 3.5 % (Forecast) 2012 1.0 % The political situation in the Arab countries, however, remains Russia a source of ongoing uncertainty in the Region. If there is no 2013 3.7 % (Forecast) further deterioration, we expect an increase in order volumes 2012 3.6 % for our Group companies active in the Region. India 2013 5.9 % (Forecast) 2012 4.5 % China 2013 8.2 % (Forecast) 2012 7.8 % Source: International Monetary Fund 56 G R OU P MA NAGEMENT REPORT Asia / Pacific We expect our companies in Asia to record the strongest Economic growth in the Region Asia / Pacific is expected to growth in order intake in the Group. Our service strategy for grow slightly this and next year. China as the “engine of the the Asian countries will also contribute to this. Region” is showing signs of regaining the economic momentum that had recently been waning, and the economic situation In Australia we want to benefit in particular from the opporin India too is expected to improve, despite many uncertainties. tunities in the mining industry. In China, which remains the most important growth market, Americas we will increase our efforts to become a preferred supplier In the Americas, a slight improvement in the overall economfor industrial clients, including smalland medium-sized comic situation is expected. Falling inflation and an easing of panies. We are also seeking to develop the water and waste monetary policy in some South American countries, including water market. We are expanding our sales force, strengthening in Brazil, may help in this respect. In the US, the process of our consultancy activities and improving our dealer and re-industrialisation is expected to result in increased demand service structures. In doing this we are responding to China’s for equipment. Its growth will also be determined by the national “Go West” policy, which is aimed at developing new reorientation of fiscal policy, however. industrial centres. At the same time, we are taking action to cut our costs and shorten the delivery times for our products. We will expand our business with standard pumps and valves in South America. To this end we have opened new sales Economic growth in India will depend (in the opinion of the offices in Brazil and a large warehouse in Chile, and have also VDMA ) on the global economy and on how well the govexpanded our dealer network. We will also increase our ernment succeeds in pushing through its reforms. We expect service activities. some refineries to be built or expanded, and we also see opportunities in the water industry. In the energy sector, initial Large projects that will involve orders for pumps and valves decisions have been taken regarding new construction proare imminent in the oil and gas industry, as well as in the jects. mining and water industries. In Canada, the development of the oil sands will require investment in new equipment and Our companies in the South-East Asian countries offer us good replacement equipment. Our US subsidiary, GIW Industries, Inc., opportunities for participating in the continued growth there. could benefit from this development with increased orders This is particularly true for industry and the water engineerfor slurry pumps as long as crude oil prices remain high. ing sector. In South America, we have our own production and sales With the establishment of a manufacturing and service unit companies in Argentina, Brazil, Chile and Peru, which also in Vietnam and new joint ventures in the Region, we intend serve customers in neighbouring countries. We aim to imto strengthen our market position in South-East Asia. prove our market presence. The total order intake of our American companies is expected to increase both this year and next. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 57 Re port on E xpe cte d D e ve lopm e n ts F IN A N C I A L O U T L OOK Expenditure on property, plant and equipment is likely to rise Based on our strategic measures, we see good potential for moderately in 2013 and 2014. Thanks to our continuing sound achieving higher order intake in all three segments – pumps, financial situation and restrictive liquidity management, valves and service – despite the economic uncertainties. At we expect to be able to finance these investments from equity the same time, we expect our general business to continue to capital. develop positively this year and next. In the project business too we expect a slightly improved market environment. OverWe will continue to provide the necessary financial resources all, we expect the Group’s order intake to increase in the and capacities for the implementation of our global strategy current financial year. In 2014, this positive trend is likely to projects. continue. However, any significant economic downturn or recession in important customer countries could have a negaWe will only consider acquisitions if they fit our key strategic tive impact on our business volumes. projects and are likely to prove highly advantageous from a financial and strategic point of view. In terms of sales revenues, we expect all three segments to grow in 2013, with the growth primarily driven by the nonFORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS European regions. For pumps and services, we expect sales This report contains forward-looking statements. We wish revenue growth to be higher than that for order intake; for to point out that actual events may differ materially from our valves, we expect sales revenue growth to be comparativeexpectations of developments if one of the uncertainties ly lower. For 2014, we expect consolidated sales revenue to described, or other risks and uncertainties, should materialise, roughly change in line with the development in orders. or if the assumptions underlying the statements prove to be inaccurate. Based on this growth in business, we expect an increase in our profit in all three segments this year and next, despite cost increases. However, if on account of an economic slowdown in our markets order volumes or profit quality were to decline, this would have a negative impact on our earnings. In that case we may step up our measures to secure an adequate level of earnings. M AT E R I A L S T E C H N O L O G Y “ How do you “bake” the perfect seal for valves?“ Chrystelle Tandonnet, Elastomer expert from Research and Pre-development Valves “Elastomers for valve sealing elements are produced using about 40 different basic formulas. Drawing on a range of about 200 ingredients, we can offer the right sealing solution for all applications our butterfly valves are used in.“ Chrystelle Tandonnet In La Roche-Chalais elastomers are stirred, kneaded, for reliable sealing at the flanged line connections, shaped and “baked”. Up to 200 different ingrethe seat/disc interface and the stem passage. For dients are mixed in the giant vats of the French every fluid that needs to be handled, the team has “bakery” – to produce elastomer liners. They a seal version tailored to the customer’s needs. constitute the core element of a centred disc butterThe composition, mixing process and vulcanisation fly valve. play a crucial role in the properties and subsequent functioning of the elastomer. Up to 220 tonnes of Finding the optimum ratio for producing liners synthetic rubber are manufactured every year, proto be used in the food, sugar or steel industry as ducing around 420,000 liners. This includes liners well as in the transportation of water and oil is a for valves with a diameter of up to five metres. complex task. KSB handles this challenge itself at They, too, provide reliable sealing thanks to the the French plant. The elastomer’s quality is decisive materials specially produced at La Roche-Chalais. Butterfly valves | ISORIA ® The maintenance-free ISORIA ® centred disc butterfly valve is ideal for use as shut-off and control valve for all industries. Equipped with electric, pneumatic, hydraulic and manual actuators, hundreds of thousands of these valves provide reliable service all over the world. Application areas range from sugar factories to luxury cruise ships and water transport through to process engineering applications. 62 Consolidated earnings before income taxes (EBT) improved by 10.3 % to € 132.8 million. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP M ANAGEM ENT REP O RT C O N S O L IDATE CO F I N A N CIA I DAT E D FIN C I A L S TATE TAT E M E N TS TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 63 CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS C ONSOLI DATED FI NANCIAL STATEMENTS 64 Balance Sheet 65 Statement of Comprehensive Income 66 Statement of Changes in Equity 68 Statement of Cash Flows 69 Notes 120 List of Shareholdings 123 Supervisory Board 124 Board of Management 125 Proposal on the Appropriation of the Net Retained Earnings of KSB AG 64 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS BA L ANCE S H E E T AS S E T S (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Non-current assets Intangible assets 1 102,624 91,697 Property, plant and equipment 1 460,595 428,756 Non-current financial assets 1 38,820 40,073 Deferred tax assets 2 28,729 24,433 630,768 584,959 Current assets Inventories 3 457,208 425,056 Receivables and other current assets 4 687,960 658,394 Current financial instruments 5 – 11 Cash and cash equivalents 5 401,031 305,707 1,546,199 1,389,168 2,176,967 1,974,127 E QUI T Y A N D L I A B I L I TI E S (€ thousands) Notes 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Equity 6 Subscribed capital 44,772 44,772 Capital reserve 66,663 66,663 Revenue reserves 685,727 642,075 Equity attributable to shareholders of KSB AG 797,162 753,510 Non-controlling interest 125,807 115,614 922,969 869,124 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 7 41,236 37,877 Provisions for employee benefits 8 289,023 279,345 Other provisions 8 17,205 17,409 Other liabilities 9 208,041 61,743 555,505 396,374 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits 8 109,044 111,932 Other provisions 8 84,427 87,180 Liabilities – Taxes 9 22,047 19,947 Other liabilities 9 482,975 489,570 698,493 708,629 2,176,967 1,974,127 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 65 B al an c e S h e e t S tate m e n t o f C o m pre h e n si v e I n c o m e S TAT E M E N T O F C O M P R E H E N SIVE INC OME I N C O M E S TATE M E N T (€ thousands) Notes 2012 2011 Sales revenue 10 2,268,211 2,091,046 Changes in inventories 23,871 58,922 Work performed and capitalised 1,755 1,400 Total output of operations 2,293,837 2,151,368 Other income 11 44,316 33,397 Cost of materials 12 – 985,171 – 912,991 Staff costs 13 – 758,213 – 697,981 Depreciation and amortisation expense 1 – 58,647 – 50,995 Other expenses 14 – 377,712 – 383,879 Other taxes – 11,260 – 8,572 147,150 130,347 Financial income 15 9,212 14,533 Financial expense 15 – 23,519 – 24,403 – 14,307 – 9,870 Earnings before income taxes 132,843 120,477 Taxes on income 16 – 42,524 – 37,184 Earnings after income taxes 90,319 83,293 Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 17 15,649 11,343 Shareholders of KSB AG 74,670 71,950 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share (€) 19 42.51 40.95 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share (€) 19 42.77 41.21 S TATE M E N T O F R E C OGNISED INC OME A ND EXPENSE (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Earnings after income taxes 90,319 83,293 Measurement of financial instruments 4,918 – 3,137 Taxes on income – 1,425 937 Currency translation differences – 13,891 – 15,215 Taxes on income – – Other income and expense recognised directly in equity – 265 – 29 Taxes on income – – Total earnings recognised directly in equity – 10,663 – 17,444 Total recognised income and expense 79,656 65,849 Attributable to: Non-controlling interest 12,197 6,939 Shareholders of KSB AG 67,459 58,910 Also see the relevant explanations in the Notes. 66 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS STAT E M E NT O F C H A N G E S I N E Q U IT Y Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2011 44,772 66,663 Income and expense recognised directly in equity – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total recognised income and expense – – Dividends paid – – Capital increases / decreases – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2011 44,772 66,663 Subscribed capital Capital reserve (€ thousands) of KSB AG of KSB AG 1 Jan. 2012 44,772 66,663 Income and expense recognised directly in equity – – Earnings after income taxes – – Total recognised income and expense – – Dividends paid – – Capital increases / decreases – – Change in consolidated Group / Step acquisitions – – Other – – 31 Dec. 2012 44,772 66,663 Equity attributable to shareholders Non-controlling Total Accumulated currency translation differences (€ thousands) of KSB AG interest equity Balance at 1 Jan. 2011 – 14,487 – 12,941 – 27,428 Change in 2011 – 11,067 – 4,148 – 15,215 Balance at 31 Dec. 2011 / 1 Jan. 2012 – 25,554 – 17,089 – 42,643 Change in 2012 – 10,196 – 3,695 – 13,891 Balance at 31 Dec. 2012 – 35,750 – 20,784 – 56,534 Also see the relevant explanations in the Notes. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 67 S tate m e n t o f C h an ge s i n Equ i ty Earnings recognised directly in equity Equity Currency Measurement attributable Revenue translation of financial to shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments of KSB AG interest equity 617,652 – 14,487 – 604 713,996 111,570 825,566 –3 – 11,067 – 1,970 – 13,040 – 4,404 – 17,444 71,950 – – 71,950 11,343 83,293 71,947 – 11,067 – 1,970 58,910 6,939 65,849 – 21,240 – – – 21,240 – 2,905 – 24,145 – – – – – – 1,844 – – 1,844 26 1,870 – – – – – 16 – 16 670,203 – 25,554 – 2,574 753,510 115,614 869,124 Earnings recognised directly in equity Equity Currency Measurement attributable Revenue translation of financial to shareholders Non-controlling Total reserves differences instruments of KSB AG interest equity 670,203 – 25,554 – 2,574 753,510 115,614 869,124 – 265 – 10,196 3,250 – 7,211 – 3,452 – 10,663 74,670 – – 74,670 15,649 90,319 74,405 – 10,196 3,250 67,459 12,197 79,656 – 21,240 – – – 21,240 – 1,858 – 23,098 – – – – – – – 2,567 – – – 2,567 – 155 – 2,722 – – – – 9 9 720,801 – 35,750 676 797,162 125,807 922,969 68 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS STAT E M E NT O F C A S H F L OW S (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Earnings after income taxes 90,319 83,293 Depreciation and amortisation expense / Write-ups 59,141 53,102 Increase in non-current provisions 6,196 4,366 Gain / loss on disposal of fixed assets – 2,010 – 1,520 Other non-cash expenses / income 3,259 – 2,229 Cash flow 156,905 137,012 Increase in inventories – 27,435 – 91,211 Increase in trade receivables and other assets – 18,634 – 50,905 Increase / decrease in current provisions – 6,537 124 Increase / decrease in advances received from customers – 8,402 16,855 Increase / decrease in liabilities (excluding financial liabilities) – 1,832 24,390 Other non-cash expenses / income (operating) – – – 62,840 – 100,747 Cash flows from operating activities 94,065 36,265 Proceeds from disposal of intangible assets 198 92 Payments to acquire intangible assets – 8,043 – 6,941 Proceeds from disposal of property, plant and equipment 4,829 4,205 Payments to acquire property, plant and equipment – 80,232 – 60,361 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets 18 294 Payments to acquire non-current financial assets – 9,788 – 11,869 Net cash flows from the acquisition and sale of consolidated companies and other business operations – 6,408 – 28,083 Other non-cash expenses / income (investing) – – Cash flows from investing activities – 99,426 – 102,663 Proceeds from additions to equity / Payments related to capital decreases – – Dividends paid for prior year (including non-controlling interest) – 23,098 – 24,145 Payments for financial liabilities 127,512 – 7,908 Payments resulting from financial receivables – 1,555 – 3,846 Other non-cash expenses / income (financing) – – Cash flows from financing activities 102,859 – 35,899 Net change in cash and cash equivalents 97,498 – 102,297 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents – 2,828 – 3,253 Effects of changes in consolidated Group 654 3,636 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of period 305,707 407,621 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 401,031 305,707 Thereof term deposits to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements included at the closing date 14,800 16,600 Also see section VII. Statement of Cash Flows in the Notes. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 69 S tate m e n t o f C ash F l o ws No te s N OTE S I . GENER AL Basis of preparation The accompanying consolidated financial statements of KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany (KSB AG), were prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union (EU) and the additional requirements of German commercial law under section 315a(1) of the HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code]. We applied the Framework, as well as all Standards and the Interpretations issued by the International Financial Reporting Interpretations Committee (IFRIC) in force at the reporting date. For the purposes of this document, the term IFRSs includes applicable International Accounting Standards (IASs). KSB AG is a public limited company [Aktiengesellschaft] under the law of the Federal Republic of Germany. The company is registered with the Handelsregister [Commercial Register] of the Amtsgericht [Local Court] Ludwigshafen am Rhein, registration No. HR B 21016, and has its registered office in Frankenthal / Pfalz, Germany. It is a Group company of Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. The consolidated financial statements were prepared on a going concern basis in accordance with IAS 1.25. The accompanying consolidated financial statements were approved for issue by the Board of Management on 12 March 2012 and are expected to be approved by the Supervisory Board on 25 March 2013. The consolidated financial statements and the annual financial statements of the Group’s parent company are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The financial year of the companies consolidated is the calendar year. All material items of the balance sheet and the income statement are presented separately and explained in these Notes. The income statement has been prepared using the nature of expense method. The main accounting policies used to prepare these consolidated financial statements are stated below. The policies described were applied consistently to the reporting periods presented unless stated otherwise. 70 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS The consolidated financial statements of KSB AG therefore meet the requirements of IFRS. They were prepared using the historic cost convention, with the exception of measurement at market value for financial assets available for sale and measurement at fair value through profit and loss for financial assets and liabilities (including derivatives). New accounting principles a) Accounting principles applied for the first time in financial year 2012 The following new and revised Standards issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) were required to be applied for the first time in financial year 2012: IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2011) The changes involve extended disclosure obligations upon the assignment of financial assets. b) Newly adopted accounting principles that are not yet binding The following new Interpretations, Standards and revised Standards were not yet mandatory and were not applied in the 2012 financial year: IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The changes apply to government loans. IFRS 1 First-time Adoption of International Financial Reporting Standards (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The changes relate to severe hyperinflation and the removal of fixed dates for first-time adopters of IFRS. IFRS 7 Financial Instruments: Disclosures (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The changes involve disclosure obligations when financial instruments are offset. IFRS 9 Financial Instruments (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2015) The additions relate to the accounting treatment of financial liabilities and the transfer, classification and measurement of financial assets and the deferral of first-time adoption. IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014) This standard provides definitions for determining the group of consolidated companies. IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014) The standard applies to companies that share management of a joint venture or activity. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 71 No te s IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014) The standard deals with disclosures to be made in the Notes to the consolidated financial statements on involvements with other entities and joint arrangements. IFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The standard deals with the measurement of fair value and the associated disclosures in the Notes. IAS I Presentation of Financial Statements (for financial years beginning on or after 1 July 2012) The changes relate to the presentation of individual items of other comprehensive income. IAS 12 Income Taxes (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The changes relate to the measurement of deferred taxes for investment properties. IAS 19 Employee Benefits (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The changes relate to the presentation of company pension funds. IAS 27 Separate Financial Statements (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014) IFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements supersedes the guidelines in IAS 27 regarding control and consolidation. IAS 28 Associates and Joint Ventures (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014) IFRS 12 Disclosures of Interests in Other Entities supersedes the disclosure obligations currently prescribed in IAS 28. IAS 32 Financial Instruments: Presentation (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2014) The changes relate to the offsetting of financial instruments. IFRIC 20 Stripping Costs in the Production Phase of a Surface Mine (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) The interpretation relates to the accounting treatment of stripping costs incurred in the production phase of a surface mine. Annual Improvements 2011 (for financial years beginning on or after 1 January 2013) 72 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Based on our current state of knowledge, application of the above Standards and Interpretations would not have any material impact on our consolidated financial statements with the exception of the changes in accordance with IAS 19. As the corridor method can no longer be applied as of 1 January 2013, actuarial gains and losses (situation on 31 December 2012: losses of € 123 million; see section 8 of the Notes) will in future be directly recognised in equity, taking into account the relevant tax effect. We expect this to entail increased volatility in pension obligations and equity shown in the balance sheet. This may also affect the equity ratio. In the year under review, the equity ratio would have been 38.5 % (previous year: 43.5 %). As a matter of principle, we have not voluntarily applied the above-mentioned Standards and Interpretations prior to their effective dates. I I . BASI S OF C ONSOLIDATION Consolidated Group In addition to KSB AG, 10 German and 75 foreign companies (previous year: 9 German and 62 foreign companies) were fully consolidated. We hold a majority interest in the voting power of these companies, either directly or indirectly, or we have the power to appoint the majority of the members of the companies’ management or to determine the business and financial policy (de-facto control). No companies are currently accounted for using the equity method or proportionately consolidated. To modernise and supplement our product portfolio, we acquired an 80 % stake, i.e. the majority of voting shares, in Danish pump manufacturer T. Smedegaard A/S, based in Glostrup (Copenhagen), on 16 February 2012. The company develops and manufactures circulator pumps for application in building services. The company has three subsidiaries in Bridgwater, UK (Smedegaard Pumps Limited), Västra Frölunda, Sweden (VM Pumpar AB ) and Beinwil am See, Switzerland (SMEDEGAARD AG Pumpen und Motorenbau). With the acquisition of these companies (hereinafter referred to as “Smedegaard Group”), KSB is safeguarding its building services project business in the areas of heating, ventilation and air-conditioning. The difference between the carrying amount of the assets acquired and the cash purchase price was mainly attributable to goodwill (€ 1.4 million), real estate assets (€ 0.4 million) and the customer base and work in hand (€ 0.5 million). The figure for goodwill includes assets that could not be identified separately, such as expected synergies and employee expertise. The share not controlled by KSB has a fair value of around € 1 million, which was determined based on the purchase price of the 80 % interest, and taking the expected future corporate development into account. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 73 No te s These acquisitions have been included in the consolidated balance sheet at the following fair values: Fair value on Previous (€ thousands) acquisition carrying amount Non-current assets Intangible assets 479 – Property, plant and equipment 3,070 2,707 Non-current financial assets – – Deferred tax assets 513 513 4,062 3,220 Current assets Inventories 2,679 2,679 Receivables and other current assets 3,119 3,119 Cash and cash equivalents 192 192 5,990 5,990 10,052 9,210 Equity 4,200 3,569 Non-current liabilities Deferred tax liabilities 248 37 Provisions for employee benefits – – Other provisions – – Liabilities 360 360 608 397 Current liabilities Provisions for employee benefits – – Other provisions 82 82 Liabilities 5,162 5,162 5,244 5,244 10,052 9,210 The fair value of the intangible assets includes € 479 for concessions and licences. 74 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS The fair value of property, plant and equipment includes € 2,289 thousand for land and buildings, € 505 thousand for plant and machinery, and € 276 thousand for other equipment, operating and office equipment. It is assumed that the receivables and other assets will be settled in full. The gross amount of trade receivables totals € 2,269 thousand. From the date of acquisition in February 2012, the Smedegaard Group contributed € 10.2 million of sales revenue to the sales revenue reported in the consolidated income statement. For the financial year as a whole it would have reported € 11.8 million of sales revenue. The contribution to consolidated earnings for the period of consolidation was € – 0.2 million; for the full financial year it would have been € + 0.2 million. We have also included the following companies for the first time in the consolidated financial statements effective 1 January 2012: Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek, Germany Nederlandse Pompservice (N.P.S.) B.V., Velsen-Noord, The Netherlands KSB Service Robinetterie S.A.S., Rambervillers, France KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône, France SPI Energie S.A.S., La Ravoire, France VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., Vierpolders, The Netherlands Mäntän Pumppauspalvelu Oy, Mänttä-Vilppula, Finland Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian, China KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu, China Furthermore, six smaller companies that had not previously been consolidated were merged with consolidated companies. These companies consolidated for the first time were acquired or established in previous years. They contributed around 1 % or € 1.7 million to consolidated earnings. Our business in Vietnam, which in previous years was managed through a representative office at KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte Ltd, was transferred to the newly established company KSB Vietnam Co. Ltd. in the year under review. This did not have any impact on the consolidated financial statements. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 75 No te s In the year under review, we acquired the remaining 20 % interest in REEL s.r.l. in Italy (increase to safeguard controlling interest). € 9,722 thousand (previous year: € 11,714 thousand) in payments were made for companies that have not yet been consolidated because this would not have had a material impact. This mainly resulted from a cash capital increase in a company in China in which we hold a non-controlling interest and the acquisition of a service company in France. Consolidation methods Capital consolidation uses the purchase method of accounting, under which the acquisition cost of the parent’s shares in the subsidiaries is eliminated against the equity attributable to the parent at the date of acquisition. Any goodwill arising from initial consolidation is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 3 in conjunction with IASs 36 and 38. It is measured at the relevant current closing rate, presented in intangible assets and tested for impairment at least once a year. An impairment loss is recognised if any impairment is identified. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost remaining after reassessment is recognised in profit or loss. Those shares of subsidiaries’ equity not attributable to KSB AG are reported as non-controlling interest. All intercompany receivables, liabilities, provisions and contingent liabilities, as well as sales revenue, other income and expenses, are eliminated. Intercompany profits contained in inventories and fixed assets are also eliminated. The financial statements of all material companies or those required to be audited under local law have been audited, and independent auditors’ reports have been issued. This audit also extended to the correct reconciliation of the financial statements prepared under local GAAP to the uniform Group IFRS accounting policies. Currency translation The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in euros (€). Amounts in this report are presented in thousands of euros (€ thousands) using standard commercial rounding rules. Currency translation is effected on the basis of the functional currency of the consolidated companies. As in the previous year, the functional currency is exclusively the local currency of the company consolidated, as it operates as a financially, economically and organisationally independent entity. 76 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Transactions denominated in foreign currencies are translated at the individual companies at the rate prevailing when the transaction is initially recognised. Monetary assets and liabilities are subsequently measured at the closing rate. Currency translation gains and losses are recognised in profit or loss. When translating financial statements of consolidated companies that are not prepared in euros assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; the income statement accounts are translated at average exchange rates for the year. The resulting effects are presented directly in equity. Gains and losses from the translation of items of assets and liabilities compared with their translation in the previous year are taken directly to equity. The exchange rates of our most important currencies to one euro are: Closing rate Average rate 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 2012 2011 US dollar 1.3194 1.2939 1.2857 1.3917 Brazilian real 2.7036 2.4159 2.5099 2.3260 Indian rupee 72.5600 68.7130 68.6370 64.8646 Chinese yuan 8.2207 8.1588 8.1099 8.9958 I I I . AC C OUNTI NG P OLICIES The accounting policies have generally not changed as against the previous year and apply to all companies included in the consolidated financial statements. Acquisition cost In addition to the purchase price, acquisition cost includes attributable incidental costs (except for costs associated with the acquisition of a company) and subsequent expenditure. Purchase price reductions are deducted from cost. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. Production cost In addition to direct material and labour costs, production cost includes production-related administrative expenses. General administrative expenses and selling expenses are not capitalised. Should borrowing costs pursuant to IAS 23 arise, these will be capitalised from 2009 onwards. As in the previous year, no borrowing costs were incurred in the financial year. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 77 No te s Financial instruments Financial assets and financial liabilities are recognised in the consolidated balance sheet at the time when KSB becomes a party to a financial instrument and when at least one party has fulfilled the agreement. When the contractual right to payments from financial assets expires, these are derecognised. Financial liabilities are derecognised at the time when the contractual obligations are settled or cancelled or have expired. Regular way purchases and sales of financial instruments are recognised at their value at the settlement date; only derivatives are recognised at their value at the trade date. This applies to so-called primary financial instruments such as trade receivables and monetary receivables, as well as to trade payables and financial liabilities (from or to third parties as well as intergroup and associate companies). Derivatives, which we use to hedge against foreign currency and interest rate risks, are also financial instruments. Classification in measurement categories: Financial Assets Held for Trading (FAHfT) / Financial Liabilities Held for Trading (FLHfT): Financial assets and liabilities held for trading and measured at fair value through profit or loss (derivatives not included in hedging relationships) Loans and Receivables (LaR): Loans and receivables (loans and primary financial instruments not quoted in an active market) Available for Sale (AfS): Available-for-sale financial instruments (non-derivative financial instruments that are not allocated to any other measurement category, such as investments in non-consolidated affiliates or securities) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortised Cost (FLAC): Financial liabilities measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method (liabilities that are not quoted in an active market, such as trade payables) None of our financial instruments are classified as “held-to-maturity investments”. Financial instruments are measured at fair value on initial recognition. Subsequent measurement is generally based on fair value. Subsequent measurement of loans and receivables is based on amortised cost using the effective interest method. We do not currently make use of the fair value option. The fair values of the non-current and current assets are based on prices quoted in active markets on the reporting date. The fair values of derivatives included and not included in hedging relationships is determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). All our information is obtained from recognised external sources. 78 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Changes in the fair value of “available-for-sale financial instruments” are recognised directly in equity. They are recognised in the income statement when the assets are sold or determined to be impaired. As in the previous year, we did not make any reclassifications between the individual measurement categories. Intangible assets Intangible assets are generally carried at cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation. The underlying useful lives are two to five years. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount – the higher of the fair value less costs to sell and the value in use – is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. We amortised goodwill originating between 1 January 1995 and 30 March 2004 over a maximum of 15 years. In accordance with IFRS 3, the resulting cumulative amortisation was eliminated against historical cost effective 1 January 2005. Goodwill has been tested for impairment at least once a year since 2005; it is not amortised any longer. A review is conducted as soon as circumstances or events occur that indicate the carrying amount cannot be recovered. The impairment test relates to the “cash-generating units”, which at KSB are the legal entities. Occasionally a group of cash-generating units may also serve as the basis, provided these units reflect the lowest level on which we monitor goodwill. If the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount, then goodwill must be reduced by the difference in value (reported in the income statement as a component of the write-downs). Reversal of an impairment loss from an earlier period is not possible. Goodwill originating up to and including 1994 has been deducted from revenue reserves. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost originating until 30 March 2004 was eliminated against revenue reserves directly in equity. Any excess of our interest in the fair values of net assets acquired over cost arising after 30 March 2004 is, after reassessment, immediately recognised in income. When calculating goodwill we apply purchase price allocations and determine the fair value of the assets and liabilities acquired. In addition to the assets and liabilities already recognised by the selling party, we also assess marketing-related aspects (primarily brands and trademarks, competitive restrictions), customer-related aspects (primarily customer lists, customer relations, orders on hand), contract-related aspects (mainly particularly advantageous service, work, purchasing and employment contracts) as well as technology-related aspects (primarily patents, know-how and databases). To determine values we primarily apply the residual value method, the excess earnings method and cost-oriented procedures. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 79 No te s Development costs are capitalised as intangible assets at cost and reduced by straight-line amortisation where the criteria described in IAS 38 are met. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Where research and development costs cannot be reliably distinguished within a project, no costs are capitalised. Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment is carried at cost and reduced by straight-line depreciation. No tax-motivated depreciation is recognised. Write-downs are charged for impairment if the recoverable amount is lower than the carrying amount. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed (write-up) up to a maximum of amortised cost. We have applied the component approach under IAS 16. Government grants relating to property, plant and equipment are transferred to an adjustment item on the liabilities side. This adjustment item is reversed over a defined utilisation period. As far as government grants recognised which are to be held for specific periods of time are concerned, we expect that these periods will be complied with. Maintenance expenses are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred, unless they lead to the expansion or material improvement of the asset concerned. The following useful lives are applied: U SEFU L LIVES Buildings 10 – 50 years Plant and machinery 5 – 25 years Operating and office equipment 3 – 25 years Leases Lease payments that are payable under operating leases are recognised as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. In the case of finance leases, the leased asset is recognised at the time of inception of the lease at the lower of fair value and the present value of future minimum lease payments. A liability is recognised in the same amount for the future lease payment. The asset’s carrying amount is reduced by depreciation over its useful life or the shorter lease term. 80 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Non-current financial assets Investments in non-consolidated affiliates and associates are carried at fair value. Interestbearing loans are recognised at amortised cost. Non-current financial assets are measured at cost if their fair value cannot be reliably determined because they are not traded in an active market. Inventories Inventories are carried at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Cost is measured using the weighted average method. Write-downs to the net realisable value take account of the inventory risks resulting from slow-moving goods or impaired marketability. This also applies if the selling price is lower than production cost plus costs still to be incurred. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed. Advance payments made on inventories are also presented here because of the correlation and expected realisation of these advances (through conversion into inventories) within the normal business cycle. Advances received from customers are recognised as current liabilities. Construction contracts under IAS 11 The percentage of completion (PoC) method is applied for construction contracts defined under IAS 11. The stage of completion of contracts is determined on the basis of the proportion that contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) incurred for work performed up to the reporting date bear to the estimated total contract costs (excluding indirect material costs) at the reporting date. The percentage contract revenue less the related advances received from customers is reported – depending on the balance – in receivables and other current assets or in current liabilities. Effects in the period are recognised in the income statement as part of sales revenue. The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. Receivables and other current assets For subsequent measurement, receivables and other current assets that are classified as loans and receivables (LaR) are recognised at amortised cost. Low-interest or non-interest-bearing receivables are discounted. In addition, we take account of identifiable risks by charging specific write-downs and experience-based write-downs using allowance accounts. If the reasons for an impairment loss charged in a previous period no longer apply, the impairment loss is reversed. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 81 No te s We hedge part of the credit risk exposure of our receivables (for further explanations, refer to the Financial Risks – Credit Risk section). The prepaid expenses reported relate to accrued expenditure prior to the reporting date that will only be classified as an expense after the reporting date. Current financial instruments Financial instruments are carried at their fair values at the reporting date. Cash and cash equivalents Cash (cash and sight deposits) and cash equivalents (short-term, highly liquid financial investments that are readily convertible to defined amounts of cash, and that are subject to only immaterial fluctuations in terms of their value) are recognised at amortised cost. Deferred taxes We account for deferred taxes using the balance sheet liability method on the basis of the enacted or substantively enacted local tax rates. This means that deferred tax assets and liabilities generally arise when the tax base of assets and liabilities differs from their carrying amount in the IFRS financial statements, and this leads to future tax expense or income. We also recognise deferred tax assets from tax loss carryforwards in those cases where it is more likely than not that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these tax loss carryforwards can be utilised. Deferred taxes are also recognised for consolidation adjustments. Deferred taxes are not discounted. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are always offset where they relate to the same tax authority. Provisions for pensions and similar obligations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations are calculated on the basis of actuarial reports. They are based on defined benefit pension plans. The reports are prepared using the projected unit credit method. We apply the 10 % corridor rule, under which actuarial gains and losses that are 10 % greater or lower than the present value of the defined benefit obligation (DBO) are recognised over the average remaining working lives. The actuarial demographic assumptions and the definition of compensation and pension trends, as well as interest rate trends, are best estimates. The interest component is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. KSB companies that use a defined contribution pension plan do not recognise provisions. The premium payments are recognised directly in the income statement as pension costs in the staff costs. These companies have no obligations other than the obligation to pay premiums. 82 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Other provisions A provision is recognised only if a past event results in a present legal or constructive external obligation that the company has no realistic alternative to settling, where settlement of this obligation is expected to result in an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits, and the amount of the obligation can be estimated reliably. The amount recognised as a provision is our best estimate. Any recourse or reimbursement claims are recognised separately and are not deducted from the provisions concerned. Provisions for restructurings are recognised only if the criteria set out in IAS 37 are met. Non-current provisions are discounted if the effects are material. Liabilities Liabilities classified as financial liabilities measured at amortised cost (FLAC) are recognised at amortised cost using the effective interest method. Derivative financial instruments We only use derivatives for hedging purposes. We hedge both existing recognised underlyings and future cash flows (cash flow hedges) against foreign currency and interest rate risks. The hedging instruments used are exclusively highly effective currency forwards, currency options and interest rate derivatives entered into with prime-rated banks. We hedge currency risks primarily for items in US dollars (USD). Interest rate risks are minimised through long-term borrowings at variable rates of interest. Group guidelines govern the use of these instruments. These transactions are also subject to continuous risk monitoring. Fair value changes of currency derivatives used to hedge an existing recognised underlying are recognised in profit or loss, as are changes in the fair value of the related hedged items. In the case of cash flow hedges, changes in the fair value of currency derivatives are taken directly to equity until the related hedged item is recognised. Fair value changes of interest rate derivatives used to hedge against interest rate risks in liabilities are recognised directly in equity. The carrying amounts equal fair value and are determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price) or indirectly (derived from prices). Fair values may be positive or negative. Fair value is the amount that we would receive or have to pay at the reporting date to settle the financial instrument. This amount is determined using the relevant exchange rates, interest rates and counterparty credit ratings at the reporting date. There was no material hedge ineffectiveness that would have been required to be reported. Derivatives are reported under other receivables and other current assets, and under miscellaneous other liabilities. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 83 No te s The maturities of the currency derivatives used are mostly between one and two years, and those of interest rate derivatives are between three and ten years. The maturities of the hedging instruments are matched to the period in which the forecasted transactions are expected to occur. In the year under review, almost all hedged forecasted transactions occurred as expected. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) Contingent liabilities, which are not recognised, are possible obligations that arise from past events and whose existence will be confirmed only by the occurrence or non-occurrence of uncertain future events. Contingent liabilities may also be present obligations that arise from past events where it is possible but not probable that there will be an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits. Contingent liabilities correspond to the extent of liability at the reporting date. Income and expenses Sales revenue consists of charges for deliveries and services billed to customers, and licence income. Sales allowances reduce sales revenue. Sales revenue is recognised when the deliveries have been effected or the services have been rendered and the significant risks of ownership have been transferred. Effects resulting from application of the percentage of completion method in accordance with IAS 11 are also recognised in the sales revenue. Expenses are recognised when they are incurred or when the services are utilised. Estimates and assumptions Preparation of consolidated financial statements in accordance with IFRSs requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the accounting policies to be applied. When implementing such accounting policies, estimates and assumptions affect the assets, liabilities, income and expenses recognised in the consolidated financial statements, and their presentation. These estimates and assumptions are based on past experience and a variety of other factors deemed appropriate under the circumstances. Actual amounts may differ from these estimates and assumptions. We continuously review the estimates and assumptions that we apply. If more recent information and additional knowledge are available, recognised amounts are adjusted to reflect the new circumstances. Any changes in estimates and assumptions that result in material differences are explained separately. Impairment tests for goodwill, which are conducted at least once per year, require an estimate of the recoverable amounts for each cash-generating unit. These correspond to the higher amount from the fair value less costs to sell and value in use. The earnings forecast on the basis of these estimates are affected by various factors, which may include exchange rate fluctuations, progress in Group integration or the expectations for the economic development of these units. Although management believes that the assumptions used to calculate the recoverable amount are appropriate, any unforeseen changes in these assumptions could lead to an impairment loss. 84 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Estimates and assumptions must also be made to review the value of assets. For each asset it must be verified to what extent there are indications of an impairment of the carrying amount. When determining the recoverable amount of property, plant and equipment, the estimation of the relevant useful life is subject to uncertainty. The measurement of doubtful receivables is based on forecasts about the creditworthiness of customers. A material change in the assumptions or circumstances can lead in future to additional impairment losses or reversals. For construction contracts with clients in the project business we recognise sales revenue according to the percentage-of-completion method. This requires estimates regarding the total contract costs and revenue, contract risks as well as other relevant factors. These estimates are reviewed regularly by the business units with operative responsibility and adjusted where necessary. Provisions for employee benefits, especially pensions and similar obligations, are determined according to actuarial principles, which are based on statistical and other factors so as to anticipate future events. Main factors are the reported market discount rates, salary and retirement trends as well as life expectancy. The actuarial assumptions made may differ from actual developments as a result of changing market and economic conditions, and this can have material effects on the amount of provisions and thus on the company’s overall net assets, financial position and results of operations. Other provisions are reported based on the best possible estimate of the probability of future outflows. The later, actual outflow can, however, deviate from the estimate as a result of changed economic, political or legal conditions. This will be reflected in Additional expenses or Income from reversals. The global scope of our activities must be taken into account for the Taxes on income. Based on our operative activities in numerous countries with varying tax laws and administrative interpretation, differentiated assessment is required for determining our tax obligations. Uncertainty may arise due to different interpretations by taxable entities on the one hand and local finance authorities on the other. Although we believe we have made a reasonable estimate regarding any tax uncertainties, it is possible that the actual tax obligation will differ from our original estimate. With regard to future tax benefits, we assess their realisability as of every balance sheet date. For this reason, we only recognise deferred tax assets if sufficient taxable income is available in future. In assessing this future taxable income it must be taken into account that expected future business developments are subject to uncertainties and are in some cases excluded from control by company management (for example changes to applicable tax legislation). If we come to the conclusion that previously reported deferred tax assets cannot be realised because of changed assumptions, then the assets will be written down by the appropriate amount. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 85 No te s Maturities Maturities of up to one year are classified as current. Assets that can only be realised after more than 12 months, as well as liabilities that only become due after more than 12 months, are also classified as current if they are attributable to the operating cycle defined in IAS 1. Assets and liabilities not classified as current are non-current. I V. BALANC E SHEET DISCLOSURES 1 Fixed assets S TATE M E N T O F C H A NGES IN INTA NGIB LE A SSET S Concessions, industrial property and similar rights and assets, as well as licences in such Intangible assets (€ thousands) rights and assets Goodwill Advance payments Total Historical cost 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 52,014 40,365 79,977 41,517 1,035 1,303 133,026 83,185 Changes in consolidated Group 342 3,925 7,075 14,971 – – 7,417 18,896 Currency translation adjustments – 410 161 1,403 371 – – 993 532 Other – 31 – – – – – – 31 – Additions 7,807 7,383 1,379 23,310 649 462 9,835 31,155 Disposals 1,438 788 – 192 – – 1,438 980 Reclassifications 494 968 – – – 497 – 730 –3 238 Balance at 31 December 58,778 52,014 89,834 79,977 1,187 1,035 149,799 133,026 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 37,794 31,269 3,535 3,332 – – 41,329 34,601 Changes in consolidated Group 120 2,429 547 – – – 667 2,429 Currency translation adjustments – 107 – 101 – – – – – 107 – 101 Other – – – – – – – – Additions 6,188 4,985 338 303 – – 6,526 5,288 Disposals 1,240 788 – 100 – – 1,240 888 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – Balance at 31 December 42,755 37,794 4,420 3,535 – – 47,175 41,329 Carrying amount at 31 December 16,023 14,220 85,414 76,442 1,187 1,035 102,624 91,697 86 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS As in the previous year, we did not capitalise any development costs in the year under review because not all of the comprehensive recognition criteria defined in IAS 38 were met. We conduct our impairment tests once a year. If an additional impairment test is deemed to be required because there is an indication that an asset may be impaired (trigger event), the test is performed promptly. As in the previous year, this proved unnecessary in the year under review. We apply the discounted cash flow model to determine the recoverable amount (value in use). The future earnings (EBIT in accordance with IFRSs) applied were taken from a multi-year plan (five years max.), the basis of which was approved in December. We carried out this planning based on certain assumptions which were drawn from both forecasts from external sources, e.g. current German Engineering Federation (VDMA) publications, and our own knowledge of markets and competitors. In our calculations we consistently extrapolated the result of the last plan year as a constant; we did not apply any growth rates. Should determination of the recoverable amount reveal a need for write-downs, we additionally calculate the fair value less costs to sell. The carrying amounts of cash-generating units do not contain any items related to taxes or financing activities. To determine the discount rate, the weighted average cost of capital (WACC) method is applied in conjunction with the capital asset pricing model (CAPM), taking into account a peer group. Under this method, first the cost of equity is determined using CAPM and the borrowing costs are defined, and then the individual capital components are weighted in accordance with the capital structure. The interest rate for risk-free 30-year Bunds was used as a base rate. This rate was 2.2 % in the reporting year. The market risk premium was 5.5 %, and a beta factor of 1 was used. In addition, country-specific tax rates and country risk premiums are taken into account individually for each cash-generating unit (CGU). D ISC OU NT R AT ES (A FT ER TAX ES) in % 2012 Germany 7.3 The Netherlands 7.3 Italy 9.9 USA 7.1 South Africa 9.5 South Korea 8.3 Other European countries 7.3 – 11.0 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 87 No te s The impairment testing on a Group level revealed the need for write-downs of € 338 thousand (previous year: no need for write-downs) for a European service company. Impairment testing conducted in the separate financial statements did not reveal any need for write-downs (previous year: € 303 thousand). Of the carrying amount of all goodwill totalling € 85,414 thousand (previous year: € 76,442 thousand), € 24,763 thousand (previous year: € 23,235 thousand) was attributable to the South Korean company KSB Seil Co., Ltd.; € 18,285 thousand (previous year: € 18,285 thousand) to the Dutch Group company DP industries B.V.; € 9,681 thousand (previous year: € 9,681 thousand) to the Italian company REEL s.r.l.; € 3,710 thousand (previous year: € 3,710 thousand) to KSB Italia S.p.A.; € 3,150 thousand (previous year: € 3,150 thousand) to the German company Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH; € 2,980 thousand (previous year: € 2,980 thousand) to the German company Uder Elektromechanik GmbH; € 2,664 thousand (previous year: € 2,839 thousand) to the South African company KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd.; € 1,764 thousand (previous year: € 1,764) to KSB Finland Oy; € 1,353 thousand (previous year: € 1,353 thousand) to KSB Service Italia S.r.l.; € 1,351 thousand (previous year: € 1,281) to the Norwegian KSB Norge AS; and € 1,077 thousand (previous year: € 1,077 thousand) to KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH in Germany. € 7,564 thousand was attributable to the companies included in the consolidated financial statements for the first time (of which € 2,609 thousand to KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S., France; € 1,376 thousand to SPI Energie S.A.S, France; € 1,375 thousand to T. Smedegaard A/S, Denmark; and € 1,335 thousand to Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Germany). The remaining € 7,072 thousand (previous year € 7,087 thousand) is attributable to another 15 (previous year 15) companies. K E Y G O O DW I L L I T E MS Method for assessing the Carrying amount of Percentage of Discount rate Underlying assumptions, value of the underlying Cash-generating unit goodwill (€ million) total goodwill after taxes corporate planning assumption KSB Seil Co., Ltd. 24.8 29 % 8.3 % Business cycle expectations Consideration of macro-ecoin shipbuilding (liquefied nomic key data and external gas tankers) market research. Exchange rates DP industries B.V. 18.3 21 % 7.3 % Selling prices Consideration of macro-ecoProcurement prices nomic key data and internal estimates of the relevant purMarket growth rates chasing and sales departments. REEL s.r.l. 9.7 11 % 9.9 % Market growth rates Consideration of external marCustomer focus on energy ket data and macro-economic efficiency environment. Selling prices 88 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS For the cash-generating units presented in the table, we determined the value in use or the fair value less costs to sell, based on a five-year plan as a matter of course. There was no impairment requirement. A 5 % increase in the relevant discount rate as a possible change in a key underlying assumption, on which we have based determination of the recoverable amount of the unit, would require write-downs of approximately € 0.2 million at a German service company and would have an effect of about € 1 million at our South Korean company. No need for write-downs would have arisen in the previous year. As in the previous year, we did not recognise any impairment losses on other intangible assets in the year under review. S TAT E M E N T O F C H A N G E S IN PR OPERT Y, PLA NT A ND EQU IPMENT Other equipment, Advance payments Property, plant and operating and office and assets under equipment (€ thousands) Land and buildings Plant and machinery equipment construction Total Historical cost 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 283,346 254,217 458,337 447,734 182,340 165,503 19,623 17,841 943,646 885,295 Changes in consolidated Group 8,956 13,965 8,933 3,922 3,267 5,593 136 58 21,292 23,538 Currency translation adjustments – 2,005 – 492 – 6,070 – 5,128 – 2,488 – 2,091 – 499 – 408 – 11,062 – 8,119 Other – 460 – – 679 – – 19 – – – 1,139 19 Additions 18,179 10,248 23,149 15,351 21,224 19,547 18,976 17,200 81,528 62,346 Disposals 508 1,206 7,466 10,265 13,434 7,711 1,987 13 23,395 19,195 Reclassifications 5,865 6,614 9,472 6,723 1,578 1,480 – 16,912 – 15,055 3 – 238 Balance at 31 December 313,373 283,346 485,676 458,337 192,487 182,340 19,377 19,623 1,010,873 943,646 Accumulated depreciation and amortisation 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 114,261 107,394 280,366 268,272 120,263 108,769 – – 514,890 484,435 Changes in consolidated Group 2,534 754 5,941 1,084 1,708 2,478 – – 10,183 4,316 Currency translation adjustments – 721 237 – 3,120 – 1,944 – 1,697 – 1,370 – – – 5,538 – 3,077 Other – 119 – – 679 1 – 18 – – – 798 19 Additions 7,098 6,504 25,977 22,439 19,046 16,764 – – 52,121 45,707 Disposals 437 628 7,145 9,169 12,998 6,713 – – 20,580 16,510 Reclassifications 23 – 82 – 317 – 105 317 – – – – Balance at 31 December 122,639 114,261 301,422 280,366 126,217 120,263 – – 550,278 514,890 Carrying amount at 31 December 190,734 169,085 184,254 177,971 66,270 62,077 19,337 19,623 460,595 428,756 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 89 No te s Assets resulting from finance leases are recognised as fixed assets in accordance with IAS 17, and corresponding financial liabilities are recognised. The carrying amount of these capitalised assets amounts to € 3,524 thousand (previous year: € 3,263 thousand), of which € 1,948 thousand (previous year: € 2,011 thousand) relate to land and buildings, € 433 thousand (previous year: € 167 thousand) to plant and machinery and € 1,143 thousand (previous year: € 1,085 thousand) to other equipment, operating and office equipment. Disposals of items of property, plant and equipment resulted in book gains of € 2,371 thousand (previous year: € 3,027 thousand) and book losses of € 361 thousand (previous year: € 1,507 thousand). The book gains and losses are reported in the income statement under other income and other expenses. We did not recognise any impairment losses on property, plant and equipment in the year under review (previous year: € 521 thousand). S TATE M E N T O F C H A NGES IN NON-C U R R ENT FINA NC IA L ASSETS Non-current Investments in Non-current financial assets (€ thousands) affiliates Other investments financial instruments Loans Total Acquisition cost 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 34,741 55,056 15,918 13,077 764 754 2,097 11,039 53,520 79,926 Change in consolidated Group – 12,881 – 27,539 – – – 6 – 1,985 – 8,089 – 14,866 – 35,622 Currency translation adjustments 11 20 1 – – 2 – 1 12 23 Other – – – – – –6 – – – –6 Additions 3,110 7,214 6,612 4,500 35 13 31 147 9,788 11,874 Disposals 657 10 – 1,659 15 5 3 1,001 675 2,675 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – – – Balance at 31 December 24,324 34,741 22,531 15,918 784 764 140 2,097 47,779 53,520 Accumulated impairment losses 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Balance at 1 January 12,378 10,599 459 1,840 100 94 510 1,548 13,447 14,081 Change in consolidated Group – 3,819 – 379 – – – – – 510 – – 4,329 – 379 Currency translation adjustments – 19 – – – – – – – 19 Other – – – – – – – – – – Additions 740 2,139 – – 1 6 – – 741 2,145 Disposals 657 – – 1,381 – – – 1,000 657 2,381 Reclassifications – – – – – – – – – – Reversal (write-up) – – 214 – 29 – – 38 243 38 Balance at 31 December 8,642 12,378 245 459 72 100 – 510 8,959 13,447 Carrying amount at 31 December 15,682 22,363 22,286 15,459 712 664 140 1,587 38,820 40,073 90 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Investments in affiliates and other equity investments reported under non-current financial assets are virtually unchanged. Additions, above all from the above-mentioned capital increase and the acquisition of companies in Europe were offset by effects resulting from first-time consolidation. We currently have no plans for the sale of investments in affiliates and other equity investments. None of the loans are loans to affiliates (previous year: € 1,521 thousand). The effect of currency translation adjustments taken directly to equity on fixed assets was a loss of € 4,412 thousand (previous year: loss of € 4,405 thousand). The list of shareholdings is included at the end of these Notes. 2 Deferred tax assets Explanations on deferred tax assets are presented under “Taxes on income”. 3 Inventories (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Raw materials and production supplies 161,594 149,616 Work in progress 168,172 147,031 Finished goods and goods purchased and held for resale 105,136 102,107 Advance payments 22,306 26,302 457,208 425,056 € 62,191 thousand (previous year: € 47,771 thousand) of the inventories is carried at net realisable value. The impairment losses recognised as an expense in the period under review amount to € 2,561 thousand (previous year: € 1,460 thousand). We reversed write-downs totalling € 1,364 thousand (previous year: € 1,839 thousand) where the current net realisable value was higher than the prior-period value. Inventories amounting to € 961,300 thousand (previous year: € 854,069 thousand) were recognised as expenses in the period under review. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 91 No te s 4 Receivables and other current assets (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Trade receivables 481,900 461,348 Intragroup receivables 8,011 16,025 Associate receivables 8,926 7,566 Receivables recognised by PoC 130,737 122,147 Receivables recognised by PoC (excl. advances received from customers PoC) 230,546 235,194 Advances received from customers (PoC) – 99,809 – 113,047 Other receivables and other current assets 58,386 51,308 687,960 658,394 Intragroup receivables include loans at the usual interest amounting to € 2,690 thousand (previous year: € 8,400 thousand). Impairment losses on intragroup receivables amount to € 6,374 thousand (previous year: 6,561 thousand) and on associate receivables to € 765 thousand (previous year € 580 thousand). As in the previous year, additions in this respect were not material. Construction contracts under IAS 11 include recognised profits of € 45,034 thousand (previous year: € 44,257 thousand) and costs of € 185,512 thousand (previous year: € 190,937 thousand). Sales revenue in accordance with IAS 11 amounted to € 535,221 thousand (previous year: € 328,575 thousand). The gross amount due to customers for contract work is included in other provisions. The other receivables and other current assets include receivables from employees and deferred interest. They also include recoverable taxes (primarily from VAT) in the amount of € 22,909 thousand (previous year: € 16,951 thousand) and other financial assets from currency forwards in accordance with IAS 39 in the amount of € 3,409 thousand (previous year: € 1,207 thousand). As in the previous year, there are no receivables relating to interest rate derivatives. At the reporting date, the notional volume of all currency forwards was € 196,506 thousand (previous year: € 147,964 thousand), and the notional volume of all interest rate derivatives was € 75,105 thousand (previous year: € 5,052 thousand). 92 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS The contractual maturities of payments for currency forwards are as follows: (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Notional volume 2012 196,506 166,886 29,499 121 Notional volume 2011 147,964 93,008 54,456 500 € 30,890 thousand (previous year: € 25,134 thousand) of all receivables and other assets is due after more than one year. 5 Current financial instruments, cash and cash equivalents There are no current financial instruments (previous year: € 11 thousand). Cash and cash equivalents are primarily term deposits with short maturities and call deposits. German Group companies use € 14,800 thousand of cash and cash equivalents (previous year: € 16,600 thousand) to hedge credit balances for partial retirement arrangements as required by law. They are available to us at any time due to the underlying contractual structure. 6 Equity There was no change in the share capital of KSB AG as against the previous year. In accordance with the Articles of Association, it totals € 44,771,963.82 and is composed of 886,615 ordinary shares and 864,712 preference shares. Each no-par value share represents an equal notional amount of the share capital. The preference shares carry separate cumulative preferred dividend rights and progressive additional dividend rights. All shares are no-par value bearer shares. The individual shares have no par value. The capital reserve results from the appropriation of premiums from capital increases in previous years. In addition to revenue reserves from previous years, the revenue reserves primarily include currency translation adjustments and consolidation effects taken directly to equity. These effects resulted in deferred tax assets in the amount of € 174 thousand (previous year: € 1,025 thousand) and deferred tax liabilities in the amount of € 481 thousand (previous year: none). A total of € 21,241 thousand (dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary share and € 12.26 per preference share) was paid from equity by a resolution of the Annual General Meeting of the Group’s parent company KSB AG, Frankenthal, on 16 May 2012. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 93 No te s Equity also includes changes in the fair value of derivatives used to hedge future cash flows amounting to € + 1,008 thousand (previous year: € – 3,882 thousand). They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Opening balance at 1 January – 3,882 – 750 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 26 19 Disposals 2,447 296 Additions 2,417 – 3,447 Closing balance at 31 December 1,008 – 3,882 Non-controlling interest relates primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, and the interests it holds, as well as to our companies in India and China. KSB AG holds a 51 % interest in PAB GmbH, while Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds a 49 % interest. Details of the changes in equity accounts and non-controlling interest are contained in the Statement of Changes in Equity. The proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG calculated in accordance with HGB is shown at the end of these Notes. C APITAL DIS C L O S U R E S Adequate capital resources and sufficient financial independence are key requirements for sustainably increasing KSB’s enterprise value and safeguarding the company’s continued existence in the long term. Obtaining the necessary funds for ongoing business operations is also extremely important for us. In addition to order intake and sales revenue, our key performance indicators are the return on sales and our net financial position (the difference between interest-bearing financial assets on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the other). The changes in the equity ratio are also relevant for us. We regularly monitor the development of these figures and manage them through active working capital management and by constantly optimising our financing structure, among other things. 94 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS We present the development of these indicators in the Group management report. 2012 2011 Order intake € million 2,257.4 2,132.3 Sales revenue € million 2,268.2 2,091.0 Return on sales % 5.9 5.8 Net financial position € million 141.2 187.0 Equity ratio % 42.4 44.0 7 Deferred tax liabilities Explanations on deferred tax liabilities are presented under “Taxes on income”. 8 Provisions Change in consolidated Group / Utilisation / Changes (€ thousands) 1 Jan. 2012 CTA * / Other Prepayments Dissolution Additions 31 Dec. 2012 Employee benefits 391,277 – 431 – 102,174 – 3,504 112,899 398,067 Pensions and similar obligations 257,717 106 – 12,817 – 25,941 270,947 Other employee benefits 133,560 – 537 – 89,357 – 3,504 86,958 127,120 Other provisions 104,589 902 – 60,119 – 8,011 64,271 101,632 Taxes 12,110 89 – 15,488 – 27 14,754 11,438 Taxes on income 10,920 – 22 – 14,654 – 27 13,952 10,169 Other taxes 1,190 111 – 834 – 802 1,269 Warranty obligations and contractual penalties 50,700 – 249 – 21,308 – 4,387 23,784 48,540 Miscellaneous other provisions 41,779 1,062 – 23,323 – 3,597 25,733 41,654 495,866 471 – 162,293 – 11,515 177,170 499,699 * CTA = currency translation adjustments PR OV IS IO N S F O R PEN S I O N S A N D SI M I L A R O B L I G ATI O N S More than 90 % of the provisions for pensions result from defined benefit plans of the German Group companies. These relate to direct commitments by the companies to their employees. The commitments are based on salary and length of service. Contributions from employees themselves are also included. There are smaller benefit plans at certain foreign Group companies. At the US companies, there are post-employment medical care obligations for employees. These are measured using comparable principles. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 95 No te s The amounts provided for these defined benefit obligations and the annual expense for pension benefits are measured and calculated each year on the basis of actuarial reports using the projected unit credit method (IAS 19). The actuarial assumptions used at German Group companies are as follows: The discount rate applied to the obligations was reduced from 5.4 % to 3.3 %. As in the previous year, the assumed rate of future salary increases is 2.7 %, and the assumed growth rate for the pension trend is 2.0 % per annum. The biometric assumptions are again based on the 2005G mortality tables published by Prof. Klaus Heubeck. A mean fluctuation rate (2.0 %) is still applied to staff turnover. The retirement age used for the calculations is based on the Rentenversicherungs-Altersgrenzanpassungsgesetz 2007 [RVAGAnpG – German Act Adapting the Standard Retirement Age for the Statutory Pension Insurance System]. In some cases, the valuation parameters used for non-material benefit plans at foreign companies differ from those used in Germany. Discount rates used vary between 2.5 % and 8.2 %, the assumed rate of future salary increase is between 1.0 % and 8.0 % and the assumed increase in pensions is 1.0 % to 2.0 %. Other valuation parameters (for example cost trends in health care) are not significant. Actuarial gains and losses outside the 10 % corridor around the present value of the DBO are recognised. Where the cumulative gain or loss exceeds the 10 % corridor, the excess amount is spread over the average remaining working lives of the employees and recognised in the profit or loss of future periods. C H A NGES IN D B O (PRESENT VALUE OF THE OBLIGATION) (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Opening balance at 1 January 274,189 262,093 Current service cost financed by the employer 8,212 7,387 Current service cost financed by the employees 3,708 3,780 Interest cost 14,623 13,867 Benefit payments – 13,020 – 11,711 Actuarial gains / losses (–/+) 107,392 – 1,928 Currency translation adjustments – 158 293 Change in consolidated Group / Other – 1,083 408 Closing balance at 31 December 393,863 274,189 96 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS The present value of pension commitments amounted to € 262 million for 2010, € 248 million for 2009 and € 217 million for 2008. R EC ONC ILIAT ION TO C A RRYING AMOUNTS (€ thousands) 2012 2011 DBO at 31 December 393,863 274,189 Unrecognised gains / losses (+ / –) – 122,912 – 16,459 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other –4 – 13 Carrying amount at 31 December 270,947 257,717 A LLOC AT ION OF T H E AC T UARIAL GAINS / LOSSES IN THE FINANCIAL YEAR (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Experience adjustments –6 245 Changes in assumptions 107,398 – 2,173 Total gains / losses (+ / –) at 31 December 107,392 – 1,928 Experience adjustments for 2010 and 2009 amounted to less than € 1 million each, and to less than € 4 million for 2008. EFFEC T S IN T H E INC OME STATEMENT (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Current service cost 11,920 11,167 Actuarial gains / losses 1,013 379 Interest cost 14,623 13,867 Other – 954 – 415 26,602 24,998 The current service cost as well as actuarial gains and losses are recognised in staff costs under pension costs, and the interest cost is recognised in financial income / expense under interest and similar expenses. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 97 No te s Contributions totalling € 26,948 thousand (previous year: € 26,899 thousand) were paid to state pension insurance funds in the year under review. OT HER PR OV IS IO N S Provisions for other employee benefits relate primarily to profit-sharing, jubilee payments, compensated absence, partial retirement and severance payments. Other provisions for taxes contain amounts of tax still payable for the year under review and for previous years for which no final tax assessment has yet been received. The provisions for warranty obligations and contractual penalties cover the statutory and contractual obligations to customers. The provisions for miscellaneous other obligations include provisions for expected losses from uncompleted transactions and onerous contracts (primarily from construction contracts with gross amounts due to customers in accordance with IAS 11 in the amount of € 1,383 thousand for 2012 and € 2,665 thousand for 2011), customer bonuses, accrued costs and environmental measures. € 35,281 thousand of the other provisions is non-current (previous year: € 39,037 thousand). This relates mainly to provisions for jubilee payments, partial retirement and warranty obligations. As in the previous year, no compounding effects were incurred in the financial year. 9 Liabilities NON-C U R R ENT LIA B ILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Financial liabilities Loan against borrower’s note 180,597 50,000 Bank loans and overdrafts 24,638 9,072 Finance lease liabilities 1,352 1,190 Other 1,454 1,481 208,041 61,743 Total non-current liabilities 208,041 61,743 98 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS C U R R ENT LIA B ILIT IES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Financial liabilities Loan against borrower’s note – 12,500 Bank loans and overdrafts 54,060 53,164 Finance lease liabilities 703 588 Intragroup liabilities 162 353 Associate liabilities 268 765 Other 14 176 55,207 67,546 Trade payables Trade payables to third parties 193,564 201,578 Intragroup trade payables 1,896 3,475 Associate liabilities 8,554 4,689 204,014 206,267 Tax liabilities 22,047 19,947 Other liabilities Advances received from customers 94,054 84,030 Advances received from customers (PoC) 54,121 61,148 Social security and liabilities towards employees 20,473 17,504 Miscellaneous other liabilities and deferred income 55,106 53,075 223,754 215,757 Total current liabilities 505,022 509,517 TOTA L NON-C U R R ENT A N D CURRENT LIABILITIES (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Total liabilities 713,063 571,260 To safeguard liquidity in the medium term, in 2009 KSB AG took the precaution of placing a loan against borrower’s note worth € 100 million with a 3-year and 5-year maturity. This originally served to ensure the solvency of the company even in a protracted crisis situation. € 37.5 million was repaid before maturity in 2011, and € 56.5 million in 2012. Based on the favourable capital market conditions, we decided to place another loan against borrower’s note with a total volume of € 175 million in December 2012. This loan is divided into repayment tranches of 3, 5, 7 and 10 years, and the interest rate is in part fixed and in part based M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 99 No te s on variable interest rate agreements. The residual obligation at year-end 2012 of both loans against borrower’s note thus was € 181 million. € 161 million of the liabilities arising from the loans against borrower’s note are classified as bank loans and € 20 million as other financial liabilities. Assets amounting to € 11,353 thousand (previous year: € 16,805 thousand) have been pledged as security in the KSB Group for bank loans and other liabilities on the basis of standard terms and conditions. Of these, € 5,917 thousand (previous year: € 5,771 thousand) relate to property, plant and equipment, € 2,091 thousand (previous year: € 9,191 thousand) to inventories, € 669 thousand (previous year: € 622 thousand) to receivables and € 2,676 thousand (previous year € 1,221 thousand) to cash and cash equivalents, as well as other securities. € 2,906 thousand (previous year: € 10,545 thousand) of the liabilities were secured by land charges or similar rights in the year under review. The weighted average interest rate on bank loans and overdrafts as well as on an open-market credit (loan against borrower’s note) was 2.82 % (previous year: 4.49 %). Interest rate risk exists for the major portion of the loan against borrower’s note mentioned above. There were no covenant agreements for loans in the year under review, as was the case the previous year too. Miscellaneous other liabilities include changes in the fair value of hedging instruments amounting to € 2,134 thousand (previous year: € 6,379 thousand). € 600 thousand (previous year: € 253 thousand) of this amount relates to interest rate derivatives. Deferred income amounts to € 1,298 thousand (previous year: € 1,371 thousand). This also includes investment grants and subsidies totalling € 4,962 thousand (previous year: € 3,003 thousand) received for new buildings in Germany. V. I NC OM E STATEMENT DISCLOSURES 10 Sales revenue KSB Group sales revenue amounted to € 2,268,211 thousand (previous year € 2,091,046 thousand), of which € 2,047,277 thousand was from the sale of goods and goods purchased and held for resale (previous year € 1,897,193 thousand) and € 220,934 thousand from services (previous year € 193,853 thousand). The breakdown of sales revenue by product group pumps, valves and service is presented in the segment reporting. 100 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS The change in the consolidated Group to include the Smedegaard Group had an impact of € 10,199 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 34,247 thousand. There was no material sales revenue from smaller affiliates or associates which have not yet been consolidated. 11 Other income (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Gains from asset disposals and reversals of impairment losses (write-ups) 2,371 3,027 Income from current assets 7,233 2,904 Currency translation gains 1,218 388 Income from the reversal of provisions 11,488 12,344 Miscellaneous other income 22,006 14,734 44,316 33,397 Miscellaneous other income relates primarily to services income, commission income, rental and lease income, insurance compensation, grants and subsidies. Income from government grants for individual projects (for example research activities) amounted to € 3,386 thousand (previous year: € 529 thousand). The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on other income. 12 Cost of materials (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Cost of raw materials and production supplies consumed and of goods purchased and held for resale 918,594 849,411 Cost of purchased services 66,577 63,580 985,171 912,991 The change in the consolidated Group to include the Smedegaard Group had an impact of € 8,405 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 8,891 thousand. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 101 No te s 13 Staff costs (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Wages and salaries 607,241 557,804 Social security contributions and employee assistance costs 129,668 121,254 Pension costs 21,304 18,923 758,213 697,981 Pension costs are reduced by the interest component of provisions for pensions and similar obligations, which is reported as an interest cost in financial income / expense. € 4,427 thousand was spent on defined contribution schemes in the year under review (previous year: € 2,985 thousand) The change in the consolidated Group to include the Smedegaard Group had an impact of € 4,049 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 15,194 thousand. AVER AGE NU MB ER O F EMP LOYEES 2012 2011 Wage earners 7,171 6,808 Salaried employees 8,458 8,130 Apprentices 585 566 16,214 15,504 The changes in the consolidated Group in the year under review led to the addition of 507 people, of which 82 employees belong to the Smedegaard Group. 102 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS 14 Other expenses (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Losses from asset disposal 361 1,507 Losses from current assets 10,075 9,512 Currency translation losses 1,955 502 Other staff costs 22,615 21,248 Repairs, maintenance, third-party services 95,869 97,732 Selling expenses 90,920 89,926 Administrative expenses 92,768 92,321 Rents and leases 27,237 23,506 Miscellaneous other expenses 35,912 47,625 377,712 383,879 Miscellaneous other expenses relate primarily to warranties, contractual penalties and additions to provisions. The change in the consolidated Group to include the Smedegaard Group had an impact of € 2,524 thousand. Other companies consolidated for the first time accounted for € 5,042 thousand. 15 Financial income / expense (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Financial income 9,212 14,533 Income from investments 3,817 3,693 thereof from affiliates (2,027) (2,265) Interest and similar income 5,088 9,288 thereof from affiliates (145) (467) Write-ups of financial assets 214 38 Income from the remeasurement of financial instruments 1 – Other financial income 92 1,514 Financial expense – 23,519 – 24,403 Interest and similar expenses – 22,668 – 22,193 thereof to affiliates (– 3) (– 1) Write-downs of financial assets – 740 – 2,139 Expenses from the remeasurement of financial instruments – – Other financial expenses – 111 – 71 – 14,307 – 9,870 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 103 No te s Interest and similar expenses include the interest cost on pension provisions amounting to € 14,623 thousand (previous year: € 13,867 thousand). The decrease in financial income is mainly due to lower interest income as a result of falling interest on investments. Write-downs on financial assets, however, have decreased. A small service company in Europe was affected by impairment due to the difficult economic situation during the year. The previous year saw impairments on two small service companies in Europe. The changes in the consolidated Group had no material impact in general on financial income/expense. 16 Taxes on income All income-related taxes of the consolidated companies and deferred taxes are reported in this item. Other taxes are reported in the income statement after other expenses. (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Effective taxes 44,555 39,093 Deferred taxes – 2,031 – 1,909 42,524 37,184 € 1,525 thousand (previous year: € 150 thousand) of the effective taxes in the year under review related to prior-period tax refunds and € 278 thousand (previous year: € 631 thousand) to tax arrears. R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF DEFERRED TAX ES (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Change in deferred tax assets – 4,296 – 7,609 Change in deferred tax liabilities 3,359 4,173 Change in deferred taxes recognised in balance sheet – 937 – 3,436 Change in deferred taxes taken directly to equity – 1,418 909 Changes in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other 324 618 Deferred taxes recognised in income statement – 2,031 – 1,909 104 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS A LLOC AT ION OF DEFER R E D TAX ES Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities (€ thousands) 2012 2011 2012 2011 Non-current assets 2,013 1,046 34,659 32,105 Current assets 60,716 55,124 73,189 66,444 Non-current liabilities 15,477 16,903 195 164 Current liabilities 21,014 18,164 9,254 9,758 Tax loss carryforwards 5,570 3,790 – – Gross deferred taxes – before offsetting 104,790 95,027 117,297 108,471 Offset under IAS 12.74 – 76,061 – 70,594 – 76,061 – 70,594 Net deferred taxes – after offsetting 28,729 24,433 41,236 37,877 At the reporting date, deferred tax assets amounting to € 7,032 thousand (previous year: € 6,302 thousand) were recognised, whose realisation exclusively depends on the creation of future profit. Based on the planning figures available, we expect realisation to take place. As in the previous year, the introduction of new local taxes had no significant material effects in the year under review. Equally, changes in foreign tax rates did not have any significant impact on the total tax expense (€ – 298 thousand), as was the case in the previous year. In the case of net income from affiliates and other equity investments, withholding taxes incurred in connection with distributions and German taxes incurred are recognised as deferred taxes if these gains are expected to be subject to corresponding taxation, or there is no intention of reinvesting them in the long term. We did not recognise deferred tax assets from loss carryforwards amounting to € 33,243 thousand (previous year: € 29,626 thousand) because it is unlikely that there will be sufficient taxable profit available in the near future against which these deferred tax assets can be utilised. The same applies to minor deductible temporary differences. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 105 No te s R EC ONC ILIAT ION OF INCOME TAX ES (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Earnings before income taxes 132,843 120,477 Calculated income taxes on the basis of the applicable tax rate (30 %; previous year: 29 %) 39,853 34,938 Differences in tax rates 320 2,410 Change in write-downs on deferred taxes on loss carryforwards and unused tax loss carryforwards 863 – 2,705 Tax-exempt income / non-deductible expenses – 786 979 Prior-period taxes – 1,247 – 1,189 Non-deductible foreign income tax 1,597 1,785 Other 1,924 966 Current taxes on income 42,524 37,184 Current tax rate 32 % 31 % The applicable tax rate of 30 % (previous year: 29 %) is a composite rate resulting from the current German corporation tax, solidarity surcharge and trade income tax rates. The increase is the result of rising trade income tax rates, which account for € 576 thousand. Changes in the consolidated Group had no material impact on the taxes on income. 17 Earnings after income taxes – Non-controlling interest The non-controlling interest in net profit amounts to € 15,802 thousand (previous year: € 11,753 thousand), and the non-controlling interest in net loss amounts to € 153 thousand (previous year: € 410 thousand). These relate primarily to PAB GmbH, Frankenthal, Germany, and the interests it holds. The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the earnings after income taxes attributable to non-controlling interest. 106 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS 18 Research and development costs Research and development costs in the year under review amounted to € 45,046 thousand (previous year: € 42,302 thousand). The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on research and development costs. 19 Earnings per share 2012 2011 Earnings after income taxes – Attributable to KSB AG shareholders (€ thousands) 74,670 71,950 Additional dividend attributable to preference shareholders (€ thousands) € 0.26 per preference share (€ thousands) – 225 – 225 (€ thousands) 74,445 71,725 Number of ordinary shares 886,615 886,615 Number of preference shares 864,712 864,712 Total number of shares 1,751,327 1,751,327 Diluted and basic earnings per ordinary share € 42.51 40.95 Diluted and basic earnings per preference share € 42.77 41.21 The changes in the consolidated Group had no material impact on earnings per share. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 107 No te s VI . AD D I TI ONAL DISCLOSURES ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on below disclosures on financial instruments. Financial instruments – Carrying amounts and fair values by measurement category: AS S E TS Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value Class (€ thousands) Category measurement 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2011 Non-current assets Non-current financial assets Investments in affiliates and other investments AfS Fair value / Historic cost 37,968 37,968 37,822 37,822 Non-current financial instruments AfS Fair value 712 712 664 664 Fair value / Loans LaR Amortised cost 140 140 1,587 1,587 Current assets Receivables and other current assets Fair value / Trade receivables LaR Amortised cost 481,900 481,900 461,348 461,348 Fair value / Intragroup and associate receivables LaR Amortised cost 16,937 16,937 23,591 23,591 Fair value / Receivables recognised by PoC – net – LaR Amortised cost 130,737 130,737 122,147 122,147 Other receivables and other Fair value / current assets LaR Amortised cost 25,740 25,740 28,797 28,797 Derivatives included in hedging relationships n.a. Fair value 2,545 2,545 671 671 Derivatives not included in hedging relationships FAHfT Fair value 864 864 536 536 Current financial instruments AfS Fair value – – 11 11 Fair value / Cash and cash equivalents LaR Amortised cost 401,031 401,031 305,707 305,707 108 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS E QUI T Y A N D L I A B I L I T I E S Carrying Carrying Balance sheet item / Initial / subsequent amount Fair value amount Fair value Class (€ thousands) Category measurement 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 31 Dec. 2011 Non-current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 206,689 195,934 60,553 57,570 Finance lease liabilities n.a. In accordance with IAS 17 1,352 1,352 1,190 1,190 Current liabilities Financial liabilities excluding finance Fair value / lease liabilities FLAC Amortised cost 54,504 54,504 66,958 66,958 Finance lease liabilities n.a. In accordance with IAS 17 703 703 588 588 Fair value / Trade payables FLAC Amortised cost 204,014 204,014 206,267 206,267 Fair value / Advances received from customers (PoC) LaR Amortised cost 54,121 54,121 61,148 61,148 Fair value / Other liabilities – Miscellaneous FLAC Amortised cost 46,712 46,712 42,322 42,322 Derivatives included in hedging relationships n.a. Fair value 1,499 1,499 4,553 4,553 Derivatives not included in hedging relationships FLHfT Fair value 635 635 1,826 1,826 Thereof aggregated by category in accordance with IAS 39 Fair value / Loans and receivables LaR Amortised cost 1,002,364 1,002,364 882,029 882,029 Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Fair value 712 712 675 675 Fair value / Available-for-sale financial instruments AfS Amortised cost 37,968 37,968 37,822 37,822 Financial assets held for trading FAHfT Fair value 864 864 536 536 Financial liabilities measured at Fair value / amortised cost FLAC Amortised cost 511,919 501,164 376,100 373,117 Financial liabilities held for trading FLHfT Fair value 635 635 1,826 1,826 M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 109 No te s The carrying amounts and fair values of all financial assets measured at amortised cost are identical. This also applies to finance lease liabilities, trade payables and other liabilities. This is mainly due to the short maturities of these financial instruments. In the case of financial liabilities excluding finance lease liabilities, the fair values are determined as the present value of the cash flows associated with the liabilities. We apply an appropriate yield curve to arrive at this present value. The fair values of the current and non-current financial instruments presented in the table above are based on prices quoted in active markets. The fair values of derivatives included and not included in hedging relationships is determined on the basis of input factors observable either directly (as a price, level 1) or indirectly (derived from prices, level 2). Level 3 includes financial instruments whose fair value is determined on the basis of inputs not based on observable market data. Foreign exchange derivatives are measured using forward exchange rates. For interest rate swaps the fair value is determined through the discount rate of future expected cash flows based on the market interest rates and yield curves that apply to the remaining term of the contracts. PR ESENTAT ION OF H IERARCHY LEV ELS OF FAIR VALUE 2012 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Available for sale 712 – – 712 Derivatives – 3,409 – 3,409 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Derivatives – 2,134 – 2,134 PR ESENTAT ION OF H IERARCHY LEV ELS OF FAIR VALUE 2011 (€ thousands) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets recognised at fair value Available for sale 675 – – 675 Derivatives – 1,207 – 1,207 Financial liabilities recognised at fair value Derivatives – 6,379 – 6,379 110 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS NET R ESU LT S B Y MEA SU REMENT CATEGORY IN 2012 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 5,068 – – 290 – 1,581 – 3,197 AfS 3,837 28 – – 526 – 3,339 FAH f T / FLH f T – 1,271 – – – 1,271 FLAC – 6,649 – 161 – – – 6,488 2,256 1,299 – 129 – 2,107 – – 1,319 NET R ESU LT S B Y MEA SU REMENT CATEGORY IN 2011 From subsequent measurement From interest Currency Impairment From (€ thousands) and dividends At fair value translation losses disposal Net results LaR 9,229 – 549 – 3,004 – 6,774 AfS 3,753 –6 – – 2,139 1,394 3,002 FAH f T / FLH f T – – 543 – – – – 543 FLAC – 7,108 – – 280 – – – 7,388 5,874 – 549 269 – 5,143 1,394 1,845 The interest presented above is a component of financial income / expense; the other gains and losses are partly reported in other income and other expenses. The AfS measurement category resulted in a remeasurement gain of € 28 thousand (previous year: loss of € 6 thousand), which was recognised directly in equity. As in the previous year, no withdrawals were made from equity and realised in the year under review. Financial risks We are exposed to certain financial risks as a consequence of our business activities. These risks can be classified into three areas: On the one hand, we are exposed to credit risk. We define credit risk as potential default or delays in the receipt of contractually agreed payments. We are also exposed to liquidity risk, which is the risk that an entity will be unable to meet its financial obligations, or will be unable to meet them in full. Finally, we are exposed to market risk. The risk of exchange rate or interest rate changes may adversely affect the economic position of the Group. Risks from fluctuations in securities prices are not material for us. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 111 No te s We limit all of these risks through an appropriate risk management system. We define how these risks are addressed through guidelines and work instructions. In addition, we monitor the current risk characteristics continuously and regularly provide the information obtained in this way to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board in the form of standardised reports and individual analyses. The three risk areas are described in detail in the following. You will also find additional information in the Group management report, in particular in the Net Assets, Financial Position and Results of Operations and Risk Management sections. C R EDIT R IS K The primary credit risk is that there is a delay in settling a receivable, or that it is not settled in part or in full. We minimise this risk using a variety of measures. As a matter of principle, we run credit checks on potential and existing counterparties. We only enter into business relationships if the results of this check are positive. In addition, we take out trade credit insurance policies primarily through our European companies. In exceptional cases we accept other securities (collateral) such as guarantees. The insurance policies primarily cover the risk of loss of receivables. Moreover, cover is also taken out against political and commercial risks in the case of certain customers in certain countries. For both types of insurance, we have agreed deductibles, which represent significantly less than 50 % of the insured volume. As part of our receivables management system, we continuously monitor outstanding items, perform maturity analyses and establish contact with customers at an early stage if delays in payment occur. In the case of major projects, our terms and conditions provide for prepayments, guarantees and – for export transactions – letters of credit. These also mitigate risk. Impairment losses are recognised for the residual risk remaining in trade receivables. We examine regularly the extent to which individual receivables need to be written down for impairment. Indications of this are significant financial difficulties of the debtor, such as insolvency or bankruptcy. We also cover the credit risk of receivables that are past due by providing for the risk involved on the basis of historical loss experience. Receivables are derecognised if it is reasonably certain that receipt of payment cannot be expected (for example, after completion of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings). Impairment losses on “Trade receivables” are the only material impairment losses in the KSB Group. They changed as follows: (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Opening balance at 1 January 33,513 29,966 Additions 6,988 7,071 Utilised – 2,802 – 1,758 Reversals – 5,419 – 2,798 Change in consolidated Group / Currency translation adjustments / Other – 48 1,032 Closing balance at 31 December 32,232 33,513 112 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS The maturity structure of trade receivables is as follows: (€ thousands) 31 Dec. 2012 31 Dec. 2011 Receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired 371,040 353,069 Receivables that are past due but not individually impaired 1 to 30 days 48,980 41,546 31 to 90 days 29,347 30,150 91 to 180 days 15,953 14,367 180 days 9,114 8,938 Total 103,394 95,001 Receivables individually determined to be impaired 7,466 13,278 Receivables individually determined to be impaired at their principal amount 39,698 46,791 Specific write-downs 32,232 33,513 Carrying amount (net) 481,900 461,348 With regard to the trade receivables that are neither past due nor individually impaired, there are no indications at the reporting date that our debtors will not meet their payment obligations. This similarly applies to all other financial instruments. The maximum default risk, excluding collateral received, corresponds to the carrying amount of the financial assets. There is no concentration of risk because the diversity of our business means that we supply a considerable number of customers in different sectors. L IQ U IDIT Y R IS K Our liquidity management ensures that this risk is minimised in the Group, and that solvency is ensured at all times. There are no concentrations of risk because we work together with a number of credit institutions, on which we impose strict creditworthiness requirements. We generate our financial resources primarily from our operating business. We use them to finance investments in non-current assets. We also use them to cover our working capital requirements. To keep these as low as possible, we monitor changes in our receivables, inventories and liabilities regularly using a standardised Group reporting system. The reporting system additionally ensures that the Group’s centralised financial management is continuously informed about liquidity surpluses and requirements. This enables us to optimally meet the needs of the Group as a whole and the individual companies. For our German companies, for example, we use a cash pooling system. We are also in the process of rolling out our receivables netting procedure within the KSB Group so as to minimise the volume of cash flows and the associated fees. In addition, we always ensure that credit facilities are sufficient; we identify the need for these on the basis of regular liquidity plans. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 113 No te s The following tables present the contractual undiscounted cash flows of primary and derivative financial liabilities. Interest payments on fixed-rate liabilities are determined on the basis of the fixed rate. Floating-rate interest payments are based on the last floating interest rates fixed before 31 December. Net payments on derivatives result both from derivatives with negative fair values and from derivatives with positive fair values. Projections for future new liabilities are not included in the presentation. Based on our current state of knowledge, it is neither expected that the cash flows will take place significantly earlier, nor that the amounts will deviate significantly. C A SH FLOW S OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2012 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 291,664 61,314 153,070 77,280 Trade payables 204,014 203,190 824 – Other liabilities 46,712 42,643 4,069 – Derivative financial instruments 423 1,307 – 883 –1 542,813 308,454 157,080 77,279 C A SH FLOW S OF FINANCIAL LIABILITIES 2011 (€ thousands) Total Up to 1 year 1 – 5 years > 5 years Financial liabilities 138,687 71,384 62,513 4,790 Trade payables 206,267 206,090 177 – Other liabilities 42,322 41,561 761 – Derivative financial instruments – 5,152 – 4,476 – 657 – 19 382,124 314,559 62,794 4,771 M AR K ET R IS K Our global business activities expose us primarily to currency and interest rate risk. Any changes in market prices here can affect fair values and future cash flows. We use sensitivity analyses to determine the hypothetical impact of such market price fluctuations on profit and equity. In doing so, we assume that the portfolio at the reporting date is representative for the full year. Currency risk mainly affects our cash flows from operating activities. It arises when Group companies settle transactions in currencies that are not their functional currency. We minimise this risk using currency forwards and options. You will find further information on this in the “Derivative financial instruments” section of the Notes. As a rule, we do not hedge currency risk from the translation of foreign operations into the Group currency (€). The most significant foreign currency in the KSB Group is the USD. The volume of trade receivables denominated in USD amounts to around € 52 million (previous year: approximately € 41 million). As in the previous year, the volume of trade payables denominated in USD amounts to around € 13 million. 114 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS For the currency sensitivity analysis, we simulate the effects based on the notional volume of our existing foreign currency derivatives and our foreign currency receivables and liabilities at the reporting date. For the analysis, we assume a 10 % increase (decrease) in the value of the euro versus the other currencies. At the reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 12.4 million lower (higher); € 9.7 million results from USD and € 2.7 million from the other currencies. At the previous year’s reporting date, equity and the fair value of the derivatives would have been € 7.6 million lower (higher); € 4.4 million would result from USD and € 3.2 million from the other currencies. The hypothetical effect on earnings in the year under review would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 0.7 million; € – 1.0 million would be attributable to USD and € 1.7 million to the other currencies. The hypothetical effect on earnings in the previous year would have been a decrease (an increase) of € 1.5 million; the impact on the dollar would have been very small and there would thus have been no impact on the remaining currencies. Floating rate financial instruments are exposed to interest rate risk. In the case of long-term loans, we hedge against this risk using interest rate derivatives on a case-by-case basis. Fixed rate financial instruments are not exposed to this risk. As part of our interest rate sensitivity analysis, we simulate a 100 basis point increase (decrease) in market interest rates, with an interest rate of 0 % being the lower limit, however. This helps us analyse the impact on the floating rate financial instruments. In 2012, the net interest balance would have been € 1.7 million (previous year: € 2.2 million) higher (lower). Changes in the fair value of interest rate derivatives used to hedge floating rate liabilities increase (decrease) equity by € 2.4 (1.8) million (previous year: € 0.1 [0.1] million). VI I . STATEM ENT OF CASH FLOWS In the cash flow statement, cash flows are classified by operating, investing and financing activities. Effects of changes in the consolidated Group and in exchange rates are eliminated in the relevant items. The effect of exchange rate changes (based on annual average rates) and changes in the consolidated Group on cash and cash equivalents is presented separately. Cash flows from operating activities include a “cash flow” subtotal that merely comprises the net profit for the year; depreciation, amortisation and impairment losses as well as reversals of impairment losses; changes in non-current provisions; and non-cash effects, for example, of M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 115 No te s the disposal of fixed assets. This subtotal is combined with the changes in the other operating components of assets (including current financial instruments) and liabilities to determine cash flows from operating activities. Cash flows from investing activities exclusively reflect cash-effective acquisitions and disposals of investments in intangible assets; property, plant and equipment; and non-current financial assets. In addition to cash flows resulting from equity items (capitalisation measures and dividend payments), cash flows from financing activities comprise cash flows arising from changes in financial receivables and liabilities. If cash and cash equivalents include restricted cash, this is reported separately. The funds included in the cash flow statement correspond to the balance sheet item Cash and cash equivalents. Cash flows from operating activities include cash flows from interest received amounting to € 5,088 thousand (previous year: € 9,288 thousand) and cash flows from income taxes totalling € –45,257 thousand (previous year: € –50,712 thousand). Cash flows from investing activities include cash flows from dividends received of € 3,817 thousand (previous year: € 3,693 thousand). Cash flows from financing activities include cash flows from dividends received of € –6,674 thousand (previous year: € –8,326 thousand). VI I I . SEGM ENT R EPORTING External sales revenue EBIT (€ thousands) 2012 2011 2012 2011 Business Unit Pumps 1,517,097 1,408,842 91,340 81,889 Business Unit Valves 385,614 335,586 8,792 2,466 Business Unit Service 368,223 323,088 50,669 42,824 Reconciliation – 2,723 23,530 – 378 6,203 Total 2,268,211 2,091,046 150,423 133,382 € 662,056 thousand (previous year: € 696,286 thousand) of the sales revenue presented was generated by the companies based in Germany and € 1,606,155 thousand (previous year: € 1,394,760 thousand) by the other Group companies. 116 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS At the reporting date, the total non-current assets of the KSB Group amounted to € 477,805 thousand (year-end figure in 2011: € 444,011 thousand), with 190,679 thousand (year-end figure in 2011: € 187,135 thousand) being attributable to the companies based in Germany and € 287,126 thousand (year-end figure in 2011: € 256,876 thousand) being attributable to the other Group companies. The non-current assets include intangible assets and property, plant and equipment. Goodwill, non-current financial instruments and deferred tax assets are not included. The Smedegaard Group, which was acquired in February 2012 and is part of the Business Unit Pumps, contributed € 10.2 million to external sales; the impact on EBIT was € –0.2 million. Segment reporting corresponds to our internal organisational and management structure, as well as the reporting lines to the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. In our matrix organisation, management decisions are primarily taken on the basis of the key performance indicators – external sales revenue and earnings before interest and income taxes (EBIT) – determined for the Pumps, Valves and Service Business Units. Reporting the relevant assets (including depreciation and amortisation, impairment losses / write-downs), number of employees and inter-segment sales revenue for these Business Units is not part of our internal reporting. The managers in charge of the Business Units, which are geared to product groups, have profit and loss responsibility. They identify business opportunities across markets and industries and assess our options based on current and future market requirements. They also proactively encourage the development of new products and improvements to the available range of products. In this context, they work closely with our Sales organisation and Operations. The Pumps product group covers singleand multistage pumps, submersible pumps and associated control and drive systems. Applications include process engineering, building services, water and waste water transport, energy conversion and solids transport. The Valves product group covers butterfly, globe, gate, control, diaphragm and ball valves, as well as associated actuators and control systems. Applications primarily include process engineering, building services, energy conversion and solids transport. The Service product group covers the installation, commissioning, start-up, inspection, servicing, maintenance and repair of pumps, related systems and valves; as well as modular service concepts and system analyses for complete systems The amounts disclosed for the individual segments have been established in compliance with the accounting policies of the underlying consolidated financial statements. Transfer prices for intercompany sales are determined on an arm’s length basis. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 117 No te s There were no discontinued operations in the year under review, as in the comparable period of the previous year. The external sales revenue of the Business Units by segment presents sales revenue generated with third parties and unconsolidated Group companies. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are presented separately as reconciliation effects. The segment results show earnings before interest and taxes (EBIT), including non-controlling interests. The effects from measuring construction contracts in accordance with IAS 11 are also presented separately as reconciliation effects. I X. OTHER D I SC LO SURES The changes in the consolidated Group did not have any material impact on the other disclosures. Contingent liabilities (contingencies and commitments) C ONT INGENT LIA B ILITIES AND COLLATERAL (€ thousands) 2012 2011 Liabilities from guarantees 5,364 874 Liabilities from warranties 6,813 7,824 Liabilities from the granting of other security for third-party liabilities and other contingent liabilities 1,903 2,191 14,080 10,889 At present, there are no indications that any claims will be asserted under these obligations. Other financial obligations from rental agreements and other operating leases (minimum lease payments) amount to a total of € 39,205 thousand (previous year: € 30,978 thousand). Of these, € 14,984 thousand (previous year: € 13,783 thousand) is due within one year and € 19,936 thousand (previous year: € 15,399 thousand) due between one and five years. In the year under review, € 13,783 thousand was spent on these agreements. Operating leases relate primarily to vehicles and real estate. The usual renewal options are available. 118 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS FINA NC E LEA SES Minimum lease payments Present values (€ thousands) 2012 2011 2012 2011 Due within one year 769 686 703 633 Due between one and five years 1,202 1,043 1,115 936 Due after more than five years 312 223 237 209 2,283 1,952 2,055 1,778 Finance leases relate almost entirely to real property. The term of the contract covers most of the useful life of the asset concerned. The annual obligations from IT services agreements amount to € 44,623 thousand (previous year: € 51,317 thousand) over a term of one to five years. As in the previous year, there are no purchase price obligations from acquisitions of companies and no payment obligations from capitalisation measures at Group companies. The aggregate purchase obligation for investments (principally items of property, plant and equipment) amounts to € 11,823 thousand (previous year: € 11,703 thousand). Almost all of the corresponding payments are due in 2013. Related party disclosures Pursuant to section 21(1) of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trade Act], KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, notified us on 21 May 2008 that its voting interest in KSB AG, Frankenthal / Pfalz exceeded the 75.00 % threshold on 5 May 2008 and amounted to 80.24 % (711,453 voting shares) on this date. 0.54 % of the voting rights (4,782 voting shares) were held directly by KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, and 79.70 % (706,671 voting shares) were attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, pursuant to section 22(1), sentence 1, No. 1 of the WpHG. The voting rights attributed to KSB Stiftung, Stuttgart, were held by Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal. A rental and services agreement has been entered into between KSB AG and Klein Pumpen GmbH. This resulted in the recognition of expenses of € 24 thousand (previous year: € 33 thousand) and income of € 19 thousand (previous year: € 8 thousand) at KSB AG in the year under review. As in the previous year, no interest was paid on short-term cash deposits by Klein Pumpen GmbH with KSB AG. Short-term deposits by KSB AG with Klein Pumpen GmbH and by Klein Pumpen GmbH with KSB companies carry appropriate rates of interest. Liabilities to Klein Pumpen GmbH as at 31 December 2012 amounted to € 37 thousand (previous year: € 19 thousand). All transactions are entered into on an arm’s length basis. This is also demonstrated by the dependent company report prepared in accordance with section 312 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 119 No te s Disclosures and information on affiliates and other equity investments provided in other section of these Notes refer to relations covering the supply of products and services on an arm’s length basis, unless stated otherwise. The short-term benefits (total remuneration) of members of the Supervisory Board amount to € 1,409 thousand for the 2012 financial year (previous year: € 1,332 thousand) and € 2,620 thousand (previous year: € 3,327 thousand) for the Board of Management. Payments for benefits after termination of work on the Board of Management were made in the amount of € 2,133 thousand (previous year: € 2,172 thousand). € 20,389 thousand (previous year: € 22,195 thousand) has been provided for pension obligations to former members of the Board of Management and their surviving dependants; total benefits paid to these persons amounted to € 1,770 thousand in the year under review (previous year: € 1,714 thousand). Based on the relevant legal provisions, the Annual General Meeting on 19 May 2010 resolved not to disclose the remuneration of the Board of Management separately for each member and classified by components. The members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management are listed before the presentation of the proposal on the appropriation of the net retained earnings of KSB AG. Auditors On 16 May 2012, BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft, based in Hamburg with an office in Frankfurt am Main, were appointed as auditors and group auditors for the financial year 2012 by the Annual General Meeting of KSB AG. The 2012 financial statements include total fees of € 473 thousand (previous year: € 601 thousand). These include € 265 thousand (previous year: € 275 thousand) for audit fees and an additional € 147 thousand (previous year: € 90 thousand) for auditing German subsidiaries. A further € 57 thousand (previous year: € 34 thousand) was paid for other services, € 4 thousand (previous year: € 159 thousand) for other confirmation services, while no costs were incurred (previous year: € 43 thousand) for tax advisory services. Use of exemption provisions KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal and KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt have made partial use of the exemption provision under section 264 (3) HGB [German Commercial Code]. Events after the reporting period There were no reportable events after the balance sheet date. German Corporate Governance Code The Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB AG issued the current Statement of Compliance with the recommendations of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code in accordance with section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act]. The Statement of Compliance is published on our web site (www.ksb. com) and has thus been made permanently accessible. 120 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS LI ST OF S HA R E H O L D I N G S Capital Net proﬁt / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands KSB Service GmbH, Frankenthal Germany C 100.00 1,339 PPA KSB Atlantic Pump & Valve Service S.L., Las Palmas de Gran Canaria Spain N 47.00 223 – 288 KSB Service GmbH, Schwedt Germany C 100.00 1,686 PPA Uder Elektromechanik GmbH, Friedrichsthal Germany C 100.00 26 PPA Pumpen-Service Bentz GmbH, Reinbek Germany C 100.00 1,072 432 Dynamik-Pumpen GmbH, Stuhr Germany C 100.00 970 560 B&C Pumpenvertrieb Köln GmbH, Cologne Germany C 100.00 859 200 PMS BERCHEM GmbH, Neuss Germany C 100.00 1,033 – 179 Nikkiso-KSB GmbH, Bruchköbel Germany N 50.00 5,336 974 KAGEMA Industrieausrüstungen GmbH, Pattensen Germany C 100.00 2,602 424 gear-tec GmbH, Eggebek Germany N 51.00 672 – 358 KSB Armaturen Verwaltungsund Beteiligungs-GmbH, Frankenthal Germany C 100.00 509 – 21 OOO “KSB “, Moscow Russland C 100.00 1,313 166 TOV KSB Ukraine, Kiev Ukraine N 100.00 250 14 LLP “KSB Kazakhstan“, Almaty Kazakhstan N 100.00 239 – 107 IOOO KSB BEL , Minsk Belarus N 100.00 193 3 PAB Pumpenund Armaturen-Beteiligungsges. mbH, Frankenthal Germany C 51.00 37,026 2 KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia USA C 100.00 36,281 5,517 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia USA C 100.00 39,216 6,694 AMRI , Inc., Houston / Texas USA C 100.00 9,808 1,998 KSB , Inc., Richmond / Virginia USA C 100.00 8,497 2,146 Precision Pump and Machine-KSB , Inc., Bakersfield / California USA C 100.00 2,469 159 Standard Alloys Incorporated, Port Arthur / Texas USA C 100.00 2,409 591 KSB Finland Oy, Kerava Finland C 100.00 5,647 1,548 Mäntän Pumppauspalvelu Oy, Mänttä-Vilppula Finland C 100.00 1,037 336 Kiinteistö Oy Keravan Savirunninkatu 4, Kerava Finland N 100.00 1,248 –6 KSB Mörck AB , Gothenburg Sweden C 55.00 4,360 1,038 PUMPHUSET Sverige AB , Sollentuna Sweden C 100.00 927 197 KSB Norge AS , Lysaker Norway C 89.83 2,685 290 T. Smedegaard A / S, Glostrup Denmark C 80.00 2,720 218 VM Pumpar AB , Västra Frölunda Sweden C 100.00 20 – 120 SMEDEGAARD AG Pumpen und Motorenbau, Beinwil am See Switzerland C 100.00 1,313 472 Smedegaard Pumps Limited, Bridgwater United Kingdom C 100.00 359 166 KSB Pompy i Armatura Sp. z o.o., Ozarow-Mazowiecki Poland C 100.00 7,539 894 KSB -Pumpy + Armatury s.r.o., koncern, Prague Czech Republic C 100.00 3,724 511 KSB Čerpadlá a Armatúry, s.r.o., Bratislava Slovakia N 100.00 255 156 KSB Szivattyú és Armatúra Kft., Budapest Hungary C 100.00 1,236 154 KSB črpalke in armature d.o.o., Ljubljana Slovenia N 100.00 115 – 185 KSB pumpe i armature d.o.o., Zagreb Croatia N 100.00 – 90 – 191 KSB Pumpe i Armature d.o.o. Beograd, Belgrad Serbia N 100.00 71 33 KSB Zurich AG , Zurich Switzerland C 100.00 1,003 – 738 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures C Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG‘s consolidated financial statements * Included N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG‘s consolidated financial statements M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 121 No te s S h are h o l di n gs Capital Net proﬁt / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands REEL s.r.l., Ponte di Nanto Italy C 100.00 502 – 21 Motori Sommersi Riavvolgibili S.r.l., Cedegolo Italy N 25.00 6,307 1,470 KSB Bombas e Válvulas SA , Rio de Mouro (Lisbon) Portugal N 95.00 908 228 Hydroskepi GmbH, Amaroussion (Athens) Greece C 100.00 1,594 – 18 KSB TESMA AG , Amaroussion (Athens) Greece N 59.74 1,493 169 KSB Viosen AG , Patras Greece N 60.28 313 – 81 KSB Service LLC , Abu Dhabi U.A.E. N 49.00 2,162 612 KSB Pumps Company Limited, Lahore Pakistan C 58.89 6,742 1,358 MIL Controls Limited, Annamanada India C 70.86 11,331 3,293 KSB Tech Pvt. Ltd., Pimpri (Pune) India N 100.00 948 1,238 KSB Limited, Hong Kong China C 100.00 1,937 788 KSB Valves (Shanghai) Co. Ltd., Shanghai China C 100.00 6,126 482 KSB Valves (Changzhou) Co., Ltd., Jiangsu China C 100.00 3,811 20 Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Shanghai China N 45.00 15,616 – 5,076 KSB Taiwan Co., Ltd., Taipei City Taiwan C 100.00 2,200 1,202 KSB Korea Ltd., Seoul South Korea C 100.00 1,118 740 KSB Seil Co., Ltd., Busan South Korea C 100.00 17,225 4,659 KSB Ltd., Tokyo Japan N 100.00 – 1,025 – 90 KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok Thailand C 40.00 4,066 1,256 KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Singapore C 100.00 7,768 1,260 * KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya Malaysia (C) 100.00 181 316 * KSB Vietnam Co. Ltd., Tam An Village Vietnam (C) 100.00 – 323 – 1,184 Canadian Kay Pump Limited, Mississauga / Ontario Canada C 100.00 5,234 782 KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune) India C 40.54 61,899 8,622 KSB de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., Querétaro Mexico C 100.00 3,828 747 KSB Chile S.A., Santiago Chile C 100.00 14,554 2,540 KSB Perú S.A., San Isidro-Lima Peru N 100.00 292 – 249 KSB PARS Co. (P.J.S.), Shiraz Iran N 100.00 527 29 KSB Services Ltd. Co., Al-Khobar Saudi Arabia N 70.00 411 – KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach Luxembourg C 100.00 126,422 20,985 KSB Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom C 100.00 3,559 122 Rotary Equipment Services Limited, Loughborough United Kingdom C 100.00 682 176 KSB Finance Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg Netherlands C 100.00 27,113 6,382 DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn Netherlands C 100.00 32,819 10,882 KSB Nederland B.V., Zwanenburg Netherlands C 100.00 3,940 – 655 Nederlandse Pompservice (N.P.S.) B.V., Velsen-Noord Netherlands C 100.00 – 561 – 51 VRS Valve Reconditioning Services B.V., Vierpolders Netherlands C 100.00 132 – 390 KSB Belgium S.A., Wavre Belgium C 100.00 928 422 KSB Service Belgium S.A. / N.V., Wavre Belgium C 100.00 685 – 254 KSB ON SITE MACHINING BVBA , Wilrijk Belgium N 100.00 – 634 233 VRS Industries SA , Feluy Belgium N 100.00 – 319 – 551 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures C Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG‘s consolidated financial statements * Included N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG‘s consolidated financial statements 122 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS Capital Net proﬁt / share Equity loss for the year Name and seat of company Country % € thousands € thousands SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach Luxembourg C 52.86 11,883 908 KSB Österreich Gesellschaft mbH, Vienna Austria C 100.00 16 – 1,851 KSB S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France C 100.00 107,170 15,821 KSB Techni Pompe Service S.A.S., Hoerdt France C 100.00 1,471 192 KSB Service Est S.A.S., Algrange France C 100.00 1,344 187 KSB Service EITB SITELEC S.A.S., Montfavet France N 100.00 333 – 98 Société Berrichonne de Constructions Mecaniques “S.B.C.M“ S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France N 100.00 226 6 KSB Service Robinetterie S.A.S., Rambervillers France C 100.00 1,875 924 KSB SERVICE ETC S.A.S., Montcenis France N 100.00 681 242 KSB Service MEDIATEC S.A.S., Chalon-sur-Saône France N 100.00 465 117 Société de travaux et Ingénierie Industrielle (ST II ), Saint Etienne du Rouvray France N 100.00 217 821 SPI Energie S.A.S., La Ravoire France N 100.00 1,418 279 Metis Levage S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France N 100.00 649 38 KSB Service Centre-Est S.A.S., Villefranche sur Saône France C 100.00 2,007 – 150 KSB EXPORT AFRIQUE S.A.S., Gennevilliers (Paris) France N 100.00 – 246 – 19 Techni Pompe Service Maroc ( TPSM ), Casablanca Morocco N 50.00 – 116 96 KSB POMPES ET ROBINETTERIES S.à.r.l. d‘Associé unique, Casablanca Morocco N 100.00 273 135 KSB Italia S.p.A., Concorezzo (Milan) Italy C 100.00 27,214 2,477 KSB Service Italia S.r.l., Scorzè Italy C 100.00 2,578 1,085 KSB AMVI , S.A., Madrid Spain C 100.00 3,477 115 AMVI Aplica. Mecánicas Válvulas Industriales, S.A., Burgos Spain C 100.00 12,768 1,058 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz Spain C 100.00 15,921 366 KSB Service Suciba S.L.U., Sondika Spain N 100.00 620 163 KSB -Pompa, Armatür Sanayi ve Ticaret A.S., Ankara Turkey C 99.00 8,401 1,743 KSB Middle East FZE , Dubai U.A.E. C 100.00 5,600 630 KSB Pumps Arabia Ltd., Ryadh Saudi Arabia N 50.00 7,600 3,504 KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai China C 80.00 58,178 2,772 Dalian KSB AMRI Valves Co., Ltd., Dalian China C 100.00 1,407 197 PT . KSB Indonesia, Cibitung, Jawa Barat Indonesia C 100.00 8,781 1,553 KSB Australia Pty. Ltd., Tottenham (Melbourne) Australia C 100.00 16,265 697 * KSB New Zealand Limited, Penrose / Auckland New Zealand (C) 100.00 1,178 309 KSB Algérie Eurl, Algier Algeria N 100.00 685 – 84 KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa C 100.00 7,261 93 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston (Johannesburg) South Africa C 74.99 19,806 5,344 * Forty-Four Activia Park (Pty) Ltd. South Africa (C) 100.00 105 22 KSB Pumps Inc., Mississauga / Ontario Canada C 100.00 1,995 561 KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista Brazil C 100.00 61,602 6,348 KSB Válvulas Ltda., Jundiaí Brazil C 100.00 1,413 – 1,427 KSB Compañía Sudamericana de Bombas S.A., Carapachay Argentina C 100.00 3,978 922 PPA Profit Pooling Arrangement Prior-period figures C Companies fully consolidated in KSB AG‘s consolidated financial statements * Included N Companies not consolidated in KSB AG‘s consolidated financial statements M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 123 No te s S h are h o l di n gs S u pe rv i so ry B o ard S UPE RV I S O RY B OA R D Dr. Wolfgang Kühborth, Dipl.-Ing., Frankenthal Klaus Kühborth, Dipl.-Wirtsch.-Ing., Frankenthal (Honorary Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Managing Director of Klein Pumpen GmbH Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Munich Alois Lautner, Lathe Operator, Kirchenthumbach Auditor, Management Consultant Deputy Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council (Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Richard Lederer, Dipl.-Kaufmann, Frankenthal Karlheinz Leitgeb, Industrial Foreman, Pegnitz (on the Supervisory Board until 16 May 2012) Deputy Chairman of the General Works Council Former Member of the Management of the and Chairman of the Pegnitz Works Council, Energy Pumps Division of KSB AG (Deputy Chairman of the Supervisory Board) Sigrid Maurer, Insurance Trader, Neustadt / Weinstraße Dr. Martin Auer, Mannheim ¹ Trade Union Secretary of IG Metall Ludwigshafen / Frankenthal Head of Corporate Legal, Compliance, Procurement & Logistic Services Dr.-Ing. Hermann Nestler, Regensburg MVV Energie AG Former Managing Director of BSH Bosch und Siemens Hausgeräte GmbH Dr.-Ing. Stephan Bross, Erpolzheim Senior Vice President Business Unit Service Dr. Thomas Seeberg, Dipl.-Kfm., Icking (on the Supervisory Board since 16 May 2012) Reiner Euler, Engineering Technician, Grünstadt Former Managing Director of OSRAM GmbH Member of the European Works Council, Chairman of the General Works Volker Seidel, Electrical and Electronics Installer, Münchberg Council and the Frankenthal Works Council 1. Delegate of IG Metall Ostoberfranken Dr. Jörg Matthias Großmann, Dipl.-Kfm., Großhesselohe 2 Werner Stegmüller, Dipl.-Kfm., Mering (on the Supervisory Board since 9 Nov. 2012) (on the Supervisory Board until 16 Oct. 2012) Management / CFO Former Partner at Horváth & Partner GmbH Freudenberg Chemical Specialities SE & Co. KG Member of Commercial Management of KSB AG Mandates of KSB Supervisory Board members in the Supervisory Board / Board of Directors of other companies ¹ Palatina Versicherungsvermittlungsgesellschaft mbH, Frankenthal, Germany MVV Energie CZ a.s., Prague, Czech Republic Stadtwerke Ingolstadt Beteiligungs GmbH, Ingolstadt, Germany ² Klüber Lubrication München SE & Co. KG, Munich, Germany Klüber Lubrication India Pvt. Ltd., Bangalore, India FCS Holding Inc., Wilmington, USA Chem-Trend Holding LP, Wilmington, USA Externa Holding S.R.L., Milan, Italy 124 C O NSOLIDAT ED FINA NCIAL STATEMENTS BOARD OF M A N AG E M E N T Dr. rer. pol. Wolfgang Schmitt, Bad Dürkheim 1 Mandates of KSB AG‘s Board of Management members in the Board of Directors of KSB companies Chairman, Responsible for Finance and Administration 1 KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Pumps (S.A.) (Pty) Ltd., Germiston, South Africa Dr.-Ing. Peter Buthmann, Frankenthal 2 KSB Pumps and Valves (Pty) Ltd., Germiston, South Africa Human Resources Director, Responsible for Operations Canadian Kay Pump Ltd., Mississauga / Ontario, Canada KSB America Corporation, Richmond / Virginia, USA and (since 1 April 2012) for Sales and Marketing KSB Pumps Limited, Pimpri (Pune), India KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Singapore Prof. Dr.-Ing. Dieter-Heinz Hellmann, Frankenthal 3 KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz, Spain Responsible for Technology and Internal Audits 2 SISTO Armaturen S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg DP industries B.V., Alphen aan den Rijn, Netherlands Jan Stoop, Bad Dürkheim 4 KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg (on the Board of Management until 31 March 2012) KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Responsible for Sales and Marketing 3 GIW Industries, Inc., Grovetown / Georgia, USA KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China Shanghai Electric-KSB Nuclear Pumps and Valves Co., Ltd., Lingang, China KSB Bombas Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil 4 KSB Bombas e Hidráulicas S.A., Várzea Paulista, Brazil KSB Shanghai Pump Co. Ltd., Shanghai, China KSB Singapore (Asia Pacific) Pte. Ltd., Singapore KSB Malaysia Pumps & Valves Sdn. Bhd., Petaling Jaya, Malaysia KSB ITUR Spain S.A., Zarautz, Spain KSB Finanz S.A., Echternach, Luxembourg KSB Pumps Co. Ltd., Bangkok, Thailand M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 125 No te s B o ard o f Man age m e n t Pro po sal o n th e Appro pri ati o n o f th e Ne t R e tai n e d Earn i n gs o f K S B AG P R O P O S A L ON T H E A PPR OPR IAT ION OF T H E NET R E TA I N E D EA R NINGS OF KSB AG We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on 15 May 2013 to appropriate the net retained earnings of € 31,445,354.22 of KSB AG, containing retained earnings brought forward of € 323,128.16, as follows: Distribution of a dividend of € 12.00 per ordinary no-par-value share = 10,639,380.00 € and, in accordance with the Articles of Association, € 12.26 per preference no-par-value share = 10,601,369.12 € Appropriation to revenue reserves 10,000,000.00 € Total 31,240,749.12 € Carried forward to new account 204,605.10 € 31,445,354.22 € Frankenthal, 12 March 2013 The Board of Management The annual financial statements of KSB AG were prepared in accordance with German accounting principles. They are published in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. The annual financial statements can also be downloaded from our web site at www.ksb.com, or sent in print form on request. AU TO M AT I O N A N D D R I V E S “How can a magnetless motor generate magnetic forces?“ Boris Janjic (l.) and Michael Könen of the Application and Basic Research / Electric Drives team “Our high-efficiency electric motor transfers the magnetic force of the electric coils to the drive shaft using patented rotor laminations. We have developed the world’s most economic speed-controllable magnetless pump drive by making smart use of the synchronous reluctance principle.“ Michael Könen Electric motors drink electricity, lots of electricity. rare earths, i. e. critical raw materials whose mining Extensive research conducted by the European causes a considerable impact on the environment. Commission has shown that electric motors are The drive is fitted with a four-pole rotor and consists the largest single group of electric consumers, of a laminated core without a cage. The individual accounting for 49 % of power consumption in insheet steels are shaped to allow the magnetic lines dustry. In the form of the SuPremE synchronous of flux to be guided in the required direction, thus reluctance motor, KSB has developed the drive of ensuring that the rotor starts to rotate. the future: It is currently the most economic speedcontrollable magnetless pump drive in the world. In combination with a PumpDrive speed control system, the SuPremE motor enables up to 70 % of Unlike conventional synchronous reluctance motors, energy savings. KSB’s drive does not use magnetic materials from Synchronous reluctance motor | SuPremE Unlike conventional asynchronous motors, KSB’s sensorless, magnetless synchronous reluctance motor even achieves good efficiency levels when it is not running at full power. This is a situation frequently encountered in practice as most drives operated in variable speed mode primarily run at reduced speed. In combination with the PumpDrive speed control system, rotational speeds from 0 to 4,200 revolutions per minute are possible. 130 Cash flows from operating activities increased by € 57.8 million to € 94 .1 million. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA R A L IN AT I O N R M ATIO F O RM I N FO 131 GENER AL I NFOR MATION 132 Responsibility Statement 133 Auditor‘s Report 135 Corporate Governance Declaration 136 Corporate Governance Report / Remuneration Report 143 Glossary 144 Contacts 132 G E NER A L INFORMAT ION R E S P O N S I B I LIT Y STAT EMENT To the best of our knowledge, and in accordance with the applicable reporting principles, the interim consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the assets, liabilities, financial position and profit or loss of the Group, and the group management report includes a fair review of the development and performance of the business and the position of the Group, together with a description of the principal opportunities and risks associated with the expected development of the Group. Frankenthal, 12 March 2013 The Board of Management M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 133 R e spo n si bi l i ty S tate m e n t Au di to r’s R e po rt AU D I TO R ’ S R EPORT We have audited the consolidated financial statements prepared by KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal (Pfalz), comprising the balance sheet, the statement of comprehensive income, the statement of changes in equity, the statement of cash flows and the notes to the consolidated financial statements, together with the Group management report for the business year from 1 January 2012 to 31 December 2012. The preparation of the consolidated financial statements and the group management report in accordance with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU , and the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) HGB [Handelsgesetzbuch – German Commercial Code] are the responsibility of the parent company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements and on the Group management report based on our audit. We conducted our audit of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with section 317 of the HGB and German generally accepted standards for the audit of financial statements promulgated by the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [IDW – Institute of Public Auditors]. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit such that misstatements materially affecting the presentation of the net assets, financial position and results of operations in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with the applicable financial reporting framework and in the Group management report are detected with reasonable assurance. Knowledge of the business activities and the economic and legal environment of the Group and expectations as to possible misstatements are taken into account in the determination of audit procedures. The effectiveness of the accounting-related internal control system and the evidence supporting the disclosures in the consolidated financial statements and the Group management report are examined primarily on a test basis within the framework of the audit. The audit includes assessing the financial reporting information of those entities included in consolidation, the determination of entities to be included in consolidation, the accounting and consolidation principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements and Group management report. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. Our audit has not led to any reservations. 134 G E NER A L INFORMAT ION In our opinion, based on the findings of our audit, the consolidated financial statements comply with IFRSs, as adopted by the EU, the additional requirements of German commercial law pursuant to section 315a(1) of the HGB and give a true and fair view of the net assets, financial position and results of operations of the Group in accordance with these requirements. The Group management report is consistent with the consolidated financial statements and as a whole provides a suitable view of the Group’s position and suitably presents the opportunities and risks of future development. Frankfurt am Main, 20 March 2013 BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft Dyckerhoff ppa. Erbe Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüfer M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 135 Au di to r’s R e po rt C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e De c l a r a t i on CORPORAT E G OV E R N A N C E D EC LA R AT ION S TAT E M E N T P U R S UANT TO SEC TI ON 1 6 1 OF THE AKTG 3. The performance-related component of the Supervisory [ A KT I E NGE S E T Z – GER M AN P UB LI C C OM PANI ES ACT] Board remuneration is based on the annual dividend; it is ( STAT E M E N T O F C OM P LI ANC E) thus not oriented toward “sustainable” growth of the enterThe Statement of Compliance is issued by the Board of Manprise as defined in subsection 5.4.6, paragraph 2. agement and the Supervisory Board of KSB Aktiengesellschaft at least once a year. The last statement issued on 5 December Reason: We support the sustainability objective of the Code, 2012 reads as follows: but do not consider a change in the well-established remuneration structure for the Supervisory Board to be necessary Statement by the Board of Management and the Supervisory for achievement of this objective. Board of KSB Aktiengesellschaft on Compliance with the Recommendations of the “Government Commission on the 4. The total amount of the remuneration paid to the members German Corporate Governance Code” pursuant to Section of the Supervisory Board for their service on the Board, as 161 AktG [German Public Companies Act] well as of remuneration or advantages extended for services Since the publication of the last statement of compliance on provided individually, in particular advisory or agency ser7 December 2011 KSB Aktiengesellschaft, Frankenthal (Pfalz), vices, is disclosed in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial has complied with the recommendations of the “Government Statements, but the remuneration is disclosed neither sepaCommission on the German Corporate Governance Code” as rately for each member nor classified by components (subsecset out in the version dated 15 May 2012 with the exception tion 5.4.6, paragraph 3). of the following and continues to comply with the recommendations in this scope: Reason: The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is governed by the Articles of Association and the supplemen1. The Chair of the Audit Committee of our Supervisory tary resolution of the Annual General Meeting dated 16 May Board is not “independent” within the meaning of subsection 2012; these documents provide detailed information on the 5.3.2. individual components of the remuneration. Beyond that, we prefer to provide summarised information about the remuReason: The Chair of the Audit Committee is also the Manneration of the members of the Supervisory Board rather than aging Director of the controlling shareholder. We do not breaking it down into the compensation paid to the individeem the lack of independence resulting from the above situdual members and the components it contains, as we do not ation to be of decisive importance compared with his experbelieve that the latter would provide any additional benefits tise and extensive knowledge of our company. Nonetheless for shareholders or the development of the company. the Supervisory Board is aiming for a change in the Chair of the Audit Committee in 2013. Frankenthal, 5 December 2012 2. With the exception of an age limit, the Supervisory Board does not specify concrete objectives regarding its composition For the Supervisory Board For the Board of Management (subsection 5.4.1, paragraphs 2 and 3). Reason: We appreciate the diversity in the composition of the Supervisory Board aimed at by the Code, which will generally be conducive to the interests of the company. To date, we have always followed this principle. However, we take a Dr. Hans-Joachim Jacob Dr. Wolfgang Schmitt critical view of detailed specifications, in particular of quota systems, as we believe that this would make it more difficult to ensure an appropriate and adequately flexible composition of this body. 136 G E NER A L INFORMAT ION COR PORAT E G OV E R N A N C E R E PORT / R EMU NER AT ION R EPORT In accordance with section 3.10 of the German Corporate Governance Code, the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board report on the corporate governance of the company as follows: The term “corporate governance” covers the legal and factual regulatory framework for the management and supervision of companies; it is geared towards responsible management and control with the ultimate goal of sustainable value creation. The principles of corporate governance at KSB are based on the German Corporate Governance Code. This Code provides the basic framework for the management and supervision of listed companies and formulates nationally and internationally recognised standards of good and responsible corporate governance. We welcome the work of the Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code as well as the ideas and recommendations contained in the Code. These were last revised on 15 May 2012 and published on 15 June 2012 in the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]. We are convinced that good, responsible corporate governance will contribute greatly to the company’s long-term success. This is why it has always ranked highly at KSB. Even before the Code was introduced, we implemented the core corporate governance and control processes in such a way that they complied with the current key requirements of the Code. We were traditionally guided in this by nationally and internationally recognised standards of transparent, comprehensible corporate governance. During the past financial year, the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of KSB Aktiengesellschaft discussed compliance with the Code’s guidelines as well as the relevant legal requirements in detail on several occasions. Our objective is to continue developing the principles of corporate governance in all parts of our company. Statement of Compliance updated Pursuant to section 161 of the AktG [Aktiengesetz – German Public Companies Act], the Board of Management and Supervisory Board of listed German public companies are under the obligation to declare once per year “that the recommendations of the ‘Government Commission on the German Corporate Governance Code’ published by the Federal Ministry of Justice in the official section of the Bundesanzeiger [German Federal Gazette]” were complied with and will continue to be complied with or which recommendations were not or will not be applied and why (Statement of Compliance). The majority of the recommendations added to the Code in 2012 were implemented, i.e. they were integrated into internal company workflows and pending decisions. The only recommendations not complied with are two of the new recommendations, because we feel that the current practice in our company is preferable. Otherwise, the deviations explained last year remained unchanged. We thus comply with the explicit note in the Code that deviations from the recommendations may well be in the interest of good corporate governance. The Board of Management and Supervisory Board submitted the current Statement of Compliance on 5 December 2012 and made it available to the shareholders on the company’s web site together with statements from previous years. The company complies with the recommenM ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 137 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R ep or t / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt dations of the German Corporate Governance Code apart from a handful of exceptions; the Statement is updated at short notice if necessary. With respect to the declared deviations and the reasons for these deviations, reference is made to the exact wording, which is reproduced in full in the above Corporate Governance Declaration. Members of the Supervisory Board shall as a rule step down at the Annual General Meeting held after they reach the age of 75, and not later than upon reaching the age of 80, in accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board. The appointment of Members to the Board of Management should as a rule not extend beyond their 65th birthday, and shall end not later than upon their reaching the age of 75. These requirements are currently met without exception, although the terms of office of the Chairman of the Supervisory Board Dr. Jacob and Board of Management member Prof. Dr. Hellmann exceed, by way of exception, the age limits recommended in the Rules of Procedure, but in each case will end well before they reach the binding age limits. Going forward, we will continue to monitor and respond quickly to further developments in the German Corporate Governance Code to ensure that suggestions and recommendations that are applicable to KSB are implemented in the interests of sustained transparency and growth in our enterprise value. At the same time we want to foster the trust which investors, financial markets, employees, the public and our customers, in particular, have placed in us. Shareholders and Annual General Meeting KSB AG issued both no-par value ordinary shares and no-par value preference shares. The holders of these shares, our shareholders, exercise their co-determination and control rights at the Annual General Meeting which is held at least once a year. Each shareholder is entitled to attend the Annual General Meeting in accordance with the requirements as stipulated in the Articles of Association and the law. If shareholders cannot or choose not to attend in person, they can opt to appoint a proxy who will exercise their voting rights on their behalf. In accordance with the Articles of Association, the Chair of the Supervisory Board presides over the Annual General Meeting. The Chair determines the order in which proceedings are conducted as well as the type and form of voting. The Chair may reasonably restrict the time allocated to questions and speeches by shareholders and, at the start of or during the course of the Annual General Meeting, set time limits for the entire proceedings of the Meeting, the discussion of the various items on the agenda as well as on individual questions and speeches. The Annual General Meeting reaches decisions pertaining to all of the duties and responsibilities assigned to it by law (e.g. appropriation of net retained earnings, amendments to the Articles of Association, election of Supervisory Board members). Each ordinary share authorises the holder to one vote. The preference shares only entitle holders to voting rights as prescribed by law but carry progressive additional dividend rights. Klein Pumpen GmbH, Frankenthal, holds approximately 80 % of the ordinary shares; the KSB Stiftung [KSB Foundation], Stuttgart, holds a majority stake in Klein Pumpen GmbH. 138 G E NER A L INFORMAT ION Responsible cooperation between the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board Good corporate governance requires an ongoing development of the dual management system prescribed for German public limited companies in all sections of the business. This begins with independent management by the Board of Management which is monitored and advised by the Supervisory Board. To promote effective management, the Rules of Procedure for both bodies specifically state that business shall be conducted in accordance with the German Corporate Governance Code, with any departure from compliance with the recommendations in justifiable, individual instances being disclosed by the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. Continuous dialogue based on mutual trust between the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board provides an important foundation for the success of the company. Their common goal is to generate appropriate, sustainable returns through the systematic pursuit and implementation of these principles. Both bodies thus collaborate closely for the benefit of the company. The Supervisory Board receives regular, timely, comprehensive updates from the Board of Management regarding all planning, business development, risk position and compliance issues which are relevant to the company. Decisions of fundamental importance must be approved by the Supervisory Board. Any departure in business performance from the formulated plans and objectives is discussed in depth and openly; particular importance is attached to maintaining strict confidentiality towards other persons. The principles of the company’s strategic and organisational alignment are defined in close cooperation between the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board and are reviewed constantly. At times the Supervisory Board also convenes without the Board of Management in order to intensify the exchange of ideas within the Board. Between meetings the Chairman of the Supervisory Board and other Supervisory Board members were in regular contact with the Board of Management, in particular with its Chairman to discuss matters of strategy, planning, business development, risk assessment, risk management and compliance. Transparency KSB considers it extremely important to provide capital market participants with regular, comprehensive, consistent and prompt information on the Group’s economic situation. Reporting takes place via annual reports, half-year financial reports and interim reports. All publications are published within the time frames specified. In addition, we provide information by means of press releases and ad hoc statements whenever necessary. All information can be viewed online (web site: www.ksb.com). At the web site, you will also find our financial calendar which contains the scheduled dates for major recurring events and publications. In the event that any directors’ dealings take place which are subject to reporting requirements, you will find the relevant information on our web site at “Investor Relations / Corporate Governance / Directors’ Dealings.” M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 139 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R ep or t / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt KSB AG created an insider directory as required by section 15b of the WpHG [Wertpapierhandelsgesetz – German Securities Trading Act]. Those persons affected are informed of their current legal obligations and potential sanctions. The aggregate of all shares in KSB AG held by members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board, either directly or indirectly, does not exceed a total of 1 % of the shares issued. Members of the Board of Management and Supervisory Board are under the obligation to act in the company’s interests. When making their decisions, they must neither pursue personal interests nor use for their own purposes any business opportunities that present themselves for the company. Any conflicts of interest must be disclosed to the Supervisory Board immediately. Should the need arise, the Annual General Meeting must be informed of any conflicts of interest and how they were dealt with. When presenting nominations for Supervisory Board members to the Annual General Meeting, the Supervisory Board discloses the personal and business relationships of each candidate to the company, the corporate bodies and substantial company shareholders, provided that – in the opinion of the Supervisory Board – an objective shareholder would consider this information as decisive for his or her voting decision. Accounting and audit of the financial statements The consolidated financial statements and interim financial statements of KSB are prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRSs) as adopted by the European Union. After the consolidated financial statements have been prepared by the Board of Management, they are audited by the auditors elected by the Annual General Meeting (BDO AG Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft) and approved by the Supervisory Board. Prior to the publication of interim reports and the half-year financial report, these are discussed with the Audit Committee. An agreement has been reached with the auditors that the Chair of the Supervisory Board or the Chair of the Audit Committee shall be notified immediately of any substantial findings or issues which emerge during the audit or of any grounds for exclusion or partiality. Management parameters and control system In addition to order intake and sales revenue, our key performance indicators for the management of the KSB Group are the return on sales and our net financial position (i.e. the difference between cash and cash equivalents and interest-bearing investments on the one hand, and financial liabilities on the other). We also attach great importance to managing our activities in accordance with the economic value added (EVA) concept. Our internal control system is based both on guidelines and regulations that specify standard procedures as well as our Group-wide risk management system. The organisation and implementation of this risk management system are documented in a manual. All Group units are responsible for identifying and assessing risks and reporting these to Group headquarters. They must also initiate countermeasures to avert or limit any damage. 140 G E NER A L INFORMAT ION Reporting on identified risks and the countermeasures initiated is an integral part of the planning and controlling process. The Supervisory Board’s Audit Committee also looks at the reported risks on a regular basis. KSB identifies and communicates the risks based on the following categories: Market / Competition Projects / Products Finance / Liquidity Procurement Technology / Research and Development Environment Human resources Other risks The Internal Audits department performs regular reviews to establish to what extent the specified guidelines and regulations are observed and whether the operating units are appropriately involved in risk management. Compliance as a key task of corporate management Compliance in the sense of implementing measures to ensure observance of applicable law and internal guidelines by Group units is one of the Board of Management’s key management tasks. The Board of Management expressed its requirement of professional, honest conduct within our Group-wide Code of Conduct. In addition to internal contact persons, employees can also contact an ombudsman via a whistleblower hotline if they discover that certain laws or company regulations, for instance of criminal or cartel/anti-trust relevance, are being violated. An external law firm is on hand which will promptly forward any information to the Group Compliance Officer. Some fundamental statements contained in the Code of Conduct are addressed in more detail in other, separate guidelines. This particularly applies to the areas of anti-trust or cartel law and anti-corruption measures. The applicable laws and regulations are explained in greater detail and useful information on proper conduct in concrete situations is provided. The latter is similarly applicable to the guidelines prohibiting insider trading. A major focus of compliance activities in 2012 was the aligning of our Compliance Management System to the established auditing standards of the Institut der Wirtschaftsprüfer [Institute of Public Auditors] in Germany (IDW); the result confirmed the progress made in the last few years as regards securing a structured, integrated approach. This financial year, the optimisation of appropriate organisational structures and processes will be a priority. We will complete the Group-wide training programme began in 2012 on corruption prevention and antitrust risks, and repeat it regularly. The e-learning training sessions will largely replace the previous classroom training. Once again, international projects were randomly audited for compliance with specific compliance issues within the scope of correlated control measures aimed at securing the targeted preventive effects. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 141 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R ep or t / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt Remuneration of the Supervisory Board The remuneration of the Supervisory Board members is governed by the Articles of Association of KSB Aktiengesellschaft and the supplementary resolution of the Annual General Meeting dated 16 May 2012. According to the provisions of the Articles of Association, Supervisory Board members shall receive lump sum remuneration in the amount of € 6,000 for the financial year. The Chair is entitled to twice this amount and the Deputy Chair is entitled to one and a half times the amount. In addition, the members of the Supervisory Board receive an attendance fee of € 2,000 per meeting of the Supervisory Board and its committees they attend; the attendance fee for committee chairpersons is € 3,000 per committee meeting attended. No attendance fees are paid for meetings of the Committee pursuant to section 27(3) of the MitbestG [German Co-determination Act]. The members of the Supervisory Board are also covered by directors’ and officers’ liability insurance taken out by the company on behalf of the members of the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board at standard market conditions. Finally, Supervisory Board members receive dividend-dependent remuneration for the financial year. For every 25 cents by which the dividend distributed to ordinary shareholders exceeds the amount of € 1, the remuneration paid out to Supervisory Board members amounts to € 1,200 for the chair, € 900 for the deputy chair and € 600 for the remaining members. According to the contents of the resolution of the Annual General Meeting dated 16 May 2012, the Supervisory Board members also receive compensation for activities relating to the duties of the Supervisory Board that go beyond the preparation and conduct of meetings of the Supervisory Board and its committees. Compensation for the time invested shall be based on an hourly rate of € 250. The maximum amount of additional remuneration for all Supervisory Board members is € 900,000 per calendar year; for the period from 1 June 2012 to 31 December 2012 the maximum amount is € 525,000. The representatives of IG Metall on the Supervisory Board declare that they will pay their Supervisory Board remuneration to the Hans-Böckler-Stiftung [Hans Böckler Foundation] in line with DGB [Association of German Trade Unions] guidelines. Any additional remuneration is reserved for determination by the Annual General Meeting. The total remuneration paid to members of the Supervisory Board in 2012 amounted to € 1,409 thousand (previous year: € 1,332 thousand). 142 G E NER A L INFORMAT ION Remuneration of the Board of Management (Remuneration Report) The Remuneration Report summarises the principles applied when determining the remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management of KSB Aktiengesellschaft. It is prepared in accordance with the recommendations of the German Corporate Governance Code (subsection 4.2.5) and explains the remuneration system in place for Board of Management members. This system is geared towards sustainable corporate development. It is adopted by the Supervisory Board plenary session based on the recommendation of the Personnel Committee and reviewed at regular intervals. The same applies to individual Board of Management compensation amounts. The remuneration arrangements for the Board of Management are structured as clearly and transparently as possible. The total amount of remuneration for the individual Board of Management members is determined based on various parameters. Criteria for assessing the appropriateness of the remuneration include the responsibilities of the individual Board of Management members, their personal performance, the economic situation, the company’s results and prospects as well as customary remuneration amounts when taking peer companies and the remuneration structure used elsewhere within the company into consideration. The remuneration of the Board of Management consists of fixed and variable components. Fixed components are granted regardless of performance and consist of a fixed sum plus benefits, as well as pension commitments (retirement, disability, widow’s or orphan’s pension). The fixed sum makes up 60 % of the maximum annual salary and is paid out as a monthly basic remuneration. All Board of Management members are equally entitled to the accompanying fringe benefits which include the private use of a company car, payment of insurance premiums and any payments associated with a post-contractual non-competition clause. No loans or advance payments were granted to members of the Board of Management in the year under review. To ensure the sustainability of the nature of the remuneration, the variable remuneration component consists mainly of components determined on the basis of a multi-year assessment. They are partly based (60 %) on the degree of implementation of the corporate strategy and its actual market success, and on the return on investment (20 %), which is measured according to the “economic value added” method based on a past average value over a medium-term horizon. The short-term share (20 %) is based on the development of the net financial position in the respective financial year as compared with the planned development. The total amount of the variable remuneration components is limited in order to take extraordinary, unforeseen developments into account. The weighting factors above do not reflect the additional possibility of a bonus, to be paid out in individual cases at the discretion of the Supervisory Board, of no more than three monthly salary payments per financial year in recognition of any special performance of individual members of the Board of Management. Such decisions are only made on an irregular basis, meaning that they do not necessarily have to be made annually. Furthermore, when entering into any Board of Management contract it is agreed that payments made to a Board of Management member in the event that his or her Board of Management tenure is terminated prematurely without good reason shall not exceed the value of two years’ remuneration including fringe benefits (settlement cap in accordance with section 4.2.3 of the German Corporate Governance Code). No other payments have been promised to any Board of Management members in the event of termination of service; similarly no compensation will be paid in the event of a takeover offer. If the employment contract is terminated for good reason for which the Board of Management Member is responsible, the company shall not make any severance payments. On 19 May 2010 – using a legally permissible option – the Annual General Meeting again resolved not to disclose the details of the compensation for individual members of the Board of Management for a period of five years. The total remuneration of the members of the Board of Management for their activities in the 2012 financial year was € 2,620 thousand. No stock options or other share-based payment arrangements are granted to members of the Board of Management. Further disclosures on the remuneration of the Board of Management can be found in section IX. of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. M ANAGEMENT A ND ISSUES 2012 GROUP MANAGEMENT REP O RT CO N S O L IDATE D FIN A N CIA L S TATE M E N TS G E N E RA L IN FO RM ATIO N 143 C o rpo rate Go v e rn an c e R ep or t / R e m u n e rati o n R e po rt Gl o ssary GL OS S ARY KE Y C O R P O R AT E A ND TEC HNI C AL TER M S Canned motor Glandless pump Pelton turbine River turbine See Glandless pump. Pump close-coupled to an electric A water impulse turbine in which a A turbine which generates electricmotor whose rotor chamber is strong water jet impacts against a ity from water power. Cavitation ﬁlled with the ﬂuid pumped. The wheel, or runner, ﬁtted with spoonFormation and subsequent implostator is separated from the rotor shaped buckets. It was designed Submersible motor sion of cavities in ﬂuids as a result via a can and remains dry. in 1879 by the American engineer Electric motor whose rotor and of pressure ﬂuctuations, causing Lester Pelton. stator are surrounded by ﬂuid. considerable economic damage. Global Compact A global initiative for businesses Permeate Synchronous reluctance ERP Directive and organisations launched by the The ﬂuid that has penetrated the motor The “Eco-design Directive” deﬁnes United Nations with the aim of membrane in a reverse osmosis Highly energy-efﬁcient motors the requirements for the environshaping social and ecological gloprocess. whose specially designed rotor lammentally sound design of energybalisation. inations guide the lines of magnetic related (i.e. energy-using) products Polymer materials ﬂux. Rare earths are not required (ErP). Intermetallic materials Materials which are made up of to manufacture these motors. Compounds of two or more materia multitude of molecules built from Gesellschaft für als characterised by hardness, and one or more types of atoms or BRIC countries internatio nale Zusammencorrosion and heat resistance. Due atom groups joined together in reGroup of emerging countries with arbeit (GIZ) to their chemical composition, they peating patterns. high economic growth. BRIC is [German Association for are classed in an intermediate an acronym of the capital letters of International Cooperation] category between metal alloys and Reverse osmosis Brazil, Russia, India and China. GIZ’s task ﬁeld focuses on educaceramics. Physical method to remove salt tion, health, energy supply and from water. This method is frepeace building activities. The organiKSB CARE quently applied to produce drinksation’s most important customer Aid fund of Asian KSB companies ing water by desalinating seais the Ministry for Economic Coopthat supports educational instituwater. eration and Development. tions. 144 G E NER A L INFORMAT ION CON TACT S E D I TOR As a signatory to the United Nations Global ComKSB Aktiengesellschaft pact , KSB is committed to endorsing the ten princiJohann-Klein-Straße 9 ples of the international community in the areas of 67227 Frankenthal human rights, labour standards, environmental Phone +49 6233 86-0 protection and anti-corruption. Fax +49 6233 86-3401 ONL I NE N E W S You will ﬁnd the latest news on the KSB Group at www.ksb.com Should you need additional information, please contact: I NVE S TO R R E L ATI O N S Ralf Pfundmaier Phone + 49 6233 86-2053 Fax + 49 6233 86-3454 E-mail: investor-relations@ksb.com COM MU N I C AT I O N S Ullrich Bingenheimer Phone + 49 6233 86-2138 Fax + 49 6233 86-3456 E-mail: ullrich.bingenheimer@ksb.com CONCE P T A N D D E S I G N KSB Communications (A-CC-G), Frankenthal 3st kommunikation, Mainz PHOTO S Robert Kwiatek (A-CC-G), Frankenthal Getty Images (p. 126 / 127) PRI NT I N G Ottweiler Druckerei und Verlag GmbH Ottweiler, Germany G L O BA L P R E S E N C E KSB manufactures its products on all five continents. With production sites in 22 countries and a tightly knit global sales and service network, KSB staff are always close at hand when customers need to pump or reliably shut off fluids. KSB production sites KSB sales / service sites EU R OPE Austria | Vienna Belarus | Minsk Belgium | Wavre G L O BA L P RE S E N CE Croatia | Zagreb Czech Republic | Prague Denmark | Glostrup Finland | Mänttä-Vilppula France | Châteauroux | Gennevilliers (Paris) | La Roche-Chalais | Lille Germany | Frankenthal | Halle | Pattensen | Pegnitz Greece | Amaroussion (Athens) Hungary | Budapest Italy | Concorezzo (Milan) | Vicenza Luxembourg | Echternach ASIA / PACIFIC Netherlands | Alphen | Zwanenburg | Velsen-Noord Australia | Tottenham (Melbourne) Norway | Lysaker China | Dalian | Lingang | Shanghai | Changzhou Poland | Warsaw India | Chinchwad | Coimbatore | Mala | Nashik | Portugal | Rio de Mouro (Lisbon) Pimpri | Vambori Russia | Moscow Indonesia | Jakarta Serbia | Belgrade Japan | Tokyo Slovak Republic | Bratislava Kazakhstan | Almaty Slovenia | Ljubljana Malaysia | Kuala Lumpur Spain | Burgos | Madrid | Zarautz New Zealand | Auckland Sweden | Gothenburg | Västra Frölunda Pakistan | Hassanabdal | Lahore Switzerland | Zurich | Beinwil am See Philippines | Manila Turkey | Ankara Singapore | Singapore Ukraine | Kiev South Korea | Seoul | Busan United Kingdom | Loughborough | Bridgwater Taiwan | Taipei Thailand | Bangkok MID D LE EA ST / A FR IC A Vietnam | Ho Chi Minh City Algeria | Algiers Egypt | Cairo AMERICAS Ghana | Accra Argentina | Carapachay (Buenos Aires) Kenya | Nairobi Brazil | Barueri | Várzea Paulista / São Paulo Libya | Tripoli Canada | Mississauga / Ontario Morocco | Casablanca Chile | Santiago Qatar | Doha Mexico | Querétaro Saudi Arabia | Riyadh | Al Khobar Peru | Lima South Africa | Germiston (Johannesburg) USA | Bakersfield / California | Grovetown / Georgia | United Arab Emirates | Abu Dhabi | Dubai Houston / Texas | Port Arthur / Texas | Richmond / Virginia F I NANCI A L C A L E N DA R 27 MARCH 2013 Financial press conference 10:00, Frankenthal 2 APRIL 2013 Invitation to Annual General Meeting 25 APRIL 2013 Interim report January – March 2013 15 MAY 2013 Annual General Meeting 15:00, Frankenthal 13 AUGUST 2013 Half-year ﬁnancial report January – June 2013 13 NOVEMBER 2013 Interim report January – September 2013 KSB Aktiengesellschaft 67225 Frankenthal (Germany) www.ksb.com
