This is an integrated annual report capturing economic, social and environmental value creation of Hayleys PLC in 2012/13 This Hayleys PLC annual report has been produced by This Hayleys PLC Smart Media The Annual Report Company, a certified annual report has been carbon neutral organisation. Additionally, the greenhouse prepared using the Integrated gas emissions resulting from activities outsourced by Reporting Methodology of Smart Media in the production of this annual report, Smart Media The Annual including the usage of paper and printing, are offset Report Company. through verified sources. FactandFiction Fiction is a forerunner to Fact at our enterprise P: 2 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Some facts. The Hayleys Group performance in 2012/13 soared ahead in terms of profitability, global markets and local value addition. Three of our lines of business Hand Protection, Purification and Transportation & Logistics crossed the Rs. 1 billion milestone in pre-tax profits. We continue to be a strong player in all three key sectors of the Sri Lankan economy agriculture, manufacturing and services. And more. In the world of innovation, Fiction is Fact under incubation. It’s about bringing reality to what is yet unknown. The ‘what if’ in business. The audacity to imagine. The spirit of enterprise is writ right across the success stories that characterise many of our businesses. Passionate, readiness to embrace challenge and the will to overcome are what drove us to design businesses from ground up; develop technology from first principles; and design plant and equipment from scratch. Our pioneering work in activated carbon and rubber gloves that have now grown to global businesses are just two shining examples. And there are more under incubation which will spur exponential growth in the years ahead. FactandFiction P: 3 SCAN To view Duration: 02.22 Summary of Annual Report P: 4 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Welcome to the World of Hayleys FactandFiction P: 5 FactandFiction Contents 8 10 12 16 This is Hayleys About Our Report Highlights Chairman’s letter Web Mob This Annual Report is published within three months HTML of the Balance Sheet date. The web and mobile HTML versions are also published online on the same date as the date of issue of this Annual Report at www.Hayleys.com P: 6 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 22 118 165 296 Management Stewardship Financial Reports Annexes Review and Board of Directors 118 Annual Report of the Ten year summary 296 Preview Board of Directors on the Group Management Value of Real Estate 298 Affairs of the Company 166 Our Portfolio of Committee 124 Country Report 300 Businesses 22 Statement of Directors’ Corporate Governance 129 Responsibilities 174 Information of Reporting Parameters 24 Risk Management 158 Shareholders 302 Chairman and Chief Operating Environment 32 Executive’s and Group Group Companies 304 Group Goals and Chief Financial Officer’s Awards Received Strategies 38 Responsibility Statement 175 During the Reporting Sector Reviews 40 Audit Committee Report 176 Period 307 Delivering and Remuneration Memberships 311 Deriving Value 86 Committee Report 178 Milestones 313 Independent GRI Content Index 314 Auditors’ Report 179 Glossary of Financial Financial Statements 180 Terms 321 Notice of Meeting 322 Form of Proxy Enclosed Corporate Information Inner Back Cover FactandFiction P: 7 This is Hayleys Hayleys is one of Sri Lanka’s largest multinational conglomerates with a history spanning 135 years Vision Mission Values To be Sri Lanka’s Delivering superior Integrity Respect for People corporate inspiration shareholder value by Ethical and Treating everyone with at all times. unleashing the full transparent in all our respect and dignity, potential of our people dealings developing our employees and achieving leadership and rewarding them for in all our domestic and good performance. global businesses. P: 8 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 The Company’s subsidiaries in Sri Lanka and overseas drive a globally competitive business portfolio encompassing 12 defined sectors of enterprise cutting across manufacturing, agriculture and services. Commencing commercial operations in 1878 as Chas. P. Hayley and Company, we were incorporated as Hayleys Limited 61 years ago. Embracing innovation and entrepreneurship, we’ve added value for people and businesses across the country and beyond. It is this spirit that has characterised our growth and the building of a strong and successful enterprise that is active in local and global markets. In addition to Sri Lanka, Hayleys today has manufacturing facilities in Indonesia and Thailand, and marketing operations in Australia, India, Bangladesh, Italy, Japan, The long tradition of Hayleys’ diversification, innovation and advances in The Netherlands, UK and USA. The Group accounts for the fibre sector begins with coir fibre, an important natural raw material. The Company would later expand into coir mats and matting, and produce 3.17% of Sri Lanka’s export income, and 4.5% of tea and curled coir fibre for upholstery. The backbone of the business for more 2.2% of rubber production. than forty years, the coir fibre sector of the Hayleys Group currently offers Erosion Control, Bedding and Upholstery, Brushes, Horticulture, Industrial Fibres, Doormats, and Growing Media. Lasting Customer Good Citizenship Teamwork Accountability Value caring for the communities Working with Holding ourselves Enhancing in which we work, actively each other and responsible to deliver experiences for every supporting their growth our partners what we promise. customer, from the and being environmentally across boundaries rural farmer to the responsible in all to make things global consumer we do. happen. FactandFiction This is Hayleys P: 9 About Our Report Our annual report for financial year 2012/13 adopts a format that is both contemporary and evolving P: 10 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 It is a different approach to reporting which attempts The information contained in this report, as in the past, to communicate more coherently and concisely the is in compliance with all applicable laws, regulations inter-dependence of the many facets of our enterprise and standards as well as guidelines for voluntary strategy, governance, performance and prospects disclosures. In particular, we are in compliance with the in the context of the triple bottom line. In short, it is an financial reporting standards of The Institute of Chartered integrated report. Accountants of Sri Lanka including the new requirements following the convergence of the Sri Lanka Accounting Our integrated reporting largely reflects the way we Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) with the International do business by acknowledging the linkages between Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), the laws and the economic, environmental and social impacts of our regulations of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the enterprise while we pursue sustainable stakeholder value Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) and creation. The report also provides insights on how we subsequent amendments. We continue to adhere to the relate to our key stakeholder groups, how our strategic requirements of the Code of Best Practice on Corporate objectives create and sustain value, as well as what Governance issued jointly by The Institute of Chartered our expectations are for the future. Further, given the Accounts of Sri Lanka and the Securities and Exchange increasing relevance of intangible capitals, Commission of Sri Lanka. we have included some of these aspects in our management discussion. As before, the various metrics regarding our performance on sustainability is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 guidelines; but in keeping with the integrated nature of reporting, they are disclosed under appropriate topics, and not as a separate chapter. FactandFiction About Our Report P: 11 Highlights 2012/13 2011/12 Change 2010/11 Rs. mn Rs. mn % Rs. mn Revenue 74,302 65,807 13 54,370 Group Profit Before Tax 5,025 2,561 96 2,041 Group Profit After Tax 3,619 1,646 120 1,137 Profit Attributable to Owners of the Parent 1,854 1,038 79 677 Dividends 338 300 13 300 Shareholders’ Funds 22,475 18,372 22 15,258 Company Market Capitalisation 22,403 27,000 (17) 28,658 Group Market Capitalisation 45,710 49,361 (7) 54,092 Group Investments 5,364 5,171 3.7 918 Group Value Addition 18,744 13,825 36 11,090 Revenue to Government 3,144 2,601 21 1,523 Group Employment (Persons) 35,373 36,383 9 31,651 Per Share Earnings (Basic) (Rs.) 24.72 13.84 79 9.03 Market Value (Year-end) (Rs.) 298.70 360.00 (17) 382.10 Net assets (Year-end) (Rs.) 448.94 379.32 18 316.52 Dividend (Rs.) 4.50 4.00 13 4.00 Price Earnings (Year-end) (Times) 12.08 26.01 (54) 42.31 Ratio Gross Profit (%) 23.0% 20.3% 20.8% Interest Cover (Times) 2.2 1.9 2.5 Dividend Yield (%) 1.5 1.1 1.0 Dividend Payout Ratio (%) 18.2 28.9 44.3 Current Ratio (Times) 1.0 1.0 1.1 74,302 65,807 54,370 38,169 32,356 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Revenue (Rs. mn) 74,302 P: 12 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Shareholders’ Funds Vs Market Capitalisation (Rs. ’000) 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Shareholders’ Funds 12,355,639 15,343,377 15,257,985 18,371,770 22,474,838 Market Capitalisation 6,750,000 16,875,000 28,658,000 27,000,000 22,403,000 Revenue PAT Profit attributable to owners increased by increased by of the parent increased by 13% 120% 79% 36,383 35,373 33,711 31,651 30,177 08 09 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Total No. of Employees 35,373 FactandFiction Highlights P: 13 Highlights Customers We place our customers No. of Key No. of new customers at the very heart of our Customers acquired during the year enterprise. We have a diverse customer base, both over over 500 local and foreign, spread 80,000 across manufacturing, agriculture and services. Average length of a customer relationship over 10 years Suppliers No. of Key Average length of a Suppliers Supplier relationship Our value creation begins over over with the products and services provided by 1,800 10 years suppliers. Our supplier base is diverse, ranging from local micro enterprises to world54,276 class global companies in 43,722 (Rs. mn) varied sectors. 40,545 (Rs. mn) (Rs. mn) 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 Value of Inputs Purchased P: 14 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Employees Total workforce by employment Executive & above 2,461 type We have in place a culture that moulds a winning team. Clerical & Supervisory 3,058 We recruit, train, develop and motivate our people to Manual Grade 29,854 deliver their best. Investment in Staff composition Training by gender over 19,926 Rs. 46 mn 15,447 Society and Number of people Investment in impacted through community Environment community related related activities activities (Rs.) The enterprise of Hayleys has touched the lives of over over many, both directly and 235,000 650 mn indirectly. Total GHG emissions (carbon footprint) of the Group 54,783 tCO2e FactandFiction Highlights P: 15 Chairman’s Letter Hand Protection, Purification and Transportation & Logistics sectors posted record breaking results P: 16 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 FactandFiction Chairman’s Letter P: 17 Chairman’s Letter Dear Shareholder, Billion-rupee businesses It was against this not-very-encouraging background that It is in difficult times that the benefits of diversification three of our business sectors posted the record breaking are most appreciated. 2012/13 was certainly a difficult results referred to above. In the Hand-Protection sector, year, both for the world economy and, to a lesser extent, a combination of leaner operations, product innovation Sri Lanka’s. Yet despite far-from-ideal business conditions, and the energetic pursuit of new markets earned the Hayleys, the only diversified Sri Lankan conglomerate to sector pre-tax profits of Rs. 1.3 bn despite significant enjoy significant presence in agriculture, manufacturing downturns in key European markets. Dipped Products and services, earned pre-tax profits of over a billion rupees also took steps to streamline its supply chain, while latex in each of three key fields of activity: Hand Protection, price movements were closely monitored in order to Purification and Transportation & Logistics. The results in optimise pricing. these sectors contributed significantly towards the year’s very satisfactory Group revenue and profit before tax The Purification sector earned PBT of Rs. 1.2 bn, figures; revenue grew by 13% to reach Rs. 74 bn, whilst as demand for quality activated carbon products profit before tax soared 96% to Rs. 5 bn. manufactured by Haycarb remained solid, particularly in emerging markets. To meet it, Haycarb has been investing These remarkable results were achieved against a in added production capacity in Sri Lanka, Thailand and background of respectable growth in the Sri Lankan Indonesia. The Company has also been working to secure economy. Monetary policy was tight, resulting in higher access to competitively-priced raw material supplies interest rates and lower access to capital, and in parallel, along with increased focus on high value carbons in the free float of the Sri Lanka rupee resulted in significant order to enhance its margins. Haycarb products are used depreciation. Such measures were undoubtedly necessary around the world in a variety of applications such as air to stabilise an economy at risk from overheating, but they and water purification, gold mining and energy storage, resulted in higher finance costs for the Group. However, and they are likely to remain in strong demand for the the float of the rupee has helped our export businesses foreseeable future. adjust to domestic cost changes and thereby remain competitive in the global market. Meanwhile, we have The Transportation & Logistics Sector was our third star been actively exploring alternative sources of finance such performer this year, with profit before tax of Rs. 1.06 bn, as off-shore capital and corporate-debt instruments. the highest ever. This sector, too, did exceptionally well under trying conditions: Sri Lanka’s trade contracted Another factor affecting business performance was during the year under review, with imports declining rising energy costs, which had a particular impact on in response to tighter monetary policy measures and manufacturing. In agriculture we faced a different set of exports depressed due to continued economic weakness challenges arising from unseasonable droughts and floods in key international markets. Slowing economic growth in various parts of the country. in India also had its effect on the sector, resulting in lower transhipment volumes at Colombo. Under the Overseas, the macroeconomic picture was even cloudier, circumstances, Hayleys Advantis focused on relationshipwith sluggish growth in our best markets, Europe and the building with principals and other stakeholders, and US. Growth also slowed in emerging economies and new successfully developed new agencies as well as economic powers. Since much of the Group business is developing its energy logistics operations. Our 3PL export driven, such developments had clear strategic as business and other inland logistics activities well as tactical implications for us. performed well. P: 18 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Profitability in diversity We embarked on a number of new sectoral ventures during the year including exploring the export market, Hayleys is a major player in the plantation sector, licensed contract manufacturing and a number of new accounting for 4.5% of Sri Lanka’s tea and 2.2% of its value-added products. rubber production. This sector, too, recorded its highestever profits since privatisation: profit before tax for the Our 10 MW wind power project in Kalpitiya was fully year stood at Rs. 966 mn, a year-on-year increase of connected to the national grid, and results have been 131%. Though business costs rose, innovative practices very positive. We remain bullish on renewable energy and helped our plantation companies remain competitive are currently in the process of expanding our renewable and profitable. We continued to lead the industry’s energy portfolio. drive for sustainability, reflecting both Group ethics and the changing attitudes of consumers. Attention to A major development during the year was the reopening manufacturing best practices and sustainability thus pays of the Ceylon Continental Hotel under its new name, The consistent dividends in the form of higher auction prices Kingsbury. The performance of this 229-room investment for our tea and rubber. since its expansion has been encouraging. The Amaya Group, the resorts arm of our Leisure & Aviation sector, Despite the adverse climatic conditions referred to earlier, also continued to perform well, and we have increased the Agriculture Sector returned pre-tax profit of capacity there. In the Leisure & Aviation sector, Hayleys Rs. 700 mn. Its performance is all the more commendable represents British Airways, which became the first given that tight credit conditions prevailed during the year, European carrier to recommence online operations to increasing the cost of financing for agricultural machinery Sri Lanka after the end of the conflict. The holistic and other inputs. Already present at every point along the approach we have taken towards this sector, combining agricultural value chain, from farming inputs to advanced hotels, a travel agency, destination management and R&D and biotechnology, Hayleys further expanded its airline GSAs, creates strong synergies that help us take range of agricultural inputs, streamlined its supply chains advantage of a booming industry. and developed new value added products for the market. An encouraging turnaround was seen in the Fibre Sector, Our domestic distribution operations had a mixed year. which contributed a profit compared to an operating Higher interest rates and a weaker rupee temporarily loss the previous year. This was achieved through leaner depressed consumer spending, though long-term manufacturing operations, factory consolidations and prospects for the sector are good, as rising incomes are mergers within the sector, combined with active product expected to drive demand for world-renowned brands development and marketing. There remains a lot to be in the Sri Lankan market. Accordingly, the Consumer done to realise the full potential of this sector, and we are Products sector launched a number of new products moving in the right direction. during the year, leveraging existing distribution channels and brands. The Textile Sector, though, still remained in the red, reduced its losses and a turnaround is expected. Recent investments in leisure, construction materials A number of changes have been implemented and a new and renewable energy are making strong and growing ERP system, SAP, is now operational, while changes in contributions to our bottom line. Construction is presently key management will bring experience and dynamism to enjoying a boom in Sri Lanka and our Construction this sector. A number of cost-reduction strategies were Materials sector contributed a profit before tax of also successfully implemented without undermining the Rs. 375 mn to the Group results, an increase of 232%. quality of the end product. FactandFiction Chairman’s Letter P: 19 Chairman’s Letter Delivering and deriving value these economies also increases demand for household gloves. The challenges here will come from balancing Our businesses embrace appropriate sustainability costs with quality as the supply of cheap products with practices, ranging from energy-efficient operations questionable quality becomes more abundant. and pollution control to supply-chain management and equitable labour policies. Along with their positive impact Haycarb’s activated carbon products are used around on stakeholders, these practices contribute directly to the world in a wide variety of applications. Demand for our bottom line. In addition, some core businesses, them will only increase as growing populations put greater such as renewable energy, are of intrinsic benefit to the pressure on natural resources and the environment, environment. Maintaining this balance is part of our wider placing pure air and water at an increasing premium; commitment to the nation, which also sees the Hayleys meanwhile, the use of activated carbon for energy Group provide direct employment for more than 33,000 storage, a maturing technology, shows enormous future individuals. potential. Our purification systems arm, Puritas, will It is pleasing to note the recognitions for our commitment continue to invest in R&D and expand its product portfolio to sustainability and good governance practices. In the and market footprint. year under review, the Group was ranked amongst the Transportation & Logistics is another sector in which three ‘Most Respected Business Entities in Sri Lanka’ in Hayleys is well positioned for the long term. As global a survey conducted by Lanka Monthly Digest, which also economic activity shifts towards Asia over the next placed the Group first for ‘Nation-Mindedness’. decade, Sri Lanka’s potential as a trading hub and transhipment centre serving two of the world’s largest A future rich with opportunity economies India and China will increase. Hayleys will Diversity, along with effective risk management, has left be in a strong position to provide the transportation and us well positioned to take advantage of the many and logistical services that will be in demand. The realisation various business opportunities that arise in a global of this is greatly dependent on the Sri Lankan Government economy. In the coming years, the focus of that economy following the policies required to attract the necessary will shift increasingly towards Asia as millions of citizens investment to make the regional-hub status a reality. in emerging economies make the transition to middleIn agriculture too, we see tremendous opportunity in class lifestyles and values. This will create enormous greater mechanisation, value addition and technological new markets for our products; however, it will also lead input where Hayleys could contribute. As the global to further depletion of natural resources and put greater demand for agricultural commodities grows with rising pressure on the environment. I am confident that, in this population and expectations, Sri Lanka, which is expected exciting yet challenging future, Hayleys is well-positioned to enjoy abundant water resources for decades to come, for continued growth and success, creating value for all will become formidable producer. our stakeholders. In the Hand Protection sector, long-term potential A different approach to reporting remains positive. Health and safety concerns are bringing We regard sustainability as an integrated process, just increased regulation to emerging economies, driving as much as business is an integral part of society and its demand for industrial and medical gloves, while greater environment. We are a signatory to the United Nations wealth coupled with changes in lifestyle preferences in Global Compact, which underlines our respect for and commitment to international standards. We continue P: 20 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 to be guided by these principles. Our reporting for FY In light of the results achieved this year, the Board of 2012/13 too reflects this philosophy. We are reporting on Directors have proposed a dividend of Rs. 4.50 per share sustainability using the same GRI G3.1 guidelines as in to be paid on 8th July, 2013. the previous year, but instead of a separate chapter, we have addressed the principles and disclosures in relevant I would like to conclude by expressing my gratitude and sections throughout the report. Our annual report as a appreciation to our customers, suppliers, principals and all whole is a self declared GRI G3.1 Application Level B. the other stakeholders who have continued to co-operate We will consider having the GRI aspects also assured as closely with us over the years. I thank the staff of Hayleys, per the new format as we further refine our approach to who have worked hard to deliver this year’s recordintegrated reporting. breaking performance. Although we label this as our ‘first’ integrated annual Mr. J.A.G. Anandarajah, who has served on the Board of report, it may interest some to refer the innovative Hayleys since 2007, retired this year, completing a 33-year approach we adopted way back when reporting career within the Hayleys Group. Mr. Anandarajah made a for FY 2002/03 our 125th anniversary, particularly tremendous contribution, particularly in the development in showcasing the interplay between our tangible of DPL, which he joined in 1980. Please join me in and intangible capitals, proof that sustainablility and thanking him for his service to Hayleys and wishing him responsible stewardship have been ingrained in the well in his retirement. Mr. Ruwan Waidyaratne has been Hayleys culture virtually from the inception of the Group appointed to the Board of Hayleys as of April 2013 as 135 years ago. The seeds of our integrated reporting an Executive Director. Mr. Waidyaratne is at present the were sown then, as we now witness the concept taking Managing Director of Hayleys Advantis, bringing with him root globally. What was then out of the box thinking and 28 years of industry experience. We wish him a successful style of reporting although some may have called it pure career on the Board. fiction is now a solid fact. Finally, I should like to place on record my special The Group also complied with the new Sri Lankan appreciation of the support and guidance provided by the Accounting Standards (SLFRS and/LKAS) effective from Deputy Chairman and the Board of Directors of Hayleys. 1st January, 2012 and this report has been produced in accordance with the first time adoption requirement of these standards. In conclusion Mohan Pandithage It has been, overall, a very positive year for the Hayleys Chairman & Chief Executive Group, but considering the global potential of most of our businesses we retain tremendous capacity for 20th May, 2013 growth. While the Board and I focus on the strategic development of this potential, I have ensured that each of our sectors is led by professionals with the appropriate expertise and experience. Having the right people in the right places has ensured that your Company has delivered strong results and will continue to do so in the ensuing years. FactandFiction Chairman’s Letter P: 21 Management Review and Preview Our Portfolio of Businesses Turnover 1.8% 11.6% 16.8% 4.2% Europe 2.8% 5.3% 10.5% 0.5% Americas 0.9% 0.2% 1.3% 1.1% Africa 0.1% Fibre Hand Purification Textiles Construction Agriculture Protection Material 2.3% 12.0% 4.8% 12.9% 1.9% Asia 0.8% 1.9% 0.6% 1.4% 19.8% Indirect Export 0.0% 36.3% 7.0% Sri Lanka 2.4% 0.2% Australia 0.3% 0.9% Plantations Transportation Consumer Leisure Power & Energy Investments & Logistics Products & Aviation /Industry Inputs & Services Management Review and Preview Our Portfolio of Businesses Fibre Construction Materials Export: 97.6% Local: 2.4% Export: 1.3% Local: 98.7% Hayleys Fibre provides innovative eco-friendly fibre based solutions to the world. The product range Ventured into overseas markets mainly India, Maldives and Bangladesh backed by a solid 52% includes coir and rubber based floor mats for homes, gardens and industry, mattresses, cushions, domestic market share in the manufacture of aluminium extrusions. With sound industry expertise professional industrial and household brushware, horticulture and erosion control products such as geo spanning over two and half decades and undisputed domestic market leadership, the Alumex textiles, stitch blankets; coir pots, poles, weed control mats and coir fibre pith. Currently, a number of product portfolio offers a wide range of innovative high quality extrusions in over 700 designs for breakthrough innovations are undergoing testing with patents pending. the fabrication of windows (sliding, casement, top hung, pivoted, tilt, fixed), curtain walls, skylights, tubes, pipes, partitions, shop fronts and a range of hardware items. Hand Protection Agriculture Export: 99.6% Local: 0.4% Export: 26.3% Local: 73.7% 5% global market share of non medical rubber gloves boosted by a milestone Rs. 1 bn Covering 90% of the country’s retail outlets for agri-inputs, continued to diversify the range of profit before tax. The Hand Protection Sector offers a range of latex gloves for the medical, general agricultural produce and exports. The Agriculture Sector offers a wide range of agricultural inputs purpose consumer and industrial market segments. The range of products are continually expanded and value added agri products for the domestic and global markets. Hayleys Agriculture engages to meet the emerging needs of the customers in terms of hand protection solutions while rewith the rural farming and plantation communities closely and provides them the required support engineering the existing offers to create added value and differentiation against the competition. With and technology through agricultural extension services and CSR initiatives that establish sustainable distribution in 70 countries, capability to manufacture latex gloves for any industry, together with a partnerships. The Sector is also engaged in bio technology and produces a range of tissue culture unique community development programme targeting rubber growers sets the Sector apart in the plantlets, seeds, processed fruits and vegetables etc. for the domestic and export markets. global glove industry. Plantations Purification Export: 100% Local: 0% Export: 100% Local: 0% Hayleys Plantations accounts for 4.5% of Sri Lanka’s tea and 2.2% of its rubber production and Landmark Rs. 1 bn profit before tax cements a ...% global market share and leadership position as employs over 25,000 people. The Plantation Sector is led by two regional plantation companies, the world’s largest manufacturer of coconut shell-derived activated carbon. Flagship Haycarb PLC Kelani Valley Plantations PLC and Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC. The companies together own and manufactures high quality standard and tailor-made coconut shell-based activated carbon in granular, manage 44 tea and rubber estates covering a total extent of nearly 19,500 hectares. The Sector fines, powder and pellet form for air and water purification applications, gold extraction and other includes Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd., a leading exporter of value added teas to over 50 countries. emerging applications. The Haycarb Group is also engaged in activated carbon regeneration and in the design, construction and operation of turnkey projects for raw and waste water treatment. Transportation and Logistics Export: 9.3% Local: 90.7% Textiles Recording the highest ever profit before tax of Rs. 1 bn, the Hayleys Transportation and Logistics Export: 98.7% Local: 1.3% Sector further consolidated its position as one of the leading shipping and freight forwarding businesses in the country. Hayleys Advantis Ltd., the Transportation and Logistics arm of Hayleys Completed a comprehensive turnaround programme focused on improving productivity, logistics PLC with over 50 years of industry presence, is a pioneer in providing integrated logistics solutions, and technical capability that will show positive results in 2013. Manufacturing weft knitted fabrics representing some of the world’s foremost shipping lines, international freight forwarders and that include cotton, viscose, modals and polyesters, our Textile Sector targets the domestic apparel the largest air express transportation company in Sri Lanka. As the market leader in Sri Lanka’s industry for ultimate buyers in Europe, UK and USA. The fabrics are made to customer requirements transportation and logistics industry, Hayleys Advantis provides integrated logistics, international to serve diverse types of applications. For instance they may be custom printed, brushed to freight management, marine services and terminals and engineering services, and is intent on going obtain different finishes or chemically treated to impart specific properties such as resistance to beyond the traditional borders of business through innovation and excellence. bacteria or moisture. P: 22 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Consumer Products FYE 2012/13 Turnover EBIT Assets Capital ROCE Employees Employed Export: 0% Local: 100% Rs. mn Rs. mn Rs. mn Rs. mn % Nos. The lighting business was given sharper focus and brought under Hayleys Electronics Lighting Ltd., coupled with a mega consumer promotion for Philips lighting solutions. The Consumer Products Manufacturing Sector markets a wide range of fast moving consumer goods, lighting products, imaging solutions and healthcare products that represent world renowned brands including Proctor & Gamble, Philips Fibre 5,355 322 6,172 4,607 7 1,406 Lighting, Fujifilm, Xerox and Blue Cross Pharmaceuticals. Hand Protection 14,675 1,372 9,501 5,870 22 1,725 Purification 10,161 1,302 7,457 4,961 27 827 Textiles 5,738 (260) 4,622 3,182 -14 1,027 Leisure and Aviation Construction Materials 2,473 413 1,718 1,087 42 413 Export: 0% Local: 100% The former Ceylon Continental Hotel was re-launched as ‘The Kingsbury’, following an expansion Total 38,402 3,149 29,470 19,707 16 5,398 and major refurbishment offering guests a new level of five-star indulgence in the city. The sector also includes The Amaya Resorts and Spas which bring guests an authentic experience that reflects the culture, nature and beauty of Sri Lanka. Hayleys is a dominant force in the Aviation Industry, Agriculture functioning as General Sales Agent for several leading International Airlines for both Passenger and Cargo operations The sector is significantly involved in both Outbound Travel Operations and Inbound Agriculture 7,913 760 7,121 3,716 22 1,497 Tourism through its own brands ‘Hayleys Travels’ and ‘Hayleys Tours’. Plantations 9,777 1,144 9,932 5,952 19 24,261 Total 17,690 1,904 17,053 9,668 20 25,758 Power and Energy Export: 0% Local: 100% Services Added renewables based power generation capacity with full connectivity of the 10 MW Nirmalapura Transportation and Logistics 11,343 982 5,789 3,521 28 975 wind power plant; obtained clearance to commence construction of the 10 MW Mawanana hydro Consumer Products 4,465 267 1,794 1,134 20 201 power project; and ventured into analytical and scientific testing equipment business with Japanese collaboration. Power and Energy Sector is engaged in power engineering which includes diesel Leisure and Aviation 2,062 60 7,720 5,123 24 1,210 generator sets, building electronics and air-conditioning; renewable energy generation through hydro, Energy and Industrial Inputs 2,431 683 4,364 3,807 26 201 wind and biomass-based power plants; life sciences and medical equipment; manufacture and marketing of pigment emulsions; trading in chemicals and dyes mainly for the textile industry and trading in a wide range of industrial raw materials for products such as cosmetics, detergents, paints Total 20,301 1,992 19,667 13,585 26 2,387 and coatings, plastics and rubber as well as food and flavours. Investments and Services Turned around around BPO business that was in its formative states and won the first ever overseas and local BPO assignments and identified selected markets for future growth. The sector also includes the investment companies of the Group and also provides support services to the Group. FactandFiction P: 23 Management Review and Preview Reporting Parameters Conducting business successfully across the diversity and scope of the Hayleys Group requires constant engagement and dialogue with our stakeholders P: 24 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Report Profile We have focused on aspects identified as material, and are reporting at an Application Level B. The reasons This report covers the period 01st April, 2012 to 31st for any significant changes have been clearly stated March, 2013, which concurs with the financial year of wherever applicable. Hayleys PLC. The Company adopts an annual reporting cycle. Hence, the last published annual Report was Hayleys applies a precautionary principle across all Group in respect of financial year 2011/12, which included companies with regard to social and environmental a sustainability report in respect of the said period. sustainability. We are aware of the social and Sustainability reporting for the period under review environmental impact of our actions. Before embarking however adopts a different format, as it is now integrated upon new ventures and initiatives we take necessary steps with the rest of our Annual Report while continuing to to assess any impacts through adequate risk management adopt the GRI G3.1 Guidelines as before. processes. This is further discussed on pages 158 to 164 in the section on Risk Management. Any inquiries or clarifications pertaining to this Annual Report may be directed to the Corporate Communications/Sustainability team at: corporate.communications@ccu.hayleys.com. Sustainability Governance Structure The foundation for a well-structured, aligned and in-built sustainability system was set in place during FY 2011/12 Report Scope and Boundary and further refined during the year under review. The elements of our structure and approach are noted below: Unless otherwise specifically noted, the Annual Report covers the performance of constituent businesses of the  Execution Hayleys Group, based in Sri Lanka and overseas, At each Sector there is a team or individual as listed on pages 304 to 305. Specific exceptions are our representing sustainability interests. They are called reporting on employees, society and environment where Sustainability Champions and form the Sustainability we are limiting our discussion to Sri Lanka operations, Governing Council. They work with and report to the while our disclosure on carbon footprint also excludes Hayleys PLC Corporate Sustainability Team (CST). The the Textiles sector. CST is in charge of Group-wide sustainability initiatives (as opposed to sector-driven initiatives) and Group In reporting for 2012/13 we have further refined our Sustainability Reporting. sustainability data measurement techniques, basis  Governance of calculations and assumptions as per the GRI 3.1 The Sector Head (Group Management Committee framework. Data on environmental and safety issues has Member) is responsible for the sustainability been compiled from actual operating data maintained by performance of their respective Sector. the various businesses, factories, hotels and other units of  Both the Group Management Committee and the CST the Group. Data on social responsibility was obtained onmay approach the Chairman, directly on sustainabilitysite. In the case of partially reported indicators, we have related issues as he is at the apex of the Governance provided time lines as to when these can be improved; structure. and where not specifically indicated, we commit to report fully on these in the subsequent report. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Reporting Parameters P: 25 Reporting Parameters Stakeholder and Materiality Issues Guided by the CST, each Group sector and Hayleys PLC Identification successfully completed this Stakeholder and Materiality Issue Identification process. This exercise has allowed Relevant topics and indicators are those that reflect the Hayleys to hone in on the most relevant and material areas Group’s significant economic, environmental and social to monitor and report on and the corresponding map of impacts, and those that would substantively influence key GRI indicators for application across the Group. the assessments and decisions of stakeholders. They are included in our reporting following a comprehensive Materiality Rating stakeholder mapping and impact assessment exercise, which included the preparation of a materiality matrix. The following aspects were identified as material and rated as indicated below based on the GRI reporting framework: The process followed to determine the materiality of topics and issues of the Hayleys Group is summarised below: 1 Corporate Sustainability Team (CST) High conducts stakeholder mapping and Employment, materiality identification exercises with labour/ each Hayleys Group sector. management relations, energy, effluents and waste 2 Group sectors analyse current and High medium future issues and identify stakeholders Materials, human rights (all aspects), emissions, occupational health and safety 3 Impacts are identified based on Medium low the consequences of stakeholder Economic performance, action on the business value drivers market presence, indirect economic impacts, and probability that consequences water, compliance, products and services of action taken by each relevant (environment focus), training and education, corruption, stakeholder will occur public policy, product and service labelling, marketing communication 4 A risk assessment matrix is developed and sector materiality is identified Stakeholder Engagement Conducting business successfully across the diversity and scope of the Hayleys Group requires constant 5 A review and prioritisation leads to engagement and dialogue with our stakeholders. Group Materiality Issues Identification Understanding the impacts and implications of our enterprise on these groups, both internal and external and how they think and respond to issues of importance to 6 Group identifies risks and them is vital to the long-term prosperity and well-being of opportunities that require priority both Company and stakeholder. leadership focus and corporate strategy P: 26 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 We strive for inclusivity; we are committed to reflect, at all stages of a process, the views and needs of all stakeholder groups. Stakeholder views are obtained through an engagement process that allows them to be expressed without fear or restriction. Inclusivity requires the consideration of ‘voiceless’ stakeholders such as future generations and the environment. Our business sectors have various mechanisms for engaging with their stakeholders which are described below: Stakeholder Process of engagement and frequency Shareholders  Annual General Meeting, which provides an opportunity to review the past year’s performance and engage in discussion with the management  Quarterly financial reports, which provide a review of current performance during the year, as do simultaneous media releases  An open door policy, which enables shareholders to keep in constant touch, visit and obtain information from the Company Secretaries and engage in dialogue  Website, regularly updated  Meetings with fund managers, share brokers and investment analysts  Email address, provided for comments and suggestions Customers  A Customer Satisfaction Index is maintained by many of our companies  Comprehensive Customer Relationship Management (CRM) programmes enable Group companies to keep in touch with their diverse customers on a regular basis  Regular customer visits and reviews help build and maintain rapport  Events such as Dealer and Distribution Conventions are held periodically Employees  A Performance Management System facilitates transparent evaluation, dialogue and performance based remuneration and reward  Formal meetings and less structured contact in the course of work  ‘Job Banding’ has been launched and upon completion will facilitate uniformity of designations and remuneration, greater transparency and clarity with regard to designations and ‘organisational fit’ across the companies and sectors  The CEO’s Forum quarterly provides an interactive forum with senior management, discussing current performance and future prospects and allowing a frank question and answer session  Monthly meetings of Clusters  Group-wide employee intranet and email broadcast system are accessible to any employee having access to e-mail  Quarterly internal magazine  The Hayleys Group Recreation Club provides many opportunities for interaction and fellowship across the Group, bringing employees together regardless of rank or designation FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Reporting Parameters P: 27 Reporting Parameters Stakeholder Process of engagement and frequency Unions  Transparent collective bargaining is encouraged  Workers are allowed to form and/or join worker organisations of their choice. Such organisations and their representatives are allowed to function independently without interference and with reasonable access to the information, resources, and facilities necessary to carry out their functions.  The Company respects the right of workers to bargain collectively and does not terminate employees or discriminate against them in retaliation for exercising trade union rights. Business  Visits from principals and to principals locations facilitate engagement Partners  Conventions for partners, distributors and dealers are held once a year or at regular intervals  Robust communication systems enable continuing dialogue on product quality, marketing, customer satisfaction and problem solving  Corporate updates on important group activities via brochures, DVDs and the like  Website, regularly updated  Participation at International Trade Fairs, with a view to expanding network of business partners and reach of product distribution Suppliers  Modern Supply Chain Management utilising Enterprise Resource Planning systems allows for enhanced relationship, dialogue and business processes  Suppliers treated as growth partners, and allowed to prosper through engagement initiatives such as training, clubs and associations, capacity development and community capacity development  Fair prices  Education and Empowerment Government  Regular Meetings, discussions, presentations, representation on national committees and Chambers of Commerce  Compliance with all forms of tax, environment, social and product laws enable facilitated continuance of operations and healthy dialogue Trade  Active and participatory role in the public policy development domain. Associations  Regular interaction through affiliations with trade organisations/chambers. Local  Relationships are maintained by experienced specialists familiar with community expectations and concerns Communities  Social impact assessments carried out in areas of operations to identify risks associated with operating in such communities.  Ongoing community development initiatives and social impact assessments  Other sector initiatives such as dental awareness programmes and eye clinics are project based P: 28 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Stakeholder Process of engagement and frequency Society/  Ongoing engagements with society, pressure groups and media are carried out via websites, social media Pressure channels and interaction with the media Groups/  Annual communication of Hayleys’ sustainable practices and initiatives through our sustainability report Competitors/  Participation at foras and hubs which allows for Company to ally with competitors against common problems and Media maintain healthy relationships.  Quarterly participation at Global Compact Network Ceylon meetings and forums  Annual Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact Year 2012/13 The following table sets out the targets identified last year, and elaborates on the progress of the Hayleys Group in achieving these targets: Target Status Notes 1. The newly acquired businesses of Done Amaya Leisure PLC and the Mabroc Group are now included within our reporting Amaya Leisure PLC and the Mabroc format. However, as a result of organisational restructuring and changes in Group to be brought within our leadership, Hayleys MGT was not prepared for inclusion within our reporting sustainability reporting in 2012/13. format. It is envisaged that, with the completion of its restructuring and transformation, and successful implementation of the SAP Enterprise Resource Planning System, Hayleys MGT will be brought within our sustainability reporting in 2013/14. 2. Identified policies to be developed Done After committing to review policies across the diversified group in its Sustainability and communicated across the Group Report last year, the Hayleys Group has made an ongoing commitment to human by end 2012 in order to strengthen rights, anti-harassment, and related policies and procedures across the Group that internal systems and processes. protect the interests of the business, its employees, business partners, suppliers  AIDS Policy and communities.  Human Rights Policy The first of a set of planned policies for the financial year under review was  Code of Ethics and Conduct launched in December. The Chairman and Chief Executive of the Hayleys Group the Hayleys Way signed a workplace HIV/AIDS policy, which formalises and provides clarity on  Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy the conglomerate’s position and practices as they relate to HIV and AIDS. Each  Anti-Discrimination Policy Sector, through a symbolic Passing the Pillow event raised awareness of HIV/AIDS  Grievance Handling Process within their workplace and communities during a year long focused effort.  Whistleblower Policy FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Reporting Parameters P: 29 Reporting Parameters Target Status Notes Checks and procedures regarding human rights and code of ethics and conduct were reviewed. The Group has solidified its commitments by launching a Groupwide Human Rights Policy, which was born out of a series of self-assessments carried out at Sectors. The Hayleys Way, a concise and focused document on the Code of Conduct and Ethics expected from staff, has also been launched. After similar review, the following policies were launched, communicated and implemented in all Group companies during the year under review: Anti-Sexual Harassment Policy, Anti-Discrimination Policy, Grievance Handling Process and Whistleblower Policy. The policies have improved the Group’s perspective of where Hayleys stands on key parameters and will assist in leveraging existing practices. 3. A Group level Integrated Not done Prior to adopting such a Group level IMS it was decided to run energy audits and Management System (IMS) on carbon footprinting across Group Sectors with the goal of energy minimisation in Environment, Health, Safety and manufacturing, agriculture and services sectors. This will help determine the scope Quality to be developed by end of the of the IMS and assist in customisation for sectors. fourth quarter 2012/13 4. Group-wide waste management/ In progress This is currently in progress. All companies of Hayleys have begun to absorb minimisation and energy management carbon footprint and/or energy management initiatives into their business models. campaigns to be implemented by end While Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG emissions are being recorded, Scope 3 (which of first half 2012/13 in line with our is optional) will be selective to capture material and measurable emission sources. strategy to control costs. Carbon footprinting initiatives to be expanded to capture data from over 90% of our businesses across the Group, yet limited to Scope 1 and 2 activities and certain Scope 3 activities. P: 30 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Target Status Notes 5. The plotting and adaptation of Done The process was followed stringently. our Materiality Matrix will continue, Every Group Sector within the boundary participated. to cover the period 2012/13 in order to monitor the significant areas of sustainability within the Group. 6. Improve and automate Not done The deployment of such an IT Tool requires significant investment and training sustainability processes for within all Group Sectors. Due to the diversity of the Group, certain Sectors information gathering, plotting have varying technological capabilities and resources to implement this system. and calculation within the ambit of Therefore, internal resources managed by the Hayleys Group Information sustainability programmes, to ensure Technology support service have been directed to develop the IT tool. more inclusive reporting, whilst generating increased productivity. Targets for the Immediate Future  5% reduction in specific energy, waste and water consumption  Adaptation/development of policy documents will continue where relevant (on-going)  Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC to be brought within our reporting on sustainability in 2013/14.  The plotting and adaptation of our Materiality Matrix will continue, to cover the period 2013/14 in order to monitor the significant areas of sustainability within the Group  Carbon footprinting to be expanded to capture data from all our businesses across the Group, though limited to Scope 1 and 2 activities and certain Scope 3 activities.  Improved stakeholder engagement process to be inculcated in Group companies based on AA1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Reporting Parameters P: 31 Operating Environment The year 2012 was a relatively challenging year in the domestic economy P: 32 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Overview Sri Lanka Economic Growth The year 2012/13 was a relatively challenging year Sri Lanka’s GDP growth fell below 8% for the first time compared to the preceding two years. Macroeconomic since 2009, declining to 6.4% for the year 2012. The main policy tightening in Sri Lanka and a weak global economy driver of GDP growth during the year was the industrial has led to slower growth than previous years in all major sector which grew at 10.3%. The biggest contributor to markets for Hayleys. In Sri Lanka, the year 2012 saw industrial sector growth was the construction sector which a number of policy measures aimed at stabilising the grew at 21.6% during the year. This is of significance to economy. The policy tightening measures included a hike Hayleys given the recent investments in the Construction in interest rates, a ceiling on bank lending, increases in Materials sector. The Hayleys Industrial Inputs business is administered energy prices and floating the Sri Lankan dependent on growth in the manufacturing sector, which Rupee. Whilst these measures collectively dampened on grew at 5.2% in 2012 compared to 7.9% in 2011. The economic activity, this was a necessary step considering agriculture sector saw a recovery in the first half of 2012 the imbalances that were developing on the external but faced setbacks in the second half due to adverse front due to a build-up of excess demand from the latter weather, resulting in growth for the full year being 5.8%. half of 2011. This sector is of importance to Hayleys Agriculture, which is engaged in the distribution of planting material, crop As a result of these changes implemented in February protection and fertilizer, all of which are directly dependent 2012, there was significant volatility in macroeconomic on the extent of crop during the year. conditions in Sri Lanka during the financial year under review. With inflation rising and subsequently showing The biggest drag on growth in 2012 was the services signs of easing, the rupee depreciated rapidly before sector (accounting for 58.5% of GDP), which grew finding stability and interest rates rose and then stabilised. at 4.6% compared to 8.6% in the previous year. The The positive outcome from this is the fact that all the major wholesale and retail trade sector grew by 3.6%, acting as macroeconomic variables interest rates, inflation and the a substantial drag on growth, with the import trade subexchange rate tended towards stability in the latter part of sector growing by just 1% in 2012 and domestic trade the financial year, which helps create an environment that growing by 6.8%. The weakness in the trading sector is is conducive for trade and investment, and support future a reflection of higher interest rates, lower access to credit economic growth. The global economy remained weak, as and a weaker rupee, factors that influenced the Hayleys advanced economies faced growth constraints under the Consumer Products sector as well. The transport and weight of accumulated debt. Most emerging economies communications sub-sector of the economy grew at 6.2% also experienced slower growth in 2012, dragging down in 2012 compared to 11.7% in the previous year. Total the overall global economy during the year. One positive cargo handled in the Colombo Port declined by 0.6%. impact of slower global growth was the lower price of The lower level of economic activity is one cause of the global commodities, most of which declined in the second slower growth in this sector, and this has implications for part of the year. However, domestic prices of some key the Hayleys Transportation & Logistics sector. The hotels commodities, particularly energy, remained high due to and restaurants sub-sector of GDP saw growth of 20.2%, revisions to subsidies and a weaker rupee. reflecting the continued growth of the tourism sector, which saw arrivals reach 1 mn in 2012, a growth of 17.5% FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Operating Environment P: 33 Operating Environment YoY. However the first quarter of 2013 saw a slower 25 basis points and the credit ceiling was lifted. However growth in tourist arrivals (10.9%), mainly due to a weak there was a lag before market lending rates began to 3.6% growth in arrivals from South Asia. Prospects for the decline since government borrowing at the beginning of Hayleys Leisure & Aviation sector depend on continued 2013 was substantial. In the first quarter of 2013, the growth in tourism. total funds accepted at treasury bond and bill auctions was Rs. 406 bn compared to Rs. 146 bn. in the first quarter of 2012. Whilst market lending rates began to Interest Rates decline towards the end of the financial year, even as of 31st March, 2013 PLR was 13.77%. With the Central The Central Bank of Sri Lanka increased policy interest Bank shifting to an easing cycle, the improved financial rates in February (reverse repo and repo 50 basis points) position of major state corporations and cheaper offand April 2012 (reverse repo 75 basis points, repo 25 shore borrowing by financial institutions and private basis points), and more importantly, imposed a ceiling entities, market interest rates are expected to decline in of 18% on credit growth for commercial banks, with the the forthcoming financial year. The high interest rates that option of increasing it to 23% if off-shore borrowing prevailed through the year have an adverse impact on takes place. As a result, availability of credit declined finance costs across the Group. Given the substantial debt throughout the year as bank lending began to diminish. funded acquisitions made by the company since 2010 Average monthly lending by banks to the private sector and group expansion activities, cumulative finance costs declined from Rs. 46 bn per month in 2011/12 to have increased in recent years. The lower access to credit Rs. 20 bn a month in 2012/13. The Prime Lending Rate and higher interest rates also affects sectors with high (PLR) increased from 12.80% in April 2012 to 14.37% working capital requirements such as Consumer Products, by the end of November 2012 as a result of the credit Industrial Inputs, Agriculture and Construction Materials, squeeze. In December 2012 the Central Bank ended the in addition to the parent company Hayleys PLC. With the tightening cycle as policy interest rates were reduced by P: 34 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 anticipated decline in interest rates and easier access to prices remain stable and economic growth remains credit in 2013, the finance cost burden is expected to moderate. In spite of the moderation in official inflation reduce, supporting expansion plans and working capital figures, the rise in costs of energy are negative for all the requirements of Group companies. manufacturing sectors as well as some of the service sectors (transportation, leisure) in the Group. A general The export oriented sectors in the Group are primarily rise in the cost of living (food prices increased by around reliant on US dollar financing and therefore do not face 12% during the financial year) also creates pressure on the same constraints. Global interest rates remained low wage costs. as central banks around the world continued to provide liquidity. This has made off-shore financing quite attractive, however, forward exchange rates have remained Trade and Exchange Rates prohibitively high and the market for forward contracts One of the major objectives of Sri Lankan macroeconomic beyond a year remains nascent. policy in 2012 was to contain a burgeoning trade deficit that developed in the latter part of 2011. In 2011 Sri Lanka’s trade deficit (US$ 9.7 bn) was more than Inflation double that of 2010 (US$ 4.8 bn), which put significant The increase in administered prices of a number of energy pressure on the rupee and the country’s foreign exchange items including fuel and electricity and the depreciation of reserves. With the policy measures introduced in February the rupee contributed to a rise in the price levels in 2012, a gradual adjustment took place on the trade Sri Lanka in 2012. front as imports declined in response to a weaker rupee and tighter credit conditions. Imports into Sri Lanka Fuel Item Percentage Price declined by 13.3% YoY during financial year 2012/13. Increase in 2012 % The decline in imports would have been far greater if not for the fact that drought in the middle of the year resulted Diesel 37 in higher fuel imports for power generation. Imports of Kerosene 49 consumption goods declined by 18% during the year Petrol 16 2012 and intermediate imports (excluding fuel) declined Gas 10 by 13% during the year. Hayleys import dependent Furnace Oil 80 sectors such as Consumer Products, Industrial Solutions Source: Central Bank of Sri Lanka, Annual Report 2012 and Agriculture faced constraints within this context. Exports declined 10.1% YoY in financial year 2012/13 Electricity prices were also increased through a 25% to influenced by weak demand in the global market, but 40% hike in the fuel adjustment charge depending on exports declined rapidly than most trade competitors. units used. The higher prices caused a one off price level Sri Lankan exports declined by 10.1% YoY in the 2012/13 adjustment that resulted in elevated point to point inflation financial year compared to 2011/12. In this context, the for the entire year, peaking at 9.8% in February 2013. performance of Hayleys export sectors is very creditable. With weaker economic growth, demand pull inflation was The objective of reducing the trade deficit was successful contained during the year. Headline inflation is expected as the deficit in the financial year 2012/13 declined by to decline to mid-single digit levels in the forthcoming 16.4% compared to the same period in 2011/12. financial year as base effects decline, global commodity FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Operating Environment P: 35 Operating Environment The behaviour of the rupee was in line with changes to commitment to the Euro project, particularly in terms trade policy. With the float of the rupee in February 2012 of the European Central Bank indicating willingness to there was a sharp depreciation of the currency. In April buy sovereign debt and take the first steps towards a 2012 the rupee was at a value of Rs. 128.50 to the US banking union. Whilst these measures eased volatility dollar. The Rupee continued to depreciate in the first and uncertainty in the region, they have not arrested quarter of the year, peaking at Rs. 134.26 in June 2012. the continued deterioration of the real economy, as the As the trade balance stabilized, the current account deficit economy remains in recession with unemployment at reached a more sustainable level and towards the end of record highs. The United States economy grew by 2.2% the year the rupee appreciated and then stabilised. off a low base and growth and investment was hampered by political failure, particularly in dealing with the debt The free float of the rupee is of importance to Hayleys ceiling. However the US has seen much improvement in export companies. A flexible currency is necessary to the housing market and labour market, two major drags enable adjustment to increase in domestic costs. on the economy. Along with greater access to cheaper When domestic prices increased without a concomitant energy through the deployment of new technology, depreciation of the exchange rate according to market these are very positive developments for the US economy. forces, export margins were squeezed and profits Europe and the US remain major traditional markets for adversely affected. This is an issue for industries where all Hayleys exports and weak growth in these markets margins are thin and in a global economic environment has meant that business growth has entailed capturing where buyers are reluctant to accept price increases. A market share. weaker Rupee is of course a negative for some sectors which are import dependent, such as Consumer Products, Japan returned to a 2% growth in 2012, albeit off a low Industrial Solutions and Agriculture. However, on balance, base. With the policy shift towards substantial monetary a flexible Rupee is a positive for an export oriented easing, the Japanese economy is expected to continue economy such as Sri Lanka. to grow in the short term. Emerging economies in general experienced a moderation in growth compared to highs in 2010 and 2011. China grew at 7.8% in 2012 whilst Global Economy India grew at a very weak 4%. The growth of the Indian economy has an influence on transshipment volumes Around 63% of Hayleys revenue is exported, and in the Colombo Port and therefore on the Hayleys therefore the health of the global economy is a key Transportation & Logistics sector. Russia grew by determinant of the company’s performance. The global 3.6% in 2012, lower than the 4.3% growth in 2011, economy continued to experience weakness in 2012, as a result of softer commodity prices in 2012. as a sluggish recovery from the global recession was The Middle East recovered in 2012 (GDP growth of 5.2%) disrupted by intermittent crises on various fronts during from the growth disruptions faced in 2011 (3.5%) due the year. Sovereign debt problems coupled with political to the political upheavals experienced in that year. The inertia resulted in GDP contraction of 0.6% in the Euro Middle East and Russia are important markets for the area. Encouragingly, towards the latter part of the year Plantation Sector at Hayleys. there was a greater degree of political and economic P: 36 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 A positive outcome of slower global economic growth is The global economy is also expected to see improvements the reduced prices of global commodities. Almost in 2013/14, led by the US, which has seen notable all commodities of importance to Hayleys saw a improvement in key markets such as housing and labour. reduction in prices in 2012/13. Oil prices declined on Europe will continue to be in recession and unemployment higher inventories, lower demand and a lower intensity in will remain elevated, with slim prospects for recovery in the Middle Eastern conflicts. Sector specific commodities the near term. Emerging economies will see better growth such as rubber, cotton, coconut shell charcoal and in 2013 in the context of supportive monetary policy, but aluminium were all relatively low priced for most of in most cases growth will remain moderate compared the year. to the accelerated growth experienced in the pre-crisis years. Most global commodities will see lower prices as high supply and moderate demand will prevent price Outlook hikes, except in cases where geo-political tensions create temporary supply disruptions. The year 2012 was a relatively challenging year in the domestic economy, however, the macroeconomic policy In sum, Hayleys businesses are likely to experience a changes that were implemented were necessary to more conducive operating environment in 2013/14 than in entrench stability that would support longer term growth. 2012/13, supporting continued business growth in In the forthcoming year, interest rates are expected to key markets. continue to moderate in line with the Central Bank’s monetary easing cycle. In the Monetary Policy Road Map of 2013 the Central Bank has indicated commitment to maintaining positive real interest rates in order to develop domestic savings to bridge the country’s savings and investment gap, therefore interest rates are unlikely to reduce to the same level as it did in 2010/11. Accordingly, economic growth is expected to moderately improve in 2013/14, whilst inflation is likely to remain contained at mid-single digit levels. The removal of the credit ceiling will also support financial flexibility in the Group. In sum, the operating environment in the domestic economy is likely to be much more positive in 2013/14 than it was in the current financial year. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Operating Environment P: 37 Group Goals and Strategies Hayleys is now entering a period of consolidation that will target a strong return on the investments made P: 38 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Strategic Context Across the Portfolio The past few years saw aggressive acquisitions, such  Enhance value addition and move up the value chain as our entry into aluminium extrusions to support the  Continually improve products and services burgeoning construction industry, as well as into the  Maintain high and consistent quality in all what we do booming leisure sector. Investments were also made to  Implement lean manufacturing, process efficiency and expand and reinvigorate the current business portfolio. In waste minimisation the leisure sector, we relaunched a rebranded Kingsbury  Improve energy efficiency and environmental and expanded the Amaya chain. Capacity additions are performance through the use of alternate fuels and underway in activated carbon manufacture green products, practices and processes in Thailand and Indonesia. Our first investment in wind  Focus on developing people and leaders power saw the commencement of commercial operations  Expand our global footprint during year under review. These were large strategic investments in key Group Goals growth sectors. Time horizon Parameter Indicator Target Short-term Profitability ROCE Looking inwards, we restructured our textiles business, (excluding real estate) >20% while fibre bounced back to generate returns riding on the EBITDA/assets >10% back of innovative R&D and new products and markets. Liquidity Operating cash flow/PAT >100% Given such a scenario, Hayleys is now entering a period Current ratio 1.5 to 2.0x of consolidation that will target a strong return on the Debt/EBITDA <3.0 investments made. We aim to reach US$ 1 bn in Group Long-term Growth Growth in domestic turnover within the next three years, with a corresponding revenue (>inflation) >6% growth in the bottom line. Growth in export revenue (>LKR depreciation) >4% Group Strategies Growth in capital >18% At Portfolio Level Stability External credit rating ≥AA  Redeploy or liquidate underperforming assets of the Gearing 35 to 40% Group  Develop existing, profitable businesses both horizontally and vertically  Invest in new businesses and restructure existing ones based on their strategic fit with the portfolio FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Group Goals and Strategies P: 39 Sector Reviews Fibre Hayleys Fibre is the largest exporter of brushes and brush blocks in Sri Lanka, accounting for more than 35% of the total exports in value terms, serving thousands of consumers each and every day. 14.2% 42.5% America Europe 36% Asia 2.0% Sri Lanka 0.2% Africa 5% Australia P: 40 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 The Fibre sector develops innovative, eco-friendly products for home, garden and industry including scraper mats, woven coir and cast iron mats, flocked mats textile based looped pile mats, bathroom mats and other specialty mats, with designs and processes patented locally and internationally. Hayleys Fibre has redefined its operational bias towards value added products, moving away from a number of traditional product segments. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Fibre P: 41 Sector Reviews Fibre Business Domain Hayleys Fibre provides innovative eco-friendly fibre-based solutions to the world. The product range includes a wide range of floor covering, cleaning devices for both domestic and industrial use, rubberised coir mattresses, cushions and a range of erosion control and horticulture products. The Sector comprises 13 companies, with 9 based locally. Exports accounted for 86% of turnover. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 5,355 5,420 3,987 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 322 283* -127 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 143 78 -202 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 6,172 6,034 5,420 Capital Employed Rs. mn 4,607 4,320 4,265 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed** % 7.0 6.6 -3.0 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.0 1.0 1.1 Stability Gearing % 27.2 34.8 29.8 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 1.3 1.2 1.3 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 0.231 0.176 0.81 * Inclusive of Capital Gains ** Excluding Real Estate Operations Strategies in Action The prevailing depressed global economic climate, hike Continuing with its spirit of innovation, the Fibre Sector in energy prices and limited access to long-term capital developed a range of new products during the year, some were the key challenges faced during the year. To counter of which are awaiting patents. The past five years have the challenges, Hayleys Fibre sector carried out many earned the Sector over 400 patents, thus reinforcing a changes in their operations. This included rationalisation legacy of transforming abstract ideas into concrete facts. of plants, implementation of LEAN manufacturing and operational merger of three companies within the same Pursuing our quest for maintaining high and consistent business portfolio. The sector also developed some quality, systems have been revamped. Training breakthrough new products and entered a few ‘Blue programmes on ‘Quality systems Audit’ as per ocean Markets’ to stay ahead of the competition. ISO 9001:2008 Standards were conducted by the Sri Lanka Standards Institute. P: 42 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 To achieve closer alignment with its products and brand Hayleys Exports PLC changed its name to Hayleys Fibre PLC in November 2012, thus forging an instant link with all Fibre Sector products marketed around the world under the ‘Hayleys Fibre’ brand name. Outlook We are confident of continued profitable growth, but are also mindful of challenges from competition and pressures on margins, given the sluggish world economy and the increased cost of resources and energy. * Inclusive of capital gains FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Fibre P: 43 Sector Reviews Hand Protection Each glove produced at DPL meets the promise of assured quality delivered through systems and processes which require continuous maintenance and monitoring of in-process materials and 26.7% 58.8% process parameters, within America Europe 10% narrow limits of tolerance. Asia 7% Australia P: 44 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Over three decades of experience combined with heavy investments in research and development have enabled DPL to create a continuing stream of innovations in protective hand wear. Selecting the right glove for the job at hand is essential to ensure user safety and product protection. The Hand Protection sector manufactures an array of gloves to suit a multitude of requirements, including harsh conditions and intensive use, where the highest quality and task mastership is required. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Hand Protection P: 45 Sector Reviews Hand Protection Business Domain The Hand Protection sector consists of businesses in value added latex glove manufacturing, distribution and marketing of branded glove products. DPL operations span across the world with manufacturing facilities located in Sri Lanka and Thailand, distribution of gloves into more than 70 countries in the world and an Italy based marketing company for gloves. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 14,675 13,499 11,700 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 1,372 2,052* 455 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 1,077 1,694* 243 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 9,501 9,354 8,584 Capital Employed Rs. mn 5,870 6,787 5,848 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 22 32 8 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.5 1.7 1.1 Stability Gearing % 39 50 66 Asset Utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 1.5 1.4 1.4 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 1.0 1.5 0.3 * Includes Capital Gains Operations Almost entirely export driven, we were exposed to the sluggish macroeconomic conditions that prevailed in our Western markets, while rising costs of factors of production posed internal challenges. In turn, we closely monitored market movements and customer preferences and adjusted our offerings accordingly. Accounting for 5% of global market share for industrial and general purpose rubber gloves, the DPL’s Manufacturing Business crossed the Rs. 1 bn milestone in profit before tax during the year under review while the DPL Group passed Rs. 2 bn milestone in PBT inclusive of Plantation and Tea marketing businesses. P: 46 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Strategies in Action DPL continues to strengthen its core capabilities to deliver high quality world class glove products meeting dynamic customer needs whilst addressing cost challenges to support our customers facing macro-economic turbulence, especially in the Eurozone. At the same time, we recognise the importance of continuing to strengthen the foundations that DPL is built on, namely, its ethical manufacturing legacy. For its efforts to strengthen communities and operate integrated supply chains for natural rubber, linking the rubber farmers through its unique FIRSTLIGHT programme, DPL was awarded winner status in the AREA awards. Outlook New plant capacity is planned during the course of FY 2013/14 to cater to demand growth specially for industrial hand protection products. Several innovative products that have been developed over the year under review will be commercialised in the course of the new financial year. Combining these with leaner manufacturing efforts will, we believe, continue to deliver growth and profits. Dipped Products (Thailand) is expected to turnaround as its major infrastructure bottleneck has been resolved with commissioning of an additional bio-mass heater. * Includes capital gains FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Hand Protection P: 47 Sector Reviews Purification Water may be a symbol for purity, 31% 13% but getting water as pure as you America Europe 35% want is not easy. That is why so Asia many companies turn to Haycarb for the most effective activated 8% carbon water purification solutions. Africa 7% Australia 6% Indirect Export P: 48 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Turnkey solutions for raw and waste water treatments. Business Domain The Purification Sector, led by Haycarb, is the world’s largest manufacturer of coconut shell-derived activated carbon for the global purification market with manufacturing facilities in Sri Lanka, Thailand and Indonesia supported by marketing offices in the UK, Australia and USA. The Sector also has related businesses such as the construction and operation of turnkey projects for raw and waste water treatment. The Sector comprises of 14 companies, 5 of which are based locally. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 10,161 8,509 6,407 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 1,302 890 748 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 1,026 523 574 Assets (Avg.) Rs. mn 7,457 5,518 4,071 Capital Employed (Avg.) Rs. mn 5,867 4,465 3,082 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 22 20 24 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.54 1.78 2.34 Stability Gearing % 30 31 11 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 1.36 1.54 1.57 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 1.36 1.02 0.92 * Excluding Real Estate FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Purification P: 49 Sector Reviews Purification Operations With a 17% global market share and maintaining its position as the world’s leader in its business segment, The Sector operated in the back drop of a slowdown Haycarb Group posted a landmark Rs. 1.2 bn profit before in the major world economies, especially in Europe tax for FY 2012/13. and Japan, and escalation of costs in all our manufacturing locations. The strong customer relationships and brand positioning Strategies in Action that enabled the Company to maintain volumes to its key The marketing resources in Sri Lanka and overseas were customers, marketing efforts that lead to the acquisition of strengthened as the sector implements a marketing plan strategic new accounts, the successful market penetration to capture a larger share of markets in Central and Eastern and expansion strategies implemented in growing markets Europe, China, West Africa, South America and emerging such as Indonesia, Thailand and West Africa were factors markets in Asia and untapped market segments in that enabled the sector to operate activated carbon traditional markets such as Japan, USA and South Korea. manufacturing facilities at full capacity throughout the year. The other factors that contributed positively were Emphasis on developing and marketing value added high the increase in sales of value added and high margin margin products that have shown positive results will products, the stability of the main raw material, coconut be given high priority and focus. Satisfactory progress shell charcoal and the depreciation of the local currency was made in the Ultracarb Project during the year, with against the US dollar even though this was partly offset by Haycarb moving forward towards formal certification of raw material imports. its range of carbons for the Energy Storage sector by major customers in this market segment. NSF certification There were notable manufacturing cost escalations in was obtained for manufacturing factories in Thailand and all geographies due to the increases in energy and wage Indonesia, and ISO systems implementation is expected costs. Lean initiatives helped to contain costs and to be completed within the next few months. improve efficiencies. Significant expansion of the manufacturing capacity over The Group capital expenditure relating to the the next two to three years will be a key driver of the future enhancement and expansion of manufacturing and strategy. In September 2012 100% equity of Shizuka laboratory facilities, introduction of information systems Company Ltd. Thailand was acquired in September 2012 and improvements to worker and staff facilities, remained through the Joint Venture, Carbokarn Company Ltd. in at high levels for the second year in succession, Thailand. Haycarb Value Added Products Private Limited as the sector positioned the required assets and was incorporated in Sri Lanka during the year as a fully resources for growth. owned subsidiary, to manufacture and export value added activated carbon products and the plant will be The relationships with charcoal suppliers in commissioned in the ensuing financial year. Considering Sri Lanka, India, Thailand and Indonesia were further the potential for activated carbon market, availability of strengthened and Haycarb invested in charcoal and shell coconut shell charcoal and leveraging on the experience collection networks in Sri Lanka. and strength of successfully operating the existing P: 50 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 manufacturing facility in North Sulawesi, Haycarb plans friendly charcoaling methods in conjunction with the to expand its manufacturing base further in Indonesia. initiatives to broaden the charcoal supply network in Sri In January 2013, PT Haycarb Palu Mitra Company Lanka. Haycarb continues to build on and maintain the was incorporated as a joint venture to undertake the sustainability and green focus in its operations throughout commissioning of a new greenfield manufacturing plant in the world. Central Sulawesi, Indonesia. The new facility is expected to come on stream during the early part of 2013/14. Haycarb has set in motion the plan to further expand the Outlook Company’s manufacturing foot print, primarily off shore. External conditions such as spiraling energy costs, strengthening of currencies in some of the key Puritas will remain a key focus point of growth as it manufacturing bases, increases in wage costs and leverages on valued strategic partnerships built during overheads together with the increases in charcoal pricing the last two years, and plans to engage in large and experienced in Sri Lanka and India poses challenges that medium scale Government projects for water and can impact Haycarb’s margin potential. Whilst the Sector sewage treatment. operates in an environment of volatility, we believe the correct strategies outlined above can mitigate risk and Haycarb is amongst the first in Sri Lanka to register pave the way to growth. and trade in carbon credits under the Kyoto Protocol through its subsidiary Recogen (Pvt) Ltd. It will focus on introducing less capital intensive environment FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Purification P: 51 Sector Reviews Textiles Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills has the capacity to produce up to 250,000 kgs of Single Jersey, Interlock, Fleece, Polar Fleece, Rib and Pique per week at its 33 acre plant at Narthupana Estate in Horana. 0.2% 8% Europe Asia 1% Sri Lanka 0.1% Australia 90.4% Indirect Export P: 52 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Our product composition includes Cotton, Polyester, Viscose, Wool and Elastane based products as well as printed and Lycra based fabric. A prominent feature of the Hayleys MGT grounds is the effluent treatment facility a biological water treatment system. Waste water from the plant containing used dyes and other effluents flows downhill where oxygenated bacteria break them down. Hayleys MGT is ISO 9001: 2000, ISO 14001 : 2004 and SA 8000 certified. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Textiles P: 53 Sector Reviews Textiles Business Domain The Hayleys Textile Sector manufactures weft knitted fabrics for the export-driven apparel industry. The worlds leading apparel brands such as Decathlon, George/ Asda, Marks & Spencer, NEXT, Tesco, Intimissimi are the key end customers. Sri Lanka imports about 50% of its knitted fabric requirements, with the balance supplied by four major domestic manufacturers, with Hayleys MGT having the potential to meet 25% of this capacity together with a wider product range which includes Polyester, Fabric Printing and Fabric Brushing. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue USD ’000 44,193 45,936 58,322 Earnings Before Interest and Tax USD ’000 (2,004) (6,485) (6,054) Profit After Tax USD ’000 (3,495) (7,582) (7,079) Assets (Avg) USD ’000 36,230 38,936 46,218 Capital Employed USD ’000 24,900 28,723 39,517 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % -14 -26 -18 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 0.55 0.48 0.73 Stability Gearing % 51 70 60 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 1.23 1.19 1.25 Productivity EBIT per Employee USD ’000 (2.33) (7.09) (6.60) * Excluding Real Estate Operations The Hayleys Textile Sector is primarily engaged in weft ERP solution to improve productivity, financial controls, knitting, dyeing and finishing of cotton, cotton blends and production planning and inventory management through polyester fabric. These are produced using some of the SAP, and new raw material supply routes for dyes, best brands in knitting, dyeing and finishing machinery to chemicals and yarn were developed to meet the ever ensure the quality standards required by our customers. increasing challenge of price pressure. Additional technical The capability of additional finishes such as the chemical support was brought in to improve dyeing and finishing so treatment of fabric, fabric brushing, fabric printing gives as to improve our service levels to the customer. These the customers added flexibility. changes have made significant improvements in the Dyeing and Finishing RFT (Right First Time) to reach new Internally, the Sector completed a major reorganisation heights at 94% and 96% respectively. This has resulted and turnaround programme during the year under review in a reduction is waste, reduction in reprocessing costs, to return to profitability in 2014. Implementation of an improving quality levels and the improvement of On Time Delivery (OTD). P: 54 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 The key challenges from the external environment improve OTD. Therefore the resources and the technical were the cost increases in yarn which exceeded global expertise in the Planning division has been further predictions, and customer resistance in accepting strengthened. Additional technical know how on the ERP corresponding price increases on finished fabric. system has been brought in to improve the effectiveness Energy cost increase was another major area of concern. of SAP usage and thereby improving the throughput. Action has been taken to mitigate these impacts with Raw material usage and its cost controls through SAP is cost saving initiatives. another area that is currently being strengthened. Our competitive advantage stems from being in a position Customer focus with a high degree of service levels, to carry out additional fabric finishes such as brushing to value addition propositions are being discussed to work make fleece fabric and fabric printing, our large capacity closely with our customers with a long-term partnership to produce collars and cuffs, and our high-tech dyeing through business development being another area of machines to maintain consistency in colour. To exploit focus. People motivation is the greatest area of focus these advantages we are looking at increasing market by creating awareness of the business needs, global share through improved delivery times, competitive changes, competition and customer requirements. Best pricing and superior quality, and also broaden our product practices and policies are being implemented to improve portfolio by targeting some high value products. the throughput and thereby increasing productivity. Strategies in Action Outlook Hayleys MGT has focused on some of the key areas to Hayleys Textiles is poised to turnaround during the improve the overall performance of the Company. Planning Financial year 2013/14 by taking on the increased at the point of order in-take to the point of delivery with challenges of price pressure from customers, improve its raw material requirement planning being a key area of capacity fulfilment, reduce wastage and costs, improve focus. This will reduce waste, control inventory and profitability, improve labour relations and increase overall people motivational levels. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Textiles P: 55 Sector Reviews Construction Materials We develop and manufacture aluminium extrusions for an extensive range of applications such as fabrication of doors, windows, shop fronts, curtain walls and other specialised commercial 1% applications Asia 99% Sri Lanka P: 56 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Alumex works with a crosssection of industries, from sole proprietor engineering shops to some of the largest multinationals, providing a vast array of architectural, residential and industrial products that meet international standards. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Construction Materials P: 57 Sector Reviews Construction Materials Business Domain The Construction Materials Sector is presently focused on manufacturing aluminium extrusions for the domestic construction industry under the Alumex Group. Counting over 25 years of industry experience, the Alumex Group enjoys a 52% market share in Sri Lanka. The Sector comprises of four companies which are based locally. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 2,473 2,254 2,369 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 413 182 121 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 307 113 57 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 1,718 1,577 1,622 Capital Employed Rs. mn 1,087 873 787 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 42 22 18 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.37 1.05 1.00 Stability Gearing % 9.44 19.04 22.54 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 1.50 1.41 1.75 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 1.09 0.45 0.30 * Excluding Real Estate Operations With the post-war construction boom continuing exchange rates. A change in the strategy of purchasing unabated and a strong market leadership in Sri Lanka, raw materials was effected during the year by booking the Alumex Group has begun venturing regionally. futures in aluminum when prices were low. Exploiting its competitive advantage in terms of superior product quality, higher production capacity, flexibility in manufacturing customised products, in-house die making Strategies in Action capability and together with a strong financial position, the Locally the Alumex Group is setting up warehousing Alumex Group is now diversifying into manufacturing its facilities in all provinces to ensure distribution own proprietary door and window systems. of products throughout Sri Lanka. It is also investing in equipment to improve the quality of dies and local billets Key challenges during the year were in managing raw and with it the quality of its profiles. material costs within reasonable levels against a backdrop of varying London Metal Exchange prices and volatile P: 58 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 The ERP system used within the Alumex Group is also being upgraded to bring in better financial and inventory controls and expanded to cover manufacturing. This will enhance the production planning and control function and improve delivery times to customers. We ventured into regional overseas markets India, Maldives and Bangladesh as a first step in expanding our global footprint for extruded aluminium products. And with its own proprietary window and door systems, Alumex hopes to make a mark in the South Asian region. Photograph Outlook While raw material prices are expected to increase gradually, the overall outlook for the Alumex Group is positive. Strong growth in local sales, exports to the South Asian region and developing proprietary door and window systems are expected to be the key drivers in the medium term, while an IPO for Alumex is also under consideration. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Construction Materials P: 59 Sector Reviews Agriculture Acknowledged with numerous national awards over the years for their catalytic role in the field of agriculture and animal health, the Hayleys Group’s agriculture companies are credited with introducing the latest knowledge generated by international research and development in agriculture to Sri Lanka’s farming communities. 0.1% 5.0% America Europe 18.7% Asia 0.6% 74% Africa Sri Lanka 1.6% Australia P: 60 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Strong linkages with global supply chains mean that primary fruit and vegetable products from the hinterland of Sri Lanka enter global markets as ready‐to‐consume products. Hayleys Agriculture builds and enhances capacity in traditional agriculture. These include new product development of mechanical devices such as combine harvesters, combine threshers and mechanical reapers that improve productivity even in the face of labour shortages. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Agriculture P: 61 Sector Reviews Agriculture Business Domain The Sector provides a complete range of agricultural inputs to the local industry, engages with farmers in growing value added agricultural products through extension services, and is also engaged in bio technology and research. The Sector comprises 9 agribusiness groupings, with 8 based locally. Exports accounted for 24.7% of turnover. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 7,913 8,042 7,445 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 760 1,216 681 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 523 527 387 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 7,121 6,118 3,358 Capital Employed Rs. mn 3,716 3,689 2,636 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 22 33 26 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.24 1.08 1.33 Stability Gearing % 49 59 41 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 1.1 1.3 2.2 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 0.5 0.8 0.6 * Excluding Real Estate Operations With the goal of becoming the dominant provider of all total market size for agri-inputs, regulatory changes that agri-inputs in Sri Lanka, several areas of which are already resulted in uncertainty and disruption to the supply of being dominated and being the preferred supplier of crop protection products in particular, and delays in global companies for value added agricultural produce, settlements of fertilizer subsidies (which affected all the Sector differentiates itself from the rest on several companies in the industry). fronts. They include a unique product portfolio that offers competitive advantage to channel partners and It was an eventful and creditable overall performance. customers, superior business processes and agricultural Fertilizer distribution and advisory services to the farmers extension capability to provide pre-sale, sale and postand small holder plantation sector were strengthened, sale services to the agricultural community, and a strong securing a dominant position in the country. New supply chain that facilitates procurement efficiencies and products include the introduction of a more efficient superior margins. paddy harvesting machine, paddy transplanters, young plant splits for exports, additional processed fruits and The main challenges faced by the Sector during the year vegetables for export and innovative marine-resource were the impact of adverse weather that affected the based value added products. The range of planting P: 62 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 materials was expanded and improved to include big for the climatic conditions of the Northern region. The onion seeds, vegetable seeds and high quality seed introduction of this seed potato variety will help Hayleys paddy. Investments were made in seed paddy processing Agriculture to further increase its dominant position in the machinery and laboratory facilities which has expanded seed potato market in Sri Lanka. volumes, quality and enhanced brand value. Our Geographic coverage was expanded, particularly in the HJS Condiments Ltd. received social accountability Northern and Eastern Provinces. management System Standard ‘SA 8000 certification’, a first for a Sri Lankan food-based product company. This has enabled HJS to improve staff morale and workplace Strategies in Action relations, attract more reliable business partners and enhance its competitiveness. More value added fruit and A project to grow seaweed was initiated in the vegetable products are in the offing and will add to the northern waters of Sri Lanka and initial trials show increasing global clientele. promising results. Applications for the value added products are in the food, plant nutrition and cosmetic industries globally. Outlook A termite protection system, ‘Novithor’, was launched The Sector aims to further strengthen its core businesses for the urban market. The uniqueness of this product lies and increase market share, while expanding into related with its eco-friendly nature, and its effective lifetime of agri-business areas such as aqua culture, fruit drinks and up to 50 years compared to conventional chemical pest control services. We are also investing in branding control methods. Hayleys Agriculture for sharper market differentiation. Overall, we expect a vastly improved performance for A high yielding potato variety named Daifla was introduced 2013/14 based on a superior product portfolio, new in the Northern Province of Sri Lanka after successful businesses and new product introductions, expansion of trials. Daifla, developed by Germicopa, France is suited the distribution network and collaborations with farmer groups, NGOs and Government agencies. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Agriculture P: 63 Sector Reviews Plantations The Plantation Sector’s green footprint is a signature of our business, growing in harmony with the environment, moving from fossil fuel to clean energy, developing hydro energy and protecting biodiversity. 100% Indirect Export 4.5% of Sri Lanka’s Tea Production P: 64 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 “Quality of life for all our people” is a concept driven by our ‘Home for Every Plantation Worker’ initiative, encompassing health and nutrition, family care, shelter, empowerment and community development. Covering 44 Tea and Rubber estates and over 19,500 hectares of land, KVPL and TTEL together account for 4.5% and 2.2% of Sri Lanka’s tea and rubber production respectively. 2.2% of Sri Lanka’s Rubber Production FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Plantations P: 65 Sector Reviews Plantations Business Domain Kelani Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) and Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC (TTEL) are regional plantation companies established in 1992 which are engaged in the cultivation, processing and marketing of tea and rubber crops through the Management of 44 estates for the Hayleys Plantation Sector. KVPL Estates are situated in Nuwara-Eliya, Dickoya and Avissawella regions whilst TTEL Estates are situated in Nanu Oya, Lindula, Talawakelle, Deniyaya and Galle regions. The Hayleys Plantation Sector also includes Mabroc, a value added tea export company. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 9,777 8,668 6,760 EBIT Rs. mn 1,144 699 788 PAT Rs. mn 818 429 490 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 9,932 9,228 8,496 Capital Employed Rs. mn 5,952 5,493 4,943 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 19 11 16 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.47 1.25 1.40 Stability Gearing % 32 38 35 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Times 1.00 0.95 0.83 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 0.05 0.03 0.03 * Excluding Real Estate Operations Whilst recording the highest profit to date since The main challenges faced during the year were the privatisation, Hayleys Plantation Sector differentiates itself fluctuations in global commodity prices due to economic by producing internationally certified quality products downturn in key Western markets and political for major buyers through world renowned single origin turmoil in Middle-Eastern markets, increased Cess on tea teas and rubber, and sole crepe and centrifuged latex exports, changes in the weather patterns in the planting manufacture. districts and increased finance costs. P: 66 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Key activities during the year include diversification themselves through Rain Forest Alliance to pursue of productive land into fuel-wood, factory capacity environmentally friendly sustainable agricultural practices stabilisation and worker deployment. By way of business and to consistently improve the overall quality of life in development, we participated in seven trade fairs to the plantation community. The two companies have also seek new distributors and customers. Moving forward converted three black tea production factories in to green from thereon, we plan to invest in self sustainable energy tea as a product diversification strategy, with Radella projects, including mini hydropower and fuel wood being the only UTZ certified green tea factory amongst the plantations. We are also considering diversification into Regional Plantation Companies. other economic crops and venturing in to the leisure sector, leveraging the strategic locations of our estates. Outlook The year ahead is a challenging one with volatility in the Strategies in Action world commodity markets, uncertain weather patterns and The development of the plantation community has been escalating costs resulting from the increase in wages and a major component in the KVPL and TTEL management the electricity tariff hike. These impacts will be mitigated strategy. Accordingly, KVPL launched a multi-dimensional through a strategic focus on continuous improvement in initiative branded as ‘A Home for Every Plantation Worker’ product quality, land and worker productivity and value in 2006. It is an on-going project designed to uplift the addition by promoting single origin estate marks through quality of life of the community within the KVPL plantations Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. The sector will work towards which has won recognition as a benchmark practice self-sufficiency in energy usage for manufacture of tea by the Global Compact Sri Lanka Network. Talawakelle and rubber by relying on the specifically grown fuel wood Tea Estates and Kelani Valley Plantations have certified resources in our estates. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Plantations P: 67 Sector Reviews Transportation & Logistics Modern multi-user warehouse and distribution facilities in strategic locations in the region, provide a range of solutions from logistics and supply chain consultancy to warehouse management, transportation and production line logistics. 100% Sri Lanka P: 68 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Freight, chartering, port operations and inland logistics services are called to action in many large scale infrastructure development projects in highway, roadway, railway, bridge, causeway, power, energy, seaport, airport and building construction sectors. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Transportation & Logistics P: 69 Sector Reviews Transportation & Logistics Business Domain Led by Hayleys Advantis Ltd., the Sector is a market leader in Sri Lanka’s transportation and logistics industry, providing integrated logistics, international freight management, marine services and terminals & engineering services. The Sector comprises of 25 companies, one based overseas. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 11,343 8,644 7,527 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 982 592 563 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 778 492 422 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 5,789 4,309 4,245 Capital Employed Rs. mn 3,521 2,682 2,931 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 28 22 19 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.53 1.56 1.72 Stability Gearing % 14.72 12.56 14.44 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 1.96 2.01 1.77 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 1.00 651 729 * Excluding Real Estate Operations The Hayleys Advantis Group possesses a dedicated, The main challenges faced during the year include multi-skilled and high performing team backed by strong fluctuations in freight rates that affected the agency relationships with principals and partners, business, a general slowdown in Sri Lanka’s import and provides a complete range of services in and export volumes, high financing costs, transportation and logistics. exchange rate fluctuations and continued stagnation in the world economy. Recording its highest profit before tax of over Rs. 1 bn, the key activities during the year included the provision of support services in the Mannar Basin oil and gas exploration, securing new agency representation with key principals, expansion of our logistics operations in Hambantota and acquiring 3PL new businesses accounts. P: 70 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Strategies in Action Outlook Logiventures builds ‘Convertainers’ (including portable The ongoing infrastructure developments, particularly cabins) which comprise a framework of individual shipping in the maritime and aviation sectors lend opportunities containers linked by a corridor walkway. The containers for Hayleys Advantis to play a bigger role in Sri Lanka’s are modified to meet customer specific needs with transportation and logistics industry. With Sri Lanka’s doors, windows, lighting, insulation, sanitation facilities emerging role as a maritime hub in the region, a number and air-conditioning. As these units are portable, fast of opportunities would arise in this sector. They include deployable and modular they are a cost effective solution expanding agency representation, enhancing marine to conventional housing. service offering and strengthening the capability of inland projects with the acquisition of relevant assets. Logiventures offered comprehensive automotive logistics solutions for importers to clear their vehicles at the newly opened Port in Hambantota. The company is also geared to offer services including documentation and customs clearance of vehicles and inspection prior to dispatch by car carrier trailers to any location specified by the importers. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Transportation & Logistics P: 71 Sector Reviews Consumer Products The sole distributor for FujiFilm for the past 17 years, Hayleys has been distributing high quality photo film paper, chemicals, photo printing machinery, films and most recently, FujiFilm finepix cameras in Sri Lanka ensuring professional start to finish imaging services. 100% Sri Lanka P: 72 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 With products ranging from photo imaging, consumer lighting, healthcare, homecare and FMCGs, Hayleys’ consumer products are esteemed for their quality, service care and value for money. Our products have helped improve lifestyles and the quality of life of Sri Lankan consumers in the hinterland and in the most cosmopolitan localities. Catering to the increase demand for architectural lighting, our architectural lighting showroom and store ‘Hayleys Light Craft’ offers a wide spectrum of lights and light fixtures for indoors, garden, functional or energy saving requirements. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Consumer Products P: 73 Sector Reviews Consumer Products Business Domain The Consumer Products Sector markets world-renowned brands with a diverse portfolio of products, including sole distributorship for Proctor & Gamble, Philips Lighting, Fujifilm and Blue Cross Pharmaceuticals. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 4,509 4,285 3,760 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 267 269 247 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 112 145 156 Assets Rs. mn 1,793 1,383 1,115 Capital Employed Rs. mn 1,134 747 503 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 20 28 45 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.25 1.28 1.28 Stability Gearing % 69 61 59 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 2.28 3.06 3.37 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 1.33 1.41 1.206 * Excluding Real Estate Includes only continuing operations Operations The overall business environment during the year was launching of P&G ‘Whisper Choice’, ‘Olay Natural White’ characterised by exchange rate volatility, higher interest and ‘Ambipur’ air fresheners. Our healthcare business rates and lower consumer spending. Nevertheless, received exclusive distributorship for ‘Bayer’ diabetic care the sector performed well, with a focus on baby care, glucometers, ‘3M’ first aid dressings and Splash wet personal care and homecare markets. We also worked on wipes. We also launched ‘Cron’ pre-press plate setter aggressively growing our businesses in healthcare, lighting machines under our information and imaging business. and imaging solutions that comprise world class brands. A key activity was the restructuring of the Sector to Strategies in Action give more focused attention to the lighting business by We exited from the stationary business, which failed to incorporating the unit under Hayleys Electronics Lighting deliver the anticipated results. The management was Ltd. Other key events and achievements include the of the view that the resources engaged could be better deployed in a much more profitable manner elsewhere. P: 74 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 The sector is also focusing on developing or acquiring During the year the Company successfully conducted brands in categories with future growth potential. outward bound training and long service award ceremony for the staff and will continuously focus on developing, In the lighting activity the main thrust during the year building and rewarding human capital would be to provide state of the art lighting solutions to clients. Our concentration would be on the emerging high potential segments with dedicated resources. Outlook Plans are already in place to launch new innovative Overall, we expect business growth arising from lighting solutions from ‘Philips’ and it’s newly acquired higher disposable incomes and improved geographical companies which are concentrating on LED’s and building distribution of income, growth in tourism, improved Rupee management systems. stability and off-shore capital raising to better manage interest rates. In distributing principals’ brands, the Company is conscious and mindful of considering only world class products in their respective categories. This would enable us to offer high-end experience and lifestyle to the discerning consumer. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Consumer Products P: 75 Sector Reviews Leisure & Aviation The Kingsbury Infinity edged pool is one of several 100% amenities and experiences Sri Lanka available to guests wishing to indulge in both business and leisure pursuits during their stay at Colombo’s ‘landmark of luxury’. P: 76 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Amid verdant hillsides high above the famed city of Kandy, Amaya Hills welcomes guests to graceful, private havens embracing designs that recall the region’s ancient and natural wonders. Business Domain The Sector comprises Tours (destination management), Aviation (general sale agent for passenger and cargo, travel agency, airport ground handling supervisory services), and Hotels & Resorts (ownership and management of hotels and resorts). The Leisure & Aviation Sector comprises of 11 companies, with all of them based locally. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 2,062 1,645 944 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 60 150 119 Profit After Tax Rs. mn (26) 132 91 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 7,720 5,127 2,290 Capital Employed Rs. mn 5,123 4,503 1,688 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 9 31 7 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 0.44 1.24 1.55 Stability Gearing % 27 13 1 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 0.25 0.37 0.41 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 0.03 0.14 0.63 * Excluding Real Estate Includes equity accounted investees * Amaya Group was purchased mid 2011/12 FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Leisure & Aviation P: 77 Sector Reviews Leisure & Aviation Operations Strategies in Action Aviation and Destination Management The successful preparations that led to the General sales agents in Sri Lanka for: British Airways recommencement of British Airways flights to Sri Lanka, (passenger), IAG Cargo (BA), Qantas Airways, Oman Air was a key achievement in terms of broadening our (passenger), Oman Air (cargo), Nippon Cargo Air Lines, international connections. Activities during the year All Nippon Airways, Air India Express, Air Seychelles, included improving internal processes, staff training, Hainan Airlines, Aerosvit Ukrainian Airlines, General sales product development and aggressive marketing efforts. Agents in Maldives for: IAG Cargo (BA), Oman Air (cargo) Café forest situated in the vicinity of Kurunegala was Hayleys Aviation Services: Supervision of ground handling launched during the year. The cafe is managed by services for British Airways, Oman Air, Air India Express Amaya and is a place of rest and rejuvenation for the and RAF Travel Agency Business: Airline ticketing and weary traveller. outbound holidays. Destination Management Company (DMC): Inbound holidays, MICE Oman air, the recipient of consistent international accolades for its excellent products and services, Hospitality recognised Sri Lanka as one of the best performing stations within its network during the year. The key milestones during the year were the re-launch of The Kingsbury following a major expansion of the former Hayleys Tours was appointed as the exclusive selling Ceylon Continental Hotel and the Amaya brand of Hotels agent for COSMOS Aviation to market domestic air winning TripAdvisor’s Best Service Excellence Award for transportation services within the island, thereby the second consecutive year in 2013. Amaya also won expanding the business scope of the DMC. COSMOS is TripAdvisors’ Travellers’ Choice Award 2013 and was a Helicopter and Airplane Charter operation provider with nominated for the prestigious 2013 World Luxury awards. a fleet consisting of 2 Cessna 152’s, a Piper Seneca and one R44 Aircraft. The unveiling of The Kingsbury as a leading luxury hotel was strategically important for the Hayleys Group, as it caters to a wider section of the tourist market, and serves to harness the synergies of related services. Amaya Leisure took over the management of Hunas Falls Hotel, built 24 luxury villas at Amaya Lake and introduced a new camping site titled Wild Trails by Amaya which includes safaris. P: 78 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 A concierge service unit handling MICE (Meetings, This is expected to widen the scope of trading activities Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions) was introduced by opening unexplored avenues and fuel the growth of the by Hayleys Tours during the latter part of the year, Travel Agency by enhancing its profitability. mainly targeting local corporate offices as well as foreign principals. Hayleys Tours expanded its operations globally by establishing an overseas representative office in France The DMC further expanded its product portfolio and participated in several international travel trade fares by introducing a ‘Special Interest’ segment. during the financial year. It has successfully marketed this new product in collaboration with several leading specialised tour operators across Europe. Outlook Aviation will benefit following the commencement of Several training and development programs were online operations by British Airways in April 2013 for both conducted involving the participation of executives and passenger and cargo areas. The fundamentals managerial level staff marking an increase of 34% in the of the hospitality industry continue to be strong, and number of hours spent on the development of human we look forward to positive demand trends in 2013 and resources within the sector when compared to the beyond with all elements in place. During FY 2012/13 the previous financial year. Passenger GSA’s and Travel Agency handled passenger numbers in excess of 70,000 whilst on the Inbound A new branch office of Hayleys Travels was opened in Tourism side there was an approximate 60% increase in Negombo during the last quarter of the Financial Year the number of guests over the previous year. with the intention of expanding the entity’s market size by attracting new customers in a new geographical location. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Leisure & Aviation P: 79 Sector Reviews Power and Energy Hayleys Power and Energy focuses on renewable energy and management of waste energy to provide viable alternatives to the environmentally unsustainable use of conventional fuels, while contributing towards filling Sri Lanka’s power supply shortfall. 100% Sri Lanka P: 80 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Hayleys Industrial Solutions provides a wide range of industrial inputs, medical imaging equipment and consumables, and building service engineering solutions. These include the supply of raw materials and the design and implementation of power and air conditioning systems, security systems and electronic and telecommunication infrastructure. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Power and Energy P: 81 Sector Reviews Power and Energy Business Domain The Sector is a business to business supplier of industrial chemicals, machinery and equipment and renewable resource based power generation. The Sector comprises 12 companies, with all based locally. Key Performance Indicators Indicator Measure Unit FYE 31st March 2013 2012 2011 Growth Revenue Rs. mn 2,431 1,577 2,291 Earnings Before Interest and Tax Rs. mn 683 286 215 Profit After Tax Rs. mn 436 124 165 Assets (Avg) Rs. mn 4,364 4,639 2,864 Capital Employed Rs. mn 3,807 3,979 2,374 Profitability Return on Average Capital Employed* % 17 7 11 Liquidity Current Ratio Times 1.2 1.2 1.1 Stability Gearing % 31 39 36 Asset utilisation Asset Turnover Ratio Times 0.9 0.8 1.0 Productivity EBIT per Employee Rs. mn 3.3 1.2 1.1 * Excluding Real Estate Operations The key milestones during the year were achieving full the projects in the development pipeline, strengthen new connectivity of the 10 MW Nirmalapura wind power plant, ventures such as HVAC, fire systems and analytical and obtaining clearance to commence construction of the 4.5 scientific testing equipment business. MW Mawanana hydropower project, and venturing into analytical and scientific testing equipment business with Strategies in Action Japanese collaboration. A highlight of the year was the connecting 7x1.5 MW power generating from wind farm on Sri Lanka’s NorthWe also faced challenges, particularly on maintaining exWestern coast, to Norochchole. Hayleys and consortium stock margins in a price competitive market, training and partner Windforce (Pvt) Ltd. were instrumental in providing education of end users of high-tech equipment and the capital and technical support in this successful venture. consolidation and mergers of suppliers. Going forward, Mini hydropower plants currently under the Hayleys we plan to expand our ex-stock product portfolio, add portfolio provide 5.1 MW capacity addition to the national more capacity to our hydropower portfolio by completing grid. Another 7.5 MW are under consideration. P: 82 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Outlook New businesses that the sector embarked on such as analytical and scientific testing equipment, building management systems are expected to perform well in coming years with the anticipated economic growth in Sri Lanka. However, challenges are foreseen arising from mergers and demergers of suppliers and principals, as well those arising from suppliers moving towards working direct instead of going through an agent. Further, raw material and energy cost increases would have an impact on product margins. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Power and Energy P: 83 Sector Reviews Investments and Services Hayleys Business Solutions International is ISO 27001:2005 certified and the first and only BPO Company in Sri Lanka to have obtained Carbon Neutral certification. 99% Sri Lanka 1% Australia The Group lays emphasis on bringing together employees from its diverse sectors of enterprise, fostering a “One Hayleys”, through the initiatives of its Hayleys Group Recreation Committee. P: 84 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Business Domain The Sector includes the investment companies of the Group and the non-voice BPO service provider to the Hayleys Group companies as well as external customers. Other services such as human resource management, tax advisory, treasury advisory, legal and secretarial, business development, financial, internal audit, corporate communications and IT. The Sector comprises 5 companies, which are all based locally. Operations Strategies in Action The key achievements during the year can be attributed The BPO operation has identified two strategic overseas to turning around of the BPO business, which was markets and the initial break through secured in latter part in its formative stage, to profitability. The provision of year under review is likely to create the momentum for of consultancy services to establish shared services growth in the ensuing year. In addition, we would pursue operations for two leading local garment manufacturing to extend the consultancy services to wider segment in groups was a major contributory factor. Importantly, the domestic market. Other service initiatives by the sector the sector was able to secure the first ever overseas includes co-ordination of the SLFRS implementation clientele for BPO assignments, the core business of the across the Group, centralisation of the Treasury function to sector, which is expected to grow steadily. The growth is ensure best rates are obtained across the Group as well expected in the identified target markets. as a number of human resource development initiatives. Outlook The strategic direction would be towards providing a range of end to end value added services in the areas of financial accounting, payroll processing and other backoffice processing assignments in the selected overseas markets leveraging on customer accounts that we have secured up to now. The sector further aims to centralise and provide value added support services to each of its sectors in order to help the sectors focus on their individual core businesses. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Sector Reviews Investments and Services P: 85 Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy Group revenue grew by 13% to reach Rs. 74 bn, while profit before tax rose 96% to Rs. 5 bn. P: 86 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Resources and Relationships Our ability to create and preserve value over time has been a core element of the business model of the Hayleys Group over its 135-year history. We look at value creation as a two way process. On the one hand, it is a process where we create value to our external stakeholders particularly our customers, employees, suppliers and business partners, as well as the local communities and environment in which we operate. It is about our use of and dependence on these various resources and relationships, and in turn how we have developed and benefited them over the years. On the other hand, it is also about how they in turn enable us to create economic value that benefits us our investors as well as the economy at large. It is this symbiotic relationship between our various forms of capital financial, human, intellectual, social as well as the more abstract aspects such as goodwill, trust and integrity that drive our business in delivering and deriving value. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy P: 87 Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy Delivering Superior Shareholder Value The Hayleys Group posted its best annual earnings in FY 2012/13 with Hand Protection, Purification and Transportation & Logistics sectors making significant contributions. Group turnover grew by 13% to reach Rs. 74 bn, while profit before tax rose 96% to Rs. 5 bn. Recent investments in our Leisure & Aviation, Construction Materials and Energy sectors are making strong and growing contributions, while we remain optimistic on renewable energy development and are planning to further expand this portfolio. The holistic approach we have taken towards the Leisure & Aviation sector by combining hotels, travel agency, destination management and airline GSAs creates strong synergies that help us to take advantage of an industry earmarked for tremendous growth. Following these strategic investments made in the recent past in the key growth sectors of the economy, Hayleys is now going through a period of consolidation to generate even stronger returns. Financial Review 2012. Therefore, the Financial Statements of 2011 and 2012 were restated in line with the revised accounting Group performance standards. Detailed reconciliations and descriptions of Introduction the effect of the transition from the previous SLAS to The review period saw the Group recording strong SLFRS/LKAS on the Group’s equity and its net income are growth in most of its key business lines with significant provided within Note 05 to the accounts. improvements in core profitability. The Group achieved the highest ever profits in its operating history, with a Revenue profit before tax of Rs. 5.0 bn compared to Rs. 2.6 bn in The Group’s revenue expanded 13% YoY to Rs. 74.3 bn 2011/12. during the review period, supported primarily by strong growth in its key Global Markets and Manufacturing Convergence to SLFRS/LKAS and Transportation and Logistics sectors. The Global Hayleys PLC’s Financial Statements were prepared in Markets and Manufacturing sector continues to be the accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) largest contributor to Group Revenue with a share of until 31st March 2012. These Financial Statements for 51%, followed by Agriculture and Plantations (22%) and FY 2012/13 are the first Financial Statements prepared Transportation and Logistics (15%). and presented in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) effective from 1st January P: 88 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Segmental Revenue Within the Global Markets and Manufacturing segment, strong growth during the year. During the first half of the Hand Protection and Purification are the most prominent review period, both business lines also benefited from contributors to revenue with respective shares of 37% the depreciation of the Sri Lankan Rupee against the and 25% during the review period. Both these businesses greenback. along with the Transportation and Logistics sector performed exceptionally well, to achieve significant The Transportation and Logistics sector’s revenue saw revenue growth. strong growth of 15% YoY during the year, although challenged by a multitude of external factors such as The Global Markets and Manufacturing segment saw its volatilities in freight rates and slowdown in Sri Lanka’s revenue expanding by 11% YoY, despite a challenging trade volumes. Performance during the year was assisted global economic environment. Sector performance was by the provision of services in the oil and gas industry upheld by the Group’s Hand Protection and Purification and the acquisition of several large third party logistics sectors which demonstrated remarkable resilience during contracts. The Group’s Plantations also recorded healthy the year. In Hand Protection, product innovation coupled performance during the year, with its consistent focus with the dynamic pursuit of new markets enabled the on quality enabling the Group to command higher than sector to sustain its growth momentum. Meanwhile, average auction prices for tea and rubber. Overall, in Purification, timely strategies to exploit the growing all industry sectors recorded revenue expansion demand in emerging markets and aggressive marketing during the year. and promotion activities allowed the sector to record FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy P: 89 Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy Turnover from exports accounted for 63% of the Group’s sectoral consolidation, which enabled it to achieve better total revenue during the year. Despite tighter global profitability metrics. Meanwhile, the Group’s Construction economic conditions in developed markets, the Group Materials sector emerged as a strong performer during was able to increase its export income by around 20% the year, with EBIT more than doubling to Rs. 413 mn in to Rs. 48.1 bn during the year through expanding its 2012/13. As post-war developments boomed, the Alumex presence in emerging economies. The Group contributed Group was well positioned to benefit from its strong 3.17% to Sri Lanka’s export revenue during the period brand name, superior quality and state-of-the-art under review. manufacturing techniques. On the other hand, the Group’s Textile division performed below expectations. The division Earnings Before Interest and Tax incurred a loss before interest and tax of Rs. 260 mn The Group’s profitability indicators showed significant during the year, although this was a marked improvement improvement during the year, with gross profit expanding in comparison to losses of over Rs. 735 mn recorded by 28%, double that of revenue growth. The Group’s last year. The operations of this sector have been consolidated gross margin thus widened to 23% restructured with new management personnel being in 2012/13, from 20% in the preceding year. This brought in, whilst the short to medium term focus will be improvement was facilitated by the Group’s proactive on streamlining its business processes. measures to minimise wastage, improve efficiency of resources and focus on value addition. Furthermore, The Plantations sector performed exceptionally well, several of the Group’s key businesses such as Purification supported by the strong recovery of tea prices during the and Construction Materials benefited from favourable latter part of the year although rubber prices remained movements in commodity prices during the year. relatively depressed. Meanwhile, the Agriculture sector performed commendably generating an EBIT of The Group’s total overhead expenses increased by 11% to Rs. 761 mn during the year, despite being challenged Rs. 8.3 bn during the year. The increase stemmed mainly by inclement weather conditions as well as tighter credit from the Group’s manufacturing businesses, which were conditions which limited the sale of agricultural machinery. impacted by rising energy costs. Transportation and Logistics was a key contributor to The Group’s consolidated EBIT grew 62% to Rs. 6.7 bn profitability, with the sector crossing the Rs. 1.0 bn profit during 2012/13. In terms of composition, Global mark during the year. This profitability was achieved Markets and Manufacturing was the largest contributor against the backdrop of Hayleys Advantis successfully to profitability during the year, with a share of 39% of securing new agencies as well as expanding its energy EBIT. Purification and Hand Protection turned in strong logistics services. performances during the year, the combined result of proactive action by the management to focus on value The Power and Energy sector saw increasing profitability addition and innovation as well as favourable movements contributions during the year, with sector EBIT nearly in the exchange rate and commodity prices. Both doubling during the year. The Nirmalapura 10 MW wind business lines achieved record profitability during the year, power plant obtained full connectivity to the national grid generating EBIT of over Rs. 1.3 bn each. The Fibre sector in 2012/13 and emerged as a prominent contributor to also recorded a commendable improvement in its core the sector’s profitability. performance, with an increase in EBIT. During the year, the sector’s main focus was on leaner manufacturing and P: 90 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 The Leisure and Aviation sector was impacted by capacity EBIT Margins building initiatives during the year, which are expected to The Group’s consolidated EBIT margin improved to 9% bear fruit over the medium to long term. EBIT declined during the year, compared to 6% the year before. Several 20% to Rs. 58 mn during the year; this was due to the key business lines such as Purification, Hand Protection, major development carried out at the Group’s city hotel, Transportation & Logistics and Plantations saw widening The Kingsbury which was closed for a major part of profitability margins. the year. On the other hand, the Group’s resorts arm, the Amaya Group continued to be a significant profit Finance Income and Finance Cost contributor to the sector. The Group’s finance income more than doubled to Rs. 1.4 bn during 2012/13, supported by foreign The Consumer Products Sector too recorded a weakening exchange gains generated on receivables from subsidy. of performance as the depreciation of the exchange rate Meanwhile, total finance costs increased by 44% to resulted in an escalation in the price of imports and lower Rs. 3.1 bn during the year, affected by the relatively consumer demand. higher market interest rates in line with the tighter FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy P: 91 Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy monetary policy stance adopted by the government. Return on Capital Employed The bulk of the finance expenses arise at Holding The Group’s key business sectors including Hand Company level and the Agriculture sector. Meanwhile, Protection, Purification, Transportation and Logistics and the Group’s interest coverage levels were at 2.2 times. Plantations recorded significant improvements in ROCE during the period under review. Consequently, Group ROCE Taxation increased from 11.5% in 2011/12 to 16.2% in 2012/13. The Group’s total tax expense was Rs. 1.41 bn during 2012/13, an increase of 54% relative to the previous Cash Flow and Liquidity Position year. The effective tax rate reduced from 36% in 2011/12 The Group’s operational cash flows improved significantly to 28% in 2012/13, supported by increased profit during the year, supported by the healthier performance contributions by the Group’s manufacturing businesses of several key businesses. Net cash inflow from operating which attract a relatively lower tax rate and reduced activities amounted to Rs. 4.4 bn during the year, negative results of the Group’s Textiles sector. compared to Rs. 1.3 bn in 2011/2012. Meanwhile, capital expenditure for the year was Rs. 5.15 bn, mainly reflecting Profit After Tax development expenditure of The Kingsbury, capacity The Group achieved its highest ever profit after tax of additions of the Amaya Group and the expansion of Rs. 3.62 bn during 2012/13. The review period’s manufacturing facilities by the Group’s Purification sector. profitability reflects an improvement of 120% from last year’s profit levels. All business lines other than Consumer Balance Sheet Strength Products and Leisure & Aviation demonstrated increased Total Assets PAT levels, whereas the Group’s Textiles sector trimmed losses in comparison to previous years. The largest The Group’s total assets increased by Rs. 9 bn to reach contributors to the Group’s PAT were Hand Protection, Rs. 75 bn during the year. The increase was mainly Purification, and Transportation & Logistics. from additions to the property, plant & equipment (PPE), primarily in the Leisure & Aviation sector. Additionally, revaluation of land amounted to Rs. 2.6 bn during the year, also contributing to the increase in PPE. Working Capital The Group’s net working capital requirements declined marginally during the year, as trade payables increased in line with the Group obtaining more favourable credit terms from its suppliers. Meanwhile, trade receivables also increased during 2012/13, owing to larger business volumes as well as extended credit periods. Inventory levels remained more or less unchanged during the year. P: 92 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Capital Structure Looking ahead, the Group intends to substitute its With regard to the capital structure, the maturity of the relatively expensive short-term debt with longer-term Group’s assets and liabilities are well matched. For funding. In this vein, the Group intends to seek foreign instance, the Group’s current assets amounted to funding sources and approach the public debt market Rs. 30.2 bn whereas its current liabilities were through debenture issues. Rs. 29.5 bn by end-2012/13. Meanwhile, the Group’s Investments non-current assets of Rs. 44.6 bn were matched with its equity (Rs. 33.6 bn) and non-current liabilities The Group’s total investments were Rs. 5.36 bn during (Rs. 11.8 bn). Total assets were funded through the year. shareholders’ funds (30%) and short-term liabilities (39%). Meanwhile, long-term liabilities and minority interest Sector Investment funded 16% and 15% of the asset base respectively. Leisure Major development at the Group’s city hotel. Borrowings The Group’s total debt increased by 8% to Rs. 23.6 bn Capacity expansion at Amaya by end-2012/13. This is mainly attributable to increased Hills, adding 24 four-star rooms. borrowings at the Group’s Leisure and Aviation sector to fund the development at The Kingsbury. This sector’s debt Purification Capacity expansion through the acquisition of a 100% stake in thus increased by Rs. 2.3 bn during the year. The Holding Shizuka Company Ltd., Thailand. Co. also saw debt levels increasing by 47% during the year, mainly in order to strengthen the Textile sector Transportation & Hayleys Advantis increased its through subscription to a rights issue and the Leisure Logistics stake in Mountain Hawk Express. Sector. Overall, Global Markets and Manufacturing, Leisure & Aviation and the Holding Co. accounted for the Textiles Investment in Rights Issue to bulk of the Group’s debt. increase Share Capital. Despite the increase in debt, the Group’s gearing levels (as reflected by Debt/Debt+ Equity) declined from Shareholder Returns 43% in 2011/12 to 41% in 2012/13 as the equity was Share Price Movements strengthened by stronger profit retention. Meanwhile, debt coverage metrics improved during the year in line Sri Lanka’s share market recorded much volatility during with the overall healthier performance; debt to EBIT the year ended March 2013, affected by the relatively improved to 3.5 times during the year, compared to higher yields on fixed income securities, exchange rate 5.2 times in 2011/12. volatility and tight liquidity conditions. During the year, the All Share Price Index increased slightly by 6%, whereas The Group’s debt profile tilted more towards longthe S&P SL 20 Index gained 17% since its introduction term borrowings during the year, although short-term in June 2012. Meanwhile, the Hayleys PLC share price borrowings still account for a bulk 70% of total debt. although declining during the first part of the year, picked Long-term borrowings accounted for an increased 30% up slightly towards the latter part of the year, to close of debt in 2012/13, compared to 26% the year before. the year at Rs. 298.70. Overall market capitalisation of Hayleys PLC shares was Rs. 22.4 bn by end March 2013. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy P: 93 Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy Earnings Per Share and P/E Ratio Dividends The Group’s EPS almost doubled from Rs. 13.84 in the The Company has proposed a first and final dividend of previous year to Rs. 24.72 during the review period. Rs. 4.50 per share for the period under review (2011/12 During the last 5 years, the Group’s EPS has expanded by Rs. 4.00 per share) a compound annual growth rate of 56%. With regard to the Price/Earnings ratio, the share was trading at 12.08 times by end March 2013, compared to 26.01 times the previous year. This is resultant from the decline in the Company’s share price in parallel to growth in its EPS. Net Asset Value The net assets per share increased by 22% to Rs. 299.46 during the period under review. Therefore, by the end March 2013, it was trading at a price-to-book value of 1.0 x. P: 94 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Direct Economic Value Generated and Distributed Share 2012/13 Share 2011/2012 % Rs. mn % Rs. mn Revenue – 74,302 – 65,807 Cost of materials and services bought in – (54,276) – (49,381) Sub Total – 20,026 – 16,425 To Employees as remuneration 49 9,934 48 8,582 To Government Revenue 10 1,911 14 3,132 Sri Lanka 8 1,638 12 2,944 Overseas 2 273 2 188 To Shareholders as dividends 2 338 3 300 To Lenders of capital 22 4,444 14 2,085 Interest on borrowings – 2,678 – 1,477 Non controlling interest – 1,766 – 608 Retained in the business 17 3,399 21 2,326 Depreciation – 1,883 – 1,592 Profit retained – 1,516 – 734 100 20,026 100 16,425 FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy P: 95 Delivering and Deriving Value Investors and the Economy Risks Arising from Climate Change Further, crop diseases can affect supplies of fruits and vegetables, while weather influenced changes impact the Climate change has the potential to affect business in demand for products such as flower seeds. numerous ways by way of extreme weather patterns, droughts, floods and the like. These pose challenges for material sourcing, manufacturing and distribution. Services We are also mindful that climate change could result Global warming impacts the operation of sea ports, in new laws and regulations which in turn affect our winds and storms affect efficiency of cargo operations operations both financially and operationally. Therefore, while droughts and floods limit cargo movement. we are committed to making a positive difference, using All these adversely impact revenue and profitability of energy responsibly and addressing climate change in our operations. various ways as discussed in the section on Society and Environment that follows. Individual business units and sectors manage these risks, along with other non-climate related risks. Risk We will briefly explore the potential impact of climate management is discussed on pages 158 to 164 of this change on our industry sectors that are most vulnerable. Annual Report. Manufacturing Policy on Patronising Locally Based Three of our key manufacturing sectors are dependent on Suppliers plantation crops, namely, coconut and rubber, which are thus vulnerable to adverse weather patterns. Hayleys Fibre Supplier relationships are integral to our success as a is dependent on a steady supply of coconut fibre, while business, and as a corporate citizen. We encourage all our the Purification sector on coconut shells. Any disruption Group companies to source goods and services locally in supply will negatively impact production. The Hand and in addition to supporting local suppliers. Key factors Protection Sector is dependent on natural rubber latex as considered when selecting suppliers are quality, price on its primary input. time delivery, reliably and, if applicable, credit terms. Agriculture Significant Indirect Economic Impacts Hayleys Agriculture, by the very nature of its sector, is of our Operations highly vulnerable to climate change. Crop outputs are Over the years the Group has provided opportunities and determined by variations in atmospheric temperatures, resources that enable people and communities to raise concomitant changes which alter precipitation patterns their standard of living. We are also mindful of our ability to and the physiological response of crops to the disparity grow in markets where economic need is often greatest. of carbon dioxide levels in the atmosphere, and other relevant factors. For example, wind patterns directly affect rubber output while it also affects the quality of tea. P: 96 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 In Fibre manufacturing we engage in initiatives to uplift the living standards of poor communities to increase their purchasing power, which in turn has a positive impact on the company. We engage in skill improvement and knowledge sharing activities to enhance the quality of the entire value chain. The Hand Protection sector is involved in a special programme to uplift the living condition of small scale latex suppliers in the Monaragala district. This FirstLight initiative is founded on the principle of fair trade in rubber latex, thus empowering farmers to be self-reliant, while at the same time enabling us to secure reliable suppliers. This programme was recognised by Enterprise Asia under the ‘Investment in People’ Award category in 2012. In the Plantation sector, Kelani Valley Plantations PLC and Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC invest in communities through housing, schooling, scholarships and medical care to the estate community, through the ‘A Home for Every Plantation Worker’ project. Land was also provided to rear over 1,000 cattle while making available over 100 acres of land for vegetable cultivation. In turn, these measures also serve to retain workers on the plantations, as the sector as a whole faces labour shortages. Through its involvement in numerous infrastructure development projects across Sri Lanka, our Transportation & Logistics sector has made a significant contribution towards economic development in the rural areas of the country. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Investments and Services P: 97 Delivering and Deriving Value Customers An Unwavering Focus Our vision is driven by the aspirations of our customers. We place them at the very heart of our enterprise. As a Group with a heritage of innovation, we make it a mindset to understand the hidden and unarticulated customer need, involve everyone in the process, experiment, learn what works and what doesn’t and deliver on our promise. In short, we regard ourselves as a provider of solutions rather than mere products and services. Customer profile We have a diverse customer base, both local and foreign, spread across manufacturing, agriculture and services. Our matchless quality and excellent customer service standards have enabled us to maintain longterm customer relationships, while gaining over 550 new business customers during the year. A cross section of our customer base across business sectors are presented below. Manufacturing The Fibre sector acquired nearly 60 new B2B customers during the year under review, mostly in overseas markets. With customer relationships lasting typically 2 15 years the sector continually seeks new customers while strengthening its top 10% core holding which accounts for about 60% of sales. The average length of relationships with the top five customers in the Textiles sector is nine years, while two new customers were added during the year. The relationship with MAS Intimates, Crystal Martin and Jay Jay mills has a very rich history lasting over a decade. The Construction Materials sector won nine local and three overseas customers during the year, bringing the total to over 150 relationships that have lasted over 15 years on average. P: 98 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Agriculture Our product and service labelling serves to educate people about the benefits of our products and also With nearly 5,500 B2B customers, 181 of whom were impart information to customers. Information pertaining to acquired during the year, the Agriculture sector enjoys sourcing components, content particularly with regard relationships that last 15 years on average. to substances that might produce an environmental or social impact, safe use of the product or service and The Plantations sector won 12 new customers during environmental/social impacts of disposal is displayed on the year, bringing the total to 88 relationships that on the the label. All agriculture fertilizer products, and pesticides average lasts six years. in particular, display poison warnings and safe storage instructions. Veterinary products and pesticides carry Services instructions on safe application procedures and antidotes Transportation & Logistics saw an unprecedented 250 in case of contamination/consumption and also poison new relationships being established during the year, with centre contact details, amongst others. core customers averaging a 10-year period of doing business with the sector. Hayleys Agriculture complies with plant quarantine procedures for import and export of plants. Leisure & Aviation enjoys a B2B customer base of 510 in hospitality and another 740 in Aviation. The top 10% in Marketing Communications hospitality account for only one-third of sales, indicating a We communicate with our customers largely through wide customer base and low concentration risk. advertising. We adhere to laws, standards and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including With an average 10-year relationship, the Consumer advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Compliance Products sector enjoys a 70,000-retail outlet base. This includes obtaining prior approval from relevant authorities sector too has a well dispersed customer base with the and adhering to all guidelines of our principals and the top 10% accounting for about a third of sales. Consumer Affairs Authority in ensuring that all claims made by us are true and verifiable. Power and Energy has over 250 customers, with relationships lasting 10-15 years, while Investment & Services, which has a much shorter period of customer Compliance relationship won over 50% of its customer base during the The Group has not been informed of or has pursued year under review. any action where any fines were imposed in relation to non-compliance with laws and regulations related to the Product and Service Information provision and use of our products and services. The safety of our products and services is of utmost importance to us. We provide assurance on the safety and ethics behind our products, and ensure that our customers know that they are choosing the most optimal combination of safety and efficacy when buying a Hayleys product. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Customers P: 99 Delivering and Deriving Value Employees Our Human Capital We have said it before it is people that make the difference between a good organisation and an excellent one. It is one of the most important of all our ‘capitals’, the one that lies below the tip of the iceberg, driving innovation and new thinking and in the process often blurring the line between fact and fiction. True to our corporate values, we have in place a culture that moulds a winning team. We recruit, train, develop and motivate our people to deliver their best. These span aspects including training and development, reward and recognition, employee welfare, succession planning and leadership development. The Ten Principles promulgated by the Global Compact (UNGC) concerning human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption, underpin every endeavour at Hayleys Group. The Group is a signatory to these principles. All Hayleys companies are guided by the principles of the UNGC and Sri Lanka’s legal and regulatory regimes concerning safeguarding of human rights. Workforce at a Glance The table below includes permanent, contract and casual employees as well as those from overseas locations and those contracted through third party service providers. Executive & Clerical & Manual Grade Total Grand Security Staff Janitorial Staff Above Supervisory Sector Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Total Male Female Male Female Fibre 110 21 103 23 732 417 945 461 1,406 46 5 2 3 Hand Protection 153 34 77 1 1,257 203 1,487 238 1,725 78 5 8 14 Purification 159 17 36 6 594 15 789 38 827 27 2 14 4 Textiles 127 23 231 11 632 3 990 37 1,027 42 2 17 18 Construction Materials 51 6 67 6 278 5 396 17 413 21 1 4 8 Agriculture 186 25 204 53 431 598 821 676 1,497 85 8 5 – Plantations 184 23 877 288 9,930 12,959 10,991 13,270 24,261 6 – – 1 Transportation & Logistics 554 112 191 9 1,234 276 1,979 397 2,376 90 8 12 15 Power and Energy 98 22 64 4 13 – 175 26 201 15 – – – Consumer Products 76 15 95 15 – – 171 30 201 7 – 2 2 Leisure & Aviation 195 78 607 58 244 28 1,046 164 1,210 35 2 – – Investments & Services 103 89 28 4 5 – 136 93 229 15 2 5 40 Total 1,996 465 2,580 478 15,350 14,504 19,926 15,447 35,373 467 35 69 105 Expatriate staff accounted for a total of 11 persons across two sectors, Leisure & Aviation (four males and one female) and Textiles (five males and one female). P: 100 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Employees P: 101 Delivering and Deriving Value Employees Turnover by Category The tables below excludes casual staff/ overseas staff/ service provider staff of the Group and manual grade staff of plantation companies. Sector Executives & Clerical & Manual Overall Above Supervisory Employee Turnover % % % % Fibre 19.4 5.3 8.8 11.2 Hand Protection 17.2 4.0 7.2 9.3 Purification 9.2 9.5 2.6 12.6 Textiles 20.3 6.6 3.9 7.7 Construction Materials 14.3 10.2 9.6 10.6 Agriculture 5.8 7.6 5.7 6.4 Plantations 8.1 1.5 15.5 5.3 Transportation & Logistics 14 11.3 9.1 10.6 Power and Energy 7.9 5.1 0.0 5.8 Consumer Products 6.9 16.0 0.0 11.3 Leisure & Aviation 16.6 10.4 3.8 10.2 Investments & Services 11.2 6.3 18.2 10.6 Overall 12.6 7.8 7.0 9.3 Turnover by Gender Executives Clerical Manual Sector Male Female Male Female Male Female Fibre 6 1 − − − − Hand Protection 27 2 3 − − − Purification 13 1 – 2 8 − Textiles 31 2 10 2 11 − Construction Materials 6 4 1 − 13 − Agriculture 1 4 11 1 21 4 Plantations 14 1 − 2 − − Transportation & Logistics 35 9 7 1 7 1 Power and Energy 5 1 − − − − Consumer Products 1 1 2 − − − Leisure & Aviation 31 15 46 8 105 6 Investments & Services 5 8 − 1 − − Overall 175 49 77 17 165 11 Group Turnover 224 94 176 P: 102 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Turnover by Age Group Executives Clerical Manual Sector Below 30 30-50 Above 50 Below 30 30-50 Above 50 Below 30 30-50 Above 50 Fibre 1 4 2 − − − − − − Hand Protection 14 11 4 − 3 − 34 130 − Purification 8 6 − 2 − − 5 3 − Textiles 8 22 3 6 6 − 5 6 − Construction Materials 3 6 1 − 1 − 5 8 − Agriculture 1 4 − 8 4 − 16 7 2 Plantations 2 13 − 1 − 1 − − − Transportation & Logistics 19 25 − 4 4 − 1 7 − Power and Energy 2 4 − − − − − − − Consumer Products 1 1 − − 2 − − − − Leisure & Aviation 20 22 4 24 28 2 81 30 − Investments & Services 10 3 − 1 − − − − − Overall 89 121 14 46 48 3 113 61 2 Group 224 94 176 Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreements Freedom of association is a right enshrined in the Hayleys ethos. All our employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Employees P: 103 Delivering and Deriving Value Employees Minimum Notice on Operational Educating Employees and their Changes Families on Serious Diseases Hayleys extends due notice to employees regarding We are committed to helping our employees lead healthy, impending operational changes. Due to diversity and productive lives through provision of education, training, uniqueness of each cluster, lead times may vary in counseling services, risk prevention measures and through each company. However, the Group strictly maintains provision of treatment to maintain wellness. As a measure employees’ right to receive adequate and timely notice to address concerns pertaining to health, companies of such changes, although no specific provision has within the Group conduct training programmes on conflict been made in the collective agreements with regard to management, best practices, health and wellbeing, first the minimum notice period(s) for effecting significant aid, reproductive health issues, safe behaviour, dental operational changes. health awareness and TB awareness. Occupational Health and Safety Health and well-being of our employees are essential to our long-term viability. Taking care of our people is an important Hayleys value and one that sets us apart. We assume responsibility to not only create a safe but also a healthy workplace for our employees. We are committed to reducing work-related illnesses and injuries while improving the overall health of our workforce. A growing focus on health and safety has led to teams applying world class exercises, operational tools and training in their operations. Injuries and Lost Days Number of Injuries Number of Lost Days Sector Male Female Total Male Female Total Fibre 7 0 7 68 0 68 Purification 24 1 25 84 12 96 Hand Protection 32 33 Construction Materials 16 0 16 131 0 131 Plantations 97 119 216 96 218 314 Transportation & Logistics 1 8 9 32 0 32 Leisure & Aviation 10 1 11 140 14 154 P: 104 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Training Programmes Executives Clerical & Supervisory Manual Male Female Male Female Male Female Sector No. of Hours No. of Hours No. of Hours No. of Hours No. of Hours No. of Hours Fibre 120 − 48 − − − Hand Protection 3,876 909 330 − 10,635 750 Purification 2,381 18 − − − − Textiles 471 79 201 34 552 − Construction Materials 566 305 257 − 551 − Agriculture 1,656 112 2,436 1,652 3,223 2,960 Plantations 2,442 201 134 5 356 264 Transportation & Logistics 30,963 511 − − − − Power and Energy 520 88 − 56 − − Consumer Products 1,817 329 994 112 8 0 Leisure & Aviation 4,637 1,940 4,290 1,326 13,332 1,453 Investments & Services 373 229 − − − − Total 49,822 4,721 8,690 3,185 28,657 5,427 environment and anti-corruption principles. The Group is signatory to these principles. All companies within the Group are guided by the principles of the UNGC and Sri Lanka’s legal and regulatory regimes concerning safeguarding of human rights. Almost all companies within the Group have entered into investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or undergone human rights screening. Abolition of Child Labour Our basic principle when it comes to child labour is that individuals younger than 18 years of age may not work for any of our companies or suppliers. In the Plantations sector in particular, a Human Resource Management Policy has been formulated and communicated to all employees to prevent child labour. There is also strict adherence to the Collective Agreement signed with the worker trade unions and close monitoring and supervision of operations by management in this sector. Investment Agreements That Include Human Rights Aspects Human Rights Reviews We believe in the dignity of every human being and The Hayleys corporate team conducted an introductory respects individual rights as set forth in the UN Global session on human rights relevant to business, where Compact (UNGC) concerning human rights, labour, the FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Employees P: 105 Delivering and Deriving Value Employees Sustainability Champions from all sectors participated. This was initiated based on an independent gap assessment conducted earlier that saw no violations of human rights, but indicated the potential for improving the monitoring and reporting mechanisms on human rights across the Hayleys Group. In response, we conducted a series of human rights impact assessments at all Group sectors based on the UNGC human rights questionnaire. Areas such as health and safety, work hours, wages and leave, fair treatment, community impacts, product stewardship, country risk and suppliers were covered in this assessment. All companies within the Group are in the process of submitting action plans to enhance the effectiveness of the aspects mentioned areas mentioned overleaf. This has created greater awareness on human rights and has helped set goals, performance targets, and identify training needs. Area of Improvement/Focus Commitments from Companies within our Sectors Health and Safety Manufacturing  Periodic safety audits to be introduced  Safety policies to be displayed in all sites  Confidential procedure to receive and handle health and safety complaints from employees to be introduced and communicated to all categories of employees  Key Performance Indicators for health and safety to be introduced to all relevant persons  Mechanism for continuous improvement for identified machinery within a particular Company  Induction training to be given to all new recruits on health, safety and usage of Personal Protective Equipment Agriculture Sector • A trained Health and Safety officer to be appointed at key sectoral locations P: 106 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Area of Improvement/Focus Commitments from Companies within our Sectors Plantations • Installation of fire extinguishers and lightning arrestors to ensure safety of people, equipment and records in estate offices • Lighting arrestors to be installed in all factories. Fair Treatment All Sectors • Written policy on non-harassment to be introduced • Relevant training for all location Heads • Procedures on grievance handling to be formalised Plantations • Grievance procedures are already in place for estate workers • A committee will be formulated to handle grievances of plantation Executives and Head Office staff. Suppliers Manufacturing • Training to be provided to management and procurement staff on human rights for suppliers Agriculture • An assessment to be carried out on the main suppliers to ascertain conformity to our human rights standards Ensuring Human Rights Adherence of Suppliers The Fibre sector has supplier assessment programmes as part of their SA8000 certification and BSCI (Business Social Compliance Initiative). The Hand Protection sector has the Firstlight Programme which is a corporate social responsibility initiative to improve the quality of life of disadvantaged farmers located in remote villages of Sri Lanka. The following are addressed under this programme.  Training to farmers on areas such as latex tapping, nursery development and natural rubber collection techniques  Farm implements to maintain and manage rubber plantations  Clean drinking water to local schools  Healthcare to farming communities  HIV/AIDS awareness  Support for social events in the community The Plantation sector conducts an annual review of tea suppliers, and receives endorsements on compliance. There were no grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms during the year. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Employees P: 107 Delivering and Deriving Value Suppliers and Business Partners The Value of Relationships Supplier relationships are integral to our business. Our value creation begins with the products and services provided by suppliers, followed by meticulous and consistent execution to ensure quality in all its forms right through the value chain. Thus the success of our business partners is inextricably linked with our own. Relationship Building Our supplier base is diverse, ranging from local microenterprises to world-class global companies in varied sectors. We have long-standing relationships with the majority of suppliers, and work closely with them to ensure high levels of performance in all aspects of compliance, quality and social responsibility. In the local scene, Hayleys pioneered the out-grower and subcontractor model in Sri Lanka for over three decades. This is essentially a backward integration strategy that enhances supplier relations while providing an assured income stream to rural farmers. We support such arrangements with a range of services that include impact assessments, studies on farmer profitability and productivity, and training programmes. Our out-grower network presently exceeds 4,200 suppliers, with over a third engaged in growing gherkins for the export market. Some of the relationships with our global suppliers span over half a century. Many of them have withstood changing and demanding circumstances, mainly arising from international mergers and acquisitions. For instance, in Fibre and Purification we have a supplier base exceeding 350, with the average duration of the relationship lasting about 15 years. Partnering with overseas investors in our projects is an important part of our business strategy as they add significant value in terms of access to technology as well as markets. P: 108 Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Our Approach to Local Communities With businesses that are widespread, the impact of our activities on our stakeholders are broad-based and far reaching. The spread of our activities across the country, has resulted in our businesses being an integral part of the communities they operate in, and hence, assessment of societal requirements are part of everyday interactions at these localities. We are mindful of our calling; to deal responsibly and fairly with the different stakeholder groups and whilst we seek to achieve our business goals, we simultaneously commit ourselves to the development and well-being, and the empowerment and enrichment of the lives of all our stakeholders whilst not compromising good ethics. Touching lives The enterprise of Hayleys has touched the lives of many, both directly and indirectly. Our policies on buying local, and the indirect social and economic benefits of our projects and businesses on local communities in which we operate were discussed earlier. Regarding the latter, of special note are our Firstlight programme, housing programme for plantation workers and our out-grower business model. Integrity and Business Ethics Our long-standing commitment to doing business with integrity and transparency, a key element in our corporate values, means avoiding corruption in any form. We conduct periodic audits of all our business operations to detect potential misconduct and monitor compliance with anti-corruption laws and relevant policies. In this context strict disciplinary action was taken on three employees in the Transportation & Logistics sector for incidents of corruption. The Group’s Legal services has not been informed of or has pursued any action where any fines were imposed in relation to non-compliance with laws and regulations related to corruption and related matters. FactandFiction P: 109 Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment Caring for Our Environment Our management approach is two pronged: one is to design and manufacture products that do not harm the environment, and second, to minimise the impact of our own activities. Whilst generating a superior return to investors lies at the core of business, we are mindful that sustainable profit does not happen in isolation of our People and Planet. We take pride in our diverse array of eco-friendly products and services, ranging from activated carbon, coir fibre pith, horticulture products, and our in-house R&D which has pioneered many turnkey solutions for the purification of gases, air and liquids. Apart from manufacturing, we also represent leading global brands in agriculture, consumer products, industrial solutions, leisure & aviation and transportation & logistics. Our choice of the most appropriate principal is not based merely on how commercially attractive the liaison would be, but also on compatibility with ecofriendly principles. We invest in best practices for the efficient use of resources such as energy, water and materials. We are actively pursuing renewable energy sources, both for internal use as well as to augment the national grid. We control the discharge of emissions, effluents and waste, whilst managing the environmental impact of their disposal. P: 110 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Materials Usage Hayleys Commences We are committed to responsible product stewardship. Wind Power Generation at We strive to improve the life cycle of the products Nirmalapura we make from the raw materials and services we procure for operations, through distribution, end use Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd. commenced and management of product disposal. We use recycled commercial operations on the 9th of August 2012, material as much as possible in our operations but not at and is expected to add 10 MW to the National Grid the expense of quality. through its wind turbine generators. The venture is the latest step towards boosting the power Energy Conservation and Efficiency requirements of the nation through renewable and Improvements sustainable ‘green’ energy. We are taking aggressive steps to conserve energy and reduce the impact of greenhouse gas (GHG) Hayleys and consortium partner, Windforce Pvt emissions arising from our operations. Our initiatives Ltd. were instrumental in providing the capital and include increasing energy efficiency in our manufacturing technology necessary to build this wind power operations, improving efficiency within our transportation plant. The 10 MW wind plant will contribute fleet, investing in low carbon energy and by encouraging to supporting the nation’s power generation a lower carbon footprint within our supply chain. requirements and address the demands of the Summarised below are some examples of energy saved future today. per unit of activity level on specific production lines and processes across our sectors. Wind power is widely recognised as Sri Lanka’s best natural resource after hydro power, due to the  A multi-log furnace was introduced in the extrusion country’s substantial monsoon winds. The farm of process at the Purification sector resulted in a 33% wind turbine generators has seven turbines, each saving in energy consumption producing 1.5 MW of power.  The modification of a dryer and replacement of a hot air generator at the Construction Materials sector saw Power plants currently operated by Hayleys provide an energy saving of 58%, while the replacement of 5.5 MW of energy to the National Grid. The Group blowers resulted in an 80% energy saving also provides complete turnkey solutions, develops and construct power houses, and supplies turbine  In the Agriculture sector savings were achieved by generators for renewable power projects which rationalising the number of staff transport cycles, currently supply the National Grid with a total of 9.5 while a 10% reduction was achieved in furnace oil MW. Further, Recogen, a Hayleys Group Company consumption in steam boilers operates the world’s only pollution-free charcoaling  The Fibre sector used solar energy to dry plant, which generates electricity from waste heat, approximately one tonne of wet fibre to conserve contributing towards reducing fossil fuel driven electricity on a pilot basis power generation-an initiative that earned the Company rights to trade-in carbon credits under the Kyoto Protocol. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment P: 111 Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment  Through the installation of energy saving machinery and equipment including the replacement of high powered motors with low powered motors where Hayleys and Employees applicable, introduction of capacitor banks, variable Complete IT Centre Education speed drives, energy saving lighting and close Initiative to Northern Schools monitoring and controlling of energy usage at each location, the Plantations sector reduced energy usage A three-year initiative engaging the youth during the year. of Northern Sri Lanka reached successful completion, when Hayleys formally opened a newly constructed, fully equipped IT Centre at the Poonekary Maha Vidyalayam in Kilinochchi on 3rd Water Consumption and Discharge August 2012. Safe, clean, accessible water is essential to the well-being and economic prosperity of the communities we serve, This was initiated based on the need for postand also to the ecosystems upon which we all rely. It is conflict humanitarian assistance identified in 2009. also vital for our business operations. Therefore we are The project has evolved into a sustainable initiative intensely engaged in water stewardship. and plays an essential role in developing the youth in the North for future employment prospects. Likewise, business units ensure that water discharge meet all applicable regulatory requirements. These are The IT Centre is the second fully-equipped monitored regularly, internally and externally. computer training centre of its kind; the first being the centre at Yogipuram Maha Vidyalam in Mullaitivu constructed in 2010. Both projects Our Carbon Footprint were funded by the ‘Internally Displaced As an important aspect of measuring and managing the Sri Lankans’ (IDSLs) Relief Fund of the Hayleys environmental impact of the Hayleys Group we made our Group, established in 2009 to support humanitarian first attempt at computing and reporting our greenhouse assistance initiatives. The fund comprises a gas (GHG) emissions in FY 2011/12. This is our second day’s salary donated by employees across the voluntary disclosure, and like before, it is based on Group and a similar amount contributed by the the WBCSD/WRI Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Hayleys Group. Accounting and Reporting Standard (‘Corporate Standard’) and the most recent versions of applicable appendices and calculation tools. Financial control is the basis for consolidating the GHG emissions, and the boundary is largely the same as that given under Report Parameters (page 25), except that not all companies are included in the carbon footprint computation due to the non-availability of data. Significant exclusions, as in the previous computation, are our Textiles sector and overseas business operations. P: 112 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 A significant change this time is that we are reporting emissions directly at Group level (but analysed by sectors) DPL wins prestigious Asia and not by individual companies like last time. Responsible Entrepreneurship This makes a difference in the assignment of Scopes for Award for ‘Investment in People’: purchased electricity, although the consolidated total is Firstlight™ initiative places unaffected. This approach simplifies data collection and Sri Lanka first in Southeast minimises possible double counting when consolidating Asia region at Group level. Dipped Products PLC (DPL) emerged winner of the Subject to the above, our reporting under Scopes 1 and 2 Asia Responsible Entrepreneurship Awards 2012 is complete except for fugitive emissions from refrigeration for Southeast Asia, in the ‘Investment in People’ and air conditioning plants, due to the difficulty in Category. obtaining data in respect of some reporting entities. Reporting under Scope 3, which is optional, is selective. DPL clinched the Category Award for championing As before we are reporting on three significant sources sustainable and responsible entrepreneurship here, namely, combustion and purchased electricity through its Firstlight™ project, which gave the consumed in assets/premises not financially controlled world its first ethical rubber gloves. by the Group, and employee air travel on business. GHG emissions arising from air travel were computed Firstlight™ is DPL’s home-grown sourcing initiative. individually for each leg of journey taking into account Coupled with market sustainability and corporate distance, type of flight and class of seating. social responsibility, it is aligned to empower smallholder rubber farmers to achieve their full potential. The Company engages all components of the value chain, from suppliers to buyers and end customers and in doing so, encourages the move towards ethically sourced and manufactured products. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment P: 113 Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment Carbon Footprint (Tonnes CO2 Equivalent) Sector Stationary Mobile Purchased Air Purchased Other Total GHG Share of GHG Combustion Combustion Electricity Travel Electricity Emissions Emissions by by Sector Sector, % Manufacturing Fibre 59.9 61.8 1,161.8 11.3 – – 1,294.8 2.4 Hand Protection 8,749.6 – 5,722.5 100.3 – – 14,572.4 26.6 Purification 7,320.0 372.2 3,704.8 94.9 – 8.7 11,500.6 21.0 Construction Materials 2,620.1 107.8 2,286.8 13.8 – 72.0 5,100.5 9.3 Agriculture Agriculture 874.0 67.7 672.7 89.8 – – 1,704.2 3.1 Plantations 281.6 1,894.0 6,681.8 17.1 – 245.6 9,120.0 16.6 Services Transportation and Logistics – 6,952.0 900.4 79.1 45.5 154.2 8,131.1 14.8 Consumer Products – – 62.1 31.9 – 446.4 540.4 1.0 Leisure and Aviation 820.1 84.8 1,269.9 12.7 – – 2,187.5 4.0 Power and Energy – 13.0 74.2 12.5 – 96.1 195.8 0.4 Investments and Services – – 57.7 2.8 – – 60.5 0.1 Holding Company 10.5 – 356.6 8.1 – – 375.2 0.7 Total GHG emissions by source 20,735.8 9,553.3 22,951.3 474.3 45.5 1,023.0 54,782.8 100 Share of GHG emissions by 37.9 17.4 41.9 0.9 0.1 1.9 100 Source, % P: 114 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Subject to the above, the total GHG emissions (carbon As for our next steps, we will further refine measurement footprint) of the Hayleys Group during FY 2012/13 procedures and aim to cover Scopes 1 and 2 in full. To amounted to 54,783 tonnes carbon dioxide equivalent improve completeness we will include the Hayleys Textiles (tCO2e), which is marginally higher than the 54,014 tCO2e sector and more Group companies within the GHG reported in the previous year. Notwithstanding possible emissions reporting boundary. These measures will enable distortions arising from changes within the GHG boundary us to benchmark our environmental performance more and omissions in data collection, it implies that the GHG consistently and accurately over time, as well as against emissions intensity has reduced significantly when related peers. Internal target setting would then become a natural to an activity level, such as the Group turnover, which outcome, with a positive spinoff in terms of cost savings, increased 13% YoY. particularly in the context of the steep electricity tariff hikes coming into force in 2013. Direct GHG emissions arising from combustion (Scope 1) accounted for the largest share at 55% of the total, with stationary combustion taking a 38% share, reflecting the Initiatives to Reduce Our Carbon Group’s large manufacturing base. Indirect GHG emissions Footprint from purchased electricity (Scope 2) followed closely with As a result of measures adopted to reduce GHG a 42% share. emissions, the Purification sector sold 7,232 carbon credits during the year ended December 2012. Meanwhile, The manufacturing sector, which contributed 51% GHG emission reductions were also achieved at HJS to Group turnover, accounted for 59% of total GHG Condiments Ltd in the Agriculture sector. emissions, with Hand Protection (DPL Group) and Purification (Haycarb Group) accounting for 27% and 21% of the overall total. They are both large and successful manufacturing groups serving global markets which contributed 39% and 26% respectively to the Hayleys Group turnover. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment P: 115 Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment Waste by Type and Disposal Method Waste is segregated and disposed of in compliance with applicable regulations. Details of total weight of waste by type and disposal method are given below for key business sectors. Sector Type of Waste Methods of Disposal Amount Disposed (Tonnes) Fibre Non-hazardous waste Land fill 750 Purification Hazardous waste Re-use 6.3 Non-hazardous waste Re-use 6,111.6 Construction Materials Non-hazardous waste Re-use 1,096.6 Agriculture Hazardous waste Incineration 8.5 Non-hazardous waste Composting 2.4 Transportation & Logistics Hazardous waste Through authorised contractors 20 Non-hazardous waste Authorised waste disposal collector 1.2 P: 116 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 International Global Compact Compliance with Environmental Laws Participants Commend Kelani and Regulations Valley Plantations’ Sustainability Hayleys Group Legal unit has not been informed of or Initiatives has pursued any action where any fines were imposed in relation to non-compliance with laws and regulations The UN Global Compact is a strategic policy related to environmental matters. initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. Kelani Valley Plantations (KVPL) PLC sought to display their voluntary corporate citizenship initiatives to the seven representatives of Local Networks (LN’s). As part of the four-day Local Network Exchange Programme held in November 2012, seven Global Compact participants from countries spanning the United States, Egypt, Indonesia, Bangladesh and India visited Kelani Valley Plantations’ rubber and tea estates in Dewalakanda and Panawatte. The Exchange Programme sought to foster collaboration among Local Networks by providing an opportunity to share experiences and identify best practices across regional boundaries. All delegates encouraged and commended the good practices of CSR in KVPL. They commended the efforts initiated to strengthen employer employee relationships and their wellbeing which in the long-run will create a happy workforce and enhance labour productivity. KVPL’s community initiatives, and high sanitation and hygiene standards at factory and estate level received high approval from the delegates. Overall KVPL was recognised as a role model for responsible business. FactandFiction Management Review and Preview Delivering and Deriving Value Society and Environment P: 117 Stewardship Board of Directors P: 118 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 FactandFiction Stewardship Board of Directors P: 119 Board of Directors Director Profile Joined Hayleys Group in 1969. Appointed to the Board in 1998. Chairman and Chief Executive of Hayleys PLC since July 2009. Honorary Consul of United Mexican States (Mexico) to Sri Lanka. Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport. Member of the Presidential Committee on Maritime Matters. Committee Member of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Council Member of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon. Member of the Monetary Policy Consultative Committee of the Central Mohan Pandithage Bank of Sri Lanka. Director, Sri Lanka Port Management & Consultancy Chairman & Chief Executive Services Ltd. Appointed to the Board in 2008. He is a quintessential strategist and business specialist with 24 years of business experience. Secretary to the Ministry of Transport, Sri Lanka and well-known prominent entrepreneur and investor whose business interests include Hydropower generation, Manufacturing, Hospitality, Entertainment, Banking & Finance. He serves as the Chairman of Sampath Bank PLC, Vallibel One PLC, Vallibel Finance PLC, Vallibel Power Erathna PLC, The Fortress Resorts PLC and Delmege Dammika Perera Ltd. (formerly known as Lewis Brown & Company (Pvt) Ltd.) He is the Deputy Chairman Deputy Chairman of Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC & LB Finance PLC. He also serves on the Boards of Amaya Leisure PLC, Haycarb PLC, Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC, Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC, Dipped Products PLC, Orit Apparels Lanka (Pvt) Limited and Sri Lanka Insurance Corporation Ltd. Member of the Board of Directors of Strategic Enterprise Management Agency (SEMA) Joined Hayleys in 1981. Appointed to the Group Management Committee in 2001. Appointed to the Board in August 2004. Holds a BA (Hons.) Degree from the University of Kelaniya and a MBA Degree from the University of Colombo. Member of the Agri Cluster of the National Council for Economic Development. Represents Hayleys on the Board of Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology (SLINTEC). Serves on the National Committee on Biotechnology of the National Science Foundation and is a member of the University Grants Commission Standing Committee on Agriculture and Rizvi Zaheed Livestock and a member of the Floriculture and Food & Beverage Advisory Committees of the Sri Lanka Export Development Board. Council member of the Sri Lanka Council for Agricultural Policy Research (CARP). Member of the main committee of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and Chairman of the Agriculture & Livestock Steering Committee while having served as Vice-Chairman of the Imports Section, Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. Director of CSR Sri Lanka. Has responsibility for the Agriculture sector. P: 120 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Director Profile Appointed to the Board in July 2009. He counts for over 30 years’ experience in Finance, Capital Market Operations, Manufacturing, Marketing and Management Services. Managing Director of Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC, Executive Deputy Chairman of Vallibel One PLC, Chairman of Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC, Don Wilbert Capital Ltd., N Sports (Pvt) Ltd., N Capital (Pvt) Ltd., Director of Amaya Leisure PLC, LB Finance PLC, Vallibel Finance PLC, Haycarb PLC, Hotel Services Nimal Perera (Ceylon) PLC, Talawakele Tea Estates PLC and Alternate Director in Vallibel Non-Executive Director Power Erathna PLC Re-joined Hayleys in March 2007. Appointed to the Group Management Committee in July 2007. Appointed to the Board in September 2009. Fellow Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and Member, Institute of Certified Management Accountants of Australia. Holds an MBA from the Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of Sri Jayewardenepura. Worked for Hayleys and Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC between 1987 and 2002, ultimately as an Executive Director of the latter. Subsequently, held several senior management positions in large Sarath Ganegoda private sector entities in Sri Lanka and overseas. Has responsibility for the Strategic Business Development Unit and the Consumer Sector. Joined Hayleys Group in January 2010. Appointed to the Group Management Committee in February 2010. Appointed to the Board in June 2010. Holds a B Sc Eng. (Electronics and Telecommunications) from the University of Moratuwa, Sri Lanka. Fellow Member (FCMA) of the CIMA, UK. Also a Six Sigma (Continuous Improvement Methodology) Black Belt, certified by the Motorola University, Malaysia. Before joining Hayleys, held the position of Director/General Manager of Ansell Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Served as the Chairman of the Manufacturing Association of Export Processing Rajitha Kariyawasan Zone, Biyagama. Has responsibility for the Purification Products sector. FactandFiction Stewardship Board of Directors P: 121 Board of Directors Director Profile Appointed to the Board in February 2011. Dr. Harsha Cabral is a President’s Counsel with twenty-five years’ experience in the field of Company Law, Intellectual Property Law, International Trade Law & Commercial Arbitration. He holds a Doctorate in Corporate Law from the University of Canberra, Australia. He is one of the architects of the new Companies Act of Sri Lanka. He serves as Independent Non-Executive Director on the Boards Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC of DIMO PLC, Union Bank PLC, Tokyo Cement PLC, Richard Pieris Independent Distributors Ltd., Lanka ORIX Finance PLC, Tokyo Super Cement Co. Non-Executive Director (Lanka) Ltd. & Fuji Cement Co. Commercial Leasing & Finance Ltd., Tokyo Power (Lanka) Ltd., Hambana Petrochemicals Ltd. He serves on several Audit Committees, Nomination Committees and Remuneration Committees, chairing some of them. Dr. Cabral is the author of several books on Corporate Law and Intellectual Property Law. Dr. Cabral is a member of the Law Commission, member of the Advisory Commission on Company Law, member of the Council of the University of Colombo, UGC nominee on the PGIM (Post Graduate Institute of Medicine), member of the Board of Studies of the Council of Legal Education, member of the Academic Board of Studies of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the member of the Corporate Governance Committee of the ICASL. Joined DPL in August, 2010 as an Executive Director and took over as Managing Director from April 2011. Appointed to Hayleys Group Management Committee in January 2011 and to the Board on 1st April, 2011. Former Country Chairman/Managing Director of Shell Gas Lanka Ltd. and Shell Terminal Lanka Ltd. Holds a First Class Honours Degree in Engineering from the University of Peradeniya, a Doctorate from Cambridge University, UK and an MBA with Distinction from Wales University, UK. Has overall responsibility for the DPL Group with specific Dr. Mahesha Ranasoma accountability for the Hand Protection Sector and Mabroc Teas. He is also a Director of Kelani Valley Plantations PLC, Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC and Mabroc Teas. Appointed to the Board in June 2011. He is a Finance professional with over 25 years of post-qualification experience. He has held senior managerial positions in leading public, multinational and private companies during his career. He is an Associate Member of the Institute of Chartered Management Accountants (U.K.), passed finalist of the Institute of Chartered Accountants (Sri Lanka) and has a Postgraduate Diploma in Mangala Goonatilleke Management from PIM of University of Sri Jayawardenapura. Currently Independent serves as a Group Executive Director of DSL Group of Companies, Non-Executive Director independent Director of Colombo Land Development Company PLC, Pan Asia Bank, Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC and Vallibel Finance PLC. P: 122 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Director Profile Appointed to the Board in June 2011. Finance Director of Hirdaramani Group and is a Director of Hirdaramani Apparel Holdings Pvt Ltd., Hirdaramani Leisure Holdings Pvt Ltd., Hirdaramani Investments Holding Pvt Ltd. which are the holding companies of the group. Also a Director of Star Packaging Pvt Ltd., Windforce Pvt Ltd. and a nonExecutive Director of Sampath Bank. PLC, Asian Alliance PLC, Alumex Group and Nirmalapura Ranil Pathirana Wind Power Pvt Ltd. Independent Non-Executive Director Appointed to the Board and the Group Management Committee in June 2011. He is an Internationally qualified Hotelier having gained most of his Management experience in the UK, working for large international hotel chains over a long period of time. First Sri Lankan Manager to be appointed by the Beaufort International Chain of Hotels to run the first seaside boutique resort. Member of the Institute of Hospitality, UK (formerly HCIMA) and of the Royal Society of Health, London. He has several years of experience in the trade. Having specialised in Hotel Lalin Samarawickrama designs and development, he has been responsible for the careful planning and execution of Amaya Resorts & Spas refurbishment and rehabilitation programmes. He is also a Director of The Fortress Resorts PLC, Hunas Falls Hotels PLC, Hotel Services Ceylon PLC, Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC and Kelani Valley Plantations PLC. Joined Hayleys Advantis Group in 1985. Was appointed a Director to a subsidiary Company in 1996 and a Director of Hayleys Advantis Group. in July 2002. He was appointed as the Deputy Managing Director of Hayleys Advantis Group in January 2010 and went on to be appointed to the Hayleys Group Management Committee in February 2011. He was appointed as the Managing Director of Hayleys Advantis Group. in April 2011 and appointed as an Executive Director of the Hayleys PLC Board in April 2013. He is a former Chairman of the Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders’ Ruwan Waidyaratne Association (SLFFA) and currently functions as a member of the Advisory Council of the Association. He was appointed a Member of the Steering Committee on Ports, Shipping, Aviation and Logistics affiliated to the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce in September 2011. He holds an MBA from the Edith Cowan University of Western Australia and has undergone executive development programmes with the National University of Singapore, Indian School of Business and INSEAD. Currently he has overall responsibility for the Transportation Sector of the Hayleys Group. FactandFiction Stewardship Board of Directors P: 123 Stewardship Group Management Committee P: 124 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 F OO PR 11 FactandFiction Stewardship Group Management Committee P: 125 Group Management Committee Director Profile Mohan Pandithage Rizvi Zaheed Sarath Ganegoda Rajitha Kariyawasan Please refer profiles in Board of Directors. Dr. Mahesha Ranasoma Lalin Samarawickrama Ruwan Waidyaratne Director Profile Joined Hayleys in 1983 as an Accountant. Appointed to the Group Management Committee in 2001 taking over the functions of the CFO of the Group. In 2003, he took over the present responsibility as the Managing Director of Hayleys Industrial Solutions Ltd. and he has also been overlooking the Fibre Sector and Talawakelle Tea Estates Ltd. during 20062011. He is a Science graduate from the University of Ceylon, Peradeniya and holds a Diploma in Business Management from the University of Sri Jayawardenapura. He is also a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Mervyn De Silva Accountants of Sri Lanka and an Associate of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK. Has responsibility for the Industry Inputs sector, which serves the many manufacturing companies in Sri Lanka, the supplies of medical equipment for diagnosis and the Power and Energy Sector which primarily supply electricity generated by wind and hydro projects to the National Grid. Joined Hayleys in 1983. Appointed to the Group Management Committee in 2001. Holds a B.Sc. (Hons.) Degree from the University of Colombo. Fellow, Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK. Member, Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK and a Chartered Marketer. Based in the UK since 2010 and has responsibility for the marketing network of the Fibre Sector in UK and Europe. Chrishan Mendis P: 126 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Director Profile Joined Hayleys in July 2007. Appointed to the Group Management Committee in the same month. Is the responsible for Group Human Resources, Corporate Communications/Sustainability and Group Security. Graduate in Hotel Management. Was awarded the Life Time Gold Award in 2011 and Honourary Membership in 2004 by the Institute of Personnel Management. He is a Non-Executive Director of Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC. Prior to joining Hayleys, he held several senior management positions in large private sector entities in Sri Lanka and abroad in Human Resources Sunil Dissanayake Management and in Hotel Management. Is a former President of the Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Association and a former Member of the Hotel Classification Committee of the Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority. Is a member of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Steering Committee for HR and Education and is also a Steering Committee Member of the Lanka Business Coalition (LBCH) for prevention of AIDS. Joined Hayleys in October 2008 as CEO of Civaro International. Appointed Head of the Leisure and Aviation sector in 2009 and was appointed to the Group Management Committee in 2011. Holds an MBA from the University of Leicester (UK) and is a Member of the Chartered Institute of Marketing (UK). Holds over 20 years experience in the Aviation industry with the national carrier SriLankan Airlines. Prior to joining Hayleys, he was the Head of Worldwide Cargo at SriLankan Airlines responsible for the entire air freight business sector of the organisation. He also held several senior Johann Wijesinghe positions for the airline including management positions in Europe, Middle East and the Far East and the Head Office in Colombo. Possesses over 5 years experience in the Hotel industry, having served as the Director, Marketing and Sales at The Hotel Lanka Oberoi. Joined Hayleys in May 2011, appointed to the Group Management Committee in June 2011 and appointed as Managing Director of all Fibre Sector companies in August 2011. A fellow member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (UK) and a Green Belt in Six Sigma and holds a Graduate certificate in Human Resource Management from TAFE (NSW) Australia. Before joining Hayleys, he held the position of Director Finance at the office of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander Health, Department of Health, Australia. Prior to that, he was the Vice President Prasanna De Silva Personal Healthcare Operations of Ansell Inc, based in Thailand with responsibilities for Thailand, India and South Africa. He also served as CEO of Coirtex Ltd., Lanka Walltiles and Ansell Lanka before proceeding to Australia. FactandFiction Stewardship Group Management Committee P: 127 Group Management Committee Director Profile Joined Hayleys in January 2011 as the Managing Director of Hayleys Business Process Outsourcing and Shared Services sector. Has overall responsibility for Hayleys Group Information Technology Services. Appointed to Hayleys Group Management Committee in June 2011. Prior to joining Hayleys, held a senior management position in a BPO company listed in the NYSE and overlooked operations across Chennai and Sri Lanka. Holds an Honours Degree in Civil Engineering from the University of London, MBA from Cranfield University (UK), Doctorate from USA and is Dr. Arul Sivagananathan a Fellow Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (FCMA-UK) and CGMA. Joined Hayleys PLC in November 2011 as Group Chief Financial Officer. Appointed to Hayleys Group Management Committee in January 2012. Prior to joining Hayleys PLC, he had served Delmege Forsyth as Group Finance Director and progressed to the position of Group Chief Executive Officer. He counts over 20 years of experience in numerous industries and is a Member of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants (UK), The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, Certified Management Accountants of Sri Lanka, Certified Management Accountants of Australia Dilhan De Silva and Certified Practicing Accountants of Australia. Joined Hayleys in January 2013 as the Managing Director of Kelani Valley and Talawakelle Plantations and has overall responsibility for the Hayleys Group Plantation Sector. Appointed to Hayleys Group Management Committee in January 2013. Prior to rejoining Hayleys, held Senior Plantation Management positions in Kelani Valley Plantations from 1993 to 2001 and was Director/CEO of Kahawatta Plantations. Holds a BSc. In Plantation Management and completed the MBA from Post Graduate Institute of Agriculture, Peradeniya and is a fellow member of National Roshan Rajadurai Institute of Plantation Management. Deputy Chairman of the Planters’ Association of Ceylon, Member of the Tea Council of Sri Lanka, Member of the Board of Directors of Tea Smallholdings Development Authority. Director of Maborc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Joined Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC as Managing Director/CEO on the 1st of March 2013 and was appointed to the Group Management Committee in the same month. Prior to Joining Hayleys MGT, he was appointed as a Director of Brandix X’pressions (Pvt) Ltd., and was appointed to the Board of CLT Apparel (India) (Pvt) Ltd. In January 2011, a fully owned subsidiary of Brandix Lanka Ltd. During the period, 2003 to 2010 he was the Managing Director/CEO of Textured Jersey Lanka (pvt) Ltd., prior to which he was the Managing Director/CEO of Linea Clothing Rohan Goonetilleke (Pvt) Ltd., a subsidiary of MAS Holdings (Pvt) Ltd., and prior to that he was at Carson Cumberbatch & Company Ltd. as the CEO of Elpitiya Plantations Ltd. He received his higher education in the United Kingdom qualifying as a Graduate Engineer (B.Sc. Eng). P: 128 Stewardship Corporate Governance Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Hayelys has a policy of complying with established best practices in corporate governance Highlights 2012/13 Appointment of Appointment of Strengthening of Implementation of a Mr. L.R.V. Waidyaratne Mr. Roshan Rajadurai ethical road map for whistleblower policy. as an Executive and Mr. Rohan all Hayleys employees Director Goonetilleke to and Group companies of Hayleys PLC Board the Hayleys Group known as ‘The with effect from Management Hayleys Way’Code 01st April 2013. Committee. of Business Principles. FactandFiction P: 129 Corporate Governance Hayelys has a policy of complying with established Internal Governance Structure best practices in corporate governance. The Board has Hayleys internal governance structure is established and adopted core values and Group standards which set out overseen by the Board of Directors and designed to allow the conduct of staff in their dealings with shareholders, for effective and efficient decision-making and to meet colleagues, customers and other stakeholders of the Corporate Governance Standards. The Board of Directors Group, which ensures positive workplace management, has delegated authority to its committees on specific marketplace responsibility, environmental stewardship, matters which are set out in written terms of reference in community engagement, and sustained financial line with evolving best practice and the highest standards performance. This involves the maintenance of of corporate governance.  an efficient organisational structure;  systems for internal control and risk management; Group strategies are subjected to a comprehensive  transparent internal and external reporting. annual review by the Board and are discussed further as necessary during the year. The Hayleys Governance Structure can be graphically depicted as follows: The Group Management Committee has been delegated authority to formulate strategies in respect of business units, seek approval for such strategies and implement them within the policy framework established by the Board. Hayleys Corporate Governance Structure The Sectors are required to align their strategies towards the achievement of the Group and Sector/Company Key Internal Performance Indicators (KPIs). The annual budgeting External Governance process assists this and documents sector strategies and Governance Structure and Structure short-term objectives. Assurance The main businesses of the Group are incorporated into four clusters Agriculture, LICOT (Leisure, Infrastructure, Consumer, Transportation), Global Markets & Manufacturing and Support Services. Internal Governance Structure The achievement of targets through implementation of and Assurance strategies formulated, current performance and the Internal governance encompasses the system of policies, short-term outlook are reviewed at cluster review processes and rules established by the Hayleys Board of meetings which are held monthly. Further, focused Directors for the business to follow. It includes the reasons discussion takes place at monthly Group Management for which the Group operates and the roles various Committee meetings. stakeholders play in pursuing and achieving those goals. Hayleys internal governance structure and assurance framework is outlined in the diagram on page 131. P: 130 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Internal Governance Structure and Assurance Internal Assurance Structure Remuneration Nomination Audit Committee Committee Committee Senior Independent Director Board Internal Audit & Controls of Directors External Audit “Hayleys Way” Code of Business Principles Whistleblower Policy GMC Agriculture LICOT GMM Support Cluster Cluster Cluster Cluster FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 131 Corporate Governance The Board in understanding current business performance The SBDU would conduct an independent review of the strives to ensure that there is transparency regarding proposal, testing the assumptions in the proposal and significant risk exposures. It encourages a culture where where necessary obtaining further advisory services there is open debate and discussion on the risks faced in tapping the expertise from Hayleys PLC centre achieving business objectives and on new projects and resources in areas such as legal, secretarial, taxation, key investment initiatives. HR and Finance. In providing strategic direction, the Board will obtain In certain instances where a more thorough investigation is and review all strategic options and initiatives under warranted, particularly in cases of acquisition, a third party consideration. This will comprise an analysis of the due diligence process will be initiated. Depending on the options, resource constraints and related risk exposures scope of the project, the due diligence would encompass to facilitate informed decision-making. financial, legal and other operational factors. In this process Strategic Business Development Unit The project proposal along with the SBDU review and (SBDU) assists the Board in the following manner: recommendation is then presented to the main Board of Hayleys PLC by the HGMC member in charge of the Project Appraisal Process sector. Further deliberation would take place at the Board level and any required amendments will be made to the Hayleys has a structured process for new project proposal prior to the final approval and implementation. proposals and investments. This process ensures several layers of reviews and deliberations and incorporates Hayleys Group Management Committee a number of diverse views prior to pursuing major investment decisions. Project proposals typically originate from one of the sectors, whose business development teams or management would prepare a detailed feasibility study. Chairman & Chief Executive This would include a macro analysis of the industry and competitive position, SWOT analysis of the project, financial feasibility, funding strategy, sensitivity analysis and regulatory considerations including taxation and risk and Group Executive Group CFO risk mitigation strategy. Directors HGMC The project proposal would then be subject to approval by the Board of Directors of the respective sector. For projects above a certain investment threshold, Senior Director Head of approval would be required by the main board of Hayleys of Subsidiary Group HR PLC. In such cases, the project proposal, once approved Companies at sector level, would be sent to the Strategic Business Development Unit of Hayleys PLC. P: 132 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Hayleys Group Management Committee While Group companies are subject to scrutiny by the (HGMC) Audit Committees, HGMC members are responsible to review risk management systems and internal control The Hayleys Board has delegated to the HGMC authority systems designed to protect assets, ensure proper to formulate strategies in respect of business units, seek records are maintained and reliable information is approval for this strategy and implement it within the produced as required. policy framework established by the Board. HGMC members are responsible for the recruitment, Sector strategies are presented in the annual budget training and retention of senior management staff and planning process and are discussed and approved by ensuring succession for key functions. The Chairman and the HGMC prior to submission to the Hayleys Board HGMC, in consultation with the Head of Group HR, have for approval. oversight for ensuring that succession plans are in place for all Sectors. All capital expenditure of Business Sectors are required to be tabled to the Boards of the respective companies. The Group Management Committee meets every month and actual financials are compared against budgets every Companies falling within each Sector are required to month and forecast is done where necessary. hold quarterly meetings at which all matters requiring the approval of the Boards of those companies will be tabled Copies of minutes of meetings of the Group Management and considered. Committee and of other review meetings are sent to all Directors including the Non-Executive Directors. The Responsibilities of the HGMC  Recruitment, remuneration and discipline of all personnel Internal Communication  Training and succession planning Functional Clusters Finance, corporate communications and HR clusters  Negotiation with trade unions and manual and clerical bring together representatives from the different parts personnel of the Group. These clusters serve as a forum to  Approval of expenditure communicate relevant matters, identify areas of special  Supervision of financial authority interest, debate these, and share best practices.  Maintenance of safety and ethical standards  Management of risk and following implicit and explicit All financial controllers of Sectors are required to report guidelines set by the Group in writing to the Group CFO on a quarterly basis, bringing to his notice any significant aspect of risk or concern  Safeguarding assets and avoiding deterioration of regarding the business activities of their sector and the value through aging or obsolescence financial statements submitted by them. This reporting  Providing support to the Board in pursuing Hayleys may be more frequent if circumstances warrant it. These Group objectives and standards are subject to discussion at the CFO Forum which takes place every 6 weeks so that matters are debated among the CFO’s of the Group. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 133 Corporate Governance CEO’s Forum • Act on the results of any performance evaluation of the The CEO’s Forum, chaired by the Chairman and Chairman. Chief Executive, is held quarterly. This Forum brings • Maintain sufficient contact with major shareholders, together management staff of all companies, enabling when requested, to understand their issues and dissemination of information and clarification of questions concerns thereby assisting the Board to develop a relating to the Group. Guest speakers are also invited to balanced understanding. make presentations on topical issues. Internal Audit and Control The Board is responsible for the Group’s internal control Assurance and its effectiveness. Internal control is established with emphasis placed on safeguarding assets, making available Components of assurance make sure that the objectives accurate and timely information and imposing greater of corporate governance are likely to be achieved and discipline on decision-making. It covers all controls, once they are achieved, ensuring they are used to realise including financial, operational and compliance control and the intended value. risk management. It is important to state, however that any system can ensure only reasonable, and not absolute, Senior Independent Director assurance that errors and irregularities are prevented or Since the role of Chairman and Chief Executive is detected within a reasonable time. combined, the appointment of the Senior Independent Director mitigates risk of an over-concentration of The Group’s Management Audit & System Review decision-making powers in one person. The Senior Department (MA & SRD) plays a significant role Independent Director is responsible for; in assessing the effectiveness and successful implementation of existing controls and strengthening  Setting the Company’s values and standards and these and establishing new controls where necessary. The ensuring that its obligations to shareholders and others MA & SRD’s reports are made available to the Chairman & are understood and met. Chief Executive and the Chairman of the Audit Committee.  Upholding high ethical standards of integrity and probity. The Group also obtains the services of independent professional accounting firms other than the statutory  Supporting executives in their leadership of the Auditors to carry out internal audits and reviews to business, whilst monitoring their conduct. supplement the work done by the MA & SRD.  Promoting high standards of corporate governance and compliance with the provisions of the Combined The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of Code whenever possible. financial controls for the period up to the date of signing  Chair meetings with the other Non-Executive Directors the accounts. (without the Chairman being present) encouraging open dialogue, particularly regarding the Chairman’s Information Technology performance. IT Strategy • Be available to shareholders in case they have Information Technology at Hayleys has turned to a more concerns which cannot, or should not, be addressed ‘Centralised Focus’. by the Chairman or Executive Directors. P: 134 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 The Central Services Division (Group IT) concentrates on IT Governance providing Common Services to all the Sectors of Hayleys IT Governance at Hayleys continues to play a vital role in Group as well as corporate departments. IT within the the way we manage and control Information Technology Sectors concentrates more on Sector specific technology related services. It allows us to establish standards that needs with the advice and recommendations from Central underpin Hayleys overall Vision for IT. Services Division. IT governance is controlled on multiple fronts: firstly, In order to achieve this objective, Hayleys IT has the ‘Structural Component’ that pertains to Hayleys embarked upon consolidation exercises on various IT activities to support the goals of the business and frontiers: Infrastructure services (email/internet), business the people who manage those activities. Secondly the systems and helpdesk services. ‘Process Component’ that defines the IT decision making process as well as the policies that measure and control The consolidation of Common Infrastructure of Email/ the way it is carried out at Hayleys. Internet related services being provided through Central Services allows Hayleys to standardise services across the Our policies and procedures are reviewed regularly to Group and derive savings by avoiding duplication. ensure that we align with changing needs of technology and the business. The consolidation of Business Systems is planned through the initiative of the ‘SAP Transformation Programme’ to IT Value and Alignment roll-out a common Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) The Investments for IT projects and systems within system across all Sectors of the Group, thereby initiating Hayleys are made after careful consideration of their commonality of the main Business System. This allows suitability for the related projects. Hayleys to have the uniformity of a common ERP solution, SAP. The ‘Transformation Programme’ has a duration of The Cost Benefit Analysis (CBA) will look to ascertain three years. aspects such as cost savings, improved customer satisfaction, timely information availability and the balance The consolidation of front-line PC support services between cost of investment and scale of operations. function has been identified as an outsourcable function that can be obtained at a very competitive rate rather IT Risk Management than building the skill in-house. Through consolidation The Risks associated with Information Technology at of such services across the group we are able to exploit Hayleys are continually assessed as part of the Enterprise economies of scale. In addition, we are able to drive such Risk Management Process. services through strict Service Level Assurance (SLA) regimes to enable sustainable performance adherence. The use of licensed software, closer monitoring of internet/email usage and other IT related operations (for Finally, the consolidation of IT personnel allows us to compliance with the Hayleys ‘IT Use Policy’) and the use better utilise their skills sets and to build the appropriate of antivirus, firewall servers/software, are some of the teams to support Hayleys IT Strategy for future. critical practices we deploy. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 135 Corporate Governance Business Critical Information is backed up/replicated Principles & Scope at regular intervals and kept in secure offsite locations 1. The Hayleys Group is committed to conducting its to meet statutory and other relevant compliances. In business operations with honesty, integrity and with addition, Hayleys Business Critical Systems are duplicated respect to the rights and interests of all stakeholders. as necessary in case of catastrophic failures. 2. All Hayleys companies and employees are required to comply with the laws and regulations of the countries External Audit in which it operates. The external auditors of the holding company and all other 3. Every employee shall be responsible for the local companies within the Group are Ernst & Young. implementation of and compliance with the Code in They also provide different non-assurance services to his/her environment. the Group. The restrictions provided in terms of rulings issued by CSE and other commitments were taken in to The statement provides guidelines by which the Hayleys consideration when entering in to the engagements with Group conducts its businesses and operations in all the the Group auditor. countries we operate in, within the following parameters The knowledge and experience of the Audit Committees The Hayleys Way The Ethical Road Map ensured effective usage of the expertise of the auditors, for Code of Conduct while maintaining independence, in order to derive a transparent set of Financial Statements. The Group maintains independence from financial and non-financial interests between auditors and re-assesses the same on a Competition regular basis. The auditors certify this on an annual basis. Regulatory Employees The fees paid for audit and non-audit services are compliance separately disclosed in the Notes to the Financial Statements. Code of Business Principles Conflict of Business interest Integrity For more than 135 years, Hayleys has demonstrated a commitment to doing business with integrity. We have Hayleys expanded into new businesses and built a record of Way sustained growth, with diverse businesses in twelve Shareholders Environment different sectors of enterprise. The Hayleys Way is an ethical road map that exists to guide the expectations of integrity of every employee of the Hayleys Group. Public Activities Consumers Corporate Responsibility P: 136 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Whistleblower Policy External Governance Structure Hayleys Group is committed to the highest standards As a responsible corporate body, the Group adheres to of ethical, moral and legal conduct in operating the regulations, codes and best practices etc. adopted by its businesses. In line with this commitment, the different governing bodies. Whistleblower Policy exists to provide a mechanism for  Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 employees to raise concerns where the interest of the organisation is at risk and is expected to provide an  Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance assurance that employees raising such concerns will be issued jointly by CA Sri Lanka and Securities & protected from reprisals and victimisation. This Policy Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. applies to all individuals working at all levels within  Listing rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange Hayleys Group.  Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and subsequent amendments Principles & Scope  Exchange Control Act. This Whistleblower Policy is intended to cover concerns raised by staff on the following matters.  Customs Ordinance We set out below the corporate governance practices adopted and practiced by Hayleys, the extent of Whistleblower adoption of the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Policy Governance issued jointly by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered Incorrect Financial reporting Accountants of Sri Lanka and the Rules set out in Section 7.10 of the Colombo Stock Exchange’s Listing Rules on Financial Fraud Corporate Governance. Unlawful or improper conducts Section A Breach of the Code of Business Conduct, Values and other Policies of the Group This section covers Hayleys extent of adherence to the requirements of the Code of Best Practice on Corporate Any other improper activity that may have a Governance issued by the Securities and Exchange negative impact upon the ability of the Group to Commission of Sri Lanka and The Institute of Chartered achieve its corporate objectives and which may Accountants of Sri Lanka. This reflects Hayleys’s cause damage to its image and reputation governance in the following six fundamental aspects:  Directors  Directors’ Remuneration  Relations with Shareholders  Accountability and Audit  Institutional Investors  Other Investors FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 137 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference A. Directors A.1 The Board Hayleys PLC is headed by an effective Board of Directors which consists of professionals and business leaders drawn from different backgrounds and their profiles are given in pages 120 to 123 The Board of Directors of Hayleys PLC is responsible for governance of all companies which Hayleys actively manages. 1. Board meetings A.1.1 Compliant The Board meets monthly to review the performance of the Company and its subsidiaries and takes strategic decisions relating to the Group’s Direction and other matters. Special Board meetings were also held as necessary. These meetings enhanced shareholder value and all stakeholder interests are considered in corporate decisions. Details of the meetings and attendance of the members are set out on page 157. 2. Responsibilities of the Board A.1.2 Compliant The Board of Directors formulates and communicates business policy and strategy to assure sustained growth, and monitors its implementation. It ensures the Chief Executive and management team possess the skills, experience and knowledge to implement the strategy effectively, with proper succession arrangements in place. The Board ensures effective systems to secure integrity of information, internal controls and risk management, compliance with laws and regulations and ethical standards. The Board ensures all stakeholder interests are considered in corporate decisions and values and standards are set with emphasis on adopting appropriate accounting policies and fostering compliance with financial regulations. 3. Compliance with laws and seeking A 1.3 Compliant The Board collectively, and Directors individually, act in independent professional advice accordance with the laws and regulations of Sri Lanka as applicable to the Group. The Directors are permitted to obtain independent professional advice when required at the expense of Hayleys and will be co-ordinated through, Company Secretaries and Group Legal Department as and when it is necessary. 4. Company Secretary A.1.4 Compliant All Directors have access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary as necessary. The Company Secretary keeps the Board informed of new laws and revisions, regulations and requirements coming into effect which are relevant to them as individual Directors and collectively to the Board. Any question of the removal of the Company Secretary is a matter of the Board as a whole. P: 138 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference 5. Independent judgment of Directors A.1.5 Compliant All Directors bring independent judgment to the scrutiny of decisions taken by the Board on issues of strategy, performance, resources and business conduct. 6. Dedication of adequate time and A.1.6 Compliant The Chairman and members of the Board dedicate adequate effort by the Directors time and effort to fulfill the duties as Directors of Hayleys PLC to ensure that the duties and responsibilities owed to the Group are satisfactorily discharged. In addition to attending Board Meetings , they have attended Sub-Committees and ensure that they allocate adequate time and effort to fulfill the duties as members of such Board Sub-Committees. Directors dedicate sufficient time before a meeting to review Board papers and call for additional information and clarification, and after a meeting to follow up on issues consequent to the meeting. 7. Training for new and existing A.1.7 Compliant Every new Director and existing Directors are provided training Directors on general aspects of directorship and matters specific to the industry where ever as necessary. Every Director recognises the need for continuous training and an expansion of the knowledge and skills required to effectively perform their duties as required. A.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer The Code requires a clear division of responsibilities between conducting of the business of the Board, and facilitating executive responsibility for management of the business. Though the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive are vested in one , the management structure established within the Group ensures this does not compromise the effective practice of corporate governance in the Group. 8. Justification for the combining of A.2.1 Compliant Though the functions of Chairman and Chief Executive are the posts of Chairman and Chief vested in one person, the management structure established Executive within the Group ensures this does not compromise the effective practice of corporate governance in the Group. The Executive Directors and HGMC members are responsible for the businesses conducted by the Group and effectively function as CEOs of these businesses. Dr. H. Cabral, PC, Non-Executive Director functioned as Senior Independent Director throughout the year and he ensures governance within the Board is preserved and stakeholder concerns are addressed. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 139 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference A 3. Chairman’s Role The Chairman is responsible for effective conduct of meetings of the Board; he preserves order and facilitates discharge of Board functions and Implementations of decisions taken. 9. Role of the Chairman A.3.1 Compliant The Chairman is responsible for the efficient conduct of Board meetings and ensures, inter alia, that a. The effective participation of both Executive and Non-Executive Directors is secured; b. All Directors are encouraged to make an effective contribution for the benefit of the Company c. A balance of power between Executive and Non-Executive Directors is maintained; d. The views of Directors on issues under consideration are ascertained; and e. The Board is in complete control of the Company’s affairs and alert to its obligations to all shareholders and other stakeholders. The Chairman maintains close contact with all Directors and, where necessary, holds meetings with Non-Executive Directors without Executive Directors being present. A4. Financial Acumen The Code requires the Board should ensure the availability within it of those with sufficient financial acumen and knowledge to offer guidance on matters of finance. 10. Availability of sufficient financial A.4 Compliant The Board of Directors have experience in all Sectors where acumen and knowledge Hayleys is operating coupled with their academic background and also possess financial acumen and knowledge together with having significant business acumen leading private and public enterprises. The details of their qualifications have been set on pages 120 to 123. P: 140 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference A.5 Board Balance The Code requires the Board to have a balance of Executive and Non-Executive Directors so that no individual or small group of individuals can dominate the Board’s decision-making. 11. Presence of Non-Executive A.5.1 NonFive out of twelve Directors are NEDs Directors (NEDs) Compliant 12. Independent Non-Executive A. 5.2 Compliant Three out of Five NEDs are independent which is above the Directors minimum prescribed by the Code which is two or one-third of NEDs appointed to the Board whichever is higher. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 141 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference 13. Independence of NEDs A.5.3 Compliant All Independent NEDs are independent of management and free of any business or other relationship that could reasonably be perceived to materially interfere with the exercise of their unfettered and independent judgment. 14. Annual Declaration A.5.4 Compliant Each NED submits a declaration of independence/non independence in a prescribed format. 15. Determination of independence of A.5.5. Compliant The Board has determined the independence of Directors the Directors based on the declarations submitted by the NEDs as to their independence, as a fair representation and will continue to evaluate their independence on this basis annually. Independent Non-Executive Directors are Dr. H. Cabral, PC M D.S. Goonatilleke R.P. Pathirana 16. Senior Independent Director A.5.6 Compliant Since the Chairman and Chief Executive is the same person, Dr. H. Cabral, PC who is an Independent Non-Executive Director functioned as the Senior Independent Director. The Senior Independent Director is the Director to whom concerns can be conveyed if a need arises. 17. Confidential discussions with Senior A.5.7 Compliant Senior Independent Director is available for confidential Independent Director discussions with other Directors who may have concerns which pertain to significant issues that are detrimental to the Group. 18. Chairman’s meetings with NEDs A.5.8 Compliant Chairman meets with NEDs only, without the Executive Directors being present as whenever necessary or at least once in each year. 19. Recording of concerns in Board A.5.9 Compliant Concerns raised by the Directors which cannot be unanimously minutes resolved during the year, if any recorded in the Board minutes with adequate details P: 142 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference A.6 Supply of Information The Code requires the Board should be provided with timely information in a form and of a quality appropriate enabling them to discharge their duties. 20. Management’s obligation to provide A.6.1 Compliant Directors are provided with monthly reports on performance, appropriate and timely information minutes of review meetings and such other reports and to the Board. documents as necessary. The Chairman ensures all Directors are properly briefed on issues arising at meetings. The minutes, agenda and papers required for Board meeting are provided (at least 7 days prior to the meeting) to facilitate its effective conduct. 21. Adequate time for effective conduct A.6.2 Compliant The minutes, agenda and papers required for Board meeting of the Board meetings. are provided in advance to facilitate its effective conduct A.7. Appointments to the Board The Code requires having a formal and transparent procedure for the appointment of new Directors to the Board. 22. Nomination Committee A.7.1 Compliant Nomination Committee makes recommendations to the Board on all new Board appointments. The Terms of Reference for Nomination Committee are similar to the one set out in Schedule A in this Code. Nomination Committee of Hayleys PLC consists of the following Directors: Nomination Committee Chairman: A.M. Pandithage Name of Member K.D.D. Perera W.D.N.H. Perera Dr. H. Cabral, PC The Board believes it is appropriate for the Chairman and Chief Executive to chair this committee and that the composition of the Committee ensures its balance. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 143 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference 23. Assessment of Board-Composition A.7.2 Compliant The Nomination Committee annually assesses Boardby the Nomination Committee composition to ascertain whether the combined knowledge and experience of the Board matches the strategic demands facing the Company. The findings of such assessment are taken into account when new Board appointments are considered. 24. Dislosure of required details of new A.7.3 Compliant Following details of new Directors are disclosed on their Directors to shareholders. appointment to the Colombo Stock Exchange, selected newspapers and Annual Report: a. A brief resume of the Director; b. The nature of his/her expertise in relevant functional areas; c. The names of companies in which the Director holds directorships or memberships in Board Committees; and d. Whether such Director can be considered ‘independent’ A.8 Re-election The Code requires all Directors should be required to submit themselves for re-election at regular intervals at least once in every three years. 25. Appointments of NEDs, Chief A.8.1 Compliant The provisions of the Company’s Articles require a Director Executive and Directors in the A. 8.2 appointed by the Board to hold office until the next Annual Board General Meeting and seek re-appointment by the shareholders at that meeting. The Articles call for one-third of the Directors in office to retire at each Annual General Meeting. The Directors who retire are those who have served for the longest period after their appointment/re-appointment. Retiring Directors are generally eligible for re-election. The names of Directors submitted for election or re-election is accompanied by a résumé to enable shareholders to make an informed decision on their election. The Chief Executive does not retire by rotation P: 144 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference A.9 Appraisal of Board Performance The Code requires the Board should periodically appraise their own performance in order to ensure that Board responsibilities are satisfactorily discharged. 26. Annual performance evaluation of A. 9.1 Compliant The Chairman and Remuneration Committee evaluates the the Board and its Committees A.9.2 performance of the Executive Directors periodically. The Board undertakes an annual self evaluation of its own performance and of it Committees. 27. Disclosure of performance A. 9.3 Compliant Please refer Remuneration Committee Report on page 178. evaluation criteria A.10 Disclosure of information in respect of Directors The Code requires the shareholders should be kept advised of relevant details in respect of Directors. 28. Details in respect of Directors A.10.1 Compliant The Following information in relation to Directors is disclosed: Page Number Name, qualifications and brief profile 120 to 123 The nature of his expertise 120 to 123 Directors’ interest in contracts 281 Names of listed companies each Director serves as a Director 170 to 171 Number of meetings (The Board and Committees) held and attendance 157 Names of committees in which the Director serves as the Chairman or a member 143, 147, 152 FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 145 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference A.11 Appraisal of Chief Executive The Code requires the Board to assess the performance of the Chief Executive 29. Setting Annual targets and A.11.1 Compliant Prior to the commencement of each financial year the Board appraisal of the performance of the A.11.2 in consultation with the Chairman/CEO, set reasonable Chief Executive by the Board. financial and non-financial targets which are in line with short, medium and long-term objectives of Hayleys, achievement of which should be ensured by the Chief Executive. A monthly performance evaluation is performed at which actual performance is compared to the budget. The Chief Executive is responsible to provide the Board with explanations for any adverse variances together with actions to be taken. B. Directors’ Remuneration B.1 Remuneration Procedure The Code requires establishing a formal and transparent procedure for developing policy on executive remuneration and for fixing remuneration packages of individual Directors and no Director is involved in deciding his own remuneration. 30. Establishment of the Remuneration B.1.1 Compliant The Remuneration Committee decides on the remuneration Committee of the Chairman/Chief Executive and the Executive Directors and sets guidelines for the remuneration of the management staff within the Group. The Chairman/Chief Executive is not a member of this Committee. Please refer page 178 Remuneration Committee Report for the terms of reference for Remuneration Committee. 31. Composition of the Remuneration B.1.2 Compliant The Remuneration Committee consists of Non-Executive Committee Directors and the Chairman of this Committee is appointed by the Board who is the Senior Independent Director Dr. H. Cabral, PC. P: 146 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference 32. Chairman and the members of the B.1.3 Compliant The Remuneration Committee consists of following Remuneration Committee Non-Executive Directors. Dr. H. Cabral, PC Chairman Name of Member K.D.D. Perera W.D.N.H Perera M.D.S. Goonatilleke R.P. Pathirana 33. Determination of remuneration B.1.4 Compliant The Board as a whole determines the remuneration of of NEDs the NED’s including the members of the remuneration committee which the Board believes is in line with current market conditions. 34. Consultation of the Chairman and B.1.5 Compliant Remuneration Committee consults the Chairman about its access to professional advice. proposal relating to the remuneration of other Executive Directors and have access to professional advice from within and outside Hayleys PLC, in discharging their responsibilities. B.2 The Level and make up of remuneration The Code requires the levels of remuneration of Directors should be sufficient to attract and retain the Directors. The proportion of remuneration of Executive Directors should be linked to corporate and individual performance. 35. Executive Director’s remuneration B.2.1 Compliant The Remuneration Committee provides the packages needed package to attract, retain and motivate Executive Directors of the quality required. 36. Comparisons of remuneration with B.2.2 Compliant The Remuneration Committee ensures that the remuneration other companies of executives of each level of management is competitive and in line with their performance. Surveys are conducted as and when necessary to ensure that the remuneration is competitive with those of comparative companies. 37. Comparisons of remuneration with B.2.3 Compliant The Remuneration Committee reviews data concerning other companies in the Group. Executive pay among the Group Companies. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 147 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference 38. Performance related elements of B.2.4 Compliant A performance based incentive has been determined by the remuneration of Executive Directors remuneration committee to ensure that the total earnings of the executives are aligned with the achievement of objectives and budgets of the group companies. 39. Executive share options B.2.5 N/A Presently the Group does not have an Executive Share Option Scheme. 40. Executive Directors’ remuneration B.2.6 Complaint The Remuneration Committee follows the provisions set out in Schedule D of the Code as required. 41. Early termination of Executive B.2.7 N/A No special early termination clauses are included in the contract Directors B.2.8 of employment contract of Executive Directors that would entitle them to extra compensation. However any such compensation would be determined by the Board of Directors. 42. Levels of remuneration for NEDs B.2.9 Compliant Remuneration for NEDs reflect the time commitment and responsibilities of their role, taking into consideration market practices. NEDs are not included in share options as there is no scheme in existence. B.3 Disclosure of Remuneration. The Code requires to contain a Statement of Remuneration policy and details of remuneration of the Board as a whole. 43. Disclosure of Remuneration B.3.1 Compliant Please refer section B.1.32 on page 147 for the member in the Remuneration Committee and Remuneration Committee Report on page 178 for the remuneration policy. Please refer page 227 for the total Directors’ Remuneration. P: 148 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference C Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive use of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and conduct of General Meetings The Code requires the Board to use the AGM to communicate with shareholders and should encourage their participation. 44. Use of proxy votes C.1.1 Compliant Hayleys PLC has in place an effective mechanism to count all proxies lodged on each resolution, and the balance for and against the resolution, after it has been dealt with on a show of hand, except where a poll is called. 45. Separate resolution for all separate C.1.2 Compliant Hayleys PLC proposes a separate resolution at the AGM on issues at the AGM each substantially separate issue. And also adoption of the Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the affairs of Hayleys PLC, Statement of Compliance and the Financial Statements with the Independent Auditors’ Report is considered as a separate resolution. 46. Availability of all Board Sub C1.3 Compliant The Chairman of Hayleys PLC ensures the Chairmen of the Committee Chairmen Audit, Remuneration and Nomination Committees to be available to answer questions at the AGM. 47. Adequate notice of the AGM C.1.4 Compliant A copy of the Annual Report including financial statements, notice of the meeting and the Form of Proxy are sent to shareholders 15 days prior to the date of the AGM as required by the Statute in order to provide the opportunity to all shareholders to attend the AGM. 48. Procedures of voting at General C.1.5 Compliant A summary of the procedures governing voting at a General Meeting Meeting is circulated to shareholders with every notice of the General Meeting. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 149 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference C.2 Major Transactions The Code requires the Directors to disclose to shareholders all proposed corporate transactions, which if entered in to, would materially alter the Hayleys PLC net assets and the consolidated group net asset base. 49. Disclosure on ‘major transactions’. C.2.1 Compliant During the year, there were no major transactions as defined by Section 185 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 which materially affect the net asset base of Hayleys PLC or consolidated group net asset base. Transactions, if any, which materially affect the net asset base of Hayleys PLC, will be disclosed in the Quarterly/ Annual Financial Statements. D. Accountability and Audit D.1 Financial Reporting The Code requires the Board to present a balanced and understandable assessment of Hayleys PLC’s financial position, performance and prospects. 50. Board’s responsibility for statutory D.1.1 Compliant The Board has recognised the responsibility to present and regulatory reporting regulatory and statutory reporting in a balanced and understandable manner. When preparing quarterly and annual financial statements, Hayleys complied with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and prepared and presented them in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. Hayleys PLC has complied with the reporting requirements prescribed by the Colombo Stock Exchange. 51. Directors’ Report in the Annual D1.2 Compliant The Directors Report given on pages 166 to 173 covers all Report areas of this section. 52. Statement of Directors’ and D1.3 Compliant The “Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities” is given on Auditor’s responsibility for the page 174. financial statements The “Independent Auditors’ Report” on page 179 For the Auditor’s responsibility. P: 150 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference 53. Management Discussion Analysis D.1.4 Compliant Please refer “Management Review and Preview” on pages 38 to 94. 54. Declaration by the Board on the D.1.5 Compliant Please refer page 173 of this “Annual Report of the Board of going concern of the Business Directors on the Affairs of the Company” and the” Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities” 55. Summon an EGM to notify serious D.1.6 Compliant Reason for such an EGM has not risen as yet but would be loss of capital complied with if such a situation arises. D.2 Internal Control The Code requires the Board to maintain a sound system of internal control to safeguard shareholders’ investments and the Hayleys’ assets. 56. Annual review of the effectiveness D.2.1 Compliant The Board is responsible for the Group’s internal control and of Group’s system of internal its effectiveness. Internal control is established with emphasis controls placed on safeguarding assets, making available accurate and timely information and imposing greater discipline on decision making. It covers all controls, including financial, operational and compliance control and risk management. It is important to state, however that any system can ensure only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that errors and irregularities are prevented or detected within a reasonable time. The Group’s Management Audit & System Review Department (MA & SRD) plays a significant role in assessing the effectiveness and successful implementation of existing controls and strengthening these and establishing new controls where necessary. The MA & SRD’s reports are made available to the Chairman & Chief Executive and the Chairman of the Audit Committee. The Group also obtains the services of independent professional accounting firms other than the statutory auditors to carry out internal audits and reviews to supplement the work done by the MA & SRD. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 151 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference The Board has reviewed the effectiveness of the system of financial controls for the period up to the date of signing the accounts. There is a direct channel between the Head of MA & SRD and the Chairman of the Audit Committee without the interference of any Directors or Executives. 57. Reviewing the need for internal D.2.2 N/A This is not applicable as the Group’s Management Audit & audit function System Review Department (MA & SRD) is responsible for internal audit function. D.3 Audit Committee The Code requires the Board to establish formal and transparent arrangements for considering how they should select and apply accounting policies, financial reporting and internal control principles and maintaining an appropriate relationship with the external auditors. 58. Composition of the Audit D.3.1 Compliant Audit Committee consists of; Committee Chairman: M.D.S Goonatilleke Name of Member W.D.N.H. Perera Dr. H. Cabral. PC R.P. Pathirana Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd., serves as its Secretary. The Chairman & Chief Executive and Group CFO are invited to attend Meetings, and other Executive Directors attend meetings as required. The input of the statutory auditors are obtained where necessary. The Audit Committee helps the Group achieve a balance between conformance and performance. P: 152 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference 59. Duties of the Audit Committee D.3.2 Compliant The Audit Committee keeps under review the scope and results of the audit and its effectiveness, and the independence and objectivity of the auditors. Review of nature and extent of non-audit services provided by the auditors to seek balance objectivity and independence. 60. Terms of Reference of the Audit D.3.3 Compliant The Terms of Reference (please refer page 176) of the Audit Committee Committee have been agreed to by the Board. This addresses the purpose of the Committee, its duties and responsibilities including the scope and functions of the Committee. 61. Disclosures of the Audit Committee D.3.4 Compliant Names of the members of the Audit Committee disclosed under item 58 of this code section on the “Audit Committee Report” and the disclosure of the independence of the Auditors is disclosed in page 177 under the section on the “External Audits” in the “Audit Committee Report” on page 176 of this Report. D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics The Code requires Hayleys PLC to adopt a Code of Business Conduct & Ethics for Directors, and members of senior management team and must promptly disclose any waivers of the Code for Directors or others. 62. Disclosure of Code of Business D.4.1 Compliant A comprehensive Corporate Governance and Code of conduct Conduct and Ethics. and business governance has been adopted by the Board and is in compliance and any violations are taken for consideration. 63. Affirmation of the Code of Business D.4.2 Compliant Refer the Chairman and Chief Executive’s Message Conduct and Ethics D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosures The Code requires the Directors to disclose the extent to which Hayleys PLCs’ adheres to established principles and practices of good Corporate Governance. 64. Disclosure of Corporate D.5.1 Compliant This report from pages 129 to 157 sets out the manner and Governance extent to which Hayleys PLC has complied with the principles and provisions of the Code. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 153 Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference Shareholders E. Institutional Investors E.1 Shareholder Voting The Code requires Institutional shareholders to make considered use of their votes and encourages to ensure their voting intentions are translated to practice. 65. Communication with shareholders E.1.1 Compliant There are regular meetings with shareholders (based on their requests) on matters which are relevant and of concern to the general membership. Voting of the shareholders is critical in carrying out a resolution at the AGM. The Chairman ensures the views of the shareholders are communicated to the Board as a whole. Shareholders are provided with Quarterly Financial Statements and the Annual Report, which the Group considers as its principal communication with them and other stakeholders. These reports are also made available on the Group’s website and are provided to the Colombo Stock Exchange. Any information that the board considered as price sensitive is disseminated to the shareholders as necessary. Shareholders may bring up concerns they have, either with the Chairman & Chief Executive or the Group’s Secretarial Department as appropriate. Discussions are held with Institutional Investors, involving the Chairman, and other Executive Directors where necessary. This process is supported by the SBDU and the CAU. During these meetings, the Directors ensure protection of share price sensitive information that has not been made available to the company’s shareholders. P: 154 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Governance Principles SEC & ICASL Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Code Status Reference E.2 Evaluation of Governance Disclosures The Code requires the Institutional investors to give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention. 66. Due weight by Institutional E.2.1 Compliant The Institutional Investors are encouraged to give due Investors. weight to all relevant matters relating to the Board structure and composition. F. Other Investors F.1 Investing/Divesting Decision 67. Individual shareholders F.1 Compliant Individual investors are encouraged to carry out adequate analysis or seek independent advice in investing or divesting decisions. F.2 Shareholder Voting 68. Individual shareholders voting F.2 Compliant Individual shareholders are encouraged to participate in General Meetings of companies and exercise their voting rights. FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 155 Corporate Governance Section B This section covers Hayleys extent of adherence to the requirements of the Continuing Listing Requirements Section 7.10 on Corporate Governance Rules for Listed Companies issued by the Colombo Stock Exchange. This reflects Hayleys’ level of conformance to CSE’s Listing Rules which comprises of following fundamental principles.  Non-Executive Directors  Independent Directors  Disclosures relating to Directors  Remuneration Committee  Audit Committee CSE Rule Corporate Governance Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Reference Principles Status 7.10.1(a) Non-Executive Directors Compliant Five out of twelve Directors are Non-Executive Directors 7.10.2(a) Independent Directors Compliant Three of Five Non-Executive Directors were Independent 7.10.2(b) Independent Directors Compliant All NEDs have submitted their confirmations on Independence as per the criteria set by Hayleys PLC, which is in with the regulatory requirements. 7.10.3(a) Disclosure relating to Compliant The Board assessed the independence declared by the Directors and Directors determined the Directors who are independent and disclosed same in item 15 of Sec & CASL on page 142. 7.10.3(b) Disclosure relating to Compliant The Board has determined that all Non-Executive Directors except for Directors Mr. K.D.D. Perera and Mr. W.D.N.H. Perera satisfy the criteria for “independence” set out in the Listing Rules. 7.10.3(c) Disclosure relating to Compliant Please refer page 120 to 123 for the brief resume of each Director. Directors 7.10.3(d) Disclosure relating to Compliant Disclosed the appointments of new Directors to the Colombo Stock Directors Exchange when it is disclosed to the public. Brief resumes of the Directors appointed during the year have been provided to the Colombo Stock Exchange. 7.10.5 (a) Composition of Compliant As at 31st March, 2013, Committee comprises of five Non-Executive Remuneration Committee Directors. 7.10.5(b) Functions of Remuneration Compliant Please refer item 30 of the SEC & CASL Code table on page 126 for the Committee details of the functions of the Remuneration Committee. 7.10.5(c) Disclosure in the Annual Compliant Names of the Remuneration Committee members are given in the Report relating to the item 32 of the SEC & CASL Code table on page 147 The report of the Remuneration Committee Remuneration Committee is given on page 178 and the remuneration paid to Directors is given in the note 10 to the Financial Statements on page 227. P: 156 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 CSE Rule Corporate Governance Compliance Hayleys Extent of Adoption Reference Principles Status 7.10.6(a) Composition of Audit Compliant As at 31st March, 2013, the Committee comprises of three Committee Non-Executive Independent Directors and one Non-Executive Director. Chairman of the Audit Committee is an Independent Non-Executive Director. The Chief Executive and Chief Financial Officer attend meetings by invitation. Chairman of the Audit Committee is a passed finalist of The Institute of Chartered Accountants Sri Lanka. Please refer pages 119 to 123 for further details. 7.10.6(b) Audit Committee Functions Compliant Please refer item 59 of the SEC & CASL Code table on page 153 for the details of the functions of the Audit Committee. 7.10.6(c) Disclosure in the Annual Compliant The names of the Audit Committee members and the Report of the Audit Report relating to Audit Committee has been given on page 152 The basis of determination of the Committee independence of the auditor is also given in the Audit Committee Report. Board and the Committee attendance. The number of meetings of the Board and Board Committees and individual attendance by members as follows: Name Directorship Status Board Audit Committee Mr. A.M. Pandithage Executive 14/14 n/a (Chairman & Chief Executive) Mr. M.R. Zaheed Executive 14/14 n/a Mr. J.A.G. Anandarajah (Retired w.e.f. 31st March, 2013) Executive 13/14 n/a Mr. K.D.D. Perera Non-Executive 5/14 n/a Mr. W.D.N.H. Perera Non-Executive 10/14 1/9 Mr. S.C. Ganegoda Executive 13/14 n/a Mr. H.S.R. Kariyawasan Executive 9/14 n/a Dr. H. Cabral PC Independent Non-Executive 9/14 4/9 Dr. K.I.M. Ranasoma Executive 10/14 n/a Mr. L.T. Samarawickrama Executive 12/14 n/a Mr. R.P. Pathirana Independent Non-Executive 9/14 5/9 Mr. M.D.S. Goonetilleke Independent Non-Executive 13/14 9/9 FactandFiction Stewardship Corporate Governance P: 157 Stewardship Risk Management We work to manage risk in our internal control environment P: 158 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Risk arises in all our business activities. While they resources to the business opportunities that are expected cannot be completely eliminated, we work to manage to generate the maximum return with minimum risk. risk in our internal control environment. Hayleys Group recognizes that risk remains an intrinsic component of Taking risks is an inherent part of entrepreneurial doing business. However, a structured and transparent behaviour. A structured risk management process Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) process enables encourages management to take risks in a controlled management to identify, manage and prepare for risks manner. In order to provide a comprehensive view of in an informed, controlled and transparent manner. An Hayleys’ business activities, risks and opportunities are effective risk management framework helps the Group in identified in a structured manner combining elements its attempts to achieve the optimum trade-off between of a top-down and bottom-up approach. Risks are risks and returns. The group recognises the complexity reported on a regular basis as part of the ‘Business and the diversity of risks that surround its operational Performance Management’ process. All relevant risks activities, and the need to maximize opportunities and and opportunities are prioritised in terms of impact and minimize exposures to risk. An effective risk management likelihood, considering quantitative and/or qualitative framework can make an immense contribution to the aspects. The bottom-up identification and prioritisation efforts of the Group to optimise use of available capital. process is supported by meetings/forums with the respective management at Sector and SBU Function level. The Group is using COSO and Risk Management Industry The top-down element ensures that potential new risks approaches as the conceptual framework of ERM. The and opportunities are discussed at management level and framework consists of identifying and profiling of significant are included in the subsequent reporting process, if found risks, modeling and measuring risk, determining Group risk to be applicable. Reported risks and opportunities are appetites, accepting/transferring/eliminating/sharing risk, analysed regarding potential cumulative effects and are measuring of performance including the benefits of risk aggregated at Sector, Cross-Sector/Company and SBU diversification and monitoring execution of the process. level. Hayleys Group has a structured risk management The outcome of this process will help direct scarce process to address different risk categories: Strategic, Operational, Compliance and Financial risks. Risks/Opportunities Strategic Operational Compliance Financial Macro Economic Changes Innovation Process Legal Treasury Changes in Industry/Market Value Chain Tax Accounting and Reporting Acquisitions People Market Practices Social and Environmental Business Disruption Regulatory Reputation General Business Principles Internal Controls Data Privacy/Product Security Corporate Governance Risk Management Framework (COSO) FactandFiction Stewardship Risk Management P: 159 Risk Management The sector management has nominated persons The 1st Line of Defence responsible for risk management at the upper managerial Risk Identification, Risk Management and level and risk management coordinators to ensure Self-assurance that an effective system for early identification of risks Divisional business units are responsible for is implemented and maintained. Group Internal Audit identifying, evaluating and managing the risks that they coordinates the identification and documentation of originate within approved risk appetite and policies. control risk areas throughout the Group, enhancing the They are required to establish and maintain appropriate risk management system and monitoring its effectiveness risk management controls, resources and at regular intervals. In addition, during the year-end self-assurance processes. audit, the external auditor issues a Management Letter and informs the Group Management Committee and the The 2nd Line of Defence Board of Directors the outcomes of these evaluations. Establishment of Risk Management These outcomes are taken into account in the continuing Frameworks and Policies and Risk enhancement of our Risk Management System. Management Oversight  Sector Audit Committees lead the optimization of riskOur Group Assurance function independently evaluates reward by overseeing the development of risk appetite the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group’s overall risk statements, risk management frameworks, policies management framework and controls. and risk concentration controls, and monitoring Hayleys risk profile for alignment with approved Our overall risk management approach is summarised in appetites and strategies. the following diagram: Risk Appetite Board and Framework of Directors 3rd Line Independent Assurance Risk Reporting 2nd Line Group Wide Sector Audit Committee Policies and (Group/Sector Risk) Standards Risk Accepting and Monitoring 1st Line SBU Risk Business Units Appetite and (Originate within Divisional Risk Appetite) Policies Risk Identification, Evaluation and Management P: 160 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13  Sector Management is responsible for developing Objective Setting Business units will continue to set their goals and division-specific risk appetite statements, policies, objectives annually after evaluating and identifying controls, procedures, monitoring and reporting the risk associated with their business. The Group’s capability, which align to the Board’s Statement of tolerance of risk identified will ultimately determine the objectives agreed. Risk Appetite and the risk management frameworks approved by the Board of Directors. These risk areas Risk Identification are independent of the Divisions’ 1st Line business The Group’s Management Audit & System Review areas, with Group Internal Audit having a direct Departments (MA & SRD) plays a significant role in identifying financial and operational risks relating to reporting line to the Sector Audit Committees, as well SBU’s/Sectors and deviations from required Internal as to the Hayleys PLC, Audit Committee. controls. Internal audit reports produced monthly/ quarterly by leading audit firms relating to specific sectors are also reviewed to identify the risks. Key elements The 3rd Line of Defence of risk relating to sectors are discussed at monthly Independent Assurance cluster meetings and at meetings of the Hayleys Group Enterprise Risk Management Process Management Committee (HGMC). Risk Assessment Risk measures are based on likelihood and impact. Any significant risk exceeding risk tolerance limits will require management responses. Risks mentioned in the MA & SRD reports are ranked as High, Moderate and Low risk Objective Risk events based on the product of impact and likelihood. Setting Identification A higher risk event requires a more urgent management response. Risk Response and Mitigating Activities Depending on the significance of the risk to the sector in which the entity operates, decisions are taken to appropriately manage the risk by accepting, reducing, sharing or avoiding it. Such decisions are influenced by the Group’s risk appetite. The Sector Head together with Monitoring Risk the Management Team initiates mitigatory action that is Assessment needed to manage risks. Information and Communication Documentation and reporting plays a key role in monitoring risk. Group MA & SRD reports and outsourced internal audit reports are forwarded to the respective Group Management Committee member for Information Risk Response action and direction. The reports are also forwarded to and and Mitigating the relevant Audit Committees to increase awareness of Communication Activities the risks in each sector. Reports are tabled by sectors, at the meetings of the Board, certifying their mitigating actions to overcome risk events. Monitoring The ultimate responsibility for monitoring the process of Risk Management lies with the HGMC and Audit Committee. This includes monitoring of efficiency and effectiveness of Group internal controls. FactandFiction Stewardship Risk Management P: 161 Risk Management Risk Assessment Matrix and safeguarding assets. Management has put in place a number of key policies, processes and independent Risk Assessment Matrix controls to provide assurance to the Board on the integrity Risk Matrix of our reporting and effectiveness of our systems of (5) Very High p>80% 5 10 15 20 25 internal control and risk management. The governance (4) High 60%<p>80% 4 8 12 16 20 (3) Medium 40%<p>60% 3 6 9 12 15 assurance diagram below highlights the relationship Probability (P) (2) Low 20%<p<40% 2 4 6 8 10 between the Board of Directors and the various controls P<20% 1 2 3 4 5 in the assurance process. Some of the more significant (4) Regional/ (2) SBU Level internal control systems include Audit Committee, Sector (3) Process (5) Enterprise (1) Isolated level Audit Committees, Hayleys Group Management Level Channel Level Level Committee (HGMC), Treasury Unit (TU), Strategic Business Impact Development Unit (SBDU), Group Legal & Management Audit & System Review Unit (MA & SRD). Risk Management Governance Structure The principal aim of the Group’s risk management governance structure and system of internal control is to manage business and operational risks, with a view to enhancing the value of shareholders’ investments Board of Directors Provide oversight for risk strategy Provide oversight for ERM process Audit Group Management Committee Committee Control over financial reporting Monitoring the effectiveness and and ERM process execution of internal processes Sector Level Audit Committee Control over financial reporting and ERM process Treasury Unit SBDU MA & SRD Group Legal Optimising return from Maintaining balanced Provide oversight for Provide oversight for Interest Rate Risk risk & return business risk strategy risk strategy portfolio Provide oversight for Provide oversight for ERM process ERM process Outsourced Auditors P: 162 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Risks and Impact Raw Materials, Energy, Freight and As explained earlier, Hayleys faces a multitude of risks in Other Operating Inputs Risk Rating conducting its enterprise on a day to day basis. Careful Moderate management of these risks not only prevents any potential Margins of any of our Sectors may be affected by losses but also can provide opportunities for new business fluctuations in prices and availability of operating inputs. with substantial rewards. Harvest and weather conditions affect crop prices, crop As required by the SLFRS, Note 5 to the Financial disease, crop yields, alternative crops and by-product Statements deals with the details of financial risks values. In some cases, due to the basis for pricing in sales and their management. Given below is a summary of contracts, or due to competitive markets, we may not other risks faced by the Group along with their impact, be able to pass on to customers the full amount of raw strategies & mitigating action and risk ratings. material price increases or higher energy, freight or other operating costs. Product Risk and Competition Risk However, our strategic relationships with suppliers include Rating Moderate multiple-source supply agreements for key ingredient supplies. Through a balanced portfolio of supply and Global mergers and acquisitions of principals represented, tolling contracts in operation with customers we manage which are commonplace, can lead to the loss of agencies balance of raw material prices and product sales prices held. The latter is particularly relevant for the Consumer, and volume risks. Agri Inputs, Industrial Inputs, Transportation and Agro Products segments of the Group’s business. Though faced with a gamut of dependencies regarding raw materials and energy prices, our raw material and However the presence of Group companies overseas and energy purchasing policies provide security of supply. a valued network of foreign and local business partners Derivatives are used where possible to hedge exposure to help identify the materialisation of risks and actions in movements in future prices of commodities. mitigation. Good principal agent relationships reduce the risk of unexpected, adverse events. The Group remains alive to new market opportunities, to developing new alliances, and to acquiring distribution channels, which Product Innovation/Technology reduce the impact of any losses that do arise. Risk Rating Moderate Stronger environmental and health/safety legislation Hayleys remains strong in attracting FDI and securing is visible in our buyers’ markets, which is a positive projects and joint ventures for business communities. In indication for the Hayleys Group. addition, the Group’s excellent close working relationships with international bodies have enhanced the standing of The highest priority is given to proximity to customers the Hayleys brand. and responsiveness to their needs. As a result, product innovation is also extended the highest priority. The Group innovates in the fields of public health, drought resistance, renewable energy resources, eco-friendly biodegradable products, and purification solutions. FactandFiction Stewardship Risk Management P: 163 Risk Management Certifications such as the world’s first Fair-Trade rubber Socioeconomic Policies and gloves and the first Ethical Tea Brand of the world Uncertainties Risk Rating Moderate/ provide immense opportunities in a world where focus on High sustainability is paramount. Due to increased costs within the country’s current socioeconomic framework, there is a potential loss of competitiveness of our products in the international Environment and Climate market place. Moves such as removal of protective tariffs Change Risk Rating Moderate for local produce or implementation of new regulations are Manufacturing and agriculture companies of the Group identified as risks to multiple sectors. that use indigenous raw materials such as coconut fibre, coconut shell, latex and gherkins are affected by However Hayleys addresses relevant issues with shortages due to weather conditions. Climate change regulatory and other authorities. Measures are taken to affects quality standards and supply of certain products maximize productivity and reduce costs, for example and makes supply forecasting difficult. energy costs are mitigated by the use of alternative energy sources. Furthermore, operations are established overseas The effects of macro forces on food security are to diversify risk. seen through growth of pests and diseases caused by disruption of weather patterns and changes in temperature. Overall, poor climatic conditions Human Resources Management affect operations whether in the Group’s diversified Risk Rating Moderate manufacturing, agriculture or services portfolio. An identified shortage of skilled labour and limitations The Group mitigates the risk of shortages in raw in quality labour for out sourced requirements prove materials by building adequate inventory levels when detrimental to a company’s sustainability. The impact raw materials are available. Our Group Companies of such a risk is felt quite strongly amongst many source from other countries as necessary and feasible, manufacturing and service oriented industries today. and geographically diversify our risks by establishing The Group focuses on Talent Attraction and Retention in manufacturing units overseas. its action plans to mitigate this risk. We attract and retain quality employees through systems such as performance recognition and job banding, and various development Information Technology programmes for all levels, training and workshops. Risk Rating Moderate The Group depends on accurate, timely information from key information technology and intelligence systems to Impact of the IFRS Convergence enable decision-making. Risk Rating Moderate The Group’s implementation of sound IT policy throughout Significant impact on the financial performance, position the Group is supported by adequate systems and & processes of the Group, which could affect decisions controls. A contingency plan is in place to mitigate the risk made by the users of Financial Statements. of IT failures and business recovery/continuity. A central IT Group has set up a significant project, consisting team is in place to support IT within the Group. diagnostic & planning, solution development & implementation towards achieving compliance. P: 164 Financial Reports Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company 166 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities 174 Chairman/Chief Executive’s and Group Chief Financial Officer’s Responsibility Statement 175 Audit Committee Report 176 Remuneration Committee Report 178 Independent Auditors’ Report 179 Income Statements 180 Statements of Other Comprehensive Income 181 Statement of Financial Position 182 Statements of Changes in Equity 184 Cash Flow Statements 187 Notes to the Financial Statements 189 Financial Calendar 2012/13 1st Quarter Report 7th August, 2012 2nd Quarter Report 7th November, 2012 3rd Quarter Report 12th February, 2013 4th Quarter Report 20th May, 2013 Annual Report 2012/13 5th June, 2013 62nd Annual General Meeting 28th June, 2013 First and Final Dividend Proposed 28th June, 2013 First and Final Dividend Payable 8th July, 2013 Financial Reports Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company The Board of Directors of Hayleys PLC have pleasure in The Directors, to the best of their knowledge and belief, confirm presenting their Report on the affairs of the Company together that the Group has not engaged in any activities that contravene with the audited Consolidated Financial Statements for the year laws and regulations. ended 31st March 2013. The details set out herein provide the pertinent information required by the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and the Colombo Stock Exchange Listing Rules and are Financial Statements guided by recommended best reporting practices The Financial Statements of the Company and the Group are given on pages 180 to 295. Principal Activities Hayleys PLC is a holding company that owns, directly or Auditor’s Report indirectly, investments in the numerous companies constituting the Hayleys Group and provides services to Group companies. The Auditor’s Report on the Financial Statements of the Company The Group consists of a portfolio of diverse business operations. and the Group is given on page 179. The main Subsidiaries and equity accounted investees of Hayleys PLC are listed on pages 304 to 305. Accounting Policies The principal activities of the Group are categorised into different The accounting policies adopted in the preparation of the business groupings i.e. Global Markets and Manufacturing, Financial Statements are given on pages 189 to 209 Changes in Agriculture, Transportation and Logistics, Consumer Products, Group accounting policies made during the accounting period are Power and Energy and Leisure and Aviation. Each grouping may described under Note 3.7 of the Accounting Policies. consist of a number of sectors. The main activities of the sectors are described in the Management Review and Preview section (pages 38 to 94) of this Report. Group Revenue/International Trade The revenue of the Group was Rs. 74.3 bn (Rs. 65.8 bn) in the year under review. A detailed analysis of the Group’s turnover, Business Review/Future Developments profits and asset allocation relating to different segments of the A review of the Group’s businesses and their performance during Group’s business is given in Note to the Financial Statements. the year, with comments on financial results and future strategic developments, is contained in the Chairman & Chief Executive's The Group’s exports from Sri Lanka, amounted to Rs. 38.6 bn Message (pages 16 to 21),and Management Review and Preview (Rs. 30 bn) at f.o.b. value in the year under review. (pages 38 to 94) sections of this Annual Report. These reports together with the Financial Statements reflect the state of affairs The Group’s revenue from International Trade, which includes of the Company and the Group. the revenue of overseas subsidiaries in addition to exports from Sri Lanka, amounted to Rs. 47.2 bn (Rs. 40.4 bn) in the year The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the under review. new SLFRS/SLAS requirements and accordingly the previous year balances are also reflected in line with the present Trade between Group Companies is conducted at fair accounting standards. market prices. The Group, in April 2012, increased its stake in Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC from 60% to 82%. Hotel Ceylon Continental was reopened during the year under its new name, The Kingsbury, after a major development project. P: 166 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Results and Dividends Market Value of Properties The Group’s profit before taxation amounted to Rs. 5.0 bn The freehold land of the Group has in general been subjected to (Rs. 2.6 bn). After deducting Rs. 1.4 bn (Rs. 0.9 bn) for taxation routine revaluation by independent qualified valuers. The most the profit from continued operations was Rs. 3.6. bn (Rs. 1.74 recent revaluations in respect of the Group were carried out as at bn). When an amount of Rs. 1.8 bn (Rs. 0.6 bn) for minority 31st March, 2013. Small extents of freehold land are reflected at interests was deducted the Group profit attributable to equity book values as their appreciation is insignificant. holders of the company for the year was Rs. 1.9 bn ( Rs. 1.0 bn). A sum of Rs. 337.5 mn (Rs. 300 mn) has been set aside for Details of revaluations, carrying values and market values are proposed dividends. provided in Note to the Financial Statements. The statement on Value of Real Estate on page 298 to 299 gives details of freehold The financial statements of the Company and the Group are given land held by the Group. on pages 180 to 295 of this report. The Directors have confirmed that the Company satisfies the Stated Capital & Reserves solvency test requirement under section 56 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 for the first & final dividend proposed. A The stated capital of the Company, consisting of 75,000,000 solvency certificate has been sought in respect of the first & final Ordinary shares, amounts to Rs. 1,575 mn. There was no change dividend of Rs. 4.50 per share (Rs. 4.00) proposed to be paid to in stated capital during the year. the holders of issued ordinary shares of the Company as at the close of business on 28th June, 2013. The dividends represent a Total Group Reserves at 31st March, 2013 amount to Rs. 22.4 bn redistribution of dividends received by the Company and therefore (Rs. 18.3 bn) comprising Capital Reserves of Rs. 1.3 bn will not be subject to the 10% tax deduction otherwise applicable. (Rs. 1.2 bn) other component of equity of Rs. 9 bn (Rs. 6.3 bn) and Revenue Reserves of Rs. 11.01 bn (Rs. 9.7 bn ). The composition of reserves is shown in the Statement of Changes in Equity in the Financial Statements. Group Investment Group capital expenditure during the year on Property, Plant & Equipment and investments, other than investments in Interests Register Subsidiaries, amounted to Rs. 5.4 bn (Rs. 5.2 bn). The Company, in compliance with the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, maintains an Interests Register. Particulars of entries in the Interests Register and in the Interests Registers of Subsidiaries Property, Plant & Equipment that maintain such Registers are detailed below. Capital expenditure during the year, on Property, Plant & Equipment by the Group and by the Company amounted to Directors’ interests in transactions: The Directors of the Company Rs. 5.1 bn (Rs. 5 bn) and Rs. 0.46 mn (Rs. 109 mn) respectively. and its Subsidiaries have made the general disclosures provided for in section 192(2) of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Note Information relating to movements in Property, Plant & Equipment to the Financial Statements dealing with related party disclosures is given in Note 14 to the Financial Statements. includes details of their interests in transactions. Directors’ interests in shares: Directors of the Company and its Subsidiaries who have relevant interests in the shares of the respective Companies have disclosed their shareholdings and any acquisitions/disposals to their Boards, in compliance with section 200 of the Companies Act. FactandFiction Financial Reports Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company P: 167 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company Details of Directors’ shareholdings in the Company are given Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC later in this report. There were no changes in holdings during the  Mr. S. Spezza who held 171,930 shares resigned during period other than the following. the year  2,500 shares were purchased by Mr. R.P. Pathirana Hayleys PLC  2,000 shares were purchased by Mr. K.D.D. Perera from the  283,200 shares were purchased during the year by Rights issue Mr. K.D.D. Perera  370,000 shares were purchased by Vallibel One PLC* Dipped Products PLC  370,000 shares were disposed by  Mr. J.A.G. Anandarajah who held 219,474 shares retired on Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC* 31st March, 2013. * Mr. K.D.D. Perera has the controlling interest in Vallibel One PLC and Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC Insurance & Indemnity: The Company has obtained a Corporate Guard insurance policy from Chartis Insurance Ltd. providing Subsidiaries worldwide cover to indemnify all past, present and future There were no share transactions by the Directors, in terms of Directors and Officers (D & O) of Hayleys PLC and its Section 200 of the Companies Act in respect of the subsidiaries Subsidiaries at a premium of Rs. 5.8 mn. The limit on liability other than the following. of the cover is US$ 5 mn. Hunas Falls Hotels PLC Payment of remuneration to Directors: Executive Directors’ remuneration is established within an established framework  19,442 shares were purchased during the year by by the Board’s Remuneration Committee, to whom this task Mr. S.C. Ganegoda. has been entrusted. The Directors are of the opinion that the  Mr. V.K. Wickramasinghe who held 200 shares retired during framework assures appropriateness of remuneration and fairness the year. for the Company. The total remuneration of Executive Directors for the year ended 31st March, 2013 is Rs. 135.6 which includes Haycarb PLC the value of perquisites granted to them as part of their terms of  4,500 shares were purchased during the year by service. The total remuneration of Non-Executive Directors for the Mr. H.S.R. Kariyawasan. year ended 31st March, 2013 is Rs. 7.4 determined according to scales of payment decided upon by the Board previously. Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC The Board is satisfied that the payment of remuneration is fair  96,555 shares were purchased during the year by to the Company. Vallibel One PLC* * Mr. K.D.D. Perera has the controlling interest in Vallibel One PLC. Directors’ Remuneration Amaya Leisure PLC Directors’ remuneration, in respect of the Company for the financial year 2012/13 is Rs. 143.1 (Rs. 125 mn) Directors’  140,000 shares were disposed by Mr. S. Senaratne remuneration in respect of the Company’s Subsidiaries for the  28,529 shares were purchased during the year by financial year 2012/13 is Rs 446 (Rs. 436 mn.) Mr. D.E. Silva P: 168 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Corporate Donations Non-Executive Independent Directors Donations by the Company amounted to Rs. 830,650. Dr. H. Cabral, PC (Rs. 2,001,799) which includes a sum of Rs. 112,000 Mr. M.D.S. Goonatilleke (Rs. 121,000) made to Government approved charities. Mr. R.P. Pathirana The total donation amount of Rs. 830,650 exceeds the amount The basis on which Directors are classified as Independent Nonof Rs. 300,000 approved by the shareholders at the last Annual Executive Directors is discussed in the Corporate Governance General Meeting. Ratification of the additional amount of statement. Rs. 530,650 will be sought at the Annual General Meeting. Mr. L.R.V. Waidyaratne was appointed to the Board since the Donations by the Subsidiaries amounted to Rs. 11.2 last Annual General Meeting in terms of the Article 27 (2) of the (Rs. 12.5 mn). Articles of Association of the Company. Shareholders will be requested to re-elect him at the Annual General Meeting. No donations were made for political purposes. Mr. J.A.G. Anandarajah retired with effect from 31st March, 2013. Messrs. H.S.R. Kariyawasan, M.R. Zaheed and Dr. H. Cabral Directorate retire by rotation and being eligible offer themselves for The names of the Directors who held office at the end of the re-election. financial year are given below and their brief profiles appear on page 120 to 123. The names of Directors holding office at the end of the financial year in respect of Subsidiaries, grouped under sectors, are given below. Names of Directors who ceased to hold office during the Executive Directors year are given within brackets. Mr. A.M. Pandithage (Chairman & Chief Executive) Mr. M.R. Zaheed Mr. J.A.G.Anandarajah (Retired with effect from 31st March, 2013) Mr. S.C. Ganegoda Mr. H.S.R. Kariyawasan Dr. K.I.M. Ranasoma Mr. L.T. Samarawickrama Non-Executive Directors Mr. K.D.D. Perera (Deputy Chairman) Mr. W.D.N.H. Perera FactandFiction Financial Reports Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company P: 169 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company M. Bottino A.N.K. Perera N. A.R.R.S. Nanayakkara K.R. Rajapakse Fibre Textiles M. Orlando H.P. Lin A.M. Pandithage A.M. Pandithage V. Rocchetti G. Olbrechts S.C. Ganegoda S.C. Ganegoda B.A. Mahipala M. Symons G.M.P. De Silva K.D.D Perera R.M.T. Premarathna S. Yamada M.M.M. De Silva E.R.P. Goonetilleke T.G. Thoradeniya S. Kodama F.R. Alles R. Seevaratnam (M.V. Fildier ) A.C. Pathirage H.C.S Mendis H. Somashantha (J.A.G. Anandarajah) N.D. Shilling Dr. S.A.B. Ekanayake R.N. Somaratne (D.B.K. Pathirage) R.J. Taylor T. G. Thoradeniya R.P. Pathirana (N.D. Shilling) J.A.W.M. Jayasekera J.A.S. Piyawardena (R.J. Taylor) B.D.A. Perra (M.C.D. Amalean) N. Udage (S. Spezza) Purification Products Dr. P.C. Vermunt (Dr. E.M. Fernando) A.M. Pandithage Ms. M.C.A Holder Vermunt (J.A.G. Anandarajah) K.D.D. Perera Plantations A. Venugopal [S.D. Amalean (Alternate)] H.S.R. Kariyawasan A.M. Pandithage B.R.M. Mendis S.C. Ganegoda W.G.R. Rajadurai Ms. I. Weiland A. M. Senaratna G.K. Seneviratne C.D. Weiland R. Seevaratnam J.A.G. Anandarajah Ms. M. Hirai Construction Materials Ms. M.J.A.S. Abeyratne S.C. Ganegoda Ms. M. Shiraishi A.M. Pandithage D.E. Ranarajah Dr. K.I.M. Ranasoma J.A.M.V.D. Hout R.P. Peris W.D.N.H. Perera L.T. Samarawickrama A.R.K. Jayawardena S.C. Ganegoda Dr. S.A.K. Abayawardana R. Seevaratnam B.M.A. Senanayake R.P. Pathirana S. Rajapakse F. Mohideen D. Molligoda A.A. Akbarally T. D. Naylor S. Siriwardana G.S. De Silva D.W.P.N. Dediwela D.J. Perera Merrill J Fernando A.R.K. Jayawardena H.H. Abdulhusein P. Karnchanabatr Malik J Fernando (A.T.A Kuruppu) A.J. Hirdaramani (Alternate) B. Karnchanabatr L.N.De S. Wijeyeratne (U. Prinz) T. Akbarally(Alternate) K. Karnchanabatr Dr. S.S.S.B.D.G. Jayawardena (T. Doemling) (J.A.G. Anandarajah) Y.P.A.S. Pathiratna Prof. U. Liyanage (A.A.N. Dias) (K.D.D. Perera) A.A.M. Caderbhoy Ms. M.D.A. Perera A.H. Djafar W.D.N.H. Perera S. Sopian N.Y. Fernando Hand Protection M.S.P. Udaya Kumar M.M.M. De Silva Agriculture B. Balartnarajah D.S. Seneviratne A.M. Pandithage A.M. Pandithage Ms.S.S. Ragunathan Dr. R.D. Bandaranaike K.D.D. Perera M.R. Zaheed P. Rousseau D.J. Ambani Dr. K.I.M. Ranasoma S.C. Ganegoda F. Brocheet R J. Perera S.C. Ganegoda L.K.B. Godamunne B. Dasgupta N.R. Ranatunge G.K. Seneviratne M.M.M. De Silva Ms. C. Karnchanabatr R.M. Hanwella N.Y. Fernando U.E.R Gangoda (R.P. Peris) N.A.R.R.S. Nanayakkara R. Seevaratnam Ms. J. Dharmasena N. Weeraratne F. Mohideen D. Nilaweera C.V. Cabraal L.G.S. Gunawardena S.M.Gamage D.C. Fernando (Alternate) K.A.L.S. Fernando R. Seevaratnam (S.T. Gunatilleke) P: 170 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 S.N. Wickremesooriya K.L.C. Fernando Industry Inputs Consumer Products Leisure and Aviation R.W.P. Polonowita A.M. Pandithage A.M. Pandithage A.M. Pandithage S.J. Wijesinghe M.M.M. De Silva S.C. Ganegoda S.C. Ganegoda B.P.R. Liyanage S.C. Ganegoda M.R. Zaheed K.D.D. Perera Ms. Y.N. Perera M.R. Zaheed A.R. Zubair L.T. Samarawickrama M.D.D. Pieris D. Hewageegana M.M.M. De Silva S.P. Dissanayake D.D.W. Siriwardene M.D.S. Gonnetilleke G.A.B.I. Silva S.J. Wijesinghe C. Perera L.J.C. De Silva H.J.O. Silva N.J. De S. Deva-Aditya M. Masri P.T.S. De Silva R. Seevaratman L.N. De S. Wijeyeratne C.I.J. Charles D.D.W. Siriwardene M.D.S. Goonetilleke Ms. R.N. Ponnambalam A.H. Kulasinghe (M.H. Zainudeen) D.D.W. Siriwardena W.D.N.H. Perera J.R. Hill J.G. Victoria K. Miyoshi K.A.Y.P. Sumanapala N.P. Samarasinghe Ms.V.Jayasundera A.M. Gahazali Power and Energy Transportation and C.J. Wickramasingha M.I.S. Sabar A.M. Pandithage Logistics D.E. Silva P. Jayanetti A.R. De Zilva A.M. Pandithage B.C.S.A.P. Gooneratne J.C. Anandappa W.G.R. Rajadurai L.R.V. Waidyaratne S.B. Rangamuwa O. Kubota H.S.R. Kariyawasan S.C. Ganegoda J.P. Van Twest T. Aoyagi Y.P.A.S. Pathiratna S.R. Sadanandan S. Senaratne P.D. Good B. Balaratnarajah T.U.K. Peiris S.H. Amarasekera F.S. Abeygoonnewardena M.M.M. De Silva A.B. Ratnayake Ms. D.S.N. Weerasooriya M.R.S.M.S.R.C. Samaratunge D.D.W. Siriwardene Ms. E.M.C.S. Gamage E.J. Pietersz V.V.P. Daluwatte D.S. Arangala A.M. Senaratna D.J.A. Wijesinghe M. Saitoh R.A.A.W. Rajakaruna R. Seevaratnam S.D.D.K. Senaratne L.D.E.A. De Silva Merill J Fernando P.L. Cumaratunga (V.K. Wickremesinghe) (K. Amarasekera) Malik J Fernando F.T. Salem (R. Samaratunga) V.K. Hirdaramani C.D. La Ferriere (K. Balasundaram) R.P. Pathirana E. Silhol (Ms. M.R.P. Balendra) A.A. Akbarally E. Zeenny Investments and (K.P. Kalyan) I. Saleem Services M. Najmudeen (B.A.B. Goonetilleke) (K.D.D. Perera) T. Nakai A.M. Pandithage (T. Banno) (R.P. Peris) S. Sugishima S.C. Ganegoda (S.T. Gunatilleke) K. Wai Chak M.M.M De Silva (J.A.G. Anandarajah) O. Novoru S.P. Dissanayake (N.Y. Fernando) M.G. Gomez D.D.W. Siriwardene S.I. Ramakrishnan Ms. L.Y. Pararasasegaram L.B. Culas L.D.E.A. De Silva P.S. Gunawardena Dr. A. Sivagananathan S. Balasubramaniam Ms. M.P. Abeyesekera Ms. S. Abeytunge Ms. D. Talpahewa FactandFiction Financial Reports Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company P: 171 Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company Corporate Governance Events Occurring after the Reporting The Company has complied with the Corporate Governance Date rules laid down under the listing rules of the Colombo Stock No circumstances have arisen since the Balance Sheet date that Exchange. The Corporate Governance section on pages 129 would require adjustment, other than those disclosed in Note 35 to 157 discusses this further. to the Financial Statements on page 279. Auditors Employment Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, are deemed The Group has a structure and a culture that recognizes the reappointed, in terms of section 158 of the Companies Act aspirations, competencies and commitment of its employees. No. 07 of 2007, as Auditors of the Company. Career growth and advancement within the Group is promoted. A resolution proposing the Directors be authorized to Details of Group’s human resource practices and employee and determine their remuneration will be submitted at the Annual industrial relationships are given in employees section of the General Meeting. sustainability report. The Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young were paid Rs. 1.5 mn The number of persons employed by the Group at year-end was (Rs. 1.0 mn), and Rs. 30.8 mn (Rs. 25.7 mn) as audit fees by the 35,373 (33,201). Company and its Subsidiaries respectively. In addition, they were paid Rs. 0.75 mn (Rs. 0.52 mn) and Rs. 16.9 mn (Rs. 6.7 mn), The Group does not operate any share option schemes. by the Company and its Subsidiaries respectively, for Non-audit related work, which consisted mainly of tax consultancy services. In addition to the above, Group companies, both local and Shareholders overseas, engage other audit firms. Audit fees and payments It is the Group’s policy to endeavour to ensure equitable treatment relating to Non-audit work in respect of these firms amount to to its shareholders. Rs. 9.6 mn (Rs. 18.2 mn.) and Rs. 5.1 mn (Rs. 10.9 mn) respectively. Details of major shareholders is given on page 302. The Auditors of the Company and its Subsidiaries, have confirmed that they do not have any relationships (other than Statutory Payments that of Auditor) with, or interests in, the Company or any of its The declaration relating to statutory payments is made in the Subsidiaries other than those disclosed above. Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities on page 174. Share Information Environmental Protection Information relating to earnings, dividend, net assets, market The Group’s efforts to conserve scarce and non-renewable value per share and share trading is given on pages 12, 302 resources, as well as its environmental objectives and key and 303. initiatives, are described in the Environment Issues section of the Sustainability Report on page 110. P: 172 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Enterprise Risk Management Annual General Meeting The Group has a structured risk management process in place The Annual General Meeting will be held at Winchester, The to support its operations. The Hayleys Board Audit Committee Kingsbury, No. 48, Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 01, at and the sector audit committees play a major role in this process. 3.00 p.m. on Friday, 28th June, 2013. The Notice of the Annual The Risk Management section of this report elaborates these General Meeting appears on page 322. practices and the Group’s risk factors. For and on behalf of the Board Internal Controls The Directors acknowledge their responsibility for the Group’s system of internal control. The system is designed to give assurance, inter alia, regarding the safeguarding of assets, the Mohan Pandithage maintenance of proper accounting records and the reliability of Chairman & Chief Executive financial information generated. However, any system can only ensure reasonable and not absolute assurance that errors and irregularities are either prevented or detected within a reasonable time period. The Board, having reviewed the system of internal controls, is Sarath Ganegoda satisfied with the Group’s adherence to and effectiveness of Director these controls for the period up to the date of signing the Financial Statements. Going Concern Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd. The Directors, after making necessary inquiries and reviews Secretaries including reviews of the Group’s budget for the ensuing year, capital expenditure requirements, future prospects and risks, 20th May, 2013 cash flows and borrowing facilities, have a reasonable expectation Comparative figures are shown in brackets. that the Company and the Group have adequate resources to continue in operational existence for the foreseeable future. Therefore the going concern basis has been adopted in the preparation of the Financial Statements. Directors’ Shareholdings Details relating to shareholdings of Directors are given on page 303. FactandFiction Financial Reports Annual Report of the Board of Directors on the Affairs of the Company P: 173 Statement of Directors’ Responsibilities The Directors are responsible under Sections 150 (1), 151, As required by Section 56 (2) of the Companies Act, the Board 152 (1), & 153 of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, to ensure of Directors has authorised distribution of the dividend now compliance with the requirements set out therein to prepare proposed, being satisfied based on information available to it Financial Statements for each financial year giving a true and that the Company would satisfy the solvency test after such fair view of the state of affairs of the Company and the Group distribution in accordance with Section 57 of the Companies as at the end of the financial year and of the profit & loss of the Act, and have sought in respect of the dividend now proposed, a Company and the Group for the financial year. certificate of solvency from the Auditors. The Directors are also responsible, under Section 148, for The external Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young who were deemed ensuring that proper accounting records are kept to enable, reappointed in terms of Section 158 of the Companies Act No. determination of financial position with reasonable accuracy, 07 of 2007 were provided with every opportunity to undertake preparation of Financial Statements and audit of such statements the inspections they considered appropriate to enable them to to be carried out readily and properly. form their opinion on the Financial Statements. The Report of the Auditors, shown on page 179 sets out their responsibilities in The Board accepts responsibility for the integrity and objectivity relation to the Financial Statements. of the Financial Statements presented. The Directors confirm that in preparing the Financial Statements, appropriate accounting policies have been selected and applied consistently while Compliance Report reasonable and prudent judgments have been made so that the form and substance of transactions are properly reflected. The Directors confirm that to the best of their knowledge, all statutory payments relating to employees and the Government They also confirm that the Financial Statements have been that were due in respect of the Company and its Subsidiaries prepared and presented in accordance with the Sri Lanka as at the Balance Sheet date have been paid or where relevant, Accounting Standards, Companies Act No. 07 of 2007 and provided for. the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Further, the Financial Statements provide the information required by the Companies Act and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange. By order of the Board HAYLEYS GROUP SERVICES (PVT) LTD. The Directors are of the opinion, based on their knowledge of the Secretaries Company, key operations and specific inquiries, that adequate resources exist to support the Company on a going concern 20th May, 2013 basis over the next year. These Financial Statements have been prepared on that basis. The Directors have taken reasonable measures to safeguard the assets of the Group and, in that context, have instituted appropriate systems of internal control with a view to preventing and detecting fraud and other irregularities. P: 174 Chairman and Chief Executives’ and Group Chief Financial Officer’s Responsibility Statement Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 The Financial Statements of Hayleys PLC and the Consolidated The Audit Committee of the Company meets periodically with Financial Statements of the Group as at 31st March, 2013 are the Internal Auditors and the Independent Auditors to review prepared and presented in compliance with the requirements of the effectiveness of the audits, and to discuss auditing, internal the following: control and financial reporting issues. The Independent Auditors • Sri Lanka Accounting Standards issued by The Institute of and the Internal Auditors have full and free access to the Audit Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka; Committee to discuss any matter of substance. • Companies Act No. 07 of 2007; The Financial Statements were audited by Independent External • Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange; and Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants. The • Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance issued jointly Audit Committee approves the audit and non-audit services by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and the provided by the External Auditor, in order to ensure that the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka. provision of such services does not impair their independence. The Group’s accounting policies were changed as per the requirements of the new Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLRFS/LKAS) which were effective from 1st of January, 2012. As a result the comparative information have also been restated to comply with the new framework. We confirm that the significant Mohan Pandithage accounting policies used in the preparation of the Financial Chairman and Chief Executive Statements are appropriate and are consistently applied, as described in the Notes to the Financial Statements. The significant accounting policies and estimates that involved a high degree of judgment and complexity were discussed with the Audit Committee and our External Auditors. Dilhan De Silva Group Chief Financial Officer We have also taken proper and sufficient care in installing systems of internal control and accounting records, to safeguard 20th May, 2013 assets, and to prevent and detect frauds as well as other irregularities. These have been reviewed, evaluated and updated on an ongoing basis. Reasonable assurances that the established policies and procedures of the Company have been consistently followed were provided by periodic audits conducted by Group’s Internal Auditors. However, there are inherent limitations that should be recognised in weighing the assurances provided by any system of internal controls and accounting. FactandFiction P: 175 Audit Committee Report Role of the Audit Committee units. The Committee recommended the Financial Statements to the Board for Its deliberations and issuance. The Committee, in The role of the Committee, which has specific terms of reference, its evaluation of the financial reporting system, also recognised is described in the Corporate Governance Report on page 152. the adequacy of the content and quality of routine management information reports forwarded to its members. Composition of the Audit Committee The Audit Committee, appointed by and responsible to the Internal Audits Board of Directors, comprises three Independent Non-Executive The Committee reviewed the process to assess the effectiveness Directors and a Non-Executive Director. Company Secretary of the Internal Financial Controls that have been designed to acts as the Secretary to the Audit Committee. The Chairman and provide reasonable assurance to the Directors that assets are Chief Executive, Group Chief Financial Officer and Manager safeguarded, and that the financial reporting system can be Management Audit and Systems Review attend meetings of the relied upon in preparation and presentation of Financial Committee by invitation. The Chairman of the Audit Committee is Statements. The Group Management Audit and Systems Review a Senior Qualified Accountant. Department reports on key control elements and procedure in Group companies that are selected according to an annual plan The names of the members and brief profiles of each member are were reviewed. given on pages 152 & 118 to 123 of this Report. Their individual and collective financial knowledge and business acumen and the Internal Audits are outsourced to leading audit firms in line with independence of the Committee, are brought to bear on their an agreed annual audit plan. Follow up reviews are scheduled to deliberations and judgments on matters that come within the ascertain that audit recommendations are being acted upon. The Committee’s purview. Committee appraised the independence of the Group MA & SRD and other Internal Auditors, in the conduct of their assignments. Meetings of the Audit Committee The Committee obtained and reviewed statements from the The Committee met 9 times during the year. The attendance heads of business sectors identifying their respective major of the members at these meetings is stated in the table on business risks, mitigatory action taken or contemplated for page 157. management of these risks. The COSO Enterprise Risk Reporting Process is presently being implemented within the Group. Other members of the Board and the Group Management Committee, as well as the External Auditors were present at The Committee obtained representations from Group companies discussions where this was appropriate. The proceedings of the on the adequacy of provisions made for possible liabilities and Audit Committee are regularly reported to the Board of Directors. reviewed reports tabled by Group companies certifying their compliance with relevant statutory requirements. Tasks of the Audit Committee Subsidiary Company Audit Committees Financial Reporting System Certain listed subsidiaries and also some of the unlisted The Committee reviewed the financial reporting system adopted subsidiaries have appointed their own Audit Committees by the Group in the preparation of its quarterly and annual comprising Independent Non-Executive Directors. These Audit Financial Statements to ensure reliability of the processes and Committees function independently of the Audit Committee of consistency of the accounting policies and methods adopted Hayleys PLC, but have similar terms of reference. The minutes of and their compliance with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. their meetings are made available to Hayleys Audit Committee. The methodology included obtaining statements of compliance from Heads of Finance and Directors in charge of operating P: 176 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 External Audits The Committee held meetings with the External Auditors to review the nature, approach, scope of the audit and the Audit Management Letters of Group companies. Actions taken by the management in response to the issues raised, as well as the effectiveness of the internal controls in place, were discussed with the heads of business units. Remedial action was recommended wherever necessary. The Audit Committee has reviewed the other services provided by the External Auditors to the Group to ensure that their independence as Auditors has not been compromised. Appointment of External Auditors The Audit Committee has recommended to the Board of Directors that Messrs Ernst & Young, continue as Auditors for the financial year ending 31st March 2014. Support to the Committee The Committee received information and support from management during the year to enable it to carry out its duties and responsibilities effectively. Conclusion The Audit Committee is satisfied that the Group’s accounting policies and operational controls provide reasonable assurance that the affairs of the Group are managed in accordance with Group policies and that Group assets are properly accounted for and adequately safeguarded. Mangala Goonatilake Chairman Audit Committee 15th May, 2013 FactandFiction Financial Reports Audit Committee Report P: 177 Remuneration Committee Report The Remuneration Committee of Hayleys PLC consists of NonExecutive Directors, a majority of whom are independent, and is chaired by an Independent Non-Executive Director as per good governance requirements. The Chairman and Chief Executive assists the Committee by providing relevant information and participating in its analysis and deliberations, except when his own compensation package is reviewed. The Committee is responsible for determining the compensation of the Chairman and Chief Executive, Executive Directors and members of the Group Management Committee. In addition, they lay down guidelines and parameters for the compensation structures of all management staff within the Group taking into consideration industry norms. A primary objective of the compensation packages is to attract and retain a highly-qualified and experienced workforce, and reward performance accordingly in the backdrop of industry norms. These compensation packages provide compensation appropriate for each business within the Group and commensurate with each employee’s level of expertise and contribution, bearing in mind the business performance and shareholder returns. Dr. Harsha Cabral, PC Chairman Remuneration Committee 2nd May, 2013 P: 178 Independent Auditors’ Report Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO THE SHAREHOLDERS OF HAYLEYS PLC Report on the Financial Statements estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall We have audited the accompanying Financial Statements of Hayleys Financial Statement presentation. PLC (“Company”), the consolidated financial statements of the Company and its subsidiaries which comprise the Statements of We have obtained all the information and explanations which to the Financial Position as at 31 March 2013, and the Statements of best of our knowledge and belief were necessary for the purposes of Income, the Statements of Comprehensive Income, Statements our audit. We therefore believe that our audit provides a reasonable of Changes in Equity and Cash Flow Statements for the year then basis for our opinion. ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory notes. Opinion In our opinion, so far as appears from our examination, the Company Management’s Responsibility for the maintained proper accounting records for the year ended 31 March Financial Statements 2013 and the Financial Statements give a true and fair view of the Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation financial position of the Company as at 31 March 2013 and its of these Financial Statements in accordance with Sri Lanka financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in Accounting Standards. This responsibility includes designing, accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards. implementing and maintaining internal control relevant to the preparation and fair presentation of Financial Statements that are In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; and fair view of the financial position as at 31 March 2013 and the selecting and applying appropriate accounting policies; and making financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended, in accounting estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, of the Company and its subsidiaries dealt with thereby, so far as concerns the Scope of Audit and Basis of Opinion shareholders of the Company. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these Financial Statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in Report on Other Legal and Regulatory accordance with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards Requirements require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable These Financial Statements also comply with the requirements of assurance whether the Financial Statements are free from Section 151(2) and Sections 153(2) to 153(7) of the Companies Act material misstatement. No. 7 of 2007. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the Financial Statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting policies used and significant 20 May 2013 Colombo FactandFiction P: 179 Income Statements Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March, Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Revenue 6 74,301,852 65,806,714 229,332 176,664 Cost of sales (57,211,418) (52,427,811) (174,173) (150,745) Gross profit 17,090,434 13,378,903 55,159 25,919 Group dividend – – 1,018,608 1,235,872 Other income 7 326,917 384,494 324 214,404 Distribution expenses (2,232,081) (1,882,458) – – Administrative expenses (8,362,975) (7,539,271) (178,647) (163,902) Other expenses 8 (159,263) (226,510) (1,980) – Results from operating activities 6,663,032 4,115,158 893,464 1,312,293 Finance income 9 1,430,416 579,962 403,285 163,710 Finance costs 9 (3,068,540) (2,138,023) (933,376) (426,931) Net finance costs 9 (1,638,124) (1,558,061) (530,091) (263,221) Share of profit of equity accounted investees (Net of tax) 352 3,806 – – Profit before tax 10 5,025,260 2,560,903 363,373 1,049,072 Tax expense 11 (1,405,871) (914,724) (17,489) (5,341) Profit for the year 3,619,389 1,646,179 345,884 1,043,731 Profit for the year attributable to: Owners of the parent 1,853,641 1,037,822 Non-controlling interest 1,765,748 608,357 Profit for the year 3,619,389 1,646,179 Earnings Per Share Basic, profit for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (Rs.) 12 24.72 13.84 Diluted, profit for the year attributable to equity holders of the parent (Rs.) 12 24.72 13.84 Notes from pages 189 to 295 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. P: 180 Statements of Comprehensive Income Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March, Notes 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Profit for the year 3,619,389 1,646,179 345,884 1,043,731 Other comprehensive income Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 299,830 196,083 – – Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees 17,180 24,125 – – Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (7,125) (32,135) – – Revaluation of land 2,541,335 – 1,176,520 – Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 2,851,220 188,073 1,176,520 – Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 6,470,609 1,834,252 1,522,404 1,043,731 Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to owners of the parent 4,334,453 1,158,120 Non-controlling Interest 2,136,156 676,132 6,470,609 1,834,252 FactandFiction P: 181 Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Company As at Notes 31st March, 2013 31st March, 2012 1st April 2011 31st March, 2013 31st March, 2012 1st April 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 14 37,205,718 30,821,610 25,365,572 5,133,138 3,940,025 3,858,410 Investment properties 15 688,041 688,361 23,650 – – – Biological assets 16 235,020 192,112 161,780 – – – Intangible assets 17 5,358,548 5,164,380 3,369,171 – – – Investments in subsidiaries 18 – – – 8,673,205 7,840,097 5,610,679 Investments in equity accounted investees 18 268,803 305,632 643,272 – – 1,960 Other non-current financial assets 19 366,970 385,651 234,611 179,174 191,644 204,114 Other non-current assets 20 190,647 188,730 167,020 – – – Deferred tax assets 27 352,206 239,301 166,777 – – Total non-current assets 44,665,953 37,985,777 30,131,853 13,985,517 11,971,766 9,675,163 Current Assets Inventories 21 10,365,582 10,397,611 8,472,031 1,282 920 1,396 Amounts due from subsidiaries 39 – – – 1,446,449 295,886 400,527 Amounts due from equity accounted investees 39 1,334 – 3,723 – – 784 Trade and other receivables 22 15,287,867 13,865,668 11,654,783 25,577 47,194 13,809 Other current assets 22 1,232,130 624,667 522,020 14,670 5,245 4,749 Assets classified as held-for-sale 40 3,021 4,862 15,993 – – – Income tax recoverable 30 228,895 147,762 170,917 3,840 4,644 5,501 Other current financial assets 19 49,738 175,703 61,048 22,778 32,240 20,709 Short-term deposits 998,646 915,067 1,378,314 – – – Cash and cash equivalents 2,125,511 1,755,418 1,487,226 49,993 25,834 19,915 Total current assets 30,292,724 27,886,758 23,766,055 1,564,589 411,963 467,390 Total assets 74,958,677 65,872,535 53,897,908 15,550,106 12,383,729 10,142,553 P: 182 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Consolidated Company As at Notes 31st March, 2013 31st March, 2012 1st April 2011 31st March, 2013 31st March, 2012 1st April 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Equity and Liabilities Stated capital 23 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 Employee share trust loan 23 (489,887) (491,439) (492,243) (489,887) (491,439) (492,243) Treasury shares 23 – – (398,902) – – – Capital reserves 1,377,676 1,222,076 1,404,887 13,226 13,226 13,226 Other components of equity 9,000,862 6,373,692 6,164,166 4,861,023 3,684,503 3,684,503 Revenue reserves 11,011,187 9,692,441 7,005,076 2,187,419 2,141,535 1,397,804 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 22,474,838 18,371,770 15,257,984 8,146,781 6,922,825 6,178,290 Non-controlling interest 11,195,960 10,077,099 8,481,037 – – – Total equity 33,670,798 28,448,869 23,739,021 8,146,781 6,922,825 6,178,290 Non-Current Liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings 25 5,671,153 5,212,336 4,541,156 910,000 1,386,666 1,680,000 Deferred income 26 783,222 777,670 792,868 – – – Deferred tax liability 27 1,035,201 886,679 797,574 – – – Employee benefit obligations 28 4,285,224 3,921,370 3,335,442 372,714 333,279 259,857 Total non-current liabilities 11,774,800 10,798,055 9,467,040 1,282,714 1,719,945 1,939,857 Current Liabilities Trade and other payables 29 10,959,952 9,665,656 8,042,943 282,130 169,906 110,980 Provisions 29 37,232 36,586 31,829 – – – Other current liabilities 22,040 4,305 9,909 14,229 4,305 9,909 Other current financial liabilities 19 C – 81,617 2,042 – – – Amounts due to subsidiaries – – – 668,608 827,250 151,091 Amounts due to equity accounted investees 38 30,131 21,155 52,563 – – – Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held-for-sale 40 332 2,174 2,582 – – – Income tax payable 30 571,132 297,510 399,052 11,675 – – Current portion of long-term interest-bearing borrowings 25 1,584,541 2,006,321 1,748,681 476,667 506,667 720,000 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings 31 16,307,719 14,510,287 10,402,246 4,667,302 2,232,831 1,032,426 Total current liabilities 29,513,079 26,625,611 20,691,847 6,120,611 3,740,959 2,024,406 Total liabilities 41,287,879 37,423,666 30,158,887 7,403,325 5,460,904 3,964,263 Total equity and liabilities 74,958,677 65,872,535 53,897,908 15,550,106 12,383,729 10,142,553 It is certified that the Financial Statements have been prepared in compliance with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. Dilhan De Silva Group Chief Financial Officer The Directors are responsible for the preparation and presentation of these Financial Statements. Signed for and on behalf of the Board, Mohan Pandithage Sarath Ganegoda Chairman and Chief Executive Director 20th May, 2013 Notes from pages 189 to 295 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. FactandFiction Financial Reports Statements of Financial Position P: 183 Statements of Changes in Equity For the period ended 31st March, 2013 Consolidated Attributable to equity holders of the Company Capital Reserves Stated Employee Treasury Reserve Other capital share shares on scrip capital trust loan issue reserve Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Balance as at 1st April, 2012 1,575,000 (491,439) – 762,125 459,951 Profit for the year – – – – – Other Comprehensive Income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – – – – Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees – – – – – Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets – – – – – Revaluation of land – – Total other comprehensive income – – – – – Total Comprehensive income for the year – – – – – Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Dividends to equity holders Recovery for the year – 1,552 – – – Transfers – 78,284 2,440 Total contributions by and distributions to owners – 1,552 – 78,284 2,440 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries Acquisition of non-controlling interest without a change in control – – – (73,029) 147,905 Total changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries – – – (73,029) 147,905 Total transactions with owners – 1,552 – 5,255 150,345 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 1,575,000 (489,887) – 767,380 610,296 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 1,575,000 (492,243) (398,902) 988,537 416,350 Profit for the year – – – – – Other Comprehensive Income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – – – – Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees – – – – – Net change in fair value available-for-sale financial assets – – – – – Total other comprehensive income – – – – – Total comprehensive income for the year – – – – – Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Dividends to equity holders Recovery for the year – 804 – – – Transfers – – – – – Treasury shares sold – – 398,902 – – Total contributions by and distributions to owners – 803 398,902 – – Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries Acquisition of non-controlling interest with a change in control – – – – – Acquisition of non-controlling interest without a change in control – – – (226,412) 43,601 Total changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries – – – (226,412) 43,601 Total transactions with owners – 803 398,902 (226,412) 43,601 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1,575,000 (491,439) – 762,125 459,951 Revaluation Reserve relates to the revaluation of land and represents the fair value of the land as at the date of revaluation. Details of the Capital Reserves are given in Note to the Financial Statements. Foreign Currency Translation Reserve comprises all foreign currency differences arising from the translation of the Financial Statements of foreign operations. P: 184 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Other Components of Equity Revenue Reserves RevaluAvailableForeign General Timber Retained Shareholders' Non-controlling Total ation for-sale currency reserve reserve earnings funds interest equity reserve reserve translation reserve Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 5,711,359 2,850 659,483 2,082,710 31,662 7,578,069 18,371,770 10,077,099 28,448,869 – – – – 9,584 1,844,057 1,853,641 1,765,748 3,619,389 – – 137,343 – – – 137,343 162,487 299,830 17,180 – – – – – 17,180 – 17,180 – (4,247) – – – – (4,247) (2,878) (7,125) 2,330,536 – – – – – 2,330,536 210,799 2,541,335 2,347,716 (4,247) 137,343 – – – 2,480,812 370,408 2,851,220 2,347,716 (4,247) 137,343 – 9,584 1,844,057 4,334,453 2,136,156 6,470,609 – – – – – (300,000) (300,000) (765,579) (1,065,579) – – – – – – 1,552 – 1,552 – – – 142,525 – (223,249) – – – – – – 142,525 – (523,249) (298,448) (765,579) (1,064,027) 34,731 (5) 111,632 9,496 131 (163,797) 67,063 (251,715) 184,652 34,731 (5) 111,632 9,496 131 (163,797) 67,063 (251,715) 184,652 34,731 (5) 111,632 152,021 131 (687,046) (231,385) (1,017,294) (1,248,679) 8,093,806 (1,402) 908,458 2,234,731 41,377 8,735,080 22,474,838 11,195,960 33,670,798 5,599,343 23,427 541,396 2,291,646 34,310 4,679,120 15,257,985 8,481,037 23,739,022 – – – – 7,948 1,029,873 1,037,822 608,357 1,646,179 – – 118,087 – – – 118,087 77,996 196,083 22,658 – – – – – 22,658 1,467 24,125 – (20,447) – – – – (20,447) (11,688) (32,135) 22,658 (20,447) 118,087 – – – 120,298 67,775 188,073 22,658 (20,447) 118,087 – 7,948 1,029,873 1,158,120 676,132 1,834,252 – – – – – (300,000) (300,000) (388,571) (688,571) – – – – – – 803 – 803 (65,895) – – (229,502) – 295,397 – – – – – – – 1,451,605 1,850,507 745,833 2,596,340 (65,895) – – (229,502) – 1,447,002 1,551,310 357,262 1,908,572 – – – – – – – 979,158 979,158 155,253 (130) – 20,566 (10,596) 422,074 404,355 (416,490) (12,135) 155,253 (130) – 20,566 (10,596) 422,074 404,355 562,668 967,023 89,358 (130) – (208,936) (10,596) 1,869,076 1,955,665 919,930 2,875,595 5,711,359 2,850 659,483 2,082,710 31,662 7,578,069 18,371,770 10,077,099 28,448,869 Available-for-sale Reserve relates to change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets. Timber Reserve relates to change in fair value of managed trees which includes commercial timber plantations cultivated on estates. Notes from pages 189 to 295 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. FactandFiction Financial Reports Statements of Changes in Equity P: 185 Statements of Changes in Equity For the year ended 31st March, 2013 Company Stated Employee Other Revaluation General Retained Total capital share trust capital reserve reserve earnings loan reserve Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Balance as at 1st April, 2012 1,575,000 (491,439) 13,226 3,684,503 382,087 1,759,448 6,922,825 Profit for the year – – – – 345,884 345,884 Repayment of employee share trust loan – 1,552 – – – 1,552 Other Comprehensive income Revaluation of land – – – 1,176,520 – – 1,176,520 Total other comprehensive income – – – 1,176,520 – – 1,176,520 Total comprehensive income for the year – 1,552 – 1,176,520 – 345,884 1,523,956 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Dividends to equity holders – – – – – (300,000) (300,000) Total contributions by and distributions to owners – – – – – (300,000) (300,000) Total transactions with owners – – – – (300,000) (300,000) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 1,575,000 (489,887) 13,226 4,861,023 382,087 1,805,332 8,146,781 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 1,575,000 (492,243) 13,226 3,684,503 382,087 1,015,717 6,178,290 Profit for the year – – – – – 1,043,731 1,043,731 Repayment of employee share trust loan – 804 – – – – 804 Other Comprehensive income Revaluation of land – – – – – – – Total other comprehensive income – – – – – – – Total comprehensive income for the year – 804 – – – 1,043,731 1,044,535 Transactions with owners, recorded directly in equity Dividends to equity holders – – – – – (300,000) (300,000) Total contributions by and distributions to owners – – – – – (300,000) (300,000) Total transactions with owners – – – – – (300,000) (300,000) Balance as at 31st March 2012 1,575,000 (491,439) 13,226 3,684,503 382,087 1,759,448 6,922,825 P: 186 Cash Flow Statements Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Cash Flows from Operating Activities Cash generated from operations (Note A) 8,907,470 3,883,954 (163,056) 1,944,136 Post employee benefit paid (416,613) (344,783) (30,970) (3,218) Income tax paid (1,175,911) (1,066,718) (5,010) (4,484) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 7,314,946 2,472,453 (199,036) 1,936,434 Cash Flows from Investing Activities Purchase and construction of property, plant & equipment (5,148,902) (5,053,434) (45,694) (108,737) Investments in other current assets (34,160) (39,177) – – Increase due to development of biological assets (11,697) (4,040) – – Government grants received capital 58,114 37,582 – – Proceeds from sale of treasury shares – 2,596,340 – – Proceeds from disposal of property, plant & equipment 418,377 302,658 2,972 566 Proceeds from disposal of non-current financial assets – – 3,657 280,000 On acquisition of right to generate hydro power/ERP System (170,656) (75,481) – – Proceeds from the sale of equity accounted investees 7,020 172,699 – – Proceeds from sale of financial instruments 17,353 1,343 8,122 (25,095) Long term investments in group companies and others – – (855,043) (2,235,057) Acquisition through business combinations (544,836) (3,410,355) – – Interest received 401,933 214,786 93,116 28,842 Dividends received from equity accounted investees 12,278 7,800 – – Dividends received from non-group companies 310,219 135,613 307,017 134,122 Recovery of employee share trust loan 1,552 804 1,552 804 Net cash used in investing activities (4,683,405) (5,112,863) (484,301) (1,924,556) Net cash inflow/(outflow) before financing 2,631,540 (2,640,409) (683,337) 11,878 Cash Flows from Financing Activities Capital payment on finance lease (543) (39,992) – – Payment for right to use land (33,453) (40,769) – – Interest paid (including interest capitalised) (2,678,471) (1,476,666) (920,308) (399,698) Net payment to non-controlling interest (783,511) (388,571) – – Buy back of own shares – (50,000) – – Acquisition of non-controlling interest (164,285) – – – Proceeds from interest-bearing borrowings 2,074,754 2,557,233 – – Repayment of interest-bearing borrowings (2,089,286) (1,923,922) (506,667) (506,666) Dividends paid to equity holders of parent (300,000) (300,000) (300,000) (300,000) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (3,974,796) (1,662,687) (1,726,975) (1,206,364) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (1,343,255) (4,303,096) (2,410,312) (1,194,486) Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year (11,839,192) (7,536,096) (2,206,997) (1,012,511) Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year (Note B) (13,182,447) (11,839,192) (4,617,309) (2,206,997) Notes from pages 189 to 295 form an integral part of these Financial Statements. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. FactandFiction P: 187 Cash Flow Statements Consolidated Company For the year ended 31st March, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 A. Cash Generated from Operations Profit before tax 5,025,260 2,560,903 363,373 1,049,072 5,025,260 2,560,903 363,373 1,049,072 Adjustments for: Net finance expense 1,638,124 1,558,061 530,091 263,221 Share of profits from equity accounted investees (352) (3,806) – – Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 1,771,639 1,556,382 24,892 26,761 Depreciation on investment property 320 93 – – Change in fair value of biological assets (31,171) (26,046) – – (Gain)/loss on the disposal of property, plant & equipment (66,889) (43,192) 1,237 (204) (Gain)/loss on the disposal current financial assets – (1,995) 419 (213,000) (Gain)/loss on the disposal of other current financial assets 743 – – (1,200) Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiaries (9,907) (81,372) – – Amortisation of intangible assets 108,539 35,845 – – Net gains/(loss) on translation of foreign currency 340,948 (395,557) – – Differences of exchange on translation of foreign entities 26,080 437,434 – Impairment of trade & other receivables (182,795) 18,824 – 1,446 Provision for unrealised profit and write-down of inventories 63,868 95,941 – – Impairment of other non current assets 32,243 17,467 – – (Gain)/loss on the disposal of equity accounted investees 4,671 (20,975) – – Provision for post employee benefit obligations 761,589 881,084 70,405 76,640 Government grants amortised (52,562) (52,780) – – Net change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (2,267) – – – Change in fair value of loans and receivables (3,559) – – – Impairment of financial Instruments 15,020 12,470 – – 9,441,042 6,548,781 990,417 1,202,736 (Increase)/decrease in trade and other receivables (1,832,514) (2,081,009) (1,135,222) 11,443 (Increase)/decrease in inventories (5,340) (1,986,293) (361) 476 Increase/(decrease) in trade and other payables 1,304,283 1,402,475 (17,890) 729,481 8,907,470 3,883,954 (163,056) 1,944,136 B. Analysis of cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents 2,126,626 1,756,028 49,993 25,834 Short-term deposits 998,646 915,067 – – 3,125,272 2,671,095 49,993 25,834 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings (16,307,719) (14,510,287) (4,667,302) (2,232,831) Cash and cash equivalents (13,182,447) (11,839,192) (4,617,309) (2,206,997) C. During the year, the Group acquired property, plant & equipment with an aggregate cost of Rs. 5,149 mn and Rs. 13 mn was acquired by means of finance leases. P: 188 Notes to the Financial Statements Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 1. Reporting Entity 2.2 Basis of Measurement Hayleys PLC, is a company incorporated and domiciled in The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared on Sri Lanka. The ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the historical cost basis, except for the following material items in the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. The address of the the Statement of Financial Position. Company’s registered office and the principal place of business is  Lands are measured at cost at the time of the acquisition and given on inner back cover. subsequently lands are carried at valuation.  Financial instruments fair value through profit or loss are The Consolidated Financial Statements of Hayleys PLC, as at and measured at fair value. for the year ended 31st March, 2013 encompass the Company and its Subsidiaries (together referred to as the 'Group') and the  Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. Group's interest in Equity Accounted Investees. Descriptions  Certain biological assets are measured at fair value. of the nature of the operations and principal activities of the Company, its Subsidiaries and Equity Accounted Investees are Where appropriate, the specific policies are explained in the given on pages 304 to 305. There were no significant changes succeeding Notes. in the nature of the principle activities of the Company and the Group during the financial year under review. No adjustments have been made for inflationary factors in the Consolidated Financial Statements. Hayleys PLC, does not have an identifiable Parent of its own. The Financial Statements of all companies in the Group other 2.3 Functional and Presentation Currency than those mentioned in Note 36 to the Financial Statements are The Financial Statements are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees, prepared for a common financial year, which ends on 31st March. which is the Group’s functional currency, except for certain subsidiaries and whose functional currencies are different as they The financial statements were authorised for issue by the operate in different economic environments (see Note 34). All Directors on 20th May 2013. financial information presented in Sri Lankan Rupees have been given to the nearest thousand (Rs. 000), unless stated otherwise. 2. Basis of Preparation 2.4 Materiality and Aggregation 2.1 Statement of Compliance Each material class of similar items is presented separately in the The Consolidated Financial Statements have been prepared Consolidated Financial Statements. Items of a dissimilar nature or in accordance with the Sri Lanka Accounting and Auditing function are presented separately unless they are immaterial. Standards Act No. 15 of 1995, which requires compliance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards promulgated by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and with the requirements of Significant Accounting Policies the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. 3. Basis of Consolidation The Consolidated Financial Statements (referred to as the For all periods up to and including the year ended 31st March, ‘Group’) comprise the Financial Statements of the Company 2012, the Group prepared its Financial Statements in accordance and its subsidiaries and the Group’s interest in Equity with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) applicable as at Accounted Investees. 31 March, 2012. These Financial Statements for the year ended 31st March, 2013 are the first the Group has prepared in Subsidiaries, Equity Accounted Investees are disclosed in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards effective from Notes to the Financial Statements. 1st January, 2012 comprising SLFRS and LKAS. Refer to Note 5 for explanation of the transition. FactandFiction P: 189 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.1 Subsidiaries 3.1.1 Business Combination and Goodwill Subsidiaries are those entities controlled by the Group. Control Acquisitions on or after 1st April, 2011 exists when the Group has the power to govern the financial Business Combinations occurred after 1st April, 2011 are and operating policies of an entity so as to obtain benefits accounted for using the acquisition method. The cost of an from its activities which is evident when the Group controls the acquisition is measured as the aggregate of the consideration composition of the Board of Directors of the entity or holds more transferred, measured at acquisition date fair value and the than 50% of the issued shares of the entity or 50% of the voting amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree. For each rights of the entity or entitled to receive more than half of every business combination, the Group measures the non-controlling dividend from shares carrying unlimited right to participate in interest in the acquire either at fair value or at the proportionate distribution of profits or capital. share of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets. Entities that are subsidiaries of another entity which is a Transaction costs, other than those associated with the issue subsidiary of the Company are also treated as subsidiaries of of debt or equity securities that Group incurs in connection the Company. with a business combinations are expensed and included in administrative expenses. The interest of outside shareholders in Group companies is disclosed separately under the heading of ‘Non-controlling When the Group acquires a business, it assesses the financial Interest’. assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classification and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, economic The results of subsidiaries acquired or incorporated during the circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the acquisition date period have been consolidated from the date of acquisition or incorporation, while the results of subsidiaries disposed, have If the business combination is achieved in stages, the acquisition been accounted up to the date of disposal. Non-controlling date fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in Interest is measured at the proportionate share of the acquiree’s the acquiree is remeasured to fair value at the acquisition date identifiable net assets. through profit or loss. A change in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss Any contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will of control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. If the Group be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. Subsequent loses control over a subsidiary, it: changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or liability, will be recognised in  Derecognises the assets (including goodwill) and liabilities of accordance with LKAS 39 either in profit or loss or as a change the subsidiary to ther comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration  Derecognises the carrying amount of any non-controlling is classified as equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent interest settlement is accounted for within equity. In instances where the  Derecognises the cumulative translation differences, recorded contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of LKAS in equity 39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate SLFRS.  Recognises the fair value of the consideration received Goodwill is initially measured at cost, being the excess of the  Recognises the fair value of any investment retained aggregate of the consideration transferred and the amount  Recognises any surplus or deficit in profit or loss recognised for non-controlling interest over the net identifiable  Reclassifies the parent’s share of components previously assets acquired and liabilities assumed. If this consideration recognised in other comprehensive income to profit or loss or is lower than the fair value of the net assets of the subsidiary retained earnings, as appropriate. acquired, the difference is recognised in profit or loss. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating units that are expected to benefit from the combination, P: 190 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 irrespective of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree The Income Statement reflects the Group’s share of the results are assigned to those units. of operations of the equity accounted investee. When there has been a change recognised directly in the equity of the equity Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part accounted investee, the Group recognises its share of any of the operation within that unit is disposed of,the goodwill changes and discloses this, when applicable, in the Statement associated with the operation disposed of is included in the of Changes in Equity. Unrealised gains and losses resulting carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain or from transactions between the Group and the equity accounted loss on disposal of the operation. Goodwill disposed of in this investee are eliminated to the extent of the interest in the equity circumstance is measured based on the relative values of the accounted investee. operation disposed of and the portion the cash-generating unit retained. The Consolidated Financial Statements include the Group's share of profit net of tax after non-controlling interests in Acquisitions prior to 1st April, 2011 subsidiaries and equity movements of equity accounted investees As part of the transition to SLRSs, the Group elected to restate from the date that significant influence commences until the only those business combinations that occurred on or after 1st date significant influence ceases. When the Group's share of April, 2011. In respect of acquisitions prior to 1st April, 2011, losses exceeds its investment in an equity accounted investee, goodwill represents the amount recognised under the previous the carrying amount of that interest is reduced to nil and the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLASs). recognition of further losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group has incurred obligations or has made payments 3.1.2 Transactions with Non-Controlling Interests on behalf of the investee. The profit or loss and net assets of a subsidiary attributable to The Financial Statements of the equity accounted investees are equity interests that are not owned by the parent, directly or prepared for the same reporting period as the Group. Where indirectly through subsidiaries, is disclosed separately under the necessary, adjustments are made to bring the accounting policies heading ‘Noncontrolling Interest’. in line with those of the Group. The Group applies a policy of treating transactions with nonAfter application of the equity method, the Group determines controlling interests as transactions with parties external to the whether it is necessary to recognise an additional impairment Group. loss on its investment in its equity accounted investee. The Group determines at each reporting date whether there is any Losses within a subsidiary are attributed to the non-controlling objective evidence that the investment in the equity accounted interest even if that results in a deficit balance. investee is impaired. If this is the case, the Group calculates the 3.1.3 Equity Accounted Investees amount of impairment as the difference between the recoverable amount of the equity accounted investee and its carrying value Equity accounted investees are those entities in which the Group and recognises the amount in the ‘share of profit of an equity has significant influence, but not control, over the financial and accounted investee’ in the Income Statement. operating policies. Significant influence is presumed to exist when the Group holds between 20 and 50 percent of the voting power Upon loss of significant influence over the equity accounted of another entity. Equity accounted investees are accounted for investee, the Group measures and recognises any retaining using the equity method. investment at its fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the equity accounted investee upon loss of significant Under the equity method, the investment in the equity accounted influence and the fair value of the retained investment and investee is carried on the Statement of Financial Position at proceeds from disposal is recognised in profit or loss. cost plus post acquisition changes in the Group’s share of net assets of the equity accounted investee. Goodwill relating to the 3.1.4 Interest in a Joint Venture equity accounted investee is included in the carrying amount of The Group has an interest in a joint venture which is a jointly the investment and is neither amortised nor individually tested for controlled entity, whereby the venturers have a contractual impairment. arrangement that establishes joint control over the economic activities of the entity. The agreement requires unanimous FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 191 Notes to the Financial Statements agreement for financial and operating decisions among the Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies venturers. The Group recognises its interest in the joint venture at the reporting date are retranslated at the functional currency using the proportionate consolidation method. The Group spot rate of exchange ruling at the reporting date. Foreign combines its proportionate share of each of the assets, liabilities, currency differences arising on retranslation are recognised in income and expenses of the joint venture with similar items, line profit and loss. All differences arising on settlement or translation by line, in its Consolidated Financial Statements. The Financial of monetary items are taken to the income statement with the Statements of the joint venture are prepared for the same exception of monetary items that are designated as part of the reporting period as the Group. Adjustments are made where hedge of the Group’s net investment of a foreign operation. necessary to bring the accounting policies in line with those of These are recognised in other comprehensive income until the the Group. net investment is disposed, at which time, the cumulative amount is reclassified to the income statement. Tax charges and credits Adjustments are made in the Group’s Consolidated Financial attributable to exchange differences on those monetary items are Statements to eliminate the Group’s share of intragroup also recorded in other comprehensive income. Non-monetary balances, transactions and unrealised gains and losses on assets and liabilities which are carried in terms of historical cost such transactions between the Group and its jointly controlled in a foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate that entity. Losses on transactions are recognised immediately if the prevailed at the date of the transaction. Non-monetary items loss provides evidence of a reduction in the net realisable value measured at fair value in a foreign currency are translated using of current assets or an impairment loss. The joint venture is the exchange rates at the date when the fair value is determined. proportionately consolidated until the date on which the Group The gain or loss arising on retranslation of non-monetary items is ceases to have joint control over the joint venture. treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on change in fair value of the item (i.e., translation differences on items whose fair Upon loss of joint control the Group measures and recognises its value gain or loss is recognised in other comprehensive income or remaining investment at its fair value. Any difference between the profit or loss is also recognised in other comprehensive income or carrying amount of the former joint controlled entity upon loss of profit or loss, respectively). joint control and the fair value of the remaining investment and proceeds from disposal are recognised in profit or loss. When 3.1.6.2 Foreign Operations the remaining investment constitutes significant influence, it is The results and financial position of all Group entities that have a accounted for as investment in an Equity Accounted Investee. functional currency other than the Sri Lanka Rupee are translated into Sri Lanka Rupees as follows: The Financial Statements of the joint venture are aligned to the group accounting policies. assets and liabilities of foreign operations, including goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition , are 3.1.5 Transactions Eliminated on Consolidation translated to Sri Lanka Rupees at the exchange rate at the reporting date; Intra-group balances and transactions, and any unrealised income and expenses arising from intra-group transactions, are income and expenses are translated at the average exchange eliminated in preparing the Consolidated Financial Statements. rates for the period. Unrealised gains arising from transactions with equity accounted investees are eliminated against the investment to the extent Foreign currency differences are recognised in other of the Group’s interest in the investee. Unrealised losses are comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is disposed eliminated in the same way as unrealised gains, but only to the of, the relevant amount in the translation reserve is transferred extent that there is no evidence of impairment. to profit or loss as part of the profit or loss on disposal. On the partial disposal of a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, 3.1.6 Foreign Currency the relevant proportion of such cumulative amount is reattributed to non-controlling interest. In any other partial disposal of a 3.1.6.1 Foreign Currency Transactions foreign operation, the relevant proportion is reclassified to profit Transactions in foreign currencies are translated to the respective or loss. functional currencies of Group entities at exchange rates applicable on the dates of the transactions. Foreign exchange gains or losses arising from a monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, the settlement P: 192 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 of which is neither planned nor likely to occur in the foreseeable Any revaluation surplus is recorded in other comprehensive future and which in substance is considered to form part of the income and credited to the asset revaluation reserve in equity, net investment in the foreign operation, are recognised in other except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation decrease of the comprehensive income in the translation reserve. same asset previously recognised in the income statement, in which case, the increase is recognised in the income statement. Any goodwill arising on the acquisition of a foreign operation A revaluation deficit is recognised in the income statement, subsequent to 1st April, 2011 and any fair value adjustments except to the extent that it offsets an existing surplus on the to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the same asset recognised in the asset revaluation reserve. Upon acquisition are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign disposal, any revaluation reserve relating to the particular asset operation and translated at the closing rate. being sold is transferred to retained earnings. Prior to 1st April, 2011, the date of transition to SLFRS, the The assets’ residual values, useful lives and methods of Group treated goodwill and any fair value adjustments to the depreciation are reviewed at each financial year end and adjusted carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the acquisition prospectively, if appropriate. as assets and liabilities of the parent. Therefore, those assets and liabilities are non-monetary items already expressed in 3.2.1.3 Leased Assets the functional currency of the parent and no further translation The determination of whether an arrangement is, or contains, a differences occur. lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at inception date, whether fulfilment of the arrangement is dependent on the 3.2 Assets and Bases of their Valuation use of a specific asset or assets or the arrangement conveys a 3.2.1 Property, Plant & Equipment right to use the asset, even if that right is not explicitly specified in an arrangement. 3.2.1.1 Recognition and Measurement Items of property, plant & equipment are measured at cost less For arrangements entered into prior to 1 April, 2011, the date accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if of inception is deemed to be 1 April, 2011 in accordance with any, whilst land is measured at fair value. the transitional requirements of IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a lease. 3.2.1.2 Owned Assets The cost of property, plant & equipment includes expenditure 3.2.1.4 Group as a Lessee that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset. The Finance leases that transfer to the Group substantially all the cost of self-constructed assets includes the cost of materials and risks and benefits incidental to ownership of the leased item, direct labour, any other costs directly attributable to bringing the are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at the fair asset to a working condition for its intended use, and the costs value of the leased property or,if lower, at the present value of of dismantling and removing the items and restoring the site on the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are apportioned which they are located, and borrowing costs on qualifying assets between finance charges and reduction of the lease liability so as for which the commencement date for capitalisation is on or after to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of 1st April, 2011. the liability. Finance charges are recognised in finance costs in the income statement. Purchased software that is integral to the functionality of the related equipment is capitalised as a part of that equipment. A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Group will When parts of an item of property, plant & equipment have obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, the asset is different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate items depreciated over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the (major components) of property, plant & equipment. asset and the lease term. Revaluation of land is done with sufficient frequency to ensure Operating lease payments are recognised as an operating that the fair value of the land dose not differ materially from expense in the income statement on a straight-line basis over \its carrying amount, and is undertaken by professionally the lease term. qualified valuers. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 193 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.2.1.5 Group as a Lessor The estimated useful lives for the current and comparative Leases in which the Group does not transfer substantially all periods are as follows: the risks and benefits of ownership of an asset are classified as Leasehold right to land Over the lease period operating leases. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating an Buildings 20 50 years operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased Software 03 05 years asset and recognised over the lease term on the same basis as Plant & machinery 05 20 years rental income. Stores equipment 05 10 years Motor vehicles 04 05 years Contingent rents are recognised as revenue in the period in which Furniture, fittings & they are earned. office equipment 02 13 years 3.2.1.6 Subsequent Costs Depreciation of an asset begins when it is available for use and The cost of replacing a component of an item of property, plant & ceases at the earlier of the dates on which the asset is classified equipment is recognised in the carrying amount of the item if it is as held for sale or is derecognised. probable that the future economic benefits embodied within the part will flow to the Group and its cost can be measured reliably. 3.2.3 Intangible Assets The carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised in Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on initial accordance with the derecognition policy given below. recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets acquired in a business combination are their fair value as at the date The costs of the day-to-day servicing of property, plant & of acquisition. Following initial recognition,intangible assets equipment are recognised in profit and loss as incurred. are carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Internally generated intangible 3.2.1.7 Derecognition assets, excluding capitalised development costs, are not The carrying amount of an item of property, plant & equipment is capitalised and expenditure is reflected in the income statement derecognised on disposal; or when no future economic benefits in the year in which the expenditure is incurred. are expected from its use. Gains and losses on derecognition are recognised in profit and loss and gains are not classified as The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either finite revenue. When revalued assets are sold, any related amount or indefinite. included in the Revaluation Reserve is transferred to Retained Earnings. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed for impairment whenever there 3.2.2 Depreciation is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. Depreciation is recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line The amortisation period and the amortisation method for an basis over the estimated useful lives of each part of an item of intangible asset with a finite useful life is reviewed at least at the property, plant & equipment, since this most closely reflects the end of each reporting period. Changes in the expected useful expected pattern of consumption of the future economic benefits life or the expected pattern of consumption of future economic embodied in the asset. benefits embodied in the asset is accounted for by changing the amortisation period or method, as appropriate,and are treated Assets held under finance leases are depreciated over the shorter as changes in accounting estimates. The amortisation expense of the lease term and the useful lives of equivalent owned assets on intangible assets with finite lives is recognised in the income unless it is reasonably certain that the Group will have ownership statement in the expense category consistent with the function of by the end of the lease term. Freehold land is not depreciated. the intangible assets. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not amortised, but are tested for impairment annually, either individually or at the cash-generating unit level. The assessment of indefinite life is reviewed annually to determine whether the indefinite life P: 194 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 continues to be supportable. If not, the change in useful life from satisfied. Brand Names are reviewed for impairment, annually or indefinite to finite is made on a prospective basis. more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net 3.2.3.4 Customer List disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and The present value of the income anticipated deriving from repeat are recognised in the income statement when the asset is customer list of the travel agents as at the acquisition date is derecognised. recognised as an intangible asset based on a valuation carried out by an independent valuer. Subsequent to initial recognition, 3.2.3.1 Leasehold Rights the intangible asset is carried at cost less accumulated In respect of operating leases acquired under a business amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. combination where the Group is lessee, Group determines whether the terms of each operating lease are favourable or Customer List recognised at the acquisition date will be amortised unfavourable relative to market terms. The Group recognises over the period income anticipated to derive from repeat an intangible asset if the terms of an operating lease are customers and reviewed annually for any impairment in value. favourable relative to market terms and a liability if the terms are unfavourable relative to market terms. Leasehold rights represent 3.2.3.5 Other Intangible Assets value of favourable lease terms. Other intangible assets that are acquired by the Group, which have finite useful lives, are measured at cost less accumulated 3.2.3.2 Research and Development amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Research costs are expensed as incurred. Development expenditures on an individual project are recognised as an 3.2.3.6 Subsequent Expenditure intangible asset when the Group can demonstrate: Subsequent expenditure is capitalised only when it increases the  The technical feasibility of completing the intangible asset so future economic benefits embodied in the specific asset to which that it will be available for use or sale it relates. All other expenditure, including expenditure on internally generated goodwill and brands, is recognised in profit and loss as  Its intention to complete and its ability to use or sell the asset incurred.  How the asset will generate future economic benefits  The availability of resources to complete the asset 3.2.3.7 Amortisation  The ability to measure reliably the expenditure during Amortisation is recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line development basis over the estimated useful lives of intangible assets, other than goodwill and brand name, from the date on which they are Following initial recognition of the development expenditure available for use. The estimated useful lives for the current and as an asset, the asset is carried at cost less any accumulated comparative periods are as follows: amortisation and accumulated impairment losses. Amortisation  Right to generate hydro power 15-20 years of the asset begins when development is complete and the asset  Customer List 5 years is available for use. It is amortised over the period of expected future benefit. Amortisation is recorded in cost of sales. During 3.2.4 Investment Property the period of development, the asset is tested for impairment Investment property is property held either to earn rental income annually. or for capital appreciation or both, but not for sale in the ordinary course of business, use in the production or supply of goods 3.2.3.3 Brand Name or services or for administrative purposes. Investment property Brands acquired as part of a business combination, are is measured at its cost less accumulated depreciation and capitalised as part of a Brand Names if the Brand meets the accumulated impairment losses, if any. Cost includes expenditure definition of an intangible asset and the recognition criteria are that is directly attributable to the acquisition of the investment FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 195 Notes to the Financial Statements property. The cost of self-constructed investment property 3.3.1.2 Subsequent Measurement includes the cost of materials and direct labour, any other The subsequent measurement of financial assets depends on costs directly attributable to bringing the investment property their classification as described below: to a working condition for their intended use and capitalised borrowing costs. Financial Assets at Fair Value through Profit or Loss Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss includes Investment properties are derecognised when either they have financial assets held for trading and financial assets designated been disposed of or when the investment property is permanently upon initial recognition at fair value through profit or loss. Financial withdrawn from use and no future economic benefit is expected assets are classified as held for trading if they are acquired for the from its disposal. purpose of selling or repurchasing in the near term. Derivatives, including separated embedded derivatives are also classified as The difference between the net disposal proceeds and the held for trading unless they are designated as effective hedging carrying amount of the asset is recognised in the income instruments as defined by LKAS 39. statement in the period of derecognition. Financial assets at fair value through profit and loss are carried in Transfers are made to or from investment property only when the statement of financial position at fair value with net changes there is a change in use. Transfers between investment property, in fair value recognised in finance income or finance costs in the owner occupied property do not change the carrying amount of income statement. the property transferred and they do not change the cost of that property for measurement or disclosure purposes. Financial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through profit and loss are designated at their initial recognition 3.3 Financial Instruments Initial date and only if the criteria under LKAS 39 are satisfied. The Recognition and Subsequent Measurement Group has not designated any financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. 3.3.1 Financial Assets 3.3.1.1 Initial Recognition and Measurement The Group evaluates its financial assets held for trading, other Financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 are classified than derivatives, to determine whether the intention to sell them as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, loans in the near term is still appropriate. When in rare circumstances and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, available-forthe Group is unable to trade these financial assets due to sale financial assets, or as derivatives designated as hedging inactive markets and management’s intention to sell them in the instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. The Group foreseeable future significantly changes, the Group may elect to determines the classification of its financial assets at initial reclassify these financial assets. The reclassification to loans and recognition. receivables, available-for-sale or held-to-maturity depends on the nature of the asset. This evaluation does not affect any financial All financial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus assets designated at fair value through profit or loss using the transaction costs, except in the case of financial assets recorded fair value option at designation, these instruments cannot be at fair value through profit or loss. reclassified after initial recognition. Purchases or sales of financial assets that require delivery of Derivatives embedded in host contracts are accounted for as assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention separate derivatives and recorded at fair value if their economic in the market place (regular way trades) are recognised on the characteristics and risks are not closely related to those of the trade date,i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or host contracts and the host contracts are not held for trading or sell the asset. designated at fair value though profit or loss. These embedded derivatives are measured at fair value with changes in fair value The Group’s financial assets include cash and short-term recognised in the income statement. Reassessment only occurs deposits, trade and other receivables, loans and other if there is a change in the terms of the contract that significantly receivables, quoted and unquoted financial instruments and modifies the cash flows that would otherwise be required. derivative financial instruments. P: 196 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Loans and Receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with The Group evaluates whether the ability and intention to sell fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active its available-for-sale financial assets in the near term is still market. After initial measurement, such financial assets are appropriate. When, in rare circumstances, the Group is unable subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective to trade these financial assets due to inactive markets and interest rate method (EIR), less impairment. Amortised cost is management’s intention to do so significantly changes in the calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on foreseeable future, the Group may elect to reclassify these acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. financial assets. Reclassification to loans and receivables is The EIR amortisation is included in finance income in the income permitted when the financial assets meet the definition of loans statement. The losses arising from impairment are recognised and receivables and the Group has the intent and ability to in the income statement in finance costs for loans and in other hold these assets for the foreseeable future or until maturity. operating expenses for receivables. Reclassification to the held-to-maturity category is permitted only when the entity has the ability and intention to hold the financial Held-to-Maturity Investments asset accordingly. Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable For a financial asset reclassified from the available-for-sale payments and fixed maturities are classified as held-to-maturity category, the fair value at the date of reclassification becomes when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold its new amortised cost and any previous gain or loss on the them to maturity. After initial measurement, held-to-maturity asset that has been recognised in equity is amortised to profit investments are measured at amortised cost using the effective or loss over the remaining life of the investment using the EIR. interest rate, less impairment. Any difference between the new amortised cost and the maturity amount is also amortised over the remaining life of the asset using Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount the effective interest rate. If the asset is subsequently determined or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral to be impaired, then the amount recorded in equity is reclassified part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance income to the income statement. in the income statement. The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the income statement in finance costs. 3.3.1.3 Derecognition Available-for-Sale Financial Investments A financial asset (or, where applicable, a part of a financial asset or part of a group of similar financial assets)is derecognised when: Available-for-sale financial investments include equity investments and debt securities. Equity investments classified as available The rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired for-sale are those that are neither classified as held for trading  The Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows nor designated at fair value through profit or loss. Debt securities from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay the in this category are those that are intended to be held for an received cash flows in full without material delay to a third indefinite period of time and that may be sold in response to party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the needs for liquidity or in response to changes in the market Group has transferred substantially all the risks and rewards conditions. of the asset, or (b) the Group has neither transferred nor retained substantially all the risks and rewards of the asset, After initial measurement, available-for-sale financial investments but has transferred control of the asset. are subsequently measured at fair value with unrealised gains or losses recognised as other comprehensive income in the When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash flows available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised, from an asset or has entered into a pass-through arrangement, at which time the cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other it evaluates if and to what extent it has retained the risks and operating income, or the investment is determined to be impaired, rewards of ownership. When it has neither transferred nor when the cumulative loss is reclassified from the available-for-sale retained substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset, reserve to the income statement in finance costs. Interest earned nor transferred control of the asset, the asset is recognised to whilst holding available-for-sale financial investments is reported the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in the asset. In as interest income using the effective interest rate method. that case,the Group also recognises an associated liability. The FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 197 Notes to the Financial Statements transferred asset and the associated liability are measured original effective interest rate. If a loan has a variable interest rate, on a basis that reflects the rights and obligations that the the discount rate for measuring any impairment loss is the Group has retained. current EIR. Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee over The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the original an allowance account and the amount of the loss is recognised in carrying amount of the asset and the maximum amount of the income statement. Interest income continues to be accrued consideration that the Group could be required to repay. on the reduced carrying amount and is accrued using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash flows for the purpose of 3.3.1.4 Impairment of Financial Assets measuring the impairment loss. The interest income is recorded The Group assesses, at each reporting date, whether there is any as part of finance income in the income statement. Loans objective evidence that a financial asset or a group of financial together with the associated allowance are written off when assets is impaired. A financial asset or a group of financial assets there is no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral is deemed to be impaired if,and only if, there is objective evidence has been realised or has been transferred to the Group. If, in a of impairment as a result of one or more events that has occurred subsequent year, the amount of the estimated impairment loss after the initial recognition of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) increases or decreases because of an event occurring after the and that loss event has an impact on the estimated future cash impairment was recognised, the previously recognised impairment flows of the financial asset or the group of financial assets that loss is increased or reduced by adjusting the allowance account. can be reliably estimated. Evidence of impairment may include If a future write-off is later recovered, the recovery is credited to indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing finance costs in the income statement. significant financial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or principal payments, the probability that they will enter bankruptcy Available-for-Sale Financial Investments or other financial reorganisation and when observable data The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there is indicate that there is a measurable decrease in the estimated objective evidence that an investment or a group of investments future cash flows, such as changes in arrears or economic is impaired. conditions that correlate with defaults. In the case of equity investments classified as availableFinancial Assets carried at Amortised Cost for-sale, objective evidence would include a significant or For financial assets carried at amortised cost, the Group first prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below its assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists cost. ‘Significant’ is evaluated against the original cost of the individually for financial assets that are individually significant, or investment and ‘prolonged’ against the period in which the fair collectively for financial assets that are not individually significant. value has been below its original cost. When there is evidence If the Group determines that no objective evidence of impairment of impairment, the cumulative loss measured as the difference exists for an individually assessed financial asset, whether between the acquisition cost and the current fair value, less any significant or not, it includes the asset in a group of financial impairment loss on that investment previously recognised in assets with similar credit risk characteristics and collectively the income statement is removed from other comprehensive assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually income and recognised in the income statement. Impairment assessed for impairment and for which an impairment loss is, losses on equity investments are not reversed through the or continues to be, recognised are not included in a collective income statement;increases in their fair value after impairment are assessment of impairment. recognised directly in other comprehensive income. If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has been 3.3.2 Financial Liabilities incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the difference 3.3.2.1 Initial Recognition and Measurement between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of Financial liabilities within the scope of LKAS 39 are classified as estimated future cash flows (excluding future expected credit financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss, loans and losses that have not yet been incurred). The present value of the borrowings, or as derivatives designated as hedging instruments estimated future cash flows is discounted at the financial asset’s in an effective hedge,as appropriate. The Group determines the classification of its financial liabilities at initial recognition. P: 198 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 All financial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value plus, holder for a loss it incurs because the specified debtor fails to in the case of loans and borrowings, directly attributable make a payment when due in accordance with the terms of a transaction costs. debt instrument. Fair values of corporate guarantees to Banks are measured on a periodic basis and the same is recognised as The Group’s financial liabilities include trade and other payables, finance income through inter-company current account balances. bank overdrafts, loans and borrowings,financial guarantee contracts, and derivative financial instruments. 3.3.2.3 Derecognition A financial liability is derecognised when the obligation under the 3.3.2.2 Subsequent Measurement liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. When an existing The measurement of financial liabilities depends on their financial liability is replaced by another from the same lender on classification as described below: substantially different terms,or the terms of an existing liability are substantially modified, such an exchange or modification Financial Liabilities at Fair Value through Profit or Loss is treated as the derecognition of the original liability and the Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss include recognition of a new liability. The difference in the respective financial liabilities held for trading and financial liabilities carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement. designated upon initial recognition as at fair value through profit or loss. Financial liabilities are classified as held for trading if they are 3.3.3 Offsetting of Financial Instruments acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. This category Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and the net includes derivative financial instruments entered into by the amount reported in the consolidated statement of financial Group that are not designated as hedging instruments in hedge position if, and only if: relationships as defined by LKAS 39. Separated embedded derivatives are also classified as held for trading unless they are  There is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the designated as effective hedging instruments. recognised amounts and  There is an intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the Gains or losses on liabilities held for trading are recognised in the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously income statement. 3.3.4 Fair Value of Financial Instruments Financial liabilities designated upon initial recognition at fair The fair value of financial instruments that are traded in active value through profit and loss so designated at the initial date markets at each reporting date is determined by reference to of recognition, and only if criteria of LKAS 39 are satisfied. The quoted market prices or dealer price quotations (bid price for Group has not designated any financial liability as at fair value long positions and ask price for short positions), without any through profit or loss. deduction for transaction costs. Loans and Borrowings For financial instruments not traded in an active market, the fair After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and borrowings are value is determined using appropriate valuation techniques. Such subsequently measured at amortised cost using the EIR method. techniques may include: Gains and losses are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities are derecognised as well as through the EIR  Using recent arm’s length market transactions amortisation process.  Reference to the current fair value of another instrument that is substantially the same Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount  A discounted cash flow analysis or other valuation models. or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation is included in finance costs An analysis of fair values of financial instruments and further in the income statement. details as to how they are measured are provided in Note 19. Financial Guarantee Contracts Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse the FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 199 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.3.5 Derivative Financial Instruments is any indication of impairment. If any such indication exists, 3.3.5.1 Initial Recognition and Subsequent then the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated. For goodwill Measurement and intangible assets that have indefinite lives or that are not yet available for use, the recoverable amount is estimated at The Group uses derivative financial instruments, such as forward each reporting date or more frequently, if events or changes in currency contracts, to hedge its foreign currency risks,. Such circumstances indicate that they might be impaired. derivative financial instruments are initially recognised at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is entered into and Formers Provision for Impairment are subsequently remeasured at fair value. Derivatives are carried as financial assets when the fair value is positive and as financial In respect of formers, a 10% provision on the written down value liabilities when the fair value is negative. is recognised as impairment in profit and loss . Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of 3.3.7.1 Calculation of Recoverable Amount derivatives are taken directly to the income statement. The recoverable amount of an asset or cash-generating unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less costs to 3.3.6 Current Assets sell. In assessing value in use, estimated future cash flows are Assets classified as current assets on the statement of financial discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate position are cash and bank balances and those which are that reflects current market assessments of the time value of expected to be realised in cash during the normal operating cycle money and the risks specific to the asset. A cash-generating unit or within one year from the reporting date, whichever is shorter. is the smallest identifiable asset group that generates cash flows that largely are independent from other assets and groups. 3.3.6.1 Inventories 3.3.7.2 Impairment/Reversal of Impairment Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Costs incurred in bringing each product to its present An impairment loss is recognised if the carrying amount of location and condition are accounted for as follows: an asset or its cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognised in profit and loss.  All inventory items, except manufactured inventories and Impairment losses recognised in respect of cash-generating units work-in-progress are measured at weighted average directly are allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill attributable cost. allocated to the units and then to reduce the carrying amount of  Manufactured inventories and work-in-progress are measured the other assets in the unit on a pro rata basis. at weighted average factory cost which includes all direct expenditure and appropriate share of production overhead An impairment loss in respect of goodwill is not reversed. In based on normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing respect of other assets, impairment losses recognised in prior costs. periods are assessed at each reporting date for any indications that the loss has decreased or no longer exists. An impairment Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary loss is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates course of business less, the estimated cost of completion and the used to determine the recoverable amount. An impairment loss estimated costs necessary to make the sale. is reversed only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been 3.3.6.2 Cash and Cash Equivalents determined, net of depreciation or amortisation, if no impairment Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances and call loss had been recognised. deposits. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and form an integral part of the Group's cash management are included as 3.3.8 Non-Current Assets Held-for-Sale a component of cash and cash equivalents for the purpose of the Non-current assets, or disposal groups comprising assets and Statement of Cash Flows. liabilities, that are expected to be recovered primarily through sale rather than through continuing use, are classified as held for sale. 3.3.7 Impairment of Non-Financial Assets Immediately before classification as held for sale, the assets, or The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets are components of a disposal group, are remeasured in accordance reviewed at each reporting date to determine whether there with the Group’s accounting policies. Thereafter generally the P: 200 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 assets, or disposal group, are measured at the lower of their on employee benefit. However, under the Payment of Gratuity carrying amount and fair value less cost to sell. Any impairment Act No. 12 of 1983, the liability to an employee arises only on loss on a disposal group first is allocated to goodwill, and then completion of 5 years of continued service. to remaining assets and liabilities on pro rata basis, except that no loss is allocated to inventories, financial assets, deferred The liability is not externally funded. This liability is computed on tax assets, employee benefit assets, investment property and the following basis: biological assets, which continue to be measured in accordance No. of months salary for each with the Group’s accounting policies. Impairment losses on initial Length of service (Years) completed year of service classification as held for sale and subsequent gains or losses on Up to 20 1/2 remeasurement are recognised in profit or loss. Gains are not recognised in excess of any cumulative impairment loss. 20 up to 25 3/4 25 up to 30 1 3.4 Liabilities and Provisions 30 up to 35 1 1/4 Over 35 1 1/2 3.4.1 Employee Benefits 3.4.1.1 Defined Contribution Plans 3.4.2 Short-Term Benefits A defined contribution plan is a post-employment benefit plan Short-term employee benefit obligations are measured on an under which an entity pays fixed contributions into a separate undiscounted basis and are expensed as the related service is entity and will have no legal or constructive obligation to pay provided. further amounts. Obligations for contributions to Provident and Trust Funds covering all employees are recognised as an 3.4.3 Provisions employee benefit expense in profit or loss in the periods during Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present which services are rendered by employees. obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic The Group contributes 12% and 3% of gross emoluments benefits will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable to employees as Provident Fund and Trust Fund contribution estimate can be made of the amount of the obligation. When respectively. the Group expects some or all of a provision to be reimbursed, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate asset, but only 3.4.1.2 Defined Benefit Plans when the reimbursement is virtually certain. The expense relating A defined benefit plan is a post-employment benefit plan other to any provision is presented in the income statement net of any than a defined contribution plan. The defined benefit is calculated reimbursement. by independent actuaries using Projected Unit Credit (PUC) method as recommended by LKAS 19 ‘Employee benefits’. 3.4.4 Warranties The present value of the defined benefit obligation is determined A provision for warranties is recognised when the underlying by discounting the estimated future cash outflows using interest products or services are sold. The provision is based on historical rates that are denominated in the currency in which the benefits warranty data and a weighing of possible outcomes against their will be paid, and that have terms to maturity approximating to the associated probabilities. terms of the related liability. 3.4.5 Capital Commitments and Contingencies The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using Capital commitments and contingent liabilities of the Group are a number of assumptions. Key assumptions used in determining disclosed in the respective Note 32 to the Financial Statements. the defined retirement benefit obligations are given in Note 28 Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying amount of 3.4.6 Ordinary Shares defined benefit obligations. Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of ordinary shares and share options are Provision has been made for retirement gratuities from the first recognised as a deduction from equity, net of any tax effects. year of service for all employees, in conformity with LKAS 19 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 201 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.4.7 Repurchase of Stated Capital (Treasury Shares) When the Group acts in the capacity of an agent rather than When stated capital recognised as equity is repurchased, as the principal in a transaction, the revenue recognised is the the amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly commission made by the Group. attributable costs, net of any tax effects, is recognised as a deduction from equity. Repurchased shares are classified as Grants are recognised initially as deferred income when there is treasury shares and are presented as a deduction from total a reasonable assurance that they will be received and that the equity. When treasury shares are sold or reissued subsequently, Group will comply with the conditions associated with the grant. the amount received is recognised as an increase in equity, and Grants that compensate the Group for expenses incurred are the resulting surplus or deficit on the transaction is transferred to/ recognised in profit and loss on a systematic basis in the periods from retained earnings. in which the expenses are recognised. Grants that compensate the Group for the cost of an asset are recognised in profit and loss on a systematic basis over the useful life of the asset. 3.5 Income Statements For the purpose of presentation of the Income Statement, Gains and losses on disposal of an item of property, plant & the function of expenses method is adopted. equipment are determined by comparing the net sales proceeds with the carrying amounts of property, plant & equipment and are 3.5.1 Revenue recognised net within ‘other operating income’ in profit and loss Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic benefits will flow to the Group and the revenue Other income is recognised on an accrual basis. can be reliably measured, regardless of when the payment is being made. 3.5.2 Expenses All expenditure incurred in the running of the business has been The specific recognition criteria described below must also be charged to income in arriving at the profit for the year. met before revenue is recognised. Repairs and renewals are charged to profit and loss in the year in Revenue from the sale of goods is measured at the fair value which the expenditure is incurred. of the consideration received or receivable, net of returns and allowances, trade discounts and volume rebates. Revenue is 3.5.2.1 Operating Leases recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership Leases where the lessor effectively retains substantially all the have been transferred to the buyer, recovery of the consideration risks and rewards of ownership over the lease term are classified is probable, the associated costs and possible return of goods as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are can be estimated reliably, there is no continuing management recognised in profit and loss on a straight-line basis over the term involvement with the goods, and the amount of revenue can be of the lease. measured reliably. 3.5.2.2 Borrowing Costs Revenue from services rendered is recognised in profit and loss Borrowing costs are recognised as an expense in the period in in proportion to the stage of completion of the transaction at which they are incurred, except to the extent that they are directly the reporting date. Room revenue is recognised on the rooms attributable to the acquisition, construction or production of a occupied on daily basis. qualifying asset, in which case they are capitalised as part of the cost of that asset. Food and Beverage revenue is recognised at the time of sales. 3.5.2.3 Finance Income and Finance Costs Rental income is recognised in profit and loss as it accrues. Finance income comprises interest income on funds invested Dividend income is recognised in profit and loss on the date the (including available-for-sale financial assets), dividend income, entity’s right to receive payment is established, which in the case gains on the disposal of available-for-sale financial assets, of quoted securities is the ex-dividend date. changes in the fair value of financial assets at fair value through P: 202 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 profit or loss, and gains on hedging instruments that are  In respect of taxable temporary differences associated with recognised in profit or loss. Interest income is recognised as it investments in subsidiaries, equity accounted investee and accrues in profit or loss. interests in joint ventures, when the timing of the reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled and it is Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the unwinding of the discount on provisions, changes in the fair foreseeable future. value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss, and losses on hedging instruments that are recognised in profit or Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible temporary loss. Borrowing costs that are not directly attributable to the differences, the carry forward of unused tax credits and any acquisition, construction or production of a qualifying asset are unused tax losses. Deferred tax assets are recognised to the recognised in profit or loss using the effective interest method. extent that it is probable that taxable profit will be available against which the deductible temporary differences, and the The interest expense component of finance lease payments is carry forward of unused tax credits and unused tax losses can be allocated to each period during the lease term so as to produce utilised, except: a constant periodic rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability.  When the deferred tax asset relating to the deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of Foreign currency gains and losses are reported on a net basis. an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects 3.5.2.4 Tax Expense neither the accounting profit nor taxable profit or loss. Tax expense comprises current and deferred tax. Current tax and  In respect of deductible temporary differences associated with deferred tax are recognised in profit or loss except to the extent investments in subsidiaries, equity accounted investee and that it relates to a business combination, or items recognised interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised directly in equity or in other comprehensive income. only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable future and taxable Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for profit will be available against which the temporary differences the year, using tax rates enacted at the reporting date and any can be utilised. adjustments to tax payable in respect of previous years. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at each Current tax relating to items recognised directly in equity reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is no longer is recognised in equity and not in the income statement. probable that sufficient taxable profit will be available to allow Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable tax deferred tax assets are reassessed at each reporting date and are regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes provisions recognised to the extent that it has become probable that future where appropriate. taxable profits will allow the deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on temporary Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and that are expected to apply in the year when the asset is realised their carrying amounts for financial reporting purposes at the or the liability is settled, based on tax rates that have been reporting date. enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable temporary Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside profit or loss differences, except: is recognised outside profit or loss. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in  When the deferred tax liability arises from the initial other comprehensive income or directly in equity. recognition of goodwill or an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the time of the Tax benefits acquired as part of a business combination, but not transaction, affects neither the accounting profit nor taxable satisfying the criteria for separate recognition at that date, profit or loss would be recognised subsequently if new information about facts FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 203 Notes to the Financial Statements and circumstances changed. The adjustment would either be the Group prepared its financial Statements in accordance with treated as a reduction to goodwill (as long as it does not exceed Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLAS) applicable as at goodwill) if it was incurred during the measurement period or in 31st March, 2012. profit or loss. Accordingly, the Group has prepared Financial Statements which Tax withheld on dividend income from subsidiaries and equity comply with SLAS effective from 1st January, 2012 applicable for accounted investees is recognised as an expense in the periods ending on or after 31st March, 2011, together with the Consolidated Income Statement at the same time as the liability comparative period data as at and for the year ended 31st March, to pay the related dividend is recognised. 2012, as described in the accounting policies. In preparing these Financial Statements, the Group’s opening Statement of Financial Sales Tax Position was prepared as at 1st April, 2011, the Group’s date of Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the transition to SLAS effective from 1st January, 2012. This Note amount of sales tax, except: explains the principal adjustments made by the Group in restating its SLASs Statement of Financial Position as at 1st April, 2011  When the sales tax incurred on a purchase of assets or and its previously published SLASs Financial Statements as at services is not recoverable from the taxation authority, in and for the year ended 31st March, 2012. which case, the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense item, as 3.7.1 Exemptions Applied applicable SLFRS 1 First-Time Adoption of Sri Lanka Accounting Standards  Receivables and payables that are stated with the amount (SLFRS) allows first-time adopters certain exemptions from the of sales tax included The net amount of sales tax recoverable retrospective application of certain SLFRS. from, or payable to, the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or payables in the statement of financial The Group has applied the following exemptions: position.  Business Combinations 3.6 General SLFRS 3 Business Combinations has not been applied to acquisitions of subsidiaries, which are considered businesses 3.6.1 Events Occurring after the reporting date for SLFRS, or of interests in equity accounted investees and All material post Balance Sheet events have been considered and joint ventures that occurred before 1st April, 2011. Use of this where appropriate adjustments or disclosures have been made in exemption means that the carrying amounts of assets and the respective notes to the Financial Statements. liabilities as per SLAS, which are required to be recognised under SLFRS, is their deemed cost at the date of the acquisition. 3.6.2 Earnings per Share After the date of the acquisition, measurement is in accordance The Group presents basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) with SLFRS. Assets and liabilities that do not qualify for for its ordinary shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the recognition under SLFRS are excluded from the opening SLFRS profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders of the Company statement of financial position. The Group did not recognise or by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding exclude any previously recognised amounts as a result of SLFRS during the period. Diluted EPS is determined by adjusting the recognition requirements. profit or loss attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding for the SLFRS 1 also requires that the carrying amount of goodwill as per effects of all dilutive potential ordinary shares. SLAS must be used in the opening SLFRS statement of financial position (apart from adjustments for goodwill impairment and 3.7 First Time Adoption of SLFRS recognition or derecognition of intangible assets). In accordance with SLFRS 1, the Group has tested goodwill for impairment at These Financial Statements, for the year ended the date of transition to SLFRS. No goodwill impairment was 31st March, 2013, are the first the Group has prepared in deemed necessary at 1st April, 2011. accordance with SLAS effective from 1st January, 2012. For periods up to and including the year ended 31st March, 2012, P: 204 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 The Group has not applied LKAS 21 retrospectively to fair value  SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments: Classification and adjustments and goodwill from business combinations that Measurement occurred before the date of transition to IFRS. Such fair value SLFRS 9 replaces LKAS 39 and applies to classification and adjustments and goodwill are treated as assets and liabilities of measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities as the parent rather than as assets and liabilities of the acquiree. defined in LKAS 39. The standard is effective for annual periods Therefore, those assets and liabilities are already expressed in beginning on or after 1st January, 2015. The adoption of the first the functional currency of the parent or are non-monetary foreign phase of SLFRS 9 will have an effect on the classification and currency items and no further translation differences occur. measurement of the Group’s financial assets, but will potentially have no impact on classification and measurements of financial  Property, Plant & Equipment liabilities. The Group will quantify the effect in conjunction with the As part of the SLFRS transition process, the Group evaluated other phases, when issued, to present a comprehensive picture. the classification/useful lives of assets recorded in the financial statements in assessing whether the depreciation period was  SLFRS 10 Consolidated Financial Statements representative of the useful lives of the assets. SLFRS 10 replaces the portion of LKAS 27 Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements that addresses the accounting  Designation of Previously Recognised Financial for consolidated Financial Statements. It also includes the Instruments issues raised in Standing Interpretations Committee SIC-12 The Group has designated certain unquoted equity instruments Consolidation Special Purpose Entities. held at 1st April, 2011 as available-for-sale investments. SLFRS 10 establishes a single control model that applies to  Estimates all entities including special purpose entities. The changes The estimates at 1st April, 2011 and at 31st March, 2012 are introduced by SLFRS 10 will require management to exercise consistent with those made for the same dates in accordance significant judgment to determine which entities are controlled, with SLAS (after adjustments to reflect any differences in and therefore, are required to be consolidated by a parent, accounting policies) apart from the following items where compared with the requirements that were in LKAS 27. This application of SLAS did not require estimation: standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January, 2014.  Biological assets managed timber  Liability to make lease payment  SLFRS 11 Joint Arrangements  Available-for-sale financial assets unquoted equity shares SLFRS 11 replaces LKAS 31 Interests in Joint Ventures and SIC-13 Jointly-controlled Entities Non-monetary Contributions The estimates used by the Group to present these amounts in by Venturers. SLFRS 11 removes the option to account for jointly accordance with SLFRS reflect conditions at 1st April, 2011, the controlled entities (JCEs) using proportionate consolidation. date of transition to SLFRS and as of 31st March, 2012 except Instead, JCEs that meet the definition of a joint venture must be following. accounted for using the equity method. The application of this new standard will impact the financial position of the Group. This 3.7.2 Standards Issued But Not Yet Effective is due to the cessation of proportionate consolidating of joint Standards issued but not yet effective up to the date of issuance ventures being changed to equity accounting. This standard of the Group’s Financial Statements are listed below. This listing becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after of standards and interpretations issued are those that the Group 1st January, 2014. reasonably expects to have an impact on disclosures, financial position or performance when applied at a future date. The Group intends to adopt these standards when they become effective. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 205 Notes to the Financial Statements  SLFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests in Other Entities The costs have been capitalised and amortised over the shorter SLFRS 12 includes all of the disclosures that were previously in of useful lives or remaining lease periods. LKAS 27 related to Consolidated Financial Statements, as well as all of the disclosures that were previously included in LKAS Permanent impairments to land development costs are 31 and LKAS 28. These disclosures relate to an entity’s interests charged to the Income Statement in full or reduced to the net in subsidiaries, joint arrangements, associates and structured carrying amounts of such assets in the year of occurrence after entities. A number of new disclosures are also required. This ascertaining the loss. standard becomes effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1st January 2014. 3.8.1.2 Biological Asset Biological assets are classified in to mature biological assets and  SLFRS 13 Fair Value Measurement immature biological assets. Mature biological assets are those SLFRS 13 establishes a single source of guidance under SLFRS that have attained harvestable specifications or are able to sustain for all fair value measurements. SLFRS 13 does not state when regular harvests. Immature biological assets are those that have an entity is required to use fair value, but rather provides guidance not yet attained harvestable specifications. Tea, rubber, other on how to measure fair value under SLFRS when fair value is plantations and nurseries are classified as biological assets. required or permitted. The Group is currently assessing the impact that this standard will have on the financial position and Biological assets are further classified as bearer biological performance. This standard becomes effective for annual periods assets and consumable biological assets. Bearer biological beginning on or after 1st January, 2014. asset includes tea and rubber trees, those that are not intended to be sold or harvested, however used to grow for harvesting 3.7.3 Explanations to the Transition of SLFRS agricultural produce from such biological assets. Consumable biological assets includes managed timber trees those that are to To comply with the SLFRS 1, the Group provides explanations be harvested as agricultural produce or sold as biological assets. to the transition to SLFRS/LKAS from SLAS. The explanations includes a background and quantification of the change, This The entity recognise the biological assets when, and only when, also includes reconciliation of Group’s equity as at the date of the entity controls the assets as a result of past event, it is transition 1st April, 2011 and end of latest reporting period 31st probable that future economic benefits associated with the assets March, 2012. Reconciliation for total comprehensive income will flow to the entity and the fair value or cost of the assets can includes only for the latest financial year ended 31st March, 2012. be measured reliably. 3.8 Plantations The bearer biological assets are measured at cost less The plantation companies in the Group adopt certain accounting accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses, if policies, which differ from that of the Group, since their nature any, in terms of LKAS 16 Property, Plant & Equipment as per the of operations is significantly different from that of the rest of the ruling issued by ICASL. Group. The accounting policies adopted are in accordance LKAS 41 Agriculture. The managed timber trees are measured on initial recognition and at the end of each reporting period at its fair value less cost to sell Those accounting policies that significantly vary from the rest of in terms of LKAS 41. The cost is treated as approximation to fair the Group are given below. Where material, the impact of the value of young plants as the impact on biological transformation different accounting policies has been quantified. of such plants to price during this period is immaterial. The fair value of timber trees are measured using DCF method 3.8.1 Property, Plant & Equipment taking in to consideration the current market prices of timber, 3.8.1.1 Permanent Land Development Costs applied to expected timber content of a tree at the maturity by Permanent land development costs are those costs incurred in an independent professional valuer. All other assumptions and major infrastructure development and building new access roads sensitivity analysis are given in Note 16. on leased lands. P: 206 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 The main variables in DCF model concerns Permanent impairments to Biological Asset are charged to the Variable Comment Income Statement in full and reduced to the net carrying amounts of such asset in the year of occurrence after ascertaining the loss. Currency valuation Rs. Timber content Estimate based on physical verification 3.8.1.4 Infilling Cost on Bearer Biological Assets of girth, height and considering the The land development costs incurred in the form of infilling have growth of the each spices in different been capitalised to the relevant mature field, only where the geographical regions. Factor all the number of plants per hectare exceeded 3,000 plants and, also if prevailing statutory regulations enforced it increases the expected future benefits from that field, beyond its against harvesting of timber coupled with pre-infilling performance assessment. Infilling costs so capitalised forestry plan of the Group are depreciated over the newly assessed remaining useful Economic Estimated based on the normal life span economic life of the relevant mature plantation, or the unexpired useful life of each spices by factoring the forestry lease period, whichever is lower. plan of the Group Infilling costs that are not capitalised have been charged to the Selling price Estimated based on prevailing Sri Lankan Income Statement in the year in which they are incurred. market price. Factor all the conditions to be fulfil in bringing the trees in to 3.8.1.5 Depreciation saleable condition Depreciation is recognised in Profit and Loss on a straight line Planting cost Estimated costs for the further basis over the estimated useful lives of each item of Property development of immature areas are Plant & Equipment as follows: deducted Mature Plantations (Replanting and New Planting) Discount Rate Future cash flows are discounted at following discount rates: Timber trees Description Years 17.5% Mature plantations Tea 33 Rubber 20 Nursery cost includes the cost of direct materials, direct labour Sanitation, water & electricity supply 20 and an appropriate proportion of directly attributable overheads, less provision for overgrown plants. Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reassessed at the reporting date. Mature plantations are The gain or loss arising on initial recognition of biological assets at reassessed at the reporting date. Mature plantations are fair value less cost to sell and from a change in fair value less cost depreciated over their useful lives or unexpired lease period, to sell of biological assets are included in profit or loss for the whichever is less. period in which it arises. No depreciation is provided for immature plantations. 3.8.1.3 Immature and Mature Plantations The cost of land preparation, rehabilitation, new planting, 3.8.1.6 Leased Assets replanting, crop diversification, interplanting and fertilising, etc., The leasehold rights of assets taken over from JEDB/SLSPC are incurred between the time of planting and harvesting (when amortised in equal amounts over the shorter of the remaining the planted area attains maturity), are classified as immature lease periods and the useful lives as follows: plantations. These immature plantations are shown at direct costs plus attributable overheads, including interest attributable Description Year to long-term loans used for financing immature plantations. Bare land 53 The expenditure incurred on bearer biological assets (Tea, Improvements to land 30 Rubber, Timber fields) which comes into bearing during the Mature plantations (Tea & Rubber) 30 year, is transferred to mature plantations. Expenditure incurred on consumable biological assets is recorded at cost at initial Buildings 25 recognition and thereafter at fair value at the end of each Machinery 20 reporting period. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 207 Notes to the Financial Statements 3.8.2 Borrowing Costs Interest paid is classified as an operating cash flow. Grants Borrowing costs incurred in respect loans that are utilised for field received, which are related to purchase and construction of development activities have been capitalised as a part of the cost property, plant & equipment are classified as investing cash flows. of the relevant immature plantation. The capitalisation will cease Dividend and interest income are classified as cash flows from when the crops are ready for commercial harvest. investing activities. 3.8.3 Inventories Dividends paid are classified as financing cash flows. Dividends received by Hayleys PLC, which is an investment company, 3.8.3.1 Finished Goods Manufactured From Agricultural are classified as operating cash flows and are not disclosed Produce of Biological Assets separately in the Company Cash Flow Statement. These are valued at the lower of cost and estimated net realisable value, after making due allowance for obsolete and slow moving items. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price at which 3.10 Segment Reporting stocks can be sold in the ordinary course of business after An operating segment is a component of the Group that engages allowing for cost of realisation and/or cost of conversion from in business activities from which it may earn revenues and their existing state to saleable condition. incur expenses, including revenues and expenses that relate to transactions with any of the Group’s other components. All 3.8.3.2 Input Material, Spares and Consumables operating segments’ operating results are reviewed regularly by At actual cost on weighted average basis. the Chairman to make decisions about resources to be allocated to the segment and assess its performance, and for which 3.8.3.3 Agricultural Produce Harvested from Biological discrete financial information is available. Assets Segment results that are reported to the Chairman include items Agricultural produce harvested from its biological assets directly attributable to a segment as well as those that can be are measured at their fair value less cost to sell at the point allocated on a reasonable basis. of harvest. The finished and semi-finished inventories from agriculture produce are valued by adding the cost of conversion Segment capital expenditure is the total cost incurred during the to the fair value of the agricultural produce. period to acquire property, plant & equipment, and intangible assets other than goodwill. 3.8.4 Grants and Subsidies Grants and subsidies are recognised at their fair value where there is a reasonable assurance the grant/subsidy will be received 4. Critical Accounting Estimates and all attaching conditions, if any, will be complied with. When and Judgements the grant or subsidy relates to an income item is recognised as income over the periods necessary to match them to the costs to Use of Estimates and Judgements which it is intended to compensate on a systematic basis. The preparation of Financial Statements in conformity with SLFRS/LKAS’s requires management to make judgements, Grants and subsidies related to assets, including non-monetary estimates and assumptions that affect the application of grants at fair value are deducted at arriving at the carrying value accounting policies and the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, of the asset (or are deferred in the Financial Position and credited income and expenses. Judgements and estimates are based on to the Income Statement over the useful life of the asset.) historical experience and other factors, including expectations that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. Hence actual experience and results may differ from these 3.9 Cash Flow Statement judgements and estimates. The Cash Flow Statement has been prepared using the ‘indirect method’. P: 208 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an be due. Where the final tax outcome of these matters is different ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognised from the amounts that were initially recorded, such differences in the period in which the estimates are revised if the revision will impact the income and deferred tax amounts in the period in affects only that period and any future periods. which the determination is made. Information about significant areas of estimation uncertainty and 4.4 Measurement of the Defined critical judgements in applying accounting policies that have the Benefit Obligations most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial The present value of the defined benefit obligations depends on a statements is included in the following notes. number of factors that are determined on an actuarial basis using a number of assumptions. Key assumptions used in determining 4.1 Going Concern the defined retirement benefit obligations are given in Note 28. The Directors have made an assessment of the Group’s Any changes in these assumptions will impact the carrying ability to continue as a going concern and is satisfied that it amount of defined benefit obligations. has the resources to continue in business for the foreseeable future. Furthermore, management is not aware of any material 4. 5 Impairment of Property, Plant & uncertainties that may cast significant doubt upon the Group’s Equipment and Intangible Assets other than ability to continue as a going concern. Therefore, the Financial Goodwill Statements continue to be prepared on the going concern basis. The impairment analysis is principally based upon discounted estimated cash flows from the use and eventual disposal of the 4.2 Measurement of the Recoverable assets. Factors like lower than anticipated sales and resulting amount of Cash-Generating Units containing decreases of net cash flows and changes in the discount rates Goodwill could lead to impairment. The Group tests annually whether goodwill has suffered any impairment, in accordance with the accounting policy stated 4.6 Revaluation of Land in Note 3.3.7.1. The basis of determining the recoverable The Group measures lands at revalued amount with change in amounts of cash generating units and key assumptions used value being recognised in the Statement of Other Comprehensive are given in Note 17. Income. The valuer has used valuation techniques such as open market value. 4.3 Taxation The Group is subject to income tax. Significant judgment was 4.6 Fair Valuation of Biological Assets required to determine the total provision for current and deferred The Group measures consumable Biological Assets at fair value taxes pending the issue of tax guidelines on the treatment of the with changes in value being recognised in the Statement of adoption of SLFRS in the Financial Statements and the taxable Income. Fair valuation involves assumptions which are given in profit for the purpose of imposition of taxes. Uncertainties exist Note 14. Such estimations are subject to significant uncertainties. with respect to the interpretation of the applicability of tax laws, at the time of the preparation of these Financial Statements. The Group recognised assets and liabilities for current and deferred taxes based on estimates of whether additional taxes will FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 209 Notes to the Financial Statements 5. Explanations to the Transition of SLFRS To comply with the SLFRS 1, the Group provides explanations to the transition to SLFRS from SLAS. The explanations include brief descriptions about the background of the change and a quantification of change. This also includes reconciliation of Group’s equity as at the date of transition 1st April, 2011 and end of latest reported period for year ended 31st March, 2012. Reconciliation also includes for the total comprehensive income for the financial year ended 31st March, 2012. 5.1 Reconciliation of Income Statement for the year ended 31st March, 2012 Consolidated Company As at Notes to the SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS Reconciliation for the Transition to for the year for the Transition to for the year year ended SLFRS/LKAS ended year ended SLFRS/LKAS ended 31st March, 31st March, 31st March, 31st March, 2012 2012 2012 2012 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Revenue A 62,298,006 3,508,708 65,806,714 176,664 – 176,664 Cost of sales B (48,985,972) (3,441,839) (52,427,811) (149,673) (1,072) (150,745) Gross profit 13,312,034 (66,869) (13,378,903) 26,991 (1,072) (25,919) Group dividend – – – 1,235,872 – 1,235,872 Other income C 2,567,540 (2,183,046) 384,494 348,669 (134,265) 214,404 Distribution expenses (1,883,053) 595 (1,882,458) – – Administrative expenses D (7,408,760) (130,511) (7,539,271) (165,043) 1,141 (163,902) Other expenses E (218,960) (7,550) (226,510) – – Results from operating activities 6,368,801 2,253,643 (4,115,158) 1,446,489 (134,265) 1,312,293 Finance income F 355,680 224,282 579,962 28,842 134,868 163,710 Finance costs F (1,931,187) (206,836) (2,138,023) (399,698) (27,233) (426,931) Net finance costs (1,575,507) 17,446 (1,558,061) (370,856) 107,635 (263,221) Share of profit of equity accounted investees (net of tax) 12,695 (8,889) 3,806 – Profit before tax 4,805,989 (2,245,086) (2,560,903) 1,075,633 (26,561) 1,049,072 Tax expense G (960,665) 45,941 (914,724) (5,341) – (5,341) Profit for the year 3,845,324 (2,199,145) (1,646,179) 1,070,292 (26,561) 1,043,731 Profit for the period attributable to: Owners of the Parent 2,519,732 (1,481,910) (1,037,822) Non-controlling interest 1,325,592 (717,235) 608,357 Profit for the year 3,845,324 (2,199,145) 1,646,179 P: 210 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 5.2 Reconciliation of Statement of Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31st March, 2012 Consolidated Company As at Notes to the SLAS for the Effect of SLFRS/LKAS SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS Reconciliation year ended Transition to for the year for the Transition to for the year 31st March SLFRS/LKAS ended year ended SLFRS/LKAS ended 2012 31st March 31st March 31st March 2012 2012 2012 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Profit for the year 3,845,324 (2,199,145) 1,646,179 1,070,292 (26,561) 1,043,731 Other comprehensive income Net exchange differences on translation of foreign operations H – 196,083 196,083 – – – Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted investees – 24,125 24,125 – – – Net change in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets T – (32,135) (32,135) – – – Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax – 188,073 188,073 – – – Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 3,845,324 (2,011,072) 1,834,252 1,070,292 (26,561) 1,043,731 Total comprehensive income for the period attributable to Equity holders of the parent 2,519,732 (1,361,612) 1,158,120 Non-controlling interest 1,325,592 (649,460) 676,132 3,845,324 (2,011,072) 1,834,252 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 211 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.3 Reconciliation for the Statement of Financial Position as at 31st March, 2012 Consolidated Company As at Notes to the SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS Reconciliation as at Transition to as at as at Transition to as at 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 31st March, 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 31st March, 2012 2012 2012 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment I 30,360,487 461,123 30,821,610 3,919,284 20,741 3,940,025 Investment properties K 37156 651,205 688,361 – – – Biological assets J – 192,112 192,112 – – – Intangible assets L 4,833,959 330,421 5,164,380 – – – Investments in subsidiaries – – – 7,840,097 – 7,840,097 Investments in equity accounted investees M 340,353 (34,721) 305,632 – – – Other non-current financial assets N 411,911 (26,260) 385,651 291,407 (99,763) 191,644 Other non-current assets Q – 188,730 188,730 – – Employee share trust loan P 491,439 (491,439) – 491,439 (491,439) – Deferred tax assets O 212,982 26,319 239,301 – – Total non-current assets 36,688,287 1,297,490 37,985,777 12,542,227 (570,461) 11,971,766 Current assets Inventories Q 10,682,430 (284,819) 10,397,611 920 – 920 Amounts due from subsidiaries – – – 295,139 747 295,886 Amounts due from equity accounted investees – – – – – – Trade and other receivables R 14,545,445 (679,776) 13,865,669 71,387 (24,193) 47,194 Other current assets R 624,667 624,667 – 5,245 5,245 Assets classified as held for sale 4,862 – 4,862 – – – Income tax recoverable 147,762 – 147,762 4,644 – 4,644 Other current financial assets S 60,985 114,718 175,703 31,632 608 32,240 Short term deposits 915,067 – 915,067 – – Cash and cash equivalents 1,755,418 – 1,755,418 25,834 – 25,834 Total current assets 28,111,969 (225,211) 27,886,759 429,556 (17,593) 411,963 Total assets 64,800,256 1,072,279 65,872,535 12,971,783 (588,054) 12,383,728 P: 212 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Consolidated Company As at Notes to the SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS Reconciliation as at Transition to as at as at Transition to as at 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 31st March, 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 31st March, 2012 2012 2012 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Equity and liabilities Stated capital 1,575,000 – 1,575,000 1,575,000 – 1,575,000 Employee share trust P – (491,439) (491,439) (491,439) (491,439) Treasury shares – – – – Capital reserves T 6,619,929 (5,397,853) 1,222,076 3,697,729 (3,684,503) 13,226 Other components of equity T 6,373,692 6,373,692 – 3,684,503 3,684,503 Revenue reserves U 9,964,448 (272,007) 9,692,441 2,238,156 (96,615) 2,141,535 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the company 18,159,377 212,393 18,371,770 7,510,885 (588,054) 6,922,825 Non-controlling interest 9,582,712 494,387 10,077,099 – – – Total equity 27,742,089 706,780 28,448,869 7,510,885 (588,054) 6,922,825 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings V 5,655,017 (442,681) 5,212,336 1,386,667 – 1,386,666 Deferred income 777,670 – 777,670 – – – Deferred tax liability O 795,041 91,638 886,679 – – – Retirement benefit obligations 3,921,370 – 3,921,370 333,279 – 333,279 Total non-current liabilities 11,149,098 (351,043) 10,798,055 1,719,946 – 1,719,945 Current liabilities Trade and other payables Z 9,706,543 (40,885) 9,665,656 174,204 (4,305) 169,905 Provision Z – 36,586 36,586 – – – Other current liabilities Z – 4,305 4,305 – 4,305 4,305 Other current financial liabilities Y – 81,617 81,617 – – – Amounts due to subsidiaries – – – 827,250 – 827,250 Amounts due to equity accounted investees 21,155 – 21,155 – – – Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 2,174 – 2,174 – – – Income tax payable 297,510 – 297,510 – – – Current portion of long-term interest-bearing borrowings W 1,501,839 504,482 2,006,321 506,667 – 506,667 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings X 14,379,848 130,439 14,510,287 2,232,831 – 2,232,831 Total current liabilities 25,909,069 716,542 26,625,611 3,740,952 – 3,740,958 Total liabilities 37,058,167 365,499 37,423,666 5,460,898 – 5,460,903 Total equity and liabilities 64,800,256 1,072,279 65,872,535 12,971,783 (588,054) 12,383,728 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 213 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.4 Reconciliation for the Statement of Financial Position as at 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Company As at Notes to the SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS Reconciliation as at Transition to as at as at Transition to as at 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 1st April, 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 1st April, 2011 2011 2011 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Assets Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment I 24,445,595 919,977 25,365,572 3,837,739 20,671 3,858,410 Investment properties K – 23,650 23,650 – – – Biological assets J – 161,780 161,780 – – – Intangible assets L 3,361,546 7,625 3,369,171 – – – Investments in subsidiaries – – – 5,610,679 – 5,610,679 Investments in equity accounted investees M 463,647 179,625 643,272 1,960 – 1,960 Other non-current financial assets N 703,059 (468,448) 234,611 291,407 (87,293) 204,114 Other non-current assets Q – 167,020 167,020 – – Employee share trust loan P 492,243 (492,243) – 492,243 (492,243) Deferred tax assets O 197,235 (30,458) 166,777 – – – Total non-current assets 29,663,325 468,528 30,131,853 10,234,030 (558,865) 9,675,163 Current assets Inventories Q 8,720,285 (248,254) 8,472,031 1,396 – 1,396 Amounts due from subsidiaries – – 400,527 – 400,527 Amounts due from equity accounted investees 3,723 – 3,723 784 – 784 Trade and other receivables R 12,210,780 (555,997) 11,654,783 37,510 (23,710) 13,809 Other current assets R – 522,020 522,020 – 4,749 4,749 Assets classified as held for sale 15,993 – 15,993 – – – Income tax recoverable 170,917 – 170,917 5,501 – 5,501 Other current financial assets S 14,853 46,195 61,048 5,196 15,514 20,709 Short term deposits 1,378,314 – 1,378,314 – – – Cash and cash equivalents 1,487,226 – 1,487,226 19,915 – 19,915 Total current assets 24,002,091 (236,036) 23,766,055 470,825 (3,438) 467,390 Total assets 53,665,416 232,492 53,897,908 10,704,855 (562,303) 10,142,553 P: 214 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Consolidated Company As at Notes to the SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS SLAS Effect of SLFRS/LKAS Reconciliation as at Transition to as at as at Transition to as at 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 1st April, 31st March, SLFRS/LKAS 1st April, 2011 2011 2011 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Equity and liabilities Stated capital 1,575,000 – 1,575,000 1,575,000 – 1,575,000 Employee share trust P – (492,242) (492,242) – (492,243) (492,243) Treasury shares P – (398,902) (398,902) – – Capital reserves 6,951,296 (5,546,409) 1,404,887 3,697,729 (3,684,503) 13,226 Other components of equity T – 6,164,166 6,164,166 3,684,503 3,684,503 Revenue reserves U 7,119,699 (114,623) 7,005,076 1,467,864 (70,060) 1,397,804 Total equity attributable to equity holders of the Company 15,645,995 (388,010) 15,257,985 6,740,593 (562,303) 6,178,290 Non-controlling interest 8,052,425 428,612 8,481,037 – – – Total equity 23,698,420 40,602 23,739,022 6,740,593 (562,303) 6,178,290 Non-current liabilities Interest-bearing borrowings V 4,432,619 108,537 4,541,156 1,680,000 – 1,680,000 Deferred income 792,868 – 792,868 – – – Deferred tax liability O 713,907 83,667 797,574 – – – Retirement benefit obligations 3,335,442 – 3,335,442 259,857 – 259,857 Total non-current liabilities 9,274,835 192,205 9,467,040 1,939,857 – 1,939,857 Current liabilities Trade and other payables Z 8,084,330 (41,388) 8,042,942 120,885 (9,909) 110,980 Provision Z – 31,829 31,829 – Other current liabilities Z – 9,909 9,909 9,909 9,909 Other current financial liabilities Y – 2,042 2,042 – – Amounts due to subsidiaries – – 151,091 – 151,091 Amounts due to equity accounted investees 52,563 – 52,563 – – – Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale 2,582 – 2,582 – – – Income tax payable 399,052 – 399,052 – – – Current portion of long-term interest-bearing borrowings W 1,893,093 (144,412) 1,748,681 720,000 – 720,000 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings X 10,260,541 141,705 10,402,246 1,032,426 – 1,032,426 Total current liabilities 20,692,161 (315) 20,691,846 2,024,406 – 2,024,406 Total liabilities 29,966,996 191,890 30,158,886 3,964,256 – 3,964,263 Total equity and liabilities 53,665,416 232,492 53,897,908 10,704,855 (562,303) 10,142,553 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 215 Notes to the Financial Statements 5.5 Notes to the Reconciliation A. Revenue According to SLFRS/LKAS the Group recorded revenue on a gross basis from the date of transition for transactions relating to freight forwarding and out bound tour arrangements. The profit & loss of the perennial crop has been recognised in the financial period of harvesting in terms of SLAS 32. Thus the unsold stocks were treated as a part of revenue. The scope of revenue recognition was changed to LKAS 18. Accordingly, the revenue is recognised based on the date of auction where the recognition criteria’s are met and therefore the quantity which is sold at auction is treated as sales. Consolidated For the year ended 31st March, 2012 Rs. ’000 Reassessment of the revenue on freight Forward/Tour Operations 3,447,100 Measurement of revenue-unsold stocks of perennial crops (124,714) B. Cost of Sales According to SLFRS/LKAS the recognition of cost of sales has been changed simultaneous to the changes in revenue recognition. Thus, cost of sales consists of costs that are directly attributable to goods sold. Cost of opening stocks and the closing stocks were adjusted to the cost of production. Further, the measurement of unsold tea and rubber stocks have been changed in terms of LKAS 2 and LKAS 41. The Group has elected to reassess useful life of certain items of property, plant and equipment as at the date of transition. The impact on depreciation due to review of useful lives of assets in manufacturing was recognised in cost of sales from the date of the transition. For the year ended 31st March, 2012 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Reassessment of the cost of sale on Freight Forward/Tour operations 3,447,100 Measurement of cost of sale-unsold stocks of perennial crops 124,714 Effect of depreciation of plant and machinery by reassessment of useful life 82,201 Company Effect of depreciation of plant and machinery by reassessment of useful life 1,072 C. Other Income As per previous SLAS the Group was permitted to recognise the capital gain of Rs. 2.1 bn in the Income Statement on the disposal of Hayleys PLC shares by its Group companies. However under the SLFRS/LKAS the Group is required to treat these shares as treasury shares. Therefore at the time of disposal the Group recognised the gain directly into equity. The Group previously recorded dividend income from long-term investments under Other Income. However this was reclassified under finance income due to the adoption of SLFRS/LKAS. P: 216 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 According to LKAS 41 the Group has recorded Biological Assets at fair value resulting in a gain of Rs. 26 mn for the year ended 31st March, 2012. For the year ended 31st March, 2012 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Reclassification of gain on disposal of treasury shares in equity (2,197,439) Reclassification of dividend income to finance income (135,613) Reclassified sundry income, rent income and intended commission to other income 104,176 Fair value gain on biological assets 26,046 Company Reclassification of dividend income to finance income 134,122 D. Administrative Expenses The Group has elected to reassess useful life of certain items of property, plant and equipment as at the date of transition. The impact on depreciation due to review of useful lives of assets in administration was recognised in administration expenses from the date of the transition. Further the Group has reclassified sundry income, rent income and indent commission to other income which was previously recorded in net of with administration expenses amounting to Rs. 124 mn for the year ended 31.03.2012. For the year Rs. ’000 Consolidated Effect of depreciation of plant and machinery by reassessment of useful life 9,257 Reclassified sundry income, rent income and intended commission to other income 104,176 Reclassification of amortisation of intangible assets 7,550 Company Effect of depreciation of plant and machinery by reassessment of useful life 1,141 E. Other Expense The Group reclassified the software amortisation expenses from administration expense to other expenses due to reclassification intangible assets from property, plant & equipment. For the year ended 31st March, 2012 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Reclassification of amortisation of intangible assets 7,550 F. Net Finance Cost As per SLFRS/LKAS requirement’ the Group spilt the net finance cost into finance income and finance expense from the date of transition. Further as per Note C the Group has reclassified the dividend income under finance income. The Group also assessed the fair value of forward exchange contract, and recorded the relevant gain or loss via finance income or expense under SLFRS/LKAS. Further the Gain and loss arising from financial instruments fair value through profit and loss, Impairment of such Investments have been recorded in finance income/expense accordingly. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 217 Notes to the Financial Statements G. Tax Expenses A deferred tax effect arose due to the increase of the taxable temporary difference as a result of reassessing of the remaining useful life of property, plant & equipment capitalisation of borrowing cost and fair valuation of biological asset. As a result deferred tax expense has been increased by Rs. 46 mn for the year ended 31st March, 2012. For the year ended 31st March, 2012 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Deferred tax effect on reassessment of useful life of property, plant & equipment and fair valuation of biological assets 45,941 H. Foreign Currency Translation Reserve The Group recorded the exchange differences which arose from the translation of the foreign operations through other comprehensive income which has increased due to the SLFRS/LKAS adjustments recorded in the foreign operating entities. I. Property, Plant & Equipment The Group elected to reassess certain items of property, plant and equipment as at the date of transition. As a result the carrying value has increased by Rs. 920 mn as at the date of transition and Rs. 424 mn as at 31.03.2012 (this includes the impact on depreciation due to increase in value of property, plant & equipment. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Reassessment of useful life of property, plant & equipment 1,210,402 1,037,814 Reclassification to investment property (651,205) (23,650) Reclassified to biological assets (75,155) (70,870) Re-Classification of computer software from property, plant & equipment (22,919) (23,317) Company Remeasurement of useful life of property, plant & equipment 20,741 20,672 J. Biological Assets According to LKAS 41 managed agricultural activity was recorded at fair value, which was ascertained by a professionally qualified valuer. As a result, the net assets increased by Rs. 162 mn and 192 mn as at date of transition and 31st March, 2012 respectively. The Comprehensive Income for the year ended 31st March, 2012 increased by Rs. 26 Mn due to the gain on fair value of biological assets. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost of manage timber reclassification as biological assets 75,155 70,870 Gains and losses on fair value of biological assets 116,215 90,168 P: 218 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 K. Investment Property The Group has reclassified certain property under SLFRS/LKAS as Investment property since these lands were used for the purpose of capital appreciation and to earn a rent income. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reclassication from property, plant & equipment 651,205 23,650 L. Intangible Assets The Group has written off goodwill acquired from business combination amounting to Rs. 15.7 mn as at the date of transition due to adoption of SLFRS/LKAS. Further the Group reclassified software from property, plant & equipment to Intangible assets from the date of transition. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reassessment of goodwill 323,968 – Written off of goodwill acquired from business combination (15,684) (15,684) Re-Classification of computer software from property, plant & equipment 22,919 23,317 M. Investments in Equity Account Investees Group has revalued some land held by the equity account investees under SLFRS/LKAS which were previously recorded under cost. Therefore investment in equity account Investees increased by Rs. 180 mn and decreased by Rs. 35 mn as at the date of transition and 31st March, 2012 respectively. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Revaluation of the lands owned by equity account investees 179,625 34,721 N. Other Non-Current Financial Assets As per LKAS 32 and 39, other long-term investments have been reclassified to other non-current financial assets. Under SLAS, the Group accounted for long-term investments at cost. According to SLFRS/LKAS, the Group designated such investments as available-forsale or fair value through profit or loss. SLFRS/LKAS requires available for sale investments to be measured at fair value. The difference between the fair value and cost has been recognised as a separate component of equity, in the available-for-sale reserve. Due to this other non-current financial assets decreased by Rs. 468 mn and Rs. 26 mn as at the date of transition and as at 31st March, 2012 respectively. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 219 Notes to the Financial Statements Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Cost of acquisition of treasury shares – (398,902) Fair value change of available for sale financial asset 11,997 69,546 Impairment on available for sale 99,763 (87,292) Recognition of financial assets in accordance with IFRIC 4 85,498 – Company Fair value change of available for sale financial asset 99,763 87,292 O. Deferred Tax Assets/Liability Transitional adjustments relating to SLFRS/LKAS adjustments led to temporary differences. Such temporary differences resulted in deferred tax adjustments which are recognised in correlation to the underlying transaction either in retained earnings or as a separate component of equity. The deferred tax effect arises due to the increase of the taxable temporary difference as a result of reassessment of useful life time of property, plant & equipment and fair valuation of biological asset. The Deferred tax assets decreased by Rs. 30 mn as at date of transition and increased by Rs. 26 mn as at 31st March, 2012. Further liability as at the date of transition and 31st March, 2012 increased by Rs. 84 mn and by Rs. 92 mn respectively. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Deferred Tax Assets Reassessment of useful-life time of property, plant & equipment 26,319 30,458 Deferred Tax Liability Reassessment of useful-life time of property, plant & equipment 86,633 79,627 Fair valuation of biological asset 5,005 4,039 P. Employee Share Trust Loan/Employee Share Trust Reserve According to SLFRS/LKAS the Group is required to present the loan given to the employee share trust as treasury shares. Accordingly the loan was adjusted in the equity of the Group. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Employee Share Trust Loan 491,439 492,243 P.1 Treasury Shares The Company has given a loan to employee share trust to buy its own shares. Therefore it is considered as a share buy back. According to SLFRS/LKAS the employee share trust loan has been deducted from equity of the Company. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost of the investment in treasury shares – 398,902 P: 220 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Q. Inventories Tea, rubber and other nurseries were classified as Inventory under SLAS. Since living plants are scoped under the definition of biological assets in terms of LKAS 41, these nurseries were classified as biological assets. Further the Group has reassessed the realisable value of inventory and charged an impairment. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reclassification of the Moulds to other non-current assets 188,731 167,020 Reclassification to biological assets 62,321 62,676 Reassessed the realisable value of inventory 27,580 11,333 R. Trade and Other Receivables/Other Current Assets Due to the application of LKAS 32 and 39, non-financial assets (Prepayments and Prepaid staff benefit) in trade and others receivables have been reclassified to other current assets amounting to Rs. 492 mn and Rs. 551 mn as at date of transition and 31st March, 2012 respectively. Further the Group has provided for Rs. 30 mn Rs. 54 mn as the impairment provision for debtors under collective and individual impairment testing method. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Reclassification to other current assets 624,667 522,020 Impairment provision for debtors 28,447 23,279 Reassessed the realisable value of inventory 27,580 11,333 Company Reclassification to other current assets 5,194 4,698 Impairment provision for debtors 18,947 18,947 Reassessed the realisable value of inventory 27,580 11,333 S. Other Current Financial Assets As per LKAS 32 and 39, short-term Investments have been reclassified to other current financial assets. Under SLAS, the Group measured Short-term investments at the lower of cost or market value on an aggregated portfolio basis. According to SLFRS/LKAS, the Group designated such investments as fair value Through Profit and Loss investments which are measured at fair value. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Fair value change of other current financial asset 114,718 46,195 Company Fair value change of other current financial asset 608 15,514 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 221 Notes to the Financial Statements T. Other Component of Equity/Capital Reserve Capital reserve included reserve on scrip issue, revaluation reserve and other capital reserve under previous gap. However revaluation reserve has reclassified to other component of equity under SLFRS/LKAS. Other Component of Equity includes Revaluation Reserve, Available-for-sale Reserve and Foreign Currency Translation Reserve. According to SLFRS/LKAS the Group has revalued some land which had not been revalued previously and recorded the surplus via revaluation reserve accounting to Rs. 53 mn as at the date of transition. Further the Group has reclassified some Land (Carbotels Ltd. and Eastern Hotels Ltd.) to investment property under SLFRS/LKAS which was accounted under property, plant & equipment previously. According to SLAS, the Group accounted for equity investments at cost. However under SLFRS/LKAS, the Group designated such investments as available-for-sale which are measured at fair value. The difference between the fair value and cost has been recognised as a separate component of equity, in the available-for-sale reserve. U. Revenue Reserves Revenue reserve included exchange fluctuation reserve, general reserve and retained earnings under previous gap. However under exchange fluctuation reserve has reclassified to other component of equity under SLFRS/LKAS. Due to the application of SLFRS/LKAS, measurement and presentation of Financial Statements have changed. The Group has assessed the useful life of the property, plant & equipment and accounted under deem cost and which has accounted through retained earnings. Further the Group has recomputed the deferred tax, financial assets, inventory and financial liability has recorded under fair value and adjusted through retained earnings. V. Interest Bearing Borrowings As per the provisions of SoRP for right-to-use land, the Group has reassessed the liability to make lease payment as at the date of transition. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reclassification to current portion of interest bearing borrowings (560,760) 5,842 Measurement of liability to make lease payment 118,078 112,029 W. Current Portion of Interest-Bearing Borrowings As per the provisions of SoRP for right-to-use land, the Group has reassessed the liability to make lease payment as at the date of transition. Further the Group has reclassified some short-term loans under bank borrowing due to reclassification financial liabilities under SLAS/SLFRS. Reclassification from non-current portion of interest bearing borrowings reclassification from interest bearing borrowings to short-term interest-bearing borrowings measurement of the conversion of interest bearing borrowings measurement of liability to make lease payment Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reclassification from non-current portion of Interest bearing borrowings 560,760 (5,842) Reclassification from interest bearing borrowings to short-term interest bearing borrowings (130,439) (141,705) Measurement of the conversion of interest bearing borrowings 80,209 Measurement of liability to make lease payment (6,043) 5,840 P: 222 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 X. Bank Borrowings (Overdrafts, Short-term Loans) The Group has reclassified some short-term loans under bank borrowings which was recorded under current portion of Interest bearing borrowing previously. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reclassification from Current portion of long term interest-bearing borrowings 130,439 141,705 Y. Other Current Financial Liabilities Due to the application of LKAS 32 and 39, financial liabilities arising from financial instrument (assets and liabilities with in a portfolio of forward contract or other derivative instruments) are recorded at fair value. As a result other current financial liabilities increased by Rs. 2 mn as at the date of transition and Rs. 162 mn as at 31.03 2012. Z. Trade & Other Payables/Provision/Other Current Liabilities Due to the application of LKAS 32 and 39, non-financial liabilities (Tax payables and Provisions) in trade and other payables have been reclassified to other current liabilities amounting to Rs. 42 mn as at the date of transition and Rs. 41 mn as at 31.03.2012. Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reclassification to provision 36,586 31,829 Reclassification to other current liabilities 4,305 9,909 Balance as at Balance as at 31st March, 2012 1st April, 2011 Company Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Reclassification to other current liabilities 4,305 9,909 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 223 Notes to the Financial Statements 6. Revenue A. Industry Segment Revenue Consolidated 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Fibre 4,836,652 4,577,755 Hand Protection 14,674,542 13,498,897 Purification Products 9,868,644 8,508,896 Textiles 5,738,055 5,206,976 Construction Materials 2,472,683 2,254,953 Agriculture 7,346,296 7,655,846 Plantations 8,951,933 7,916,671 Transportation & Logistics 11,343,068 8,644,290 Leisure & Aviation 2,062,892 1,634,686 Consumer Products 4,509,140 4,285,215 Power & Energy 756,697 329,671 Industry Inputs 1,730,833 1,292,709 Investments & Services 10,417 147 74,301,852 65,806,714 B. Geographical Segment Revenue Consolidated 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) 9,639,509 7,241,867 Australia 1,745,033 1,795,083 Europe 12,530,959 11,510,908 United States of America 7,765,525 7,868,407 Africa 863,652 843,691 Indirect Exports 14,747,419 11,127,245 Sri Lanka (i) 27,009,755 25,419,513 74,301,852 65,806,714 P: 224 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 C. Gross Revenue Company 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rent and building related Income 229,332 176,664 229,332 176,664 7. Other Income Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Government grants amortised 52,562 52,780 – – Gain/(loss) on disposal of property, plant & equipment 66,889 43,192 – 204 Change in fair value of biological assets 31,170 26,045 – – Gain/(loss) on disposal of long-term investment – – 324 213,000 current financial assets – 1,995 – 1,200 equity accounted investees – 55,006 – – Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiaries 9,907 81,372 – – Sundry income/scrap sales 78,330 77,562 – – Rent Income 38,346 12,006 – – Indent commission 49,713 34,536 – – 326,917 384,494 324 214,404 8. Other Expenses Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Loss on disposal of equity accounted investees 4,671 34,031 – – Loss on disposal of property, plant & equipment – – 1,237 – Derecognition of property, plant & equipment 43,810 156,634 – – Loss on disposal of current financial assets 743 – 743 – Amortisation of intangible assets 110,039 35,845 – – 159,263 226,510 1,980 – FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 225 Notes to the Financial Statements 9. Net Finance Cost Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 A. Finance Income Interest Income on available-for-sale financial assets 1,157 – – – Interest Income on loans and receivables 354,343 214,786 93,116 28,842 Interest Income on bank deposits 46,433 – – – Guarantee income – – 3,152 746 Dividend Income on available-for-sale investments 310,219 135,613 307,017 134,122 Net change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss 2,267 – – – Net foreign exchange gain 715,997 229,563 – – Total Finance income 1,430,416 579,962 403,285 163,710 B. Finance Cost Interest on long term loans (588,110) (509,830) (716,164) (213,236) Interest on short term loans (2,006,416) (877,792) (204,146) (186,462) Finance charges payable under finance leases (83,945) (89,044) – – Net change in fair value of financial assets at fair value through profit or loss – (23,767) (596) (14,763) Impairment of financial instruments (15,020) (12,470) (12,470) (12,470) Net foreign exchange loss (375,049) (625,120) – – Total Finance costs (3,068,540) (2,138,023) (933,376) (426,931) Net finance costs (1,638,124) (1,558,061) (530,091) (263,221) P: 226 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 10. Profit before Tax from Continuing Operations Profit before tax from continuing operations is stated after charging all expenses including the following: Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Directors’ emoluments 585,673 560,192 143,114 124,604 Auditors’ fees (includes overseas subsidiaries) Audit services Ernst & Young 30,816 25,680 1,535 980 Other auditors 9,637 18,238 – – Non-audit services Ernst & Young 16,904 6,695 752 525 Other auditors 5,111 10,871 – 2,044 Depreciation on property, plant & equipment 1,771,639 1,556,382 24,892 26,761 Donations 11,613 14,505 831 2,002 Provision for bad and doubtful debts and bad debts written off (182,795) 18,824 – 1,446 Provision for unrealised profit and write-down of inventories 63,868 95,941 – – Staff cost Defined contribution plan cost 1,111,689 967,007 51,423 40,395 Defined benefit plan cost 761,589 881,084 70,405 76,640 Other staff cost (excluding defined contributions and defined benefits) 9,724,361 7,662,604 461,032 333,873 Staff training and development 45,947 35,165 14,037 4,882 Legal fees 30,567 24,506 – – Operating leases 95,888 82,307 – – FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 227 Notes to the Financial Statements 11. Taxation A. Tax Expense Consolidated Income Statement Consolidated 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Current income tax Income tax on current year profits Hayleys PLC 17,489 5,341 Subsidiaries 1,117,247 837,483 1,134,736 842,824 (Over)/under provision in respect of previous years (582) 3,829 Irrecoverable ESC 2,012 19,726 1,136,166 866,379 Deferred tax expense Origination/(reversal) of temporary differences Hayleys PLC – – Subsidiaries 37,535 (78,214) 37,535 (78,214) Tax on dividend income 232,169 126,559 232,169 126,559 Tax expense 1,405,871 914,724 P: 228 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 B. Reconciliation of Accounting Profit to Income Tax Expense Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Profit before tax 5,025,260 2,560,903 363, 373 1,049,072 Share of profit of equity accounted investees (352) (3,806) – – Intra-group adjustments 2,203,150 504,903 – – 7,228,059 3,062,000 363,373 1,049,072 Disallowable expenses 2,725,007 3,499,994 135,595 134,160 Tax deductible expenses (3,792,474) (2,914,751) (48,837) (8,566) Tax exempt income (2,940,497) (2,613,898) (1,325,626) (1,585,083) Tax loss b/f (5,381,364) (4,404,579) (1,493,078) (1,086,340) Adjustment of tax loss b/f 256,809 679,354 3,642 22,425 Qualifying payments donations – – (112) (118) Tax loss c/f 6,397,716 5,381,364 2,427,504 1,493,078 Taxable income 4,493,255 2,689,484 62,461 18,628 Income tax @ 28% 583,438 373,442 17,489 5,216 Income tax @ 15% 181,878 113,410 – – Income tax @ 12% 8,456 19,922 – – Income tax at other tax rates 360,964 312,059 – – Social Responsibility Levy – 23,991 – – Income tax on current year profit 1,134,736 842,824 17,489 5,216 Over/(under) provision in respect of previous years (582) 3,829 – 125 Irrecoverable ESC 2,012 19,726 – – 1,136,166 866,379 17,489 5,341 Origination/(reversal) of temporary differences 37,535 (78,214) – – Tax on dividend income 232,169 126,559 – – Tax expense 1,405,871 914,724 17,489 5,341 Effective tax rate 28% 36% 5% 1% C. Corporate Income Taxes of companies resident in Sri Lanka have been computed in accordance with the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 as amended, whilst Corporate Taxes of non-resident companies in the Group have been computed in keeping with the domestic statutes in their respective countries. Irrecoverable Economic Service Charge has been charged in the Income Statements. Resident companies in the Group, excluding those which enjoy a tax holiday or concessionary rate of taxation, were liable to income tax at 28% during 2012/13 (Y/A 2011/12 28 %). FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 229 Notes to the Financial Statements 1. Tax Exemptions 1 A. In terms of the Inland Revenue Act • Ultracarb (Pvt) Ltd. is entitled for a 3-year income tax holiday. The tax holiday period is yet to commence. • Haycarb Value Added Products (Pvt) Ltd. is entitled for a 6-year income tax holiday. The tax holiday is yet to commence. • Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC is exempted from income tax up to the year of assessment 2012/13. The rate applicable after expiry of the tax holiday will be 12%. • Kelani Valley Instant Tea (Pvt) Ltd. is exempted from income tax up to the Year of Assessment 2012/13. The rate applicable for the next two years would be 10%. • Foreign dividends received are exempted from income tax in terms of the Inland Revenue Act. 1 B. In terms of BOI Agreements Companies enjoying Tax Holidays under BOI Law are as follows: Texnil (Pvt) Ltd. 10 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2013 Moceti International (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March 2013 Kalupahana Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2013 Neluwa Cascade Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2014 Logiwiz NW (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2015 TTEL Somerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March 2015 TTEL Hydro Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2015 Alco Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2015 Hayleys Agro Biotech (Pvt) Ltd. 8 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2018 Hayleys Business Solutions (Pvt) Ltd.. 5 year tax holiday ending 31st March, 2017 Nirmalapura Wind Power Pvt Ltd. 6 year tax holiday is yet to commence 1 C. Exemptions outside Sri Lanka Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. Tax Exempt Shizuka Co. Ltd. 8 years year tax holiday yet to commence P: 230 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 2. Concessionary Tax Rates 2 A. In terms of the Inland Revenue Act In terms of Sections 17, 46, 48A, 51, 56 and 59 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006, as amended, the profits of companies listed below enjoy concessionary rates of income tax. Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Profits from agriculture Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Profits from agriculture Sunfrost Ltd. Profits from agriculture HJS Condiments Ltd. Profits from agriculture Hayleys Agro Farms (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from agriculture Haycarb PLC Profits from qualifying exports Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports Logiventures (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports Puritas Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports DPL Plantations (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from agriculture Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from agriculture Mabroc Teas (Pvt ) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports and agriculture Creative Polymat (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports and indirect exports Ravi Industries Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports and indirect exports Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports and indirect exports Haymat ( Pvt) Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports and indirect exports Toyo Cushion Lanka Ltd. Profits from qualifying exports and indirect exports Lanka Orient Express Lines Ltd. Profits from transshipment Clarion Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from transshipment NYK Lines Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from transshipment Hayleys Travels and Tours (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from promotion of tourism Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC Profits from promotion of tourism Hunas Falls Hotel PLC Profits from promotion of tourism Culture Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Profits from promotion of tourism Alumex Ltd. Profits from manufacturing FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 231 Notes to the Financial Statements 2 B. In terms of BOI Agreements As per agreements signed with the Board of Investment, the business income of the Companies listed below would be subject to a concessionary tax rate for the periods indicated: Kandyan Resorts Pvt Ltd. 02% on turnover for 15 years up to Y/A 2026/27 Hanwella Rubber Products Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2020/21 Grossart (Pvt) Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2019/20 Dipped Products PLC 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2018/19 Venigros Pvt Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2018/19 Neoprex (Pvt) Ltd. 12% for 10 years up to Y/A 2017/18 Logistics International Ltd. 12% for 20 years upto Y/A 2016/17 Bonterra Ltd. 12% for 20 years up to Y/A 2015/16 Bhagya Hydro (Pvt) Ltd. 10% for 02 years up to Y/A 2013/14 Civaro International Ltd. 10% for 02 years up to Y/A 2013/14 Feltex Pvt Ltd. 10% for 02 years up to Y/A 2012/13 Logiwiz Ltd. 20% indefinitely 3. Non-Resident Companies Corporate Income Taxes of non-resident companies are: Company Income Tax Rate Haychem (Bangladesh) Ltd. 37.5% PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry 25% Haymark Inc 34% Logiwiz Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. 30% Eurocarb Products Ltd 24% Haycarb Holding Australia (Pvt) Ltd. 30% Carbokarn Co. Ltd. 23% ICOGUANTI S.p.A. 27.5% CK Regen Systems Co. Ltd. 23% Haylex Japan 30% Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd. (Reduced rate applicable till 31st December, 2017) 11.5% P: 232 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 12. Earnings Per Share Basic Earnings per Share The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted Earnings per Share The calculation of diluted earnings per share is based on the profit attributable to ordinary shareholders and the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding after adjustment for the effect of all potentially dilutive ordinary shares. There were no potentially dilutive ordinary shares outstanding at any time during the year/previous year. Basic/diluted earnings per share are calculated as follows: Consolidated 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Profit attributable to equity holders of the Company (Rs. '000) 1,853,641 1,037,822 Weighted average number of ordinary shares (i) 75,000,000 75,000,000 Basic/diluted earnings per share (Rs.) 24.72 13.84 (i) Qualifying ordinary shares at beginning of the year 75,000,000 75,000,000 Qualifying ordinary shares at the end of the year 75,000,000 75,000,000 13. Dividends Company 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 First and Final proposed Rs. 4.50 per share (2012 Rs. 4.00 per share) 337,500 300,000 Total dividends 337,500 300,000 Dividend per ordinary share (Rs.) 4.50 4.00 (i) The dividends represent redistribution of dividends received by the Company and are therefore not subject to the 10% tax deduction. (ii) The Directors have recommended a first and final dividend of Rs. 4.50/per share for the year ended 31st March, 2013 to be approved at the Annual General Meeting on 28th June, 2013. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 233 Notes to the Financial Statements 14. Property, plant & equipment A. Consolidated Land Mature/ Buildings Machinery Motor Furniture, Total immature & stores vehicles fittings & plantations equipment office equipment Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Cost or deemed cost: Gross book value Balance as at 1st April, 2011 7,720,209 4,230,492 7,087,679 12,719,106 663,782 1,708,279 34,129,548 Classification change – – – (2,821) – 2,821 – Acquisition through business combinations 474,379 – 1,374,493 197,899 66,752 127,794 2,241,317 Additions 66,695 386,247 458,174 3,214,178 232,733 311,035 4,669,061 Transfer to biological assets – (246) – – – – (246) Transfer to non-current financial assets – – – (83,231) – (187) (83,418) Transfer to investment property (211,100) – (19,325) – – – (230,425) Transfer from assets held for disposal 9,200 – – – – – 9,200 Disposals/write-off (14) – (144,864) (596,509) (53,398) (134,895) (929,680) Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates 31,521 – 98,086 505,352 (2,594) 30,131 662,497 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 8,090,890 4,616,493 8,854,243 15,953,974 907,275 2,044,978 40,467,854 Revaluation of land 2,541,335 – – – – – 2,541,335 Acquisition through business combinations 108,491 – 161,475 294,666 4,468 7,054 576,154 Additions 336,120 620,112 2,161,775 1,314,406 144,527 466,578 5,043,518 Disposals/write-off/transfer (1,100) (212,992) (45,587) (179,018) (118,619) (99,050) (656,366) Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates 16,008 – 79,537 362,391 13,693 10,494 482,123 Balance at 31st March, 2013 11,091,744 5,023,613 11,211,443 17,746,419 951,344 2,430,054 48,454,617 Depreciation: Balance as at 1st April, 2011 37,832 785,968 1,255,594 5,828,583 393,318 1,264,682 9,565,977 Acquisition through business combinations 6,071 – 5,399 81,077 4,182 6,566 103,295 Classification change – – – (3,885) – 3,885 – Depreciation for the year 31,425 109,892 233,057 868,145 130,333 183,530 1,556,382 Transfer to investment property – – (5,628) – – – (5,628) On disposals/write-off (5) – (18,062) (426,824) (36,691) (103,135) (584,716) Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates (2) – 23,705 212,778 (1,136) 21,570 256,916 Balance at 31st March, 2012 75,321 895,860 1,494,065 6,559,874 490,006 1,377,098 10,892,227 Acquisition through business combinations – – 14,254 27,125 1,561 1,405 44,345 Depreciation for the year 31,915 120,324 267,845 1,065,766 108,988 176,801 1,771,639 Disposals/write-off – – (969) (138,536) (91,374) (74,000) (304,878) Effect of movements in foreign exchange rates – – 14,819 185,491 2,337 7,345 209,991 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 107,236 1,016,184 1,790,014 7,699,720 511,518 1,488,649 12,613,323 P: 234 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Land Mature/ Buildings Machinery Motor Furniture, Total immature & stores vehicles fittings & plantations equipment office equipment Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Net book value Balance as at 1st April, 2011 7,682,377 3,444,524 5,832,085 6,890,523 270,464 443,597 24,563,570 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 8,015,569 3,720,633 7,360,178 9,394,100 417,268 667,880 29,575,627 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 10,984,508 4,007,429 9,421,429 10,046,699 439,825 941,405 35,841,295 Capital work-in-progress Balance as at 1st April, 2011 – – – – – – 802,001 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 – – – – – – 1,245,983 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 – – – – – – 1,364,423 Carrying amount Balance as at 1st April, 2011 – – – – – – 25,365,572 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 – – – – – – 30,821,610 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 – – – – – – 37,205,718 B. Company Freehold Buildings Machinery Motor Furniture, Total Land & stores vehicles fittings & equipment office As at 31st March, equipment Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Cost or deemed cost: Gross book value Balance as at 1st April, 2011 3,691,480 132,090 40,986 17,786 183,715 4,066,057 Additions – 162 – 13,771 15,566 29,499 Disposals – – (61) – (1,592) (1,653) Balance as at 31st March, 2012 3,691,480 132,252 40,925 31,557 197,689 4,093,903 Revaluation of land 1,176,520 – – – – 1,176,520 Additions – 69,515 1,334 – 40,465 111,314 Disposals – – – (5,502) (1,062) (6,564) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 4,868,000 201,767 42,259 26,055 237,092 5,375,173 Depreciation Balance as at 1st April, 2011 – 44,713 32,627 2,793 134,320 214,453 Depreciation for the year – 1,935 1,531 3,608 19,687 26,761 Disposals – – (61) – (1,230) (1,291) Balance as at 31st March, 2012 – 46,648 34,097 6,401 152,777 239,923 Depreciation for the year – 2,434 1,298 1,302 19,858 24,892 Disposals – – – (1,457) (899) (2,356) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 – 49,082 35,395 6,246 171,736 262,459 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 235 Notes to the Financial Statements Freehold Buildings Machinery Motor Furniture, Total Land & stores vehicles fittings & equipment office As at 31st March, equipment Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Net book value Balance as at 01st April, 2011 3,691,480 87,377 8,359 14,993 49,395 3,851,604 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 3,691,480 85,604 6,828 25,156 44,912 3,853,980 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 4,868,000 152,685 6,864 19,809 65,356 5,112,714 Capital work-in-progress Balance as at 01st April, 2011 6,806 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 86,045 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 20,424 Carrying amount Balance as at 01st April, 2011 3,858,410 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 3,940,025 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 5,133,138 C. Carrying Value Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 At cost 25,832,146 22,264,498 17,089,548 265,138 248,545 166,930 At valuation 8,349,638 5,808,303 5,808,303 4,868,000 3,691,480 3,691,480 On finance leases 3,023,934 2,748,808 2,467,721 – – – 37,205,718 30,821,610 25,365,572 5,133,138 3,940,025 3,858,410 (i) Total borrowing cost capitalised to-date amounts to Rs. 131.9 mn (2012Rs. 42 mn). (ii) Group property, plant & equipment includes capitalised finance leases and leasehold rights on land. The carrying amount of these assets is: Consolidated Cost Accumulated Carrying Carrying value Carrying value depreciation/ value amortisation 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Land 504,576 46,912 457,664 475,065 454,768 Mature/immature plantations 2,856,649 557,636 2,299,013 2,028,892 1,802,012 Buildings 234,546 154,327 80,219 89,304 101,905 Machinery & stores equipment 105,350 57,489 47,861 54,006 53,525 Motor vehicles 153,014 81,233 71,781 67,880 45,404 Furniture 2,702 2,044 658 1,029 980 Capital work-in-progress 66,738 – 66,738 32,632 9,127 Total 3,923,575 897,597 3,023,934 2,748,808 2,467,721 P: 236 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 (iii) Unexpired lease periods of land: Kelani Valley Plantations PLC 34 Years Kalupahana Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. 34 Years HJS Condiments Ltd. 87 Years/80 Years/22 Years Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC 32 Years Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC 56 Years Culture Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd 31 Years (iv) Amounts by which values have been written to in respect of land revalued by independent qualified valuers are indicated below, together with the last date of revaluation: Written to by 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Company Location Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Hayleys PLC Colombo (31.03.2013) 4,861,023 3,684,503 3,684,503 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. Kotugoda (31.03.2013) 551,400 389,373 389,373 Katana (31.03.2013) 155,831 – – Galle (31.03.2013) 70,577 27,096 27,096 Chas P. Hayley & Co. (Pvt) Ltd. Galle (31.03.2013) 420,037 212,800 212,800 Dipped Products PLC Kottawa (31.03.2013) 107,633 80,105 80,105 Weliveriya (31.03.2013) 70,973 53,204 53,204 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd. Weliveriya (31.03.2013) 50,925 33,900 33,900 Palma Ltd. Gonawala (31.03.2013) 35,224 27,958 27,958 Haycarb PLC Badalgama & Madampe (31.03.2013) 89,874 70,570 70,570 Wewalduwa (31.03.2013) 94,377 64,822 64,822 Recogen (Pvt) Ltd. Badalgama (31.03.2013) 26,931 18,256 18,256 Carbokarn Co. Ltd. Bangkok (31.03.2013) 25,000 – – Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. Kuliyapitiya (31.03.2013) 26,956 21,340 21,340 Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. Dambulla (31.03.2013) 1,324 – – Haychem (Pvt) Ltd. Kottawa (31.03.2013) 67,414 55,914 55,914 Haychem Bangladesh Ltd. Mymensingh (31.03.2013) 17,598 – – Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. Kalutara (31.03.2013) 28,706 22,706 22,706 Hayleys Electronics Ltd. Malabe (31.03.2013) 88,803 88,803 88,803 Hayleys Fibre PLC Ekala (31.03.2013) 185,843 180,413 180,413 Hayleys Advantis Welisara (31.03.2013) 689,832 468,756 468,756 Ravi Industries (Pvt) Ltd. Ekala (31.03.2013) 194,700 87,600 87,600 Volanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd. Welipanna (31.03.2013) 18,006 6,492 6,492 Rileys Ltd. Galle (31.03.2013) 211,555 135,608 135,608 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Katana (31.03.2013) 48,174 45,126 45,126 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. Allawwa (31.03.2013) 24,126 12,478 12,478 Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC Neboda (31.03.2013) 18,149 16,433 16,433 Hayleys Electronics Lightning (Pvt) Ltd. Hokandara (31.03.2013) 4,047 4,047 4,047 Hunas Falls PLC Elkaduwa (31.03.2013) 1,353 – – Amaya Group Kandy (31.03.2013) 55,556 – – Wadduwa (31.03.2013) 11,553 – – Alumex Ltd. Makola (31.03.2013) 96,138 – – 8,349,638 5,808,303 5,808,303 Revaluation reserve attributable to Non-controling interest (392,397) (361,891) (369,027) Share of revaluation reserve of equity accounted investees 101,833 109,695 156,380 8,059,073 5,556,107 5,595,656 Adjustment due to change in holding 34,732 155,252 3,687 8,093,806 5,711,359 5,599,343 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 237 Notes to the Financial Statements (v) Land owned by the Group is revalued as at 31st March, 2013 by and Independent chartered valuation surveyor. The valuation had been carried out based on transaction observed in the market. (vi) Land owned by the Group other than that mentioned above has been stated at cost as the appreciation in value is insignificant. Further information is provided on pages 298 to 299. There are no tax implications or tax liabilities pertaining to revaluation of land. (vii) Subject to disclosure in Note 8 Other Expenses, there has been no permanent impairment of property, plant & equipment which requires a provision. (viii) Property, plant & equipment with a carrying value of Rs. 5,750 mn and Rs. nil mn for the Group and Company respectively have been pledged as security for term loans obtained. The details are shown in Note 25. (ix) The carrying value of revalued land given above, had the said land been included at cost, would amount to Rs. 2,635 mn (Rs. 2,264 mn 2012) for the Group and Rs. 7 mn (Rs. 7 mn 2012) to the Company. (x) The cost of fully depreciated Property plant & equipment which are still in use at the reporting date is as follows: Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Buildings 50,274 44,237 – – Machinery and equipment 1,734,865 2,315,269 15,700 15,074 Furniture, fittings and office equipment 982,714 626,330 94,827 84,653 Motor vehicles 238,057 280,018 – – 3,005,918 3,265,854 110,527 99,727 D. Capital Expenditure Commitments The approximate amounts of capital expenditure approved by the Directors as at 31st March, 2013 were: Capital expenditure contracted for which no provision is made in the financial statements Rs. 467 mn (Rs. 704 mn 2012). Capital expenditure approved by the Directors but not contracted for Rs. 1,274 mn (Rs. 1,539 mn 2012). 15. Investment Properties A. Cost Land Buildings Total Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Cost Balance as at 1st April, 2011 23,650 – 23,650 Additions 8,008 – 8,008 Transfer from property, plant & equipment 211,100 19,324 230,424 Acquisitions through business combinations 432,000 – 432,000 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 674,758 19,324 694,082 Additions – – – Balance as at 31st March, 2013 674,758 19,324 694,082 P: 238 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Land Buildings Total Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 B. Depreciation Balance as at 1st April, 2011 Charge for the year – 93 93 Transfer from property, plant & equipment – 5,628 5,628 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 – 5,721 5,721 Charge for the year – 320 320 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 – 6,041 6,041 Net book value Balance as at 1st April, 2011 23,650 – 23,650 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 674,758 13,603 688,361 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 674,758 13,283 688,041 C. Rental income 2013 2012 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rental income derived from investment properties 15,381 5,633 – Direct operating expenses generating rental income – – – Direct operating expenses that did not generate rental income – – – Net profit arising from investment properties 15,381 5,633 – D. Investment property is stated at cost. The fair value of the investment property as at 31st March, 2013 is given below by P.B. Kalugalgedara & Associates (Chartered Valuation Surveyor & Estate Agents), an accredited independent, industry specialist. The valuations had been carried out based on transactions observed in the market. The details of fair value of investment property of the Group is as follows: Land in Value of Building Area Acres Building Value of land Total Company Location (Sq. Ft.) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Hayleys Fibre PLC Ekala Estate , Minuwangoda Road, Ekala 53,880 6.30 7,382 251,900 259,282 Haycarb PLC 333/25, New Road Hunuputiya Wattala 12,240 0.97 5,901 54,460 60,361 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. Weyagala Estate, Elkaduwa, Matale – 65.06 – 34,600 34,600 Eastern Hotels (Pvt) Ltd . Nilakarai Estate, Nilaweli, Trincomalee – 23.47 – 432,000 432,000 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 239 Notes to the Financial Statements 16. Biological Assets Consolidated Rs. ’000 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 161,780 Increase due to development 4,040 Change in fair value of biological assets 26,046 Transfer from property, plant & equipment 246 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 192,112 Increase due to development 11,697 Change in fair value of biological assets 31,171 Transfer from receivables 40 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 235,020 Managed trees include commercial timber plantations cultivated on estates. The cost of immature trees is treated at approximate fair value particularly on the ground that little biological transformation has taken place and impact of the biological transformation on price is not material. When such plantations become mature, the additional investments since taken over to bring them to maturity are transferred from Immature to Mature. The fair value of managed trees was ascertained since LKAS 41 is only applicable for managed agricultural activity in terms of the ruling issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. The valuation was carried by Messrs Sunil Fernando Associates, chartered valuers, using discounted cash flow methods. In ascertaining the fair value of timber a physical verification was carried out covering all the estates. Key assumptions used in valuation 1. The harvesting is approved by the PMMD and Forest Department based on the forestry development plan. 2. The prices adopted are net of expenditure. 3. Discount rate is 17.5%. 4. Though the replanting is a condition precedent for harvesting, yet the costs are not taken into consideration. The valuations, as presented in the external valuation models based on net present values, take into account the long-term exploitation of the timber plantations. Because of the inherent uncertainty associated with the valuation at fair value of the biological assets due to the volatility of the variables, their carrying value may differ from their realisable value. The Board of Directors retains the view that commodity markets are inherently volatile and that long-term price projections are highly unpredictable. Hence, the sensitivity analysis regarding selling price and discount rate variations as included in this note allows every investor to reasonably challenge the financial impact of the assumptions used in LKAS 41 against his own assumptions. The carrying amount of biological assets pledged as securities for liabilities are nil for the year 2013 (2012 nil). Sensitivity Analysis Sensitivity variation on sales price Values as appearing in the Statement of Financial Position are very sensitive to price changes with regard to the average sales prices applied. Simulations made for timber show that a rise or decrease by 10% of the estimated future selling price has the following effect on the net present value of biological assets: P: 240 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Group as at 31st March, 2013 Selling price fluctuation -10% 0 +10% Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Managed timber 206,540 235,020 246,016 Total 206,540 235,020 246,016 Sensitivity variation on discount rate Values as appearing in the Financial Position are very sensitive to changes in the discount rate applied. Simulations does on value of managed timber trees show that a rise or decrease by 1.5% of the estimated future selling price has the following effect on the net present value of biological assets: Group as at 31st March, 2013 Discounting rate fluctuation -1.5% 0 +1.5% 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Managed timber 233,971 235,020 218,489 Total 233,971 235,020 218,489 17. Intangible Assets Right to generate ERP Customer Operating hydro power Goodwill system Brand name list Lease Total Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost Balance as at 01st April, 2011 100,971 2,255,777 60,116 – – 1,153,746 3,570,610 Transferred From Property, plant & equipment – – 6,465 – – – 6,465 Acquisition through business combinations – 1,425,048 – 148,183 152,420 23,365 1,749,016 Additions – – 75,481 – – – 75,481 Disposals/write off – – (1,808) – – – (1,808) Effect of movements in exchange rates – – 882 – – – 882 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 100,971 3,680,825 141,135 148,183 152,420 1,177,111 5,400,645 Acquisition through business combinations – 138,595 – – – – 138,595 Additions – – 128,046 – – – 128,046 Disposals/write off (3,181) – – – – – (3,181) Effect of movements in exchange rates – – (2,296) – – – (2,296) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 97,790 3,819,420 266,886 148,183 152,420 1,177,111 5,661,810 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 241 Notes to the Financial Statements Right to generate ERP Customer Operating hydro power Goodwill system Brand name list Lease Total Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Amortisation Balance as at 01st April, 2011 8,982 136,095 36,807 – – 19,555 201,439 Transferred From Property, plant & equipment – – 301 – – – 301 Disposals/write off – – (1,808) – – – (1,808) Amortisation for the year 4,165 – 11,824 – – 19,555 35,544 Effect of movements in exchange rates – – 790 – – – 790 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 13,147 136,095 47,913 – – 39,110 236,265 Amortisation for the year 5,578 – 53,406 – 30,484 20,571 110,039 Effect of movements in exchange rates – – (433) – – – (433) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 18,725 136,095 100,887 – 30,484 59,681 345,872 Net book value Balance as at 01st April, 2011 91,989 2,119,682 23,309 – – 1,134,191 3,369,171 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 87,824 3,544,730 93,222 148,183 152,420 1,138,001 5,164,380 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 79,065 3,683,325 165,999 148,183 121,936 1,117,430 5,315,938 Capital work in progress – – 42,610 – – – 42,610 Carrying amount Balance as at 01st April, 2011 3,369,171 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 5,164,380 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 5,358,548 (i) The aggregate carrying amount of goodwill allocated to each unit is as follows: Rs. mn Dipped Products PLC 97 Dipped Products Group Companies 33 Advantis Group Companies 98 Haycarb Group Companies 202 Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 8 Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC 633 Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. 134 Haylex BV 10 Alumex Ltd. 1,052 Amaya Leisure PLC 1,415 P: 242 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 (ii) There has been no permanent impairment of intangible assets that requires a provision. Methods used in estimating recoverable amounts are given below: The recoverable value of the Dipped Products PLC and Hunas Falls Hotels PLC, were based on fair value less cost to sell and others were based on value in use. Value in use was determined by discounting the future cash flows generated from the continuing use of the unit and key assumptions used are given below: Business growth Based on historical growth rate and business plan Inflation Based on the current inflation rate and the percentage of the total cost subjected to inflation Discount rate Average market borrowing rate adjusted for risk premium Margin Based on current margin and business plan (iii) Remaining amortisation period of Rights to Generate Hydropower. Carrying amount Remaining amortisation period Rs. ’000 96 months 2,512 117 months 1,718 156 months 39,056 Total 43,286 (iv) The Group has recognised an intangible asset in respect of operating leases acquired from the acquisition of Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC and Amaya Leisure PLC since the terms of the operating lease are favourable relative to market terms. Intangible asset from the Leasehold right is the revalued value of the land over the present value of future lease rentals to be paid. Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC 56 years Amaya Leisure PLC 22 years (v) The Group has recognised the brand name as an intangible asset for the Amaya chain of hotels from the acquisition of Amaya Leisure PLC. ‘Amaya’ brand is a well established name in the leisure sector. Management is of the opinion that the brand name will be a key attraction in the booming leisure sector. (vi) The Group has recognised an intangible asset in respect of customer relationship on the acquisition of Amaya Leisure PLC. The established customer list of Amaya Hotels is acknowledged as a key component in generation of revenue through travel agents and tour operators. The management is of the opinion that the company is capable of retaining the travel agents through business relationship strategies and this would ensure retention and lead to repeat business over the future years and inflow of future economic benefits from them. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 243 Notes to the Financial Statements 18. Investments A. Company Investment in Subsidiaries % Holding No. of Shares As at 1st April, As at 1st April, 2013 2012 2011 2013 Movement 2012 Movement 2011 Investee Quoted investments Haycarb PLC (Rs. 3,542 mn) 68 68 68 20,125,103 – 20,125,103 – 20,125,103 Hayleys Fibre PLC (Rs. 151 mn) 65 65 65 5,200,000 – 5,200,000 – 5,200,000 Dipped Products PLC (Rs. 2,764 mn) 42 41 41 24,902,073 125,993 24,776,080 – 24,776,080 Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC (Rs. 1,221 mn) 79 55 57 119,683,817 91,545,365 28,138,452 – 28,138,452 Amaya Leisure PLC (Rs. 1,482 mn) 40 40 – 19,366,234 – 19,366,234 19,366,234 – Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC (Rs. 895 mn) 38 38 38 66,762,690 – 66,762,690 – 66,762,690 256,039,917 164,368,559 19,366,234 145,002,325 Unquoted investments Hayleys Photoprint Ltd. 100 100 100 6 – 6 – 6 Haylex BV 100 100 100 1,000 – 1,000 – 1,000 Chas P. Hayley & Co. Ltd. 100 100 100 999,920 – 999,920 – 999,920 Ravi Industries Ltd. 86 86 86 10,773,750 – 10,773,750 6,224 10,767,526 Hayleys Group Services Ltd. 100 100 100 10,000 – 10,000 – 10,000 Hayleys Electronics Ltd. 98 98 98 951,855 – 951,855 – 951,855 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. 49 49 49 5,882,351 – 5,882,351 – 5,882,351 Hayleys Advantis Ltd. 93 93 92 33,643,657 67,760 33,575,897 73,340 33,502,557 Volanka Exports Ltd. 4 4 3 118,050 11,418 106,632 15,519 91,113 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 5 5 5 423,300 – 423,300 – 423,300 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. 6 6 11 2,500,000 – 2,500,000 – 2,500,000 XL Industries Ltd. – 99 99 – (2,662,601) 2,662,601 – 2,662,601 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. 62 62 46 6,440 – 6,440 – 6,440 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt.) Ltd. 18 17 17 1,215,126 32,580 1,182,546 13,998 1,168,548 Hayleys Produce Marketing Ltd. 100 100 100 250,000 – 250,000 – 250,000 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. 75 75 75 27,578,769 – 27,578,769 – 27,578,769 HJS Condiments Ltd. 9 8 8 1,131,571 138,552 993,019 3,851 989,168 Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. – – 33 – – – (6,700,002) 6,700,002 Hayleys Agro Holdings Ltd. 97 96 96 18,848,202 52,041 18,796,161 20,442 18,775,719 Hayleys Consumer Products Ltd. 99 98 98 19,349,014 106,445 19,242,569 55,014 19,187,555 Hayleys Industrial Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 38,748,400 – 38,748,400 – 38,748,400 Hayleys Business Solutions International (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 15,000,000 – 15,000,000 – 15,000,000 Hayleys Leisure Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 2,000,000 – 2,000,000 – 2,000,000 Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd. 30 30 – 29,900,000 – 29,900,000 29,900,000 – Quality Seeds Co. Ltd. 74 49 – 1,878,000 55,000 1,823,000 1,235,000 – Alumex Ltd. 60 60 60 1,200,010 – 1,200,010 – 1,200,010 212,421,411 214,620,216 24,623,386 189,408,830 Company investment in subsidiaries (at cost) 468,461,328 378,988,775 43,989,620 334,411,155 Provision for fall in value of investment made by the Company Hayleys Electronics Ltd. XL Industries Ltd. Company investment in subsidiary (i) Countries of incorporation of overseas subsidiaries are given in Note 34. P: 244 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Value Rs. '000 As at 1st April, 2013 Movement 2012 Movement 2011 47,204 – 47,204 – 47,204 3,575 – 3,575 – 3,575 377,775 14,162 363,612 – 363,612 1,393,061 823,908 569,153 – 569,153 2,084,086 – 2,084,086 2,084,086 – 1,408,629 – 1,408,629 – 1,408,629 5,314,330 838,071 4,476,259 2,084,086 2,392,173 – – – – – 25,733 – 25,733 – 25,733 698 – 698 – 698 15,255 – 15,255 178 15,077 100 – 100 – 100 95,687 – 95,687 – 95,687 9,904 – 9,904 – 9,904 331,436 3,613 327,823 3,948 323,875 1,982 66 1,916 247 1,669 4,233 – 4,233 – 4,233 10,333 – 10,333 – 10,333 – (53,818) 53,818 – 53,818 23,107 – 23,107 – 23,107 13,080 1,152 11,928 351 11,577 2,532 – 2,532 – 2,532 308,004 – 308,004 – 308,004 13,844 3,363 10,481 63 10,418 – (67,000) 67,000 246,306 2,554 243,752 938 242,814 250,028 860 249,168 443 248,725 387,484 – 387,484 – 387,484 150,000 – 150,000 50,000 100,000 20,000 – 20,000 – 20,000 154,204 – 154,204 154,204 – 3,707 1,747 1,960 1,960 – 1,386,905 – 1,386,905 – 1,386,905 3,490,062 (40,463) 3,495,025 145,332 3,349,693 8,804,392 797,608 7,971,284 2,229,418 5,741,866 (95,687) – (95,687) – (95,687) – 35,500 (35,500) – (35,500) 8,673,205 833,108 7,840,097 2,229,418 5,610,679 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 245 Notes to the Financial Statements B. Company/Group Investment in Equity Accounted Investees % Holding As at 2013 2012 1st April, Investor Investee 2011 Unquoted investments Hayleys PLC Quality Seed Co. Ltd. – 23 23 Transfer to subsidiaries – – – Hayleys Plantation Services Ltd. – – – Transfer to subsidiaries – – – World Call Telecommunications 26 26 26 Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. – – – Company Investment in equity accounted investees (at cost) Provision for impairment of investments Worldcall Telecommunications Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Carrying value of company investment in equity accounted investees Unquoted Investments Haycarb PLC Quality Seed Co. Ltd. – – 6 Transfer to subsidiaries – – – Carbotels Ltd. – – – Jetwing Hotels Ltd. – – 40 Tropical Villas (Pvt) Ltd. – – 40 Eastern Hotels Ltd. – – 47 Transfer to subsidiaries – – – Negombo Hotels Ltd. 30 30 30 Haychem Ltd. Quality Seed Co. Ltd. – – 20 Transfer to subsidiaries – – – Hayleys Photoprint Ltd. Worldcall Telecommunications Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 3 3 3 Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. – – – Hayleys Advantis Group Logiwiz Fiji (Pvt) Ltd. – 49 49 NYK Logistics & Kusuhara Lanka ( Pvt) Ltd. 30 30 30 Mountain Hawk Investment Company Ltd . – 50 50 Transfer to subsidiaries – – – Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. – – – Transfer to subsidiaries – – – Volanka Exports Ltd. PT Tulus Lanka Coir Industries 45 45 45 Hayleys Industrial Solutions Ltd. TTEL Hydro Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. – – – Transfer to subsidiaries – – – TTEL Somerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. – – – Transfer to subsidiaries – – – Provision for fall in value of investments PT Tulus Lanka Coir Industries World Call Telecommunication Lanka ( Pvt) Ltd. Group investments in Equity accounted investees (at cost) P: 246 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 No. of Shares Value 2013 Movement 2012 Movement As at 1st April, 2013 Movement 2012 Movement As at 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 2011 – – 588,000 – 588,000 – – 1,960 – 1,960 – – (588,000) (588,000) – – – (1,960) (1,960) – – – – – – – – – – 67,000 – – – – – – – – – (67,000) 2,700,000 – 2,700,000 – 2,700,000 27000 27000 – 27000 – – – – 27,000 – 27,000 (1,960) 28,960 – 27,000 – 27,000 (1,960) 28,960 – (27,000) – (27,000) (27,000) – – – – (1,960) 1,960 – – 147,000 – 147,000 – – 490 – 490 – – (147,000) (147,000) – – – (490) (490) – – – – – – – – – – – – – (20,000) 20,000 – – – (21,217) 21,217 – – – (4,137,720) 4,137,720 – – – (41,805) 41,805 – – 186,744 – 186,744 – – 26,117 – 26,117 – – (186,744) (186,744) – – (26,117) (26,117) 60,000 – 60,000 – 60,000 127,794 127,794 – 127,794 – – 500,000 – 500,000 – – 5,000 – 5,000 – – (500,000) (500,000) – – – (5,000) (5,000) – 300,000 – 300,000 – 300,000 3,000 3,000 – 3,000 – – – – – – – – – – (88,199) 88,199 – 88,199 – (6,532) 6,532 – 6,532 195,000 – 195,000 – 195,000 1,950 – 1,950 – 1,950 750,000 – 750,000 – 750,000 7,500 – 7,500 – 7,500 (750,000) (750,000) – – – (7,500) (7,500) – – – – – – 3,600,000 – – – – 48,000 – – – – (3,600,000) – – – – (48,000) 164,250 – 164,250 – 164,250 17,776 – 17,776 – 17,776 – – – 3,366,300 – – – – 33,663 – – – – (3,366,300) – – – – (33,663) – – – – 2,940,000 – – – – 29,400 – – – – (2,940,000) – – – – (29,400) 150,520 (14,032) 164,552 (94,629) 259,181 177,520 (14,032) 191,552 (96,589) 288,141 – – – – – (17,776) – (17,776) – (17,776) (27,000) – (27,000) – (27,000) 132,744 (14,032) 146,776 (96,589) 243,365 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 247 Notes to the Financial Statements Consolidated Share of post acquisition Investment at cost profit/(loss) & MI Adj. Net assets 1st April, 1st April, 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2013 2012 2011 As at 31st March Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Quality Seed Co. Ltd. – – 7,450 – – – – 29,566 Carbotels equity accounted investees 127,794 127,794 216,933 3,985 (327,822) 247,873 243,888 571,710 World Call Telecommunications Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 30,000 30,000 30,000 – – – – – NYK Logistics & Kusuhara Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 1,950 1,950 1,950 251 (2,126) 20,930 20,679 22,805 Logiwiz Fiji (Pvt) Ltd – 6,532 6,532 (11,691) – – 11,691 11,691 Mountain Hawk Investment Company Ltd – 7,500 7,500 (29,374) 21,874 – 29,374 7,500 PT Tulus Lanka Coir Industries 17,776 17,776 17,776 – – 10,091 10,091 10,091 177,520 191,552 288,141 (36,829) (308,074) 278,894 315,723 653,363 Transferred to other long term investments – – – – – (10,091) (10,091) (10,091) Group Investments in equity accounted investee 177,520 191,552 288,141 (36,829) (308,074) 268,803 305,632 643,272 (i) Summarised financial information of equity accounted investees Following information has not adjusted for group share: 2013 2012 As at 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Assets and liabilities Total assets 2,226,993 2,244,559 1,915,167 Total liabilities 1,587,785 (1,386,689) (596,273) 2013 2012 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Revenue and profit Total revenue 709,696 672,107 Total profit after tax (4,615) 28,863 (ii) The Company has neither contingent liabilities nor capital commitments in respect of it's equity accounted investees. (iii) The Group has not recognised following shares of its losses in respect of its equity investments, since the Group has no further obligation in respect of those losses beyond its investments. P: 248 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Cumulative For the year As at 31st March, 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 World Call Telecommunications Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (31,290) (30,639) (28,120) (651) (2,519) (4,741) (31,290) (30,639) (28,120) (651) (2,519) (4,741) (iv) Countries of incorporation of overseas equity accounted investees are given in Note 34. C. Inter-Company Shareholdings % Holding No. of Shares Investor Investee 1st April 1st April 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Agro Technica Ltd. Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 1 1 1 75,000 75,000 75,000 Chas P. Hayley & Co. Ltd. Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 2 2 2 169,267 169,267 169,267 Hayleys Electronics Ltd. 2 2 2 14,975 14,975 14,975 Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 12,000,000 12,000,000 12,000,000 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. 38 38 28 3,920 3,920 3,920 Hayleys Advantis Group 1 1 1 488,369 488,369 488,369 Chas P. Hayley & Co. (Pvt) Ltd. – – – 80 80 80 Amaya Leisure PLC 21 21 – 10,252,300 10,252,300 – Dipped Products PLC Palma Ltd. 100 100 100 4,000,000 4,000,000 4,000,000 Grossart (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 4,200,000 4,200,000 4,200,000 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 8,000,000 8,000,000 8,000,000 Feltex (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 DPL Plantations (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 55,000,000 55,000,000 35,000,000 Neoprex (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 4,000,000 4,000,000 4,000,000 Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd. (100 Bhat) 99 99 99 4,516,248 3,700,290 3,700,290 Texnil (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 7,500,000 7,500,000 7,500,000 ICOGuanti SpA (Italy) (€1 – each) 61 55 55 1,100,000 1,100,000 1,100,000 Hanwella Rubber Products Ltd. 73 73 70 18,152,000 18,152,000 6,090,000 DPL Plantations Ltd. Kelani Valley Plantations PLC 71 71 71 24,200,000 24,200,000 24,200,000 Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. 66 66 33 13,400,000 13,400,000 6,700,000 Haycarb PLC Dipped Products PLC 7 7 7 4,068,746 4,068,746 4,068,746 Eurocarb Products Ltd. (UK) (£1 each) 100 100 100 100,000 100,000 100,000 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 249 Notes to the Financial Statements % Holding No. of Shares Investor Investee 1st April 1st April 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Haycarb Value Added Products (Pvt) Ltd. 100 – – 25,000,000 – – Haycarb Holdings Australia (Pty.) Ltd. (Aus $ 1 each) 100 100 100 150,000 150,000 150,000 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. 25 25 25 9,290,341 9,290,341 9,290,341 Carbocarn Co. Ltd. (100 Baht, 72% paid-up) 50 50 50 250,000 250,000 250,000 Puritas (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 700,000 700,000 700,000 Recogen (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 37,000,000 37,000,000 37,000,000 Kinetics (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 4,088,367 4,088,367 4,088,367 Haymark Inc. (Texas, USA) 100 100 100 stocks stocks stocks Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. ($ 1 – each) 100 100 100 1,400,000 1,400,000 1,400,000 PT Mapalus Makawana Charcoal Industry (IDR 1,000,000) 2 2 2 707 707 707 Ultracarb (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 – 25,000,000 20,000,000 20,000,000 Quality Seeds Co. Ltd. 6 6 6 147,000 147,000 147,000 Carbocarn Co. Ltd. CK Regen Systems Co. Ltd. 100 100 100 150,000 150,000 150,000 Shizuka Co. Ltd. 100 – – 200,000 – – Puritas (Pvt) Ltd. Lakdiyatha (Pvt) Ltd. 49 49 – 2,450,000 2,450,000 – Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry (IDR 1,000,000) 98 83 83 36,935 30,830 30,830 Haychem (Pvt) Ltd. Haychem Bangladesh Ltd. (100 Taka) – 100 100 – 10,000 10,000 Hayleys Mgt Knitting PLC – 2 2 – 848,774 848,774 Quality Seeds Co. Ltd. – 20 20 – 500,000 500,000 Haylex B.V. HJS Condiments Ltd. – 2 2 – 309,374 309,374 Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. Agro Technica Ltd. 93 93 93 2,329,894 2,329,900 2,329,900 Haychem (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 4,400,000 4,400,000 4,400,000 Hayleys Agro Fertilizers (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 51 5,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000 Hayleys Agro Farms (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 1,500,000 1,500,000 1,500,000 Hayleys Agro Bio-Tech (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 7,500,000 7,500,000 7,500,000 HJS Condiments Ltd. 59 54 – 7,399,343 7,089,969 – Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 93 93 – 7,445,000 7,445,000 – Haychem Bangladesh Ltd. 100 – – 90,702 – – Hayleys Mgt Knitting Mills PLC 2 – – 2,546,322 – – Quality Seeds Co. Ltd. 20 – – 500,000 – – X I L Industries Ltd. (Usha) – 0 – – 5,898 5,898 Hayleys Fibre PLC Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. – – 6 – – 500,000 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 34 34 15 1,015,602 1,015,602 1,015,602 Bonterra Lanka Ltd. 50 50 50 803,394 803,394 803,400 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. 19 21 34 7,750,000 7,750,000 7,750,000 HJS Condiments Ltd. – – 12 – – 1,561,607 P: 250 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 % Holding No. of Shares Investor Investee 1st April 1st April 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Hayleys Industrial Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 60,000 60,000 60,000 Bhagya Hydro (Power) (Pvt) Ltd. – 100 100 – 3,500,000 3,500,000 Hayleys Hydro Energy (Pvt) Ltd. – 51 51 – 6,120,000 6,120,000 Hayleys Lifesciences Ltd. 100 100 100 3,000,002 3,000,002 3,000,002 Power Engineering Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 320,002 320,002 320,002 Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd. 21 21 21 21,100,000 21,100,000 21,100,000 TTEL Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. – 49 49 – 3,366,300 3,366,300 TTEL Summerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. – 49 49 – 2,940,000 2,940,000 Hayleys Power Ltd. 100 – – 16,417,241 – – Hayleys Hydro Energy (Pvt) Ltd. Neluwa Cascade Hydro (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 11,910,001 11,910,002 11,910,002 Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC 75 75 75 17,750,000 17,750,000 17,750,000 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC TTEL Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 51 51 51 3,519,000 3,519,000 3,519,000 TTEL Summerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 51 51 51 3,060,000 3,060,000 3,060,000 Hayleys Advantis Group Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. 1 1 1 50,000 50,000 50,000 Hayleys Mgt Knitting Mills PLC 2 2 2 3,693,690 1,231,230 1,231,230 Ravi Industries Ltd. Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. 31 31 54 12,250,000 12,250,000 12,250,000 Dipped Products PLC 1 1 1 567,000 567,000 567,000 Ravi Marketing Services Ltd. 100 100 100 10,000 10,000 10,000 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. Haymat (Pvt) Ltd. 54 54 54 216,000 216,000 216,000 Creative Polymats (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 5,000,000 5,000,000 5,000,000 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. 2 2 2 235,294 235,294 235,294 Super Felt (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 4,680,000 4,680,000 4,680,000 Amaya Leisure PLC 2 2 – 816,400 816,400 – Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. Dipped Products PLC 8 8 8 4,873,640 4,873,640 4,873,640 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. – – 87 – – 6,945,000 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 22 22 22 1,455,832 1,455,832 1,455,832 HJS Condiments Ltd. – – 42 – – 5,528,362 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. 49 49 49 5,882,353 5,882,353 5,882,353 Volanka Exports Ltd. 100 100 100 2,900,000 2,900,000 2,900,000 Volanka Insurance Services (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 59,000 59,000 59,000 Rileys Ltd. 44 44 – 17,500,000 17,500,000 – Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 50 50 50 2,824,820 2,824,820 2,824,280 Eastern Hotel (Pvt) Ltd. 96 93 47 894,304 373,485 186,744 Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC 13 13 13 23,000,000 23,000,000 23,000,000 Volanka Exports Ltd. O E Techniques Ltd. (Oleo Essences & Perfumes) 100 100 100 10,000 10,000 10,000 Amaya Leisure PLC 1 1 – 642,900 642,900 – FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 251 Notes to the Financial Statements % Holding No. of Shares Investor Investee 1st April 1st April 2013 2012 2011 2013 2012 2011 Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Kalupahana Power Project Co. (Pvt) Ltd. 60 60 60 1,800,000 1,800,000 1,800,000 Kelani Valley Green Tea (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 2,000,000 2,000,000 1,020,000 Kelani Valley Instant Tea (Pvt) Ltd. 95 95 75 2,850,000 2,850,000 2,250,000 Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 9,000,000 9,000,000 9,000,000 Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys Mgt Knitting PLC 1 1 1 508,933 508,933 232,701 Hayleys Leisure Holdings (Pvt) Ltd Air Global (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 1,000,000 1,000,000 1,000,000 Millenium Transportation (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 100,000 100,000 100,000 North South Lines (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 135,000 135,000 135,000 Hayleys Travels and Tours (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 1,780,000 1,780,000 1,780,000 Alumex Ltd. Alutec Extrusions (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 26 10,000,000 10,000,000 2,505,000 Avro Enterprises (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 – 25,002 25,002 2 Alco Industries (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 – 3,000,000 3,000,000 3,000,000 Hayleys Consumer Products Ltd. Hayleys Consumer Marketing (Pvt) Ltd. – 100 100 – 3,500,000 3,500,000 Hayleys Electronics (Lighting) (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 100 600,000 600,000 600,000 Amaya Leisure PLC Kandyan Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 – 29,784,000 29,784,000 – Culture Club Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 100 100 – 27,779,004 27,779,004 – The Beach Resorts Ltd. 85 85 – 6,176,790 6,176,790 – Hunas Falls Hotels PLC 16 – – 899,000 – – Hayleys Power Ltd. Bhagya Hydro (Pvt.) Ltd 100 – – 3,500,000 – – Hayleys Hydro Energy (Pvt.) Ltd. 51 – – 6,120,001 – – TTEL Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 49 – – 3,366,300 – – Kiridiweldola Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 100 – – 121,862 – – TTEL Summerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 49 – – 2,940,000 – – Anningkanda Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. 100 – – 119,080 – – P: 252 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 19. Other Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities A. Other Non-Current Financial Assets Loans and Total Available-for-sale instruments receivables Unquoted Quoted equity Receivables from equity shares shares finance lease Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Balance as at 01st April, 2011 213,172 21,439 – 234,611 Additions 108 – – 108 Acquisition through business combinations 24,000 75,476 – 99,476 Transfer from property, plant & equipment – – 85,498 85,498 Change in fair value (11,683) (22,359) – (34,042) Balance as at 31st March, 2012 225,597 74,556 85,498 385,651 Transfer to investments in subsidiary (354) – – (354) Change in fair value (13,905) (7,981) 3,559 (18,327) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 211,338 66,575 89,057 366,970 Available-for-sale instruments unquoted shares Rs. ’000 Company Balance as at 01st April, 2011 204,114 Change in fair value (12,470) Balance as at 31st March, 2012 191,644 Change in fair value (12,470) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 179,174 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 253 Notes to the Financial Statements Investment Details As at 1st April, 2011 2012 2013 Investee No. of Shares Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Unquoted equity shares Hayleys PLC Prudentia Investment Corporation Ltd. 4,215,000 42,150 42,150 42,150 Impairment in Prudentia Investment (42,150) (42,150) (42,150) Corporation Ltd. AES Kelanitissa (Pvt) Ltd. 24,940,613 162,114 149,644 137,174 Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology (Pvt) Ltd. 4,200,000 42,000 42,000 42,000 33,355,613 204,114 191,644 179,174 Hayleys Industrial Solutions 350,000 shares in Hydro Trust Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 350,000 3,500 3,500 3,500 350,000 3,500 3,500 3,500 Dipped Product PLC Wellassa Rubber Company Ltd. 255,000 2,550 2,550 2,550 Impairment in Wellassa Rubber Company Ltd. – – (2,550) 255,000 2,550 2,550 – Haycarb Group Barrik Gold Corporation Aus. 27.20 each 3,456 94 94 94 3,456 94 94 94 Hayleys Advantis Group SLAFFA Cargo Services Ltd. 38,571 2,665 3,453 4,570 38,571 2,665 3,453 4,570 Chas P Hayleys Investment in Charles Fibre – 123 177 – – 123 177 – Lignocell Investment in Charles Fibre 123 177 – – 123 177 – Amaya Leisure PLC Lake Lodge Resort (Pvt) Ltd. – – 24,000 24,000 – – 24,000 24,000 Total – 213,172 225,597 211,338 Quoted equity shares Dipped Products PLC Royal Ceramic Lanka PLC 1,100 30 25 22 1,100 30 25 22 Hayleys Advantis Group Ceybank Unit Trust 200,000 8,302 5,638 5,074 Pyramid Unit Trust 200,000 8,066 5,518 5,848 Comtrust Equity Fund 200,000 5,042 3,392 3,732 600,000 21,410 14,548 14,654 Amaya Leisure PLC Royal Ceramic Lanka PLC 521,600 – 59,984 51,899 521,600 – 59,984 51,899 Total – 21,439 74,556 66,575 Loans and Receivables Haycarb Group – – 85,498 89,057 – – 85,498 89,057 P: 254 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 B. Other Current Financial Assets Financial instruments at fair value Total Available-for-sale instruments through profit or loss Unquoted Quoted equity Quoted debt Foreign exchange Quoted equity equity shares shares securities forward contract shares Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Balance as at 01st April, 2011 5,799 34 3,060 29,726 22,429 61,048 Additions – 8,780 – – 40,535 49,315 Acquisition through business combination – – – – 18,974 18,974 Disposals (500) (34) (60) (26,722) (11,240) (38,556) Change in fair value – (1,815) – 110,601 (23,864) 84,922 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 5,299 6,965 3,000 113,605 46,834 175,703 Disposals – (4,064) (3,000) (2,166) (8,866) (18,096) Change in fair value – 342 – (110,476) 2,265 (107,869) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 5,299 3,243 – 963 40,233 49,738 Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Quoted equity shares Rs. ’000 Company Balance as at 01st April, 2011 20,709 Additions 33,856 Disposals (7,562) Change in fair value (14,763) Balance as at 31st March, 2012 32,240 Disposals (8,866) Change in fair value (596) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 22,778 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 255 Notes to the Financial Statements Investment Details As at 1st April, 2011 2012 2013 Investor Investee No. of Shares Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Unquoted equity shares AFS Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Cambron Exports (Pvt) Ltd 500 – – Mabroc International (Pvt) Ltd. 732 732 732 Mabroc Japan Co. 4,567 4,567 4,567 Total 5,799 5,299 5,299 Quoted equity shares FVTPL Hayleys PLC Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC 112 11 8 8 ACL Cables PLC 260 11,962 7,966 17 Asiri Hospitals PLC 49 11 – 17 Blue Diamond Jewellery Worldwide PLC – – – – Central Industries PLC 7,957 865 630 497 Ceylinco Insurance Co. PLC – 55 – – Aviva NDB Insurance PLC – 15 10 – Ceylon Cold Stores PLC 252 63 23 34 DFCC Bank PLC 338 58 38 44 Kelani Tyres PLC 17,200 905 456 593 Lanka ORIX Leasing Co. PLC 1,520 182 82 87 Lanka Tiles PLC – 2 – – National Development Bank PLC 20,681 3,528 2,543 3,412 Seylan Bank PLC – 7 – – Three Acre Farms PLC 1,840 3,044 938 78 Overseas Realty PLC 70,000 – 945 980 Pan Asia Power PLC 1,600,000 – 4,160 4,320 Access Engineering Ltd. 400,000 – 10,680 7,880 Hatton National Bank PLC Non-Voting 15,000 – 1,417 1,977 Hatton National Bank 5,000 – 765 837 Environmental Resources Investment PLC 5,000 – 85 78 Hunters & Company PLC 1,500 – 525 463 Seylan Bank PLC 350 – – 108 Textured Jersey Lanka PLC 136,100 – 968 1,347 2,283,159 20,709 32,239 22,778 Hayleys Advantis Group Textured Jersey Lanka PLC 160,000 – 1,152 1,584 Union Bank PLC 100,000 – 1,750 1,660 Hatton National Bank PLC – – 4,064 – 260,000 – 6,966 3,244 P: 256 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 As at 1st April, 2011 2012 2013 Investor Investee No. of Shares Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. ACL Cables PLC 4,120 387 258 270 Asiri Hospitals PLC 270 2 2 3 Bairaha Farms PLC 900 361 117 135 Blue Diamonds Jewellery Worldwide PLC 13 – – – Central Industries PLC 900 86 63 56 Ceylinco Sec & Fin Services PLC 1,300 14 13 12 Aviva NDB Insurance PLC 30 9 6 11 Lanka ORIX Leasing Co. PLC 3,280 392 177 187 Three Acre Farms PLC 2,000 336 104 85 Kelani Tyres PLC 2,000 105 53 69 Vanik Incorporation PLC voting 7,500 6 6 6 non-voting 5,000 4 4 4 UR 007 – 16 – – Seylan Bank PLC 43 – 3 3 Browns Investments PLC 186,200 – 614 614 Textured Jersey Lanka PLC 136,100 – 980 1,347 349,656 1,720 2,400 2,801 Amaya Leisure PLC The Fortress Resorts PLC 90,075 – 1,549 1,351 LB Finance PLC 20 – 3 3 Free Lanka Capital Holdings PLC 5,320,000 – 10,640 13,300 5,410,095 – 12,192 14,654 Total 22,429 46,834 40,233 Quoted debt securities AFS Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Vanik Incorporation PLC Debenture 60 – – Seylan Bank PLC Debentures 3,000 3,000 – Total 3,060 3,000 – Foreign exchange forward contracts FVTPL Dipped Products Group 19,097 3,004 838 Haycub Group 10,629 – 125 Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd. – 110,601 – Total 29,726 113,605 963 Quoted equity shares AFS Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Sampath Bank PLC 34 – – Advanties Group Textured Jursey Lanka PLC 160,000 – 1,152 1,584 Union Bank PLC 100,000 – 1,750 1,660 Hatton National Bank PLC – 4,064 – Total 34 6,966 3,244 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 257 Notes to the Financial Statements C. Other Financial Liabilities Balance as at 2013 2012 1st April 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss Foreign exchange forward contracts – 81,617 2,042 – 81,617 2,042 Total other current financial liabilities – 81,617 2,042 Total other non-current financial liabilities – – – 20. Other Non-Current Assets Consolidated 2013 2012 1st April 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Cost 371,607 337,447 298,270 Provision for impairment (180,960) (148,717) (131,250) 190,647 188,730 167,020 21. Inventories Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Raw materials & consumables 4,203,077 3,691,944 3,189,473 1,282 920 1,396 Produce stocks 1,851,907 2,840,832 845,719 – – – Nurseries 26,071 – – – – – Work-in-progress 762,502 884,446 705,573 – – – Finished goods 3,701,818 3,064,395 3,678,802 – – – Goods-in-transit 189,582 221,502 262,030 – – – 10,734,957 10,703,118 8,681,597 1,282 920 1,396 Provision for unrealised profit and write-down of inventories (369,376) (305,507) (209,566) – – – 10,365,582 10,397,611 8,472,031 1,282 920 1,396 (i) Carrying amount of inventories pledged as security for Bank facilities obtained amounted to Rs. 1,745 mn (2012 Rs. 1,517 mn). (ii) Inventory carried at net realisable value as at 31st March, 2013 Rs. 189 mn (2012Rs. 45 mn). P: 258 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 22. Trade and Other Receivables/Other Current Assets 22.1 Trade and other Receivables Consolidated Company As at 31st March, 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Trade receivables 10,276,760 7,978,120 7,271,845 – – – Bills receivable 2,043,961 2,880,153 2,409,518 – – – Payments in advance, deposits 3,576,058 3,803,202 2,788,691 57,759 79,376 44,545 Impairment for trade and other receivables (655,002) (837,797) (818,972) (32,182) (32,182) (30,736) 15,241,777 13,823,678 11,651,082 25,577 47,194 13,809 Duty rebate receivable 7,668 5,651 – – – – Advances made under employee share ownership schemes 657 135 3,701 – – – Employee Loans 37,765 36,204 – – – – 15,287,867 13,865,668 11,654,783 25,577 47,194 13,809 A. Movement in the Provision for Impairment Consolidated Company Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 (818,972) (30,736) Charge for the year (18,824) (1,446) Balance as at 31st March, 2012 (837,797) (32,182) Reversal for the year 182,795 – Balance as at 31st March, 2013 (655,002) (32,182) B. The Aging Analysis of Trade Receivables is as follows: Neither past Pass due but not impaired due nor Total Impaired 0-60 days 61-120 days 121-180 days 181-365 days > 365 days Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 15,287,867 7,321,253 6,884,997 686,571 129,981 16,461 248,605 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 259 Notes to the Financial Statements C. Currency-wise Analysis of Trade and Other Receivables Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rupees 7,972,264 7,902,262 9,265,309 25,577 47,194 13,809 Australian Dollars 220,329 101,316 175,953 Pounds Sterling 147,083 164,086 205,654 United States Dollars 3,903,565 2,878,157 1,600,687 Euro 2,035,904 2,327,166 179,423 Thai Baht 346,283 217,751 131,834 Indian Rupees 148,263 34,657 – Other 514,176 240,273 95,923 15,287,867 13,865,668 11,654,783 25,577 47,194 13,809 22.2 Other Current Assets Prepayments 907,905 484,818 450,917 14,670 5,245 4,749 Pre paid staff benefit 71,002 66,181 31,488 VAT receivables 253,224 73,668 39,615 1,232,130 624,667 522,020 14,670 5,245 4,749 23. Stated Capital Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Issued & fully-paid ordinary shares of Rs. 10/each At the beginning of the year 75,000,000 (1st April, 2011 75,000,000) 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 At the end of the year 75,000,000 (31st March, 2012 75,000,000) 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 The holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled to one vote per share at meetings of the Company. B. Employee Share Trust Loan The Hayleys PLC. Employees' Share Trust was set up by a special resolution adopted by the shareholders at an Extraordinary General Meeting of the Company. The Trust was allotted 2,400,000 ordinary shares of Rs. 10/each on 9th February,1998 at the market price of Rs. 210/per share, payment for the shares being made by the Trustees from the proceeds of an interest-free loan of Rs. 504 mn, granted by the Company. This loan is repayable by the Trustees utilising part of the net income of the Trust. The market value of the shares held by the Trust as at 31st March, 2013 was Rs. 2,048 mn (31st March, 2012 Rs. 2,468 mn). P: 260 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 C. Treasury Shares Treasury shares represent the ordinary shares of Hayleys PLC that were held by group companies. These shares were disposed during 2011/12 for a consideration of Rs. 2,596 mn and the details of the shareholdings as at 01st April, 2011 were as follows: No. of Value Company shares held Rs. Dipped Products PLC 3,536,159 156,101 Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. 2,922,413 214,000 Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 232,737 11,370 Volanka Exports (Pvt) Ltd. 183,275 17,431 6,874,584 398,902 24. Other Capital Reserves and Retained Earnings A. Other Capital Reserves Capital profit Fixed asset Capital reserve Capital Debenture Reserve on Total on redemption replacement on sale of redemption redemption amalgamation of debentures reserve property, plant reserve fund reserve fund & equipment Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Consolidated Balance as at 1st April, 2011 109 11,750 66,734 39,886 1,047 296,824 416,350 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries – – 22,662 17,323 – 3,616 43,601 Transfers – – Balance as at 31st March, 2012 109 11,750 89,396 57,209 1,047 300,440 459,951 Changes in ownership interests in subsidiaries – – 8 54 – 147,843 147,905 Transfers 2,440 2,440 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 109 11,750 89,404 59,703 1,047 448,283 610,296 Capital profit Fixed asset Capital reserve Debenture Total on redemption replacement on sale of redemption of debentures reserve property, plant reserve fund & equipment Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Company Balance as at 31st March, 2011 109 11,750 320 1,047 13,226 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 109 11,750 320 1,047 13,226 Balance as at 31st March, 2013 109 11,750 320 1,047 13,226 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 261 Notes to the Financial Statements B. Retained Earnings Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Holding company 1,805,332 1,759,448 1,015,717 1,805,332 1,759,448 1,015,717 Subsidiaries 6,859,401 5,732,308 3,540,764 – – – Equity accounted investees 70,347 86,313 122,639 – – – 8,735,080 7,578,069 4,679,120 1,805,332 1,759,448 1,015,717 25. Interest-Bearing Borrowings A. Total Non-Current Interest-Bearing Borrowings Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Finance lease obligations 637,603 649,431 631,822 – – – Debentures 40,000 40,000 40,000 – – – Long-term loans 4,993,551 4,522,905 3,869,334 910,000 1,386,667 1,680,000 Total Non-current interest-bearing borrowings 5,671,153 5,212,336 4,541,156 910,000 1,386,667 1,680,000 B. Current Portion of Interest-Bearing Borrowings Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Finance lease obligations 24,794 34,043 27,026 – – – Debentures – – – – – Long-term loans 1,559,747 1,972,278 1,721,655 476,667 506,667 720,000 Total current interest-bearing borrowings 1,584,541 2,006,321 1,748,681 476,667 506,667 720,000 The amount of undrawn borrowing facilities that may available for future operations and capital commitments, given in page 30 to the Financial Statements. P: 262 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 C. Finance Lease Obligations Consolidated Gross lease Finance charges Net lease liability unamortised obligations Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 2,809,000 (2,150,151) 658,848 New leases obtained 32,728 – – Reassessment of lease liability (40,769) – – Acquisitions through business combinations 31,819 – – Repayments (81,680) – – Balance as at 31st March, 2012 2,751,097 (2,067,623) 683,474 New leases obtained 16,558 – – Reassessment of lease liability (33,453) – – Repayments (84,488) – – Balance as at 31st March, 2013 2,649,714 (1,987,181) 662,533 D. Currency-wise Analysis of Finance Lease Obligations Consolidated As at 31st March, 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rupees 646,745 671,322 642,395 Taka – 12,152 16,453 Thai Baht 15,788 – – 662,533 683,474 658,848 E. Analysis of Finance Lease Obligations by Year of Repayment Consolidated 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Finance lease obligations repayable within 1 year from year-end Gross liability 106,889 117,379 112,142 Finance charges unamortised (82,096) (83,336) (85,116) Net lease obligations repayable within 1 year from year-end (i) 24,794 34,043 27,026 Finance lease obligations repayable between 1 and 5 years from year-end Gross liability 365,702 375,962 353,467 Finance charges unamortised (318,809) (319,702) (300,670) Net lease obligations (i) 46,894 56,260 52,796 Finance lease obligations repayable after 5 years from year-end Gross liability 2,184,489 2,263,341 2,340,129 Finance charges unamortised (1,593,780) (1,670,170) (1,761,103) Net lease obligations (i) 590,709 593,171 579,026 Net lease liability repayable later than 1 year from year-end 637,603 649,431 631,822 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 263 Notes to the Financial Statements Liability to make lease payment as above was previously titled as ‘Net Liability to lessor’. The change was in terms of the Statement of Recommended Practice (SoRP) issued by The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka on 19th December, 2012. Group has reassessed the above liability as of 1st January, 2011 as per the provisions of SoRP and the impact to the Financial Statements is given in Note 5. Kelani Valley Plantations PLC According to the reassessment, the base rental payable per year has increased from Rs. 19.60 mn to Rs. 56.84 mn to be in line with the present rental and the implicit interest rate applicable for the lease liability has increased from 4% to 13% recognising the historical change in average GDP deflator. Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC According to the reassessment, the base rental payable per year has increased from Rs. 7.22 mn to Rs. 22.73 to be in line with the present rental and the implicit interest rate applicable for the lease liability has increased from 4% to 13% recognising the historical change in average GDP deflator. F. Debentures Consolidated 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 At beginning of the year 40,000 40,000 40,000 Repayments during the year – – (95,000) At end of the year 40,000 40,000 40,000 Repayable after one year 40,000 40,000 40,000 4,000,000 (par value Rs. 10/-) unquoted debentures, were issued to LVL Energy Fund (Pvt) Ltd. at 15%, by Neluwa Cascade Hydro Energy (Pvt) Ltd. to finance its Hydropower Project capital requirements. These debentures are redeemable/convertible to preference shares. G. Currency-wise Analysis of Debentures Consolidated 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rupees 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 P: 264 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 H. Analysis of Debentures by Year of Repayment Consolidated 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Long-term loans repayable between 2 and 5 years from year-end 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 40,000 I. Long-Term Borrowings Consolidated Company Total long-term Repayable Repayable after Total long-term Repayable Repayable after borrowings within one year borrowings within one year one year one year Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 5,590,989 1,721,655 3,869,334 2,400,000 720,000 1,680,000 Acquisitions through business combinations 27,446 – – – – – Effect of movements in exchange rates 151,960 – – – – – Transfer to short-term borrowings 91,477 – – – – – New loans obtained 2,557,233 – – – – – Repayments (1,923,922) – – (506,667) – – Balance as at 31st March, 2012 6,495,183 1,972,278 4,522,905 1,893,333 506,667 1,386,667 Acquisitions through business combinations 96,668 – – – – – Effect of movements in exchange rates (24,021) – – – – – New loans obtained (i) 2,074,754 – – – – – Repayments (2,089,286) – – (506,666) – – Balance as at 31st March 2013 6,553,298 1,559,747 4,993,551 1,386,667 476,667 910,000 (i) Hotel Services PLC, Haycarb Group, Hayleys Advantis Group, Amaya Leisure PLC have obtained loans during the year amounting to Rs. 800 mn, Rs. 480 mn, Rs. 250 mn, Rs. 75 mn, respectively. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 265 Notes to the Financial Statements J. Currency-wise Analysis of Long-Term Borrowings Consolidated Company As at 31st March, 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rupees 4,362,585 4,070,155 4,183,276 1,386,667 1,893,333 2,400,000 Australian Dollars 6,079 – – – – – Sterling Pounds 50,756 – – – – – United States Dollars 1,816,273 2,041,812 613,831 – – – Euro 157,460 154,082 161,974 – – – Taka 10,335 11,850 – – – – Thai Baht 149,810 217,285 631,908 – – – Other – – – – – – 6,553,298 6,495,183 5,590,989 1,386,667 1,893,333 2,400,000 K. Analysis of Long-Term Borrowings by Year of Repayment Consolidated Company As at 31st March, 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Long-term loans repayable between 1 and 2 years from year-end 1,679,838 1,041,123 1,731,742 466,667 476,667 753,000 Long-term loans repayable between 2 and 5 years from year-end 2,915,599 2,400,402 1,705,430 443,333 910,000 927,000 Long-term loans repayable later than 5 years from year-end 398,125 1,081,380 432,162 – – – 4,993,561 4,522,905 3,869,334 910,000 1,386,667 1,680,000 L. Long-Term Borrowings Repayable after One Year Company Lender/rate 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Hayleys PLC HNB (AWPLR 1%) 710,000 1,100,000 1,330,000 To be paid bi-annually None DFCC (AWPLR +0.5%) 200,000 286,667 350,000 Quarterly instalments None H J S Condiments Ltd. NDB (8.79%) – – 3,300 60 monthly instalments Mortgage over land and building starting from March, 2008 till February, 2013 BOC (6.5%) – 1,686 4,067 60 monthly instalments Mortgage over plant and machinery starting from February, 2009 till January, 2014 Venigross Pvt) Ltd. NDB (6.5%) – – 4,624 Monthly Instalments ending Mortgage over land and building August, 2012 Kalupahana Power Co. NDB (AWDR + 4%) – – 22,000 Quarterly instalments Mortgage over heater at Weliveriya (Pvt) Ltd. ending March, 2013 Primary Mortgage over sub, leasehold rights of Kalupahana Power Co (Pvt) Ltd. and machinery equipment of the Company P: 266 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Company Lender/rate 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 ICO Guanti SpA Alessandria Financing 133,022 125,722 134,823 Repayment over 2 years as None 1.95% (Euro per agreed schedule 1,000,000) BNL (6.5%) Euro – – 9,236 Monthly instalments ending None 100,000) July, 2011 Dipped Products Thai Military Bank – 9,567 124,592 Monthly instalments Mortgage over land, building and (Thailand) Ltd. Public Company Ltd. ending June 2012 machinery MLR 0.75% (Baht 150,000,000) HSBC Thailand 265,250 409,491 305,452 Monthly instalments Mortgage over land, building and Minimum of 4.25% ending July 2015 machinery and corporate guarantee 1 month by Parent Company. LIBOR+ 2% (USD 4 mn) Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Union Bank 5% 5,724 – – 954 x 18 instalment ending Primary mortgage over blending 31.08.2013 machine. Kelani Valley NDB (11.51%) – 3,008 7,518 Monthly instalments Primary mortgage of Rs. 255 mn Plantations PLC ending August, 2013 over the leasehold rights of Panawatta and Pedro Estates NDB (11.51%) 1,853 6,300 10,748 Monthly instalments have been pledged and a letter of ending May, 2014 undertaking from DPL Plantations NDB (6.5%) – 1,500 6,000 Monthly instalments (Pvt) Ltd. was given to subordinate ending May, 2013 management fee and dividends in a default situation of term loan. DFCC Bank (9.42%) 34,533 45,733 56,933 Monthly instalments Primary mortgage over the ending March, 2017 leasehold rights of Halgolla, WeOya, Polatagama and Enderapola DFCC Bank (6.5%) 4,164 8,706 13,249 Monthly instalments Estates and a letter of undertaking ending November, 2014 from DPL Plantations (Pvt.) Ltd. was DFCC Bank (11.64%) 40,000 51,428 62,857 Monthly instalments given to subordinate management ending June, 2017 fee and dividends in a default DFCC Bank (6.5%) 7,633 12,722 17,809 Monthly instalments situation of the term loan. ending June, 2015 Primary mortgage of Rs: 348 mn over the leasehold right of DFCC Bank (6.5%) 3,334 5,001 6,669 Monthly instalments Halgolla, We-Oya, Polatagama and ending December, 2015 Enderapola Estates and letter of DFCC Bank (6.5%) 347 2,427 4,507 Monthly instalments undertakings from DPL Plantation ending February, 2014 (Pvt) Ltd. was given to subordinate Seylan Bank (12%) – – 18,126 management fee and dividends in a default situation of term loan. Toyo Cushion HNB 3,335 11,603 22,312 Monthly, ending Stocks and debtors Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 19.12.2014 Haycarb Holding Capital Finance 3,857 5,317 – 35 equal instalments + one Mortgage over vehicles (Australia) Pty Ltd. (FIxed 9.75%) final payment commencing (LIBOR + 4%) 2006/07 Recogen Ltd. DFCC (6.5%) – 2,500 12,500 Monthly instalments over Corporate guarantee by Haycarb five years commencing 07.01.2008 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 267 Notes to the Financial Statements Company Lender/rate 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Haycarb PLC Commercial Bank 69,904 90,531 – Monthly instalments None (LIBOR + 3.75%) over 5 years commencing June, 2011 HSBC (LIBOR + 3.5%) 76,134 92,052 – Monthly instalments None over 5 years commencing June, 2011 Commercial Bank 88,094 – – 47 equal monthly None (LIBOR + 5.25%) instalments commencing November, 2013 Standard Chartered 126,890 – – 60 equal monthly Mortgage over the share certificate Bank instalments commencing of Haycarb Value Added Products (LIBOR + 4%) September, 2012 (Pvt) Ltd. amounting to Rs. 250 mn Shizuka Co. Ltd. Bangkok Bank 57,025 – – 60 monthly instalments Mortgage over company land and (LIBOR + 4% p.a.) commencing October, guaranteed by related person. 2010 Lakdiyatha (Pvt) Ltd. Hatton National Bank 47,876 55,913 – Monthly instalments over Development agreement entered (LIBOR + 4.75%) seven years commencing between Sri Lanka Tourism 01.01.2013 Development Authority and Lakdiyatha (Pvt) Ltd. CK Regen Systems Kasikorn Ban, Thailand 31,500 62,894 – Monthly instalments Mortgage over Land & Building. Co. Ltd. MLR 0.05% over five years commencing 10.01.2011 PT Mapalus Bank Panin Manado 41,882 57,128 – Monthly instalments over Mortgage over Land & Building. Makawanua Fixed 8% five years commencing Charcoal Industry September, 2011 Haycarb Holding Commercial Bank 81,452 – – Payable in 59 monthly Corporate guarantee for US $ Bitung Ltd. (LIBOR + 4%) instalments of UD $ 13,300 80,000 from Haycarb PLC. each and a final instalment of US $ 15,300 Logiventures Pvt Ltd. HSBC AWPLR+2%) 202,000 – – Payable in 83 monthly Land instalments of Rs. 3 mn and I instalment of Rs.1 mn Logiventures (Pvt) Ltd. HSBC (LIBOR + 4%) – – 9,205 Repayment over 3 years as Corporate Guarantee per agreed schedule Hayleys Agriculture Hatton Nation Bank 144,200 – – Monthly Instalment None Holdings Ltd. PLC Rs. 8.1 mn PLR plus 2% TTEL Hydro Power Sampath Bank PLC 87,386 102,532 115,766 12 monthly instalments Primary mortgage bond over (Pvt) Ltd. 3 months average commence from January, leasehold rights for Rs. 132.3 mn AWDR + 4% p.a. 2010 repayable within project assets. 8 years P: 268 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Company Lender/rate 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Neluwa Cascade NTB (3m TB + 1.3%) 10,000 40,000 80,000 24 quarterly instalment Primary mortgage bond over project Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. commencing December, land and assets for Rs. 180 mn 2008 supported by a corporate guarantee from Hayleys Industrial Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. for Rs. 180 mn. Hayleys Industrial NDB Bank 56,250 93,750 131,250 48 monthly instalments Rs. 150 mn corporate guarantee Solutions Ltd. (AWPLR + 1.99%) commencing from from Hayleys PLC. 31st October, 2011 Bhagya Hydro Sampath Bank 7,275 17,235 22,215 95 monthly instalments Loan agreement for Rs. 39.5 mn. Power (Pvt) Ltd. (AWDR + 5%) commencing September, primary concurrent mortgage for 2007 of Rs. 410,000/Rs. 78 mn over free hold properties and a final instalment of of the project. Rs. 550,000/Seylan Bank 7,620 7,911 12,642 95 monthly instalments Rs. 39.5 mn to be secured by a (AWDR + 5%) from September, 2007 primary concurrent mortgage over of Rs. 430,000/and a freehold land and project assets. final instalment of Rs. 422,000/-. Hayleys MGT Commercial Bank 472 3,545 – 71 monthly instalments of Corporate guarantee. Knitting Mills PLC 6.5% US$ 2,545 (Rs. 280,000/-) Commercial Bank 11,506 14,925 – 96 monthly instalments of Mortgage over machinery. 6.5% US$ 2,886 (Rs. 312,500/-) Commercial Bank – 20,582 75,759 48 monthly instalments of Primary mortgage over machinery. 1 month (LIBOR + 5%) US$ 25,000 each. Bank of Ceylon – 28,868 59,462 42 monthly Instalments of Primary mortgage over machinery. 3 months US$ 31,250 each. (LIBOR + 5%) HSBC 1 Month 65,421 48 monthly instalments None (LIBOR + 4.75%) US $ 31250 each TTEL Sommerset HNB (AWDR + 4%) 32,592 51,146 66,314 12 monthly instalments Registered primary mortgage bond Hydro Power Company commence from for Rs. 112 over lease rights of the (Pvt) Ltd. December, 2008 repayable property. Corporate Guarantee of within 7 years TTEL and HISL for Rs. 112 mn in the proportionate of 51% and 49% respectively. Lignocell Pvt Ltd. HNB – 5,000 – 24 monthly instalments None FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 269 Notes to the Financial Statements Company Lender/rate 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Talawakelle Tea Estates NDB Bank 9.42% 58,498 70,203 – 96 monthly instalment PLC ending 31.12.2018 NDB Bank 13.25% 115,270 144,705 340,562 60 monthly instalments Primary Mortgage over leasehold ending 30.11.2017 rights od Somerset, Great Western, Holyrood, Logie and NDB Bank 13.07% 91,671 96,497 – 60 monthly instalments Dessford estates. ending 30.06.2023 NDB Bank 13.07% 13,500 15,000 – 60 monthly instalments ending 30.09.2023 Sampath Bank 64,129 77,173 140,217 92 monthly instalments Primary mortgage bond for (10.24%) ending 30.11.2018 Rs. 100 mn over leasehold right of Mattakelle Estate Sampath Bank 50,000 50,000 – 48 Monthly instalments Primary mortgage bond for (10.24%) ending 30.09.2018 Rs. 30 mn over leasehold rights of Clarendon Estate. Secondary mortgage over leasehold right to the value of Rs. 20 mn of Deniyaya estate. Commercial Bank – – 4,115 Monthly instalments Primary floating mortgage for commencing September, Rs. 109 mn over leasehold rights of 2011 Radella, Palmerstone and Handford Estates. Hatton National Bank 14,000 – – 96 monthly instalments (AWDR + 4%) ending 30.01.2018 Ravi Industries Ltd. HNB 3M (Euro+3.75) 1,672 4,106 5,976 Quarterly instalments None from December, 2010 HNB LKR 13% 6,175 18,399 – Equal monthly instalments Primary mortgage over specific from September, 2012 machinery. USD 17,291 – – Equal monthly instalments from September, 2012 PABC 3M 7,508 10,327 – Equal monthly instalments Primary mortgage over specific (Euro + 3.75) from October, 2011 machinery. PABC (Libor + 4.25) 7,394 10,118 – Equal monthly instalments Primary mortgage over specific from March, 2012 machinery. Volanka Ltd. DFCC 4% 64,286 78,574 95,000 One year mercy period loan Primary mortgagee over an repayment starting from allotment of land with buildings January, 2012 Rileys Ltd. NDB Bank 16% – – 2,680 33 monthly instalments None from August, 2009 Alumex Ltd. Commercial Bank 4,108 11,260 18,413 2007 April to 2014 October Mortgage over land. 6.5%+AWPLR Alutec Extrutions Commercial Bank 18,018 39,593 56,776 November, 2010 to Mortgage over land & building . (Pvt) Ltd. 6.5% + AWPLR October, 2014 Alumex (Pvt) Ltd. LOLC 6.5% + AWPLR 13,542 19,792 32,292 June, 2010 to June, 2016 Mortgage over machinery. Alutec Extrutions Commercial Bank/ 17,695 – – 36 monthly instalments None (Pvt) Ltd. (AWPLR +1.5%) end May, 2016 P: 270 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Company Lender/rate 31.03.2013 31.03.2012 01.04.2011 Repayment Security of interest (p.a.) Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Alumex (Pvt) Ltd. Commercial Bank – 928 4,108 48 monthly instalments Mortgage over vehicle. 1%+AWPLR Hotel Services PLC Bank of Ceylon 1,200,000 400,000 – 7-year including Mortgage on leasehold right of the (AWPLR + 0%) 1 & 1/2 year grace period land. Haychem Bangladesh CBCL/15% p.a. 7,155 9,057 – 60 monthly equal Registered mortgage over land instalments and building. Haycolour Ltd. HNB (14.12%) – 480 – Rs. 280,000 monthly None instalments DFCC (9.75%) – – 3,839 Monthly instalments over None 5 years Amaya Hills NDB/AWPLR + 2% 9,844 17,172 – 48 monthly instalments Amaya Hills Property. commencing from March, 2011 Amaya Lake NDB/AWPLR + 2% 14,316 21,760 – 48 monthly instalments Amaya Hills Property. commencing from January, 2011 Nirmalapura Wind Power HSBC/LIBO + 3.25% 604,374 594,369 48 monthly instalments Mortgage over land. 4,993,551 4,522,905 3,869,334 26. Deferred Income A. Grants (i) Consolidated Rs. ’000 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 792,868 Grants received during the year 37,582 Amortised during the year (52,780) Balance as at 31st March, 2012 777,670 Grants received during the year 58,114 Amortised during the year (52,562) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 783,222 (i) Grants received for the Group is as follows: Plantation Sector Received from the Plantation Reform Project (PRP), Plantation Human Development Trust, Ministry of Community Development, Asian Development Bank, Social Welfare Project, Estate Infrastructures Development Project, Plantation Development Support Project, Ceylon Electricity Board, Tea Board and Rubber Development Division of the Ministry of Plantations Industry. Haycarb Group Received from the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce under the promotion of Eco-efficient Productivity Project. Hunas Falls Hotels PLC Received from the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce as a grant to finance the project on conversion of the diesel fried boiler to Dendro Thermal Power. Agriculture Sector Received from USAID for construction of which was constructed of Gherkin Storage Facilities (Vats) in Padiyathalawa Eastern Province. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 271 Notes to the Financial Statements 27. Deferred Taxation A. Deferred Tax Asset Consolidated 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Net deferred tax liability 682,995 647,378 630,797 Deferred tax asset 352,206 239,301 166,777 Deferred tax liability 1,035,201 886,679 797,574 B. Net Deferred Tax Liability Consolidated Rs. '000 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 630,797 Amount reversal during the year (78,214) Acquisition through business combinations 68,264 Effect of movements in exchange rates 26,531 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 647,378 Amount originating during the year 37,535 Effect of movements in exchange rates (1,918) Balance as at 31st March, 2013 682,995 C. Net deferred tax liabilities are attributable to the following as at the year end: Consolidated 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Deferred tax assets Tax effect of defined benefit obligation (586,740) (412,539) (317,386) Tax effect of tax loss carried forward (283,214) (41,312) (59,856) Tax effect of provisions (33,343) (20,527) (33,812) Others (6,282) (132) (903,297) (480,659) (411,186) Deferred tax liabilities Tax effect of property, plant & equipment 1,586,292 1,128,037 1,041,983 Net deferred tax liabilities 682,995 647,378 630,797 P: 272 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 28. Employee Benefit Obligations Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Present value of unfunded gratuity 4,285,224 3,956,872 3,414,621 372,714 335,194 265,128 Total present value of the obligation 4,285,224 3,956,872 3,414,621 372,714 335,194 265,128 Consolidated Company 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Balance as at 1st April, 2011 3,335,442 259,857 Amortisation of transitional liability Acquisition through business combinations 48,721 – Effect of movements in exchange rates 906 – Benefits paid by the plan (344,783) (3,218) Current service costs 257,589 15,190 Interest cost 301,266 17,825 Actuarial losses 227,761 29,651 Balance as at 31st March, 2012 3,921,370 333,279 Amortisation of transitional liability Exchange difference 18,879 – Benefits paid by the plan (416,613) (30,970) Current service costs 324,815 19,802 Interest cost 405,873 38,822 Actuarial losses 30,900 11,781 Balance as at 31st March 2013 4,285,224 372,714 Consolidated Company 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 The expense is recognised in the following line items in the Income Statement Cost of sales 22,294 20,946 854 805 Administrative expenses 739,295 860,138 69,551 75,835 761,589 881,084 70,405 76,640 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 273 Notes to the Financial Statements LKAS 19 ‘Employee Benefits’ requires the use of actuarial techniques to make a reliable estimate of the amount of retirement benefit that employees have earned in return for their service in the current and prior periods and discount that benefit using the Projected Unit Credit Method in order to determine the present value of the retirement benefit obligation and the current service cost. This requires an entity to determine how much benefit is attributable to the current and prior periods and to make estimates about demographic variables and financial variables that will influence the cost of the benefit. The following key assumptions were made in arriving at the above figure: Rate of discount 11% Salary increase 10% Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on a 67/70 mortality table, issued by the Institute of Actuaries, London. The demographic assumptions underlying the valuation are with respect to retirement age, early withdrawals from service and retirement on medical grounds. The Group’s and Company's employee benefit obligations would have been Rs. 3,597 mn (2012 Rs. 3,425 mn) and Rs. 217 mn (2012 305 mn) respectively, as at the Balance Sheet date had the Group calculated its retirement benefit obligation as per the requirements of the Payments of Gratuity Act No. 12 of 1983, applying the basis of computation given in page 201. Sensitivity Analysis Salary/Discount Rate Values appearing in the Financial Statements are very sensitive to the changes in financial and non-financial assumptions used. A sensitivity was carried out as follows: A one percentage point change in the discount rate Consolidated Company +1% -1% +1% -1% Effect on the present value of defined benefit obligation 3,890,259 4,482,877 365,615 390,609 29. Trade and Other Payables/Provisions 29.1 Trade and Other Payables Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Trade payables 4,081,647 3,255,361 3,168,951 – – – Bills payable 1,716,121 2,245,297 1,284,092 – – – Other payables including accrued expenses 5,086,014 4,084,935 3,465,899 241,076 131,044 75,833 Unclaimed dividends 76,170 80,063 124,001 41,054 38,862 35,147 10,959,952 9,665,656 8,042,943 282,130 169,906 110,980 P: 274 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 (i) Currency-wise Analysis of Trade and Other Payables Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rupees 6,574,293 6,243,354 6,867,362 282,130 169,906 110,980 Pounds Sterling 25,776 8,690 11,552 – – – United States Dollars 2,859,060 2,435,792 1,136,012 – – – Euro 952,437 760,229 4,643 – – – Thai Baht 408,405 157,983 4,800 – – – Indian Rupees 7,205 12,260 14,553 – – – Other 132,776 47,348 4,021 – – – 10,959,952 9,665,656 8,042,943 282,130 169,906 110,980 29.2 Provisions Maintenance Other Total warranties Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 As at 1st April, 2011 13,914 17,915 31,829 Arising during the year 10,585 5,362 15,947 Utilised – (5,657) (5,657) Unused amounts reversed (5,533) – (5,533) As at 31st March, 2012 18,966 17,620 36,586 Arising during the year – 7,750 7,750 Utilised (1,419) (5,685) (7,104) As at 31st March, 2013 17,547 19,685 37,232 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 275 Notes to the Financial Statements 30. Income Tax Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 A. Income Tax Recoverable At the end of the year (See Note B) 228,895 147,762 170,917 3,840 4,644 5,501 Consolidated Company 2013 2013 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 B. Income Tax Payable Net Movement as at 1st April, 2011 228,135 (5,501) Subsidiaries’/parents’ taxation on current year’s profit 842,824 5,216 Irrecoverable economic service charge 19,726 – Under provision in respect of previous years 3,829 125 Tax on dividend 126,559 – Acquisition of subsidiary 261 – Exchange gain (4,868) – Payments made during the year (1,066,718) (4,484) Net movement for the year ended 31st March, 2012 149,748 (4,644) Subsidiaries’/parents’ taxation on current year's profit 1,134,736 17,489 Irrecoverable economic service charge 2,012 – Over provision in respect of previous years (582) – Tax on dividend 232,169 – Acquisition of subsidiary 20 – Exchange loss 44 – Payments made during the year (1,175,911) (5,010) Net movement for the year ended 31st March, 2013 342,237 7,835 Consolidated Company Net movement Income tax Income Tax Net movement Income tax Income Tax for the year recoverable payable for the year recoverable payable Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Balance as at 01st April, 2011 228,135 170,917 399,052 (5,501) 5,501 – Balance as at 31st March, 2012 149,748 147,762 297,510 (4,644) 4,644 – Balance as at 31st March, 2013 342,237 228,895 571,132 7,835 3,840 11,675 P: 276 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 31. Short-Term Interest-Bearing Borrowings Consolidated Company 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 2013 2012 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rupees 11,087,832 9,125,659 4,128,312 4,667,302 2,232,831 1,032,426 Australian Dollars 83,622 – 5,151 – – – Sterling Pounds – 2,043 7,808 – – – United States Dollars 3,582,289 5,256,583 5,015,629 – – – Euro 872,654 75,421 977,859 – – – Thai Baht 551,030 – 228,760 – – – Indunisian Ruppiah 44,037 – – – – – Bangladesh Taka 86,254 50,581 38,727 – – – 16,307,719 14,510,287 10,402,246 4,667,302 2,232,831 1,032,426 32. Contingent Liabilities and Commitments A. Contingent Liabilities and Commitments Company The contingent liability as at 31st March, 2013 on guarantees given by Hayleys PLC., to third parties amounted to Rs. 780.25 mn. (2012 Rs. 30.25 mn) of this sum Rs. 780 mn (2012 Rs. 30 mn) relate to facilities obtained by subsidiaries. Details of other guarantees are given in Note 25 to the Financial Statements. Group Contingent liability as at 31st March, 2013 on bills discounted amounted to USD 1,108,991 in respect of Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC. The contingent liability as at 31st March, 2013 on guarantees given by Haycarb PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 545.62 mn (2012 Rs. 586.23 mn). Of this sum, Rs. 308.17 mn (2012 Rs. 271.62 mn) relates to facilities obtained by its subsidiaries. The contingent liabilities as at 31st March, 2013 on guarantees given by Dipped Products PLC to third parties amounted to Rs. 866.78 mn (2012 726.30 mn). Total of this sum relates to facilities obtained by its subsidiaries. B. Commitments (i) In terms of the operating lease agreements entered into, minimum future lease payments payable for the Group is as follows: 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Repayable within one year 6,961 5,704 3,691 Repayable after one year less than 5 years 24,870 27,545 16,393 Repayable after 5 years 718,209 723,171 727,849 750,040 756,420 747,933 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 277 Notes to the Financial Statements 33. Foreign Currency Translation The principal exchange rates used for translation purposes were: Average As at 31st March, 1st April 2013 2012 2013 2012 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 United States Dollar 129.83 113.33 126.89 127.85 110.46 Australian Dollar 134.06 119.39 132.28 133.10 114.17 Pounds Sterling 205.07 181.59 192.07 204.33 177.86 Thai Baht 4.22 3.71 4.34 4.16 3.64 Bangladesh Taka 1.61 1.47 1.62 1.56 1.52 Euro 167.17 157.00 162.13 170.66 156.15 Indian Rupee 2.38 2.37 2.33 2.50 2.48 34. Functional Currency The Group’s functional currency is Sri Lankan Rupee, except in the following subsidiaries and equity accounted investees where the functional currency is different as they operate in different economic environments. Company Functional Currency Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC USD Haychem (Bangladesh) Ltd. Taka PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry Rupiah Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd. USD Eurocarb Products Ltd. Sterling Pounds Haycarb Holdings Australia (Pty) Ltd. Australian Dollars Haymark Inc. USD Carbokarn Company Ltd. Thai Baht Haylex BV Group Euro, Yen & USD Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd. Thai Baht CK Regen Systems Co. Ltd. Thai Baht ICO Guanti SpA Euro PT Tulus Lanka Coir Industries Rupiah Civaro Freight India (Pvt) Ltd. Indian Rupees Hayleylines Ltd. USD Logiwiz Logistics India (Pvt) Ltd. Indian Rupees Shizuka Co. Ltd. Thai Baht Charles Fibre (Pvt) Ltd. Indian Rupees P: 278 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 35. Events Occurring after the Reporting Date No other circumstances have arisen since the reporting date, which would require adjustments to, or disclosure in the Financial Statements other than following: (i) Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC signed an arrangement with DEG-Deutsche Investitions-und-Entwicklungsgesellschaft mbH, a German financial Institution to borrow USD 10,000,000 and the proceeds are to be received upon the completion of security documents which is under process. (ii) Directors have proposed the payment of a final dividend of Rs. 4.50 per share for the year ended 31st March, 2013 which will be declared at the Annual General meeting to be held on 28th June, 2013. In accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standard No. 10 ‘Events after Reporting Period’, the proposed final dividend has not been recognised as a liability as at the Balance Sheet date. 36. Companies with Different Accounting Years The Financial Statements of Worldcall Telecommunications Lanka (Pvt) Ltd., Hayleys Plantation Services Ltd., Haylex BV Group, Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC, Haychem Bangladesh Ltd., Kelani Valley Plantation Group (excluding Mabroc Group) , Carbokarn Co. Ltd. Haycarb Holdings Australia Group, Haymark Inc, PT Mapalus Makawanua Charcoal Industry, Haycarb Holdings Bitung Ltd., ICO Guanti SpA, Dipped Products (Thailand) Ltd., Shizuka Co. Ltd. and CK Regen System Co. Ltd. which have been drawn up to 31st December as per their reporting requirements, have been consolidated.. These Companies have been consolidated based on the Financial Statements drawn up to 31st December in compliance with LKAS 27 on ‘Consolidated and Separate Financial Statements’. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 279 Notes to the Financial Statements 37. Acquisition of Subsidiaries A. The acquisition had the following effect on the Groups’ assets and liabilities. 2013 2013 2013 2012 Acquisition of Acquisition of Shizuka Co. Ltd. Mountain Hawk (Pvt) Ltd. Total Total Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Property, plant and equipment 441,255 90,554 531,809 2,165,102 Investment property – – – 432,000 Non-current financial assets – – – 21,646 Inventories 26,499 – 26,499 35,228 Trade and other receivables 1,066 489 1,555 247,626 Current financial assets – – 114,911 Borrowings (96,668) – (96,668) (52,851) Retirement benefit obligations – – – (48,721) Deferred tax liability – – – (68,264) Trade and other payables (9,623) (7,747) (17,370) (187,984) Income tax payable (20) – (20) (261) Net identifiable assets and liabilities 362,509 83,296 445,805 2,658,432 Share of net assets accounted under equity accounted investees – (29,657) (29,657) (201,883) Minority shareholders' interests – – – (726,238) Investments – – – Dividend – – – 12,399 Goodwill/(negative goodwill) acquired/ loss on disposal 138,595 (9,907) 128,688 1,667,645 501,104 43,732 544,836 3,410,355 B. Satisfied by Cash consideration 501,104 43,732 544,836 3,410,355 Analysis of cash and cash equivalents on acquisition of subsidiary Cash consideration (84,358) (44,750) (129,108) (3,460,823) Short term borrowings (14,482) 1,018 (13,464) 76,962 Cash at bank and in hand acquired (402,264) – (402,264) (26,494) (501,104) (43,732) (544,836) (3,410,355) C. Carbokarn Company Ltd., which is a 50% owned subsidiary of Haycarb PLC, acquired 100% issued share capital of Shizuka Company Ltd. during the year. D. During the year Hayleys Advantis Ltd. acquired the controlling interest in Mountain Hawk (Pvt) Ltd. P: 280 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 38. Disposal of Equity Accounted Investees Civaro Fiji (Pvt) Ltd. was disposed during the year, details of which is given in Note 18 to the Financial Statements. 2013 Disposal of Civaro Fiji (Pvt) Ltd. Share of net assets disposed 11,691 Loss on disposal (4,671) 7,020 Satisfied by; Cash Consideration 7,020 39. Related Party Transactions (a) Parent and Ultimate Controlling Party Company does not have an identifiable parent of its own. (b) Transactions with Key Management Personnel (i) Loans to Directors No loans have been given to the Directors of the Company. (ii) Key Management Personnel Compensation Key management personnel comprises the Directors of the Company and details of compensation are given in Note 10 to the Financial Statements, and the post retirement benefits obligations changed for the year amounting to Rs. 31 mn. (iii) Other Transactions with Key Management Personnel A. The names of Directors of Hayleys PLC., who are also directors of subsidiary and equity accounted investees companies are stated on page 304 and 305. B. Details of Directors shareholdings are given in Annual Report of the Directors on the Affairs of the Company on page 303. There were no other transactions with key management personnel other than those disclosed in Note 39 to these Statements. C. The undermentioned Directors of Hayleys PLC Ltd., have leased the following residential premises to the undernoted companies in the Group: Lessor Premises Lessee Monthly Rental Rs. A.M. Pandithage No. 119, Kynsey Road, Colombo 08 Hayleys PLC 5,000 S.C. Ganegoda No. 28, Campbell Place, Dehiwala Haylays PLC 2,500 J.A.G. Anadarajah No. 66 B/7, Sri Maha Vihara Road, Dehiwala Hayleys PLC 2,826 (c) Transactions with Subsidiaries, Equity Accounted Investees and Other Related Companies Relationships with subsidiaries and equity accounted investees are explained in Note 18 Business segment classification is also given under group companies on pages 22 to 117. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 281 Notes to the Financial Statements (i) Companies within the Group engage in trading transactions under normal commercial terms and conditions. (ii) Hayleys PLC. provides office space to its group companies and charges rent. In addition, the Company incurs common expenses such as on export shipping, secretarial, legal data processing, personnel and administration functions. Such costs are allocated to group companies. During the year, payments were made to group companies for the purchase of goods and services. Details are given below: 2013 2012 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Business segment Rent Common Purchase of Rent Common Purchase of expenses goods and expenses goods and services services Fibre 4,887 76,546 1,548 6,500 71,417 779 Hand protection 17,986 76,466 12,658 16,318 70,271 2,796 Purification products 22,284 75,198 135 19,001 63,672 612 Textiles 1,052 70,145 296 3,129 42,121 174 Construction materials 16,844 68,791 36 13,912 57,299 26 Agriculture 71 17,551 0 63 12,562 0 Plantations 15,765 53,713 434 12,827 31,789 311 Industry inputs 10,368 35,150 3,411 16,477 42,836 3,544 Power & energy 1,365 2,603 0 19 1,533 0 Transportation & logistics 84,879 84,560 13,305 44,732 44,571 5,931 Consumer products 17,512 48,919 755 16,312 27,355 323 Leisure & aviation 3,580 66,254 10,280 11,571 21,621 8,603 Investments & services 12,722 16,586 12,143 555 1,745 9,743 209,316 692,482 55,001 161,415 488,794 32,842 P: 282 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Details of inter-company balances are given below: As at 01st April Company 2013 2012 As at 01st April 2011 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Equity Accounted Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Subsidiaries Investees Business segment Receivable Payable Receivable Payable Receivable Payable Receivable Fibre 74,052 – 66,301 (50,000) 32,783 – – Hand protection 8,442 – 25,311 (425,000) 33,987 – – Purification products 11,143 – 3,131 – 11,699 – – Textiles 258,748 – 99,376 – 8,812 – – Construction materials 1,778 – 3,861 – 9,668 – – Agriculture 37,424 10 26,785 – 2,665 – 751 Plantations 7,934 (486,748) 7,656 (104,964) 4,941 – – Industry inputs 45,470 (618) 6,583 – 41,563 – – Power & energy 86,477 (0) 21,472 – 2,203 – 27 Transportation & logistics 23,794 (6,024) 6,513 (25,415) 14,830 – – Consumer products 25,872 (626) 15,538 (19,191) 236,939 (18,638) – Leisure & aviation 860,597 – 12,392 (74,083) 131 (68,193) 6 Investments & services 4,719 (174,603) 219 (128,597) 267 (64,260) – 1,446,449 (668,608) 295,886 (827,250) 400,527 (151,091) 784 2013 2012 As at 01st April 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Group Equity Accounted Equity Accounted Equity Accounted Investees Investees Investees Business segment Receivable Payable Receivable Payable Receivable Payable Transportation & Logistics 1,334 (30,131) – (21,155) 3,723 (52,563) Total 1,334 (30,131) – (21,155) 3,723 (52,563) FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 283 Notes to the Financial Statements Transactions with Other Related Companies Company Relationship Name of Director Nature of Transaction Amount Sampath Bank PLC Common Directors Mr. Dammika Perera Interest 115,118 Mr. Ranil Pathirana Bank Facility 1,463,585 Outstanding 678,479 Diesel & Motor Engineering PLC Common Directors Mr. Mohan Pandithage Purchase of Goods & Services 8,293 Delmege Group Common Directors Mr. Dammika Perera Purchase of Goods & Services 28,860 Mr. Nimal Perera Sale of Goods & Services 6,143 Hirdaramani International Export (Pvt) Ltd. Common Directors Mr. Ranil Pathirana Sale of Goods & Services 16,952 LB Finance PLC Common Directors Mr. Dammika Perera Interest 4,331 Lease Rental Paid 7,334 Pan Asia Bank PLC Common Directors Mr. Nimal Perera Interest 28,564 Mr. Mangala Goonethileke Bank Facility 424,144 Outstanding 129,842 Royal Ceramics PLC Common Directors Mr. Dammika Perera Purchase of Goods & Services 41,281 Mr. Nimal Perera Mr. Mangala Goonerthileke Union Bank PLC Common Directors Dr. Harsha Cabraal PC Lease Rental Paid 580 (iii) Details of guarantees given in respect of related parties are given in Note 18 to the Financial Statements. (iv) No provision was made in respect of related party receivables. (v) No security has been obtained for related party receivables and all related party dues are payable on demand. (vi) Interest on related party dues are decided based on the inter-bank lending rates, associated risk and purpose for which funds are used. (vii) There are no related parties or related party transactions other than those disclosed in Note 39 to the Financial Statements. P: 284 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 40. Discontinued Operations Assets and Liabilities of Discontinued Operations Consolidated As at 31st March, 2013 2012 1st April, 2011 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Rs. '000 Assets classified as held for sale Property, plant & equipment – 917 10,117 Inventories – 1,302 1,302 Trade and other receivable 1,906 2,033 3,964 Cash in hand and bank 1,115 610 610 Total assets 3,021 4,862 15,993 Liabilities directly associated with assets classified as held for sale Trade and other payables 332 2,174 2,370 Current portion of long-term interest-bearing borrowings – 212 Short-term interest bearing borrowings – – – Total liabilities 332 2,174 2,582 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 285 Notes to the Financial Statements 41. Segment Analysis The segment information is based on two segmental formats. The business segment is considered as the primary format and based on the management structure of the Group. The Management are of the view that the Chairman is considered the chief operating decision maker and resources are allocated and performance assessed based on the sectors. Therefore each sector which falls under the purview of a different GMC member is considered a separate segment. The geographical format is considered as a secondary format and is based on the location of office in which the business is recorded. Fibre Hand Protection Purification Products Textile Construction Plantations Agriculture Materials For the year ended 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 31st March, In Rs. '000 Revenue Total 5,355,809 5,420,648 14,674,542 13,498,897 10,161,258 8,508,896 5,738,056 5,206,976 2,472,683 2,254,953 9,777,463 8,668,799 7,913,097 8,042,339 Intra Group (519,103) (842,893) – (292,614) – – (825,529) (752,128) (510,794) (386,493) External 4,836,706 4,577,755 14,674,542 13,498,897 9,868,644 8,508,896 5,738,056 5,206,976 2,472,683 2,254,953 8,951,934 7,916,671 7,402,303 7,655,846 Segment results – Inter segment adjustments Profit before net finance cost 322,144 28,669 1,372,603 883,552 1,305,572 811,230 (260,183) (734,955) 412,927 178,546 1,138,711 627,645 760,928 1,216,190 Net finance cost (177,851) (149,356) (46,848) (149,395) (128,213) (172,864) (188,329) (115,256) (38,016) (67,054) (172,777) (155,452) (60,304) (371,387) Share of associate company profits (5,620) Profit before tax 144,293 (120,687) 1,325,755 734,157 1,177,359 638,366 (448,512) (850,211) 374,911 111,492 965,934 472,193 700,624 839,183 Depreciation 88,040 85,116 437,004 368,957 188,181 117,488 248,502 235,227 71,166 85,914 184,722 172,379 112,077 91,201 Impairment of assets Amortisation of intangible assets Total assets (excluding associates) 6,391,888 5,935,322 9,635,225 9,613,768 7,624,438 5,703,250 3,213,903 4,454,809 1,717,987 1,576,560 9,344,267 8,618,365 6,809,749 7,168,120 Investment in associates Capital expenditure 141,687 142,356 468,638 567,945 320,379 681,047 53,036 197,990 59,741 107,427 746,923 439,905 132,327 181,029 Non-interest bearing liabilities Deferred taxation 13,942 16,625 56,564 52,666 19,632 14,635 190,008 189,039 78,782 79,605 309,464 211,734 15,088 10,284 Retirement benefit obligations 307,118 302,727 1,486,695 1,383,934 153,493 133,385 154,529 163,852 54,981 49,438 890,560 833,032 271,687 223,363 Trade and other payables 374,274 635,373 2,376,697 1,933,627 637,770 465,870 836,055 856,758 377,618 360,094 340,028 286,222 1,979,434 2,189,643 Cash Flow Segment cash flows from operating activities 408,717 (19,187) 1,782,120 228,968 1,024,656 (449,779) 74,790 718,284 406,050 132,160 1,259,021 449,370 125,079 (311,945) Segment cash flows from investing activities (55,737) (79,235) (324,065) 665,990 (798,562) (756,872) (64,392) (169,994) (48,456) (84,978) (682,076) (959,745) 345,192 (337,657) Segment cash flows from financing activities (56,185) 18,094 (858,132) (424,352) (49,086) 263,161 717,518 (231,945) (259,636) (46,543) (178,046) 117,214 (22,310) (629,750) P: 286 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Consumer Leisure and Aviation Industry Inputs Power & Energy Transportation & Investments & Non-Segment Group Products Logistics Services Adjustments Total 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 2013 2012 4,509,140 4,285,215 2,062,892 1,634,686 1,730,833 1,292,709 700,688 329,671 11,343,068 8,644,290 347,680 233,759 – – 76,787,209 68,021,838 – – – – – (337,317) (233,612) (2,485,357) (2,215,126) 4,509,140 4,285,215 2,062,892 1,634,686 1,730,833 1,292,709 700,688 329,671 11,343,068 8,644,290 10,363 147 – – 74,301,852 65,806,714 262,563 279,086 59,766 85,936 234,773 161,535 448,903 125,400 980,819 592,266 888,204 1,037,713 (1,264,698) (1,177,655) 6,663,032 4,115,158 (113,403) (70,073) (80,272) 6,909 (44,911) (15,828) (144,554) (94,592) 75,229 62,069 (517,875) (265,782) (1,638,124) (1,558,061) (5,057) 6,005 5,409 3,421 – – 352 3,806 149,160 209,013 (25,563) 98,850 189,862 145,707 304,349 30,808 1,061,457 657,756 370,331 771,931 (1,264,698) (1,177,655) 5,025,260 2,560,903 10,259 8,663 159,137 186,903 6,040 4,722 127,477 80,251 104,113 86,260 34,921 33,301 – – 1,771,639 1,556,382 2,104,491 1,534,543 6,945,215 4,278,404 1,373,839 1,090,721 2,419,085 2,512,104 5,729,296 4,208,470 15,859,749 13,026,013 (4,479,258) (3,909,837) 74,689,874 65,566,724 20,930 61,744 247,873 243,888 268,803 305,632 15,689 40,590 2,498,950 315,730 3,470 22,228 25,917 1,836,065 474,563 106,209 102,197 30,542 5,043,518 4,669,061 17 – 307,195 253,041 – – 9,825 5,142 34,684 28,908 – 25,000 1,035,201 886,679 40,090 34,307 62,364 53,830 64,134 70,924 1,087 678 390,485 318,949 408,001 352,951 4,285,224 3,921,370 622,539 700,553 955,888 469,729 319,971 241,748 134,690 51,216 1,704,236 1,198,660 300,752 276,163 – 10,959,952 9,665,656 (244,584) (457,163) (84,468) (31,603) (59,035) 57,336 592,071 551,890 483,046 669,712 (994,230) 1,569,852 (2,541,713) (635,442) 7,314,946 2,472,453 (14,000) 183,844 (2,064,388) (463,558) (13,842) (12,211) (222,284) (1,834,616) (642,914) (105,150) (498,873) (1,971,939) 400,991 813,258 (4,683,405) (5,112,863) (74,950) – 2,162,790 404,338 (62,976) (68,620) (393,149) 1,298,480 88,613 (605,863) (902,756) (758,392) (4,086,491) (998,509) (3,974,796) (1,662,687) FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 287 Notes to the Financial Statements Secondary Segments (Geographical Segments) Consolidated As at 31st March, 2013 2012 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Sri Lanka 6,977,510 4,683,683 Australia 29,542 49,107 Thailand 240,278 70,459 Bangladesh 61,481 35,409 Japan 22,061 37,885 India 6,063 (19,847) Indonesia 304,058 34,448 Continental Europe 255,890 288,395 United Kingdom 9,762 91,582 United States of America 21,085 21,692 7,927,730 5,294,276 Non-segment expense (1,264,698) (1,177,655) 6,663,032 4,115,158 Consolidated Total Assets Capital Expenditure As at 31st March, 2013 2012 2013 2012 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Sri Lanka 64,605,982 57,484,374 4,598,963 4,232,035 Australia 336,475 311,145 59 7,916 Thailand 3,804,019 2,631,286 289,436 270,768 Bangladesh 330,644 156,056 10,158 – Japan 238,646 324,673 – – India 83,931 87,243 1,970 633 Indonesia 1,872,570 665,892 124,243 152,200 Continental Europe 2,928,635 2,701,154 15,108 1,847 United Kingdom 418,231 984,938 3,581 3,663 United States of America 75,750 220,153 – – 74,694,883 65,566,914 – – Investment in equity accounted investee 263,803 305,632 – – 74,958,686 65,872,546 5,043,518 4,669,062 P: 288 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 42. Financial Risk Management The Group has exposure to the following risk from financial instruments: 1. Credit risk 2. Liquidity risk 3. Operational risk 4. Market risk This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies and processes for measuring and managing risk, and the Group’s management of capital. Further, quantitative disclosures are included throughout these Consolidated Financial Statements. Risk Management Framework The Board of Directors has the overall responsibility for the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk management framework, which includes developing and monitoring the Group’s risk management policies. The Group’s risk management policies are established to identify, quantify and analyse the risks faced by the Group, to set appropriate risk limits and controls, and to monitor risks and adherence to limits. Risk management policies and systems are reviewed regularly to reflect changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. The Group, through its training and management standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined and constructive control environment in which all employees understand their roles and obligations. The Group Audit Committee oversees how management monitors compliance with the Group’s risk management policies and procedures, and reviews the adequacy of the risk management framework in relation to the risks faced by the Group. The Group Audit Committee is assisted in its oversight role by the Management Audit System Review Department (MASRD). MASRD undertakes both regular and ad hoc reviews of risk management controls and procedures, the results of which are reported to the Group Audit Committee. Credit Risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a financial instrument or customer contract, leading to a financial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily from trade receivables) and from its financing activities, including deposits with banks and financial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other financial instruments. Trade and Other Receivables The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly by the individual characteristics of each customer. The Group has established a credit policy under which each new customer is analysed individually for creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review includes external ratings, when available, and in some cases, bank references. Purchase limits are established for each customer, which represents the maximum open amount without requiring approval from the Management; these limits are reviewed quarterly. Customers that fail to meet the Group’s benchmark creditworthiness may transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis. Outstanding customer receivables are regularly monitored at the individual sector and Group Management Committee (GMC) level. Further, SLESIC cover or other forms of credit insurance is obtained for most exports or in the instance this is not obtained, specific GMC approval is obtained prior to the export. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 289 Notes to the Financial Statements More than 85 percent of the Group’s customers have been transacting with the Group for over five years, and no impairment loss has been recognised against these customers. In monitoring customer credit risk, customers are grouped according to their credit characteristics, including whether they are an individual or legal entity, whether they are a wholesale, retail or end-user customer, geographic location, industry, aging profile, maturity and existence of previous financial difficulties. Trade and other receivables relate mainly to the Group’s wholesale customers. Customers that are graded as ‘high risk’ are placed on a restricted customer list and future sales are made on a prepayment basis. The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of trade and other receivables. The main components of this allowance are a specific loss component that relates to individually significant exposures, and a collective loss component established for groups of similar assets in respect of losses that have been incurred but not yet identified. The collective loss allowance is determined based on historical data of payment statistics for similar financial assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade and other receivables at the reporting date is Rs. 15.3 mn (2012 Rs. 13.9 mn) which is recorded at Note 22. Investments Credit risk from invested balances with the financial institutions are managed by the Group’s treasury department in accordance with the Group’s policy. Investments of surplus funds are made only with approved counterparties and within credit limits assigned to each counterparty. The limits are set to minimise the concentration of risks and therefore mitigate financial loss through potential counterparty’s failure. Cash and Cash Equivalents The Group held cash and cash equivalents of Rs. 2,126 mn at 31st March, 2013 (2012 1,755 mn) which represents its maximum credit exposure on these assets. Respective credit ratings of banks in which group cash balances held are as follows:  People's Bank AAA(lka)  Standard Chartered Bank AAA(lka)  Hong Kong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Ltd. AAA(lka)  Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC AA+(lka)  Sampath Bank PLC AA(lka)  Nations Trust Bank PLC A(lka)  Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC Bank BBB(lka)  Hatton National Bank PLC AA-(lka)  Bank of Ceylon AA+(lka)  DFCC Bank AA+(lka) P: 290 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Liquidity Risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group’s reputation. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between continuity of funding and flexibility through the use of bank overdrafts, bank loans and finance leases. The Group assessed the concentration of risk with respect to refinancing its debt and concluded it to be low. Access to sources of funding is sufficiently available and debt maturing within 12 months can be rolled over with existing lenders. Group Treasury receives information from other business units regarding the liquidity profile of their financial assets and liabilities and details of other projected cash flows arising from projected future business. The liquidity requirements of business units and subsidiaries are met through short-term loans from Group Treasury to cover any short-term fluctuations and longer-term funding to address any structural liquidity requirements. The Group Treasury monitors the cash flows in subsidiary and Group level and obtains adequate bank facilities to meet the funding requirements. The Group does not concentrate on a single financial institution, thereby minimising the expose to liquidity risk. The Group aims to fund investment activities of the individual and group level by funding the long-term investment with long-term financial sources in terms of equity, debenture or long-term loans. Short-term investments are funded using short-term loans. Group is currently evaluating the possibility of obtaining capital from overseas. Further, the Group will also issue Debentures in local market to collect funds for future expansion requirements. The monthly liquidity position is monitored by the Treasury. All liquidity policies and procedures are subject to review and approval by Group Treasury. Daily reports cover the liquidity position of both the Group and operating subsidiaries. The table below summarises the maturity profile of the Group’s financial liabilities based on contractual undiscounted payments. On demand Less than 3 to 12 1 to 5 >5 years Total Balance as at 3 months months years Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 4,468,933 4,473,065 8,950,262 4,682,320 988,834 23,563,414 Trade and other payables 2,739,988 5,479,976 2,739,988 – – 10,959,952 7,208,921 9,953,041 11,690,250 4,682,320 988,834 34,523,366 FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 291 Notes to the Financial Statements Operational Risk Operational risk is the risk of direct or indirect loss arising from a wide variety of causes associated with the Group’s processes, personnel, technology and infrastructure, and from external factors other than credit, market and liquidity risks. The operational risk raised from all of the Group's operations such as legal and regulatory requirements and generally accepted standards of corporate behaviour. The Group’s objective is to manage operational risk so as to balance the avoidance of financial losses and damage to the Group’s reputation with overall cost effectiveness and to avoid control procedures that restrict initiative and creativity. The primary responsibility for the development and implementation of controls to address operational risk is assigned to senior management within each business unit. This responsibility is supported by the development of overall Group standards for the management of operational risk in the following areas:  Requirements for appropriate segregation of duties, including the independent authorisation of transactions  Requirements for the reconciliation and monitoring of transactions  Compliance with regulatory and other legal requirements  Documentation of controls and procedures  Requirements for the periodic assessment of operational risks faced, and the adequacy of controls and procedures to address the risks identified  Requirements for the reporting of operational losses and proposed remedial action  Development of contingency plans  Training and professional development  Ethical and business standards  Risk mitigation, including insurance when this is effective Market Risk Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market prices. Market prices comprise four types of risk: interest rate risk, currency risk, commodity price risk and other price risk, such as equity price risk. Financial instruments affected by market risk include loans and borrowings, deposits, available-for-sale investments and derivative financial instruments. The objective of market risk management is to manage and control market risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimising the return. The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position as at 31st March, 2013 and 2012. The sensitivity analyses have been prepared on the basis that the amount of net debt, the ratio of fixed to floating interest rates of the debt and the proportion of financial instruments in foreign currencies are all constant as at 31st March, 2013 and 2012. P: 292 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group mainly borrows in the short term to fund its working capital requirement which are linked to floating interest rates. For other funding needs the Group maintains a proper mix of interest rate based on the basis of the predictability of future cash flows. Group Treasury closely monitors the interest rate fluctuations in the market and advices the sectors on a daily basis. Interest Rate Sensitivity The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates on that portion of loans and borrowings affected. With all other variables held constant, the Group’s profit before tax is affected through the impact on floating rate borrowings as follows: Increase/decrease Effect on in interest rate profit before tax Rs. ’000 2013 + 105 (43,915) 105 43,915 2012 + 73 (25,741) 73 25,741 Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash flows of a financial instrument will fluctuate because of changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings and net investments in foreign subsidiaries that are denominated in a currency other than the respective functional currencies of the Group. These currencies primarily are the Euro, US Dollars (USD), Bangladesh Taka, Pound Sterling (GBP), Indonesia (Rupiah) and Thailand (Baht). The Group hedges its exposure to fluctuations on the translation of its foreign operations by holding net borrowings in foreign currencies and by using foreign currency swaps and forwards contracts. Group Treasury closely monitors the exchange rate fluctuations and advices the sectors on a daily basis. Foreign Currency Sensitivity The following tables demonstrate the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the US Dollar and Euro exchange rate, with all other variables held constant. The impact on the Group’s profit before tax is due to changes in the fair value of monetary assets and liabilities. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 293 Notes to the Financial Statements The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. Increase/decrease Effect on in interest rate profit before tax Rs. ’000 2013 USD + 5% (217,703) Euro + 5% 2,668 USD 5% 217,703 Euro 5% (2,668) 2012 USD + 5% (342,801) Euro + 5% 66,872 USD 5% 342,801 Euro 5% (66,872) Commodity Risk The Group is affected by the volatility of certain commodities. Its operating activities require the ongoing purchase and manufacturing process. Due to the significantly increased volatility of the price of the underlying, the management has developed and enacted a risk management strategy regarding commodity price risk and its mitigation. The sectors constantly monitor the raw material price levels of Charcoal, Rubber, Aluminium and Yarn for downwards trends and invest in bulk purchase when low prices are prevalent. Management may revise the selling price based on the commodity prices whenever possible. Equity Price Risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. The Group manages the equity price risk through diversification and by placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Management of the Group monitors the mix of debt and equity securities in its investment portfolio based on market indices. Material investments within the portfolio are managed on an individual basis and all buy and sell decisions are approved by the GMC. Capital Management The Board’s policy is to maintain a strong capital base so as to maintain investor, creditor and market confidence and to sustain future development of the business. Capital consists of share capital, reserves, retained earnings and non-controlling interests of the Group. The Board of Directors monitors the return on capital as well as the level of dividends to ordinary shareholders. At present employees hold 9.14% of ordinary shares, through the share trust vest and/or are exercised. P: 294 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 The net debt to adjusted equity ratio at the reporting date was as follows: 2013 2012 2011 Consolidated Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Interest-bearing borrowing 5,671,153 5,212,336 4,541,156 Current portion of long-term interest-bearing borrowings 1,584,541 2,006,321 1,748,681 Short-term interest bearing borrowings 16,307,719 14,510,287 10,402,246 23,563,413 21,728,944 16,692,083 Equity 33,670,798 28,448,869 23,739,022 Equity and debts 57,234,211 50,177,813 40,431,105 Gearing Ratio 41% 43% 41% 2013 2012 2011 Company Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Interest-bearing borrowing 910,000 1,386,666 1,680,000 Current portion of long-term interest-bearing borrowings 476,667 506,667 720,000 Short-term interest-bearing borrowings 4,667,302 2,232,831 1,032,426 6,053,969 4,126,164 3,432,426 Equity 8,146,781 6,922,825 6,178,290 Equity and debts 14,200,750 11,048,989 9,610,716 Gearing ratio 43% 37% 36% Collateral The Group has pledged part of its land and building, plant and machinery, stock and debtors as collateral for long-term borrowings. At 31st March, 2013 and 2012, the fair values of the long-term loan were Rs. 3,488 mn and Rs. 2,762 mn, respectively. The counterparties have an obligation to return the securities to the Group on settlement of the loan. There are no other significant terms and conditions associated with the use of collateral. FactandFiction Financial Reports Notes to the Financial Statements P: 295 Annexes Ten Year Summary 10-Year Year ended 31st March Compound 2013 2012*** 2011** * 2010** Growth Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Results Group turnover 20% 74,301,852 65,806,714 54,370,207 38,169,336 Profit before taxation 17% 5,025,260 2,560,903 2,040,629 3,293,392 Taxation 20% (1,405,871) (914,724) (903,853) (684,197) Profit after tax 17% 3,619,389 1,646,179 1,136,776 2,581,126 Non-controlling interest 19% (1,765,748) (608,357) (450,553) (849,893) Profit attributable to Hayleys PLC 15% 1,853,641 1,037,822 677,181 1,731,233 Funds Employed Stated capital*** 9% 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 Employee share trust (489,887) (491,439) (492,242) Treasury shares (398,902) Capital reserves (7%) 1,377,676 1,222,076 1,404,887 7,047,507 Other Component of Equity 9,000,861 6,373,692 6,164,166 Revenue reserves 16% 11,011,187 9,692,441 7,005,076 6,592,052 Shareholders’ funds 16% 22,474,837 18,371,770 15,257,985 15,214,559 Minority interest 18% 11,195,960 10,077,099 8,481,037 7,118,790 Borrowings (both shortand long-term) 19% 23,563,413 21,728,944 16,692,083 11,337,734 17% 57,234,210 50,177,813 40,431,105 33,671,083 Assets Employed Non-current assets 19% 44,667,452 37,985,777 30,131,853 23,453,761 Current assets 16% 30,291,225 27,886,759 23,766,055 21,414,944 Current liabilities net of borrowings 20% (11,620,819) (10,109,003) (8,540,919) (7,922,413) Provisions 20% (5,320,426) (4,808,050) (4,133,016) (2,828,159) Deferred income 21% (783,222) (777,670) (792,868) (447,050) Capital Employed 17% 57,234,210 50,177,813 40,431,105 33,671,083 Cash Flow Net cash inflow/(outflow) from operating activities 7,099,276 2,431,684 1,203,321 2,589,712 Net cash inflow/(outflow) from investing activities (4,683,405) (5,112,863) (4,660,037) (3,574,446) Net cash inflow/(outflow) from financing activities (3,759,125) (1,621,918) 1,960,277 (1,012,142) Increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (1,343,256) (4,303,096) (1,496,439) (1,996,876) Key Indicators Earnings per share (basic) (Rs.) 24.72 13.84 9.03 23.08 Dividend per share (basic) (Rs.) 4.50 4.00 4.00 4.00 Net assets per share (Rs.) 299.66 244.96 203.44 202.86 Market price per share (Rs.) 298.70 360.00 382.10 225.00 % change in market price (after adjusting for scrip issues) (17.03) (5.78) 70.00 150.00 % change in All Share Price Index 6.00 (24.99) 94.00 127.00 Return on average shareholders’ funds (%) 8.25 5.65 4.44 11.38 Return on average capital employed (%) 12.41% 9.08% 7.81 13.30 Price earnings ratio (times) 12.09 26.02 42.32 9.75 Interest cover (times covered) 2.17 1.92 3.41 5.60 Dividend payout Ratio (%) 18.21 28.91 44.30 17.33 ** Includes results of discontinued operations. *** Share capital and share premium previously reported have been reclassified to reflect stated capital as defined in the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. + Increase due to a rights issue followed by scrip issue. +++ Increase due to a rights issue. * Restated in line with SLFRS/LKAS. P: 296 Hayleys Annual Report 2012/13 2009** 2008** 2007 ** 2006 2005 2004 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 Rs. ’000 32,442,999 31,326,583 27,584,626 24,011,798 19,445,441 15,503,450 1,374,638 1,554,720 1,521,915 1,448,558 1,837,232 1,337,700 (571,236) (464,946) (432,631) 468,127 (427,861) (276,559) 803,402 1,089,774 1,089,284 980,431 1,409,371 1,061,141 (492,464) (637,151) (555,719) (394,170) (634,984) (401,789) 310,938 452,623 533,565 586,261 774,387 659,352 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 1,575,000 +1,575,000 +++1,475,000 5,697,166 5,954,623 5,457,476 2,466,637 2,253,637 2,054,681 5,083,473 4,692,428 4,667,992 4,215,591 4,110,588 3,578,426 12,355,639 12,222,051 11,700,468 8,257,228 7,939,225 7,108,107 4,220,619 3,986,239 3,704,926 2,967,915 2,868,478 2,899,028 9,232,776 9,600,416 10,235,592 9,781,034 8,113,582 5,493,388 25,809,034 25,808,706 25,640,986 21,006,177 18,921,285 15,500,523 17,215,706 17,625,669 17,005,585 12,957,290 11,932,426 9,655,743 16,414,322 15,732,377 15,214,288 14,496,109 12,538,508 9,504,855 (5,317,991) (5,391,701) (4,832,001) (4,895,234) (4,193,374) (2,422,279) (2,153,244) (1,906,595) (1,541,717) (1,360,003) (1,185,246) (1,092,694) (349,759) (251,044) (205,169) (191,985) (171,029) (145,102) 25,809,034 25,808,706 25,640,986 21,006,177 18,921,295 15,500,523 1,082,097 1,841,624 408,821 216,967 1,095,244 419,206 200,631 (751,827) (843,422) (1,650,184) (3,016,839) (1,721,816) (892,834) (687,588) (1,153,882) 768,153 1,638,736 680,486 389,894 402,209 (1,588,483) (665,064) (282,859) (622,124) 4.15 6.03 7.11 7.82 10.37 8.89 3.00 3.00 3.50 3.50 3.50 3.50 164.74 162.96 156.01 110.10 106.35 95.79 90.00 97.75 142.00 98.50 112.50 115.00 (7.90) (31.20) 44.2 (12.90) 44.3 (4.00) (36.00) (9.00) 23 29 36 74 3.00 4 5 7 10 10 9.40 11.00 11 10 14 12 21.70 16.2 20.0 12.6 10.8 12.9 2.10 2.5 3.4 2.5 5.2 5.2 72.29 49.75 49.23 44.76 33.75 39.37 FactandFiction Annexes Ten Year Summary P: 297 Value of Real Estate As at 31st March 2013 Ownership Location Address Extent (Acres) Buildings No. of Buildings Market Value Sq.ft in Each of Land Location Rs. mn Hayleys PLC Colombo No. 25, Foster Lane, Colombo 10 5.96 58,442 5 4,868 No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 102,442 8 Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. Kotugoda No. 193, Minuwangoda Road, Kotugoda 15.70 182,981 30 627 Galle No. 153/1, Robosgewatta, Matara Road, Magalle, Galle 1.20 15,000 2 137 Katana No. B 28,Divulapitiya Road, Dissagewatte, Katana 14.50 205,000 4 162 Chas P. Hayley & Co. Galle No. 153,Robosgewatta, (Pvt) Ltd. Matara Road, Magalle, Galle 0.56 8,030 2 80 Galle “Thurburn Stores”, 161, Matara Road, Magalle, Galle 0.78 9,901 1 113 Galle No.195,Bandaranayake Mawatha, Magalle, Galle 1.60 57,376 7 182 Galle No. 193/2,193/2A, 193/4, Bandaranayke Mawatha, Magalle, Galle 1.10 13,632 4 62 Dipped Products PLC Kottawa Brahmanagama, Kottawa 8.40 114,428 20 122 Weliveriya Nedungamuwa, Weliveriya 8.19 8,120 2 75 Malabe No. 59, Pothuarawa Road, Malabe 2.26 57,595 6 249 Venigros (Pvt) Ltd. Weliveriya Nedungamuwa, Weliveriya 7.09 55,391 7 57 Palma Ltd. Gonawala 184/25 and 184/26, Maguruwila Road, Pattiwila, Gonawala. 1.82 22,068 6 36 Haycarb PLC Badalgama Katana Road, Beatrice Estate, Badalgama 12.88 159,769 13 41 Madampe Kuliyapitiya Road, New Town, Pothuwila, Madampe 25.95 231,263 9 62 Wewalduwa 333/25, New Road, Hunuputiya, Wattala 2.45 59,202 3 125 Recogen (Pvt) Ltd. Badalgama Katana Road, Beatrice Estate, Badalgama 10.84 22,604 3 35 Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. Madampe Sellam Pathaha, Melawagara, Madampe 7.03 104,846 10 20 Kuliyapitiya “Biginhill Estate”, Karagahagedera, Kuliyapitiya 3.90 57,778 10 13 Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. Elkaduwa Weyagala Estate, Elkaduwa, Matale. 65.06 Nil Nil 35 Haychem (Pvt) Ltd. Kottawa No. 168/D, Brahmanagama, Kottawa, Pannipitiya. 5.00 50,000 14 68 Hayleys Agriculture Dambulla Athabadiwewa, Pahalawewa, Holdings Ltd. Dambulla 4.35 2,500 2 8 P: 298 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Ownership Location Address Extent (Acres) Buildings No. of Buildings Market Value Sq.ft in Each of Land Location Rs. mn Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. Kalutara Haycolour Factory, Ethanmadala, Kalutara 4.43 5,700 5 29 Hayleys Fibre PLC Ekala “Ekala Estate”, Minuwangoda Road, Ekala 6.30 53,880 15 252 Kuliyapitiya “Biginhill Estate”, Karagahagedara, Kuliyapitiya 3.90 44,457 12 13 Hayleys Advantis Group Welisara No. 309/15, Negombo Road, Welisara 6.70 7,500 4 428 Kelaniya No. 408 A, Nungamugoda, Kelaniya 7.75 175,000 6 494 Sedawatte 148/A1, Nawalokapura Sedawatte, Wellampitiya 2.25 5,000 3 448 Seeduwa No. 710, Negombo Road, Liyanagemula, Katunayake 0.63 8,032 1 82 Ravi Industries Ltd. Ekala 252A, Kurunduwatte Road, Ekala, Ja-ela 6.08 99,266 13 195 Volanka Exports Ltd. Nattandiya Wathugahamulla, Welipannagahamulla 7.20 61,800 9 20 Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. Ekala 131, Minuwangoda Road, Ekala, Ja-ela 3.80 81,026 8 228 Toyo Cushion Lanka Katana 105,Thimbirigaskatuwa, Katana (Pvt) Ltd. 3.40 27,945 13 65 Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. Allawwa Nelumdeniya Road, Alawwa Waththa Road, Alawwa 5.18 21,293 18 50 Padiyathalawa Bogaharawa Road, Kehelulla, Padiyathalawa 5.42 1,430 1 4 Bhagya Hydro (Pvt) Ltd. Gomala oya Gomala Oya Mini Hydro Power Plant, Godagampola, Ratnapura 2.11 2,300 2 2 Nelwa Cascade Hydro Neluwa Lower Neluwa Mini Hydro Power Power (Pvt) Ltd. Plant, Tawalama, Neluwa 2.45 1,894 1 6 Hayleys Electronics Hokandara W.P. Colvin Perera Lane, Lightning (pvt) Ltd. Hokandara South 0.14 Nil Nil 12 Hayleys MGT Knitting Neboda Narthupana Estate, Neboda Mills PLC 34.80 380,776 22 278 Hunas Falls Hotels PLC Kandy Elkaduwa, Kandy 19.88 63,246 16 41 Alumex Ltd. Makola Off Pitigala Road, Sapugaskanda, Makola 7.37 129,351 12 320 Eastern Hotels (Pvt) Ltd. Trincomalee Nilakarai Estate, Nilaweli, Trincomalee 23.47 Nil Nil 432 Culture Club Resorts Dambulla Kapela , Kandalama, Dambulla (Pvt) Ltd. 20.00 70,000 72 1 Kandyan Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Kandy Heerassagala, Kandy 6.19 101,000 10 380 The Beach Resorts Ltd. Wadduwa Mudillagahawatte, Wadduwa, Panadura 5.44 Nil Nil 188 FactandFiction Annexes Value of Real Estate P: 299 Country Report Vital Statistics Population (2012) 20.3 mn Land Area 65,610 Sq. km. Languages Sinhala, Tamil and English Per capita GDP (2012) USD 2,923 Maximum Corporate Tax Rate (2013) 28% Currency (2013) Sri Lankan Rupee (LKR 127: 1 USD) Background responsible for certain subjects being created. The Colombo rates comparable to developed at sub-national levels. The Port is being expanded through nations (17.4 and 5.9 per Sri Lanka lies in a strategic prevailing political stability and the Colombo South Harbour 1,000 persons). In order to position at the Southern tip of policy certainty has created to cater to larger vessels and further enhance the quality of the Indian sub-continent, at a a positive investment climate to increase its capacity. The education, the government has mid-point along key shipping both for Sri Lankan firms and primary airport in Katunayake is indicated a desire to encourage routes between east and west. potential foreign investors. In also undergoing expansion and foreign universities to establish After three decades of Civil 2011. Foreign Direct Investment a second international airport off-shore campuses in Sri Lanka, War Sri Lanka achieved peace breached the US$ 1 bn level for has been completed in Mattala catering to both domestic and in May 2009. This has paved the first time and is projected in the South. Several new power regional markets. Simultaneouly the way for a paradigm shift to reach US$ 2 bn in 2013. The projects are in progress ranging measures are being taken to in the country’s development stable political environment has from coal power to hydro and enhance existing education path characterised by faster also enabled the Government wind power. Sri Lanka also institutions at primary, secondary economic growth, higher to embark on an ambitious began oil exploration off its and tertiary levels. In addition investment, infrastructure programme of infrastructure North-West coast, and thus to public sector education, Sri development and political and development and economic far 2 drill sites have indicated Lanka has developed substantial economic policy stability. policy reform. presence of hydrocarbons. professional qualifications Sri Lanka has traditionally been At present the commercial institutions, resulting in the a country which relied on the plantation sector and in labour Policy Directions viability of these sites is being country now having the world’s examined. The investments second highest pool of CIMA intensive industries such as During the Civil War, investment over the next 5 years will result trained students outside the UK, apparel manufacture. In more in Sri Lanka’s infrastructure in Sri Lanka enjoying a modern making Sri Lanka an attractive recent years the services sector was neglected. The current infrastructure network which will source for financial outsourcing. has taken on greater importance Government has embarked on an aggressive investment drive support economic growth in the with trade, finance, transport, long-term. Along with investments in construction, telecommunication in the country’s infrastructure, infrastructure the Government and leisure dominating the focusing on national highways In addition to investment in has outlined a medium-term economy. In 2012 per capita and railways, ports, airports and physical infrastructure, emphasis economic policy framework income reached US$ 2,923 and energy. Sri Lanka opened its is being placed on development which emphasises private is projected to reach US$ 4,000 first expressway in December of social infrastructure. sector led growth, with by 2015. 2011 connecting Colombo Sri Lanka has always attached reduced taxes on corporate to the Southern Province, great importance to social (maximum 35% reduced to Political Climate and in the coming years will development and had a policy 28%) and personal incomes have expressways connecting Sri Lanka is a multi-ethnic, of free health and education (maximum 35% reduced to Colombo to the Airport, the hill multi-religious democratic up to tertiary level since the 24%), international trade and capital Kandy and the North. The republic with an elected national pre-independence era. This a simplified tax structure. national railway network is being parliament and president has resulted in a literacy rate Rationalisation of expenditure modernised to enable faster along with provincial and of over 90%, life expectancy of would also lead to better rail and new routes are also local governments which are 74 years and birth and death fiscal management, eventually P: 300 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 resulting in consolidation of fiscal Economic Climate the recent policy reforms, deficits closer to 5% of GDP in developments in infrastructure As is the trend in emerging the medium term, as envisaged and increased investment, the economies, Sri Lanka’s in the Fiscal Management economy is well on target to economy is dominated by the Responsibility Act. This would securing a long-term growth services sector (59% of GDP) help entrench lower inflation path well above past trends. with industry (30% of GDP) and interest rates and lead to and agriculture (11% of GDP) longer term macroeconomic Sri Lanka is ideally located making up smaller shares. stability. The Central Bank has at a central point amongst Recent economic growth has also outlined a plan to gradually the emerging global been broad based with all three liberalise the capital account, economic powerhouses. sectors growing significantly making it easier for Sri Lankan India is immediately North of since 2009. Whilst Sri Lanka corporates to access global Sri Lanka and the two countries has found itself in an uncertain capital markets and to develop have a 13-year old Free global economic environment, the domestic corporate bond Trade Agreement which is the domestic economy has market. Accordingly, the financial expected to be developed into enjoyed a peace dividend that market has developed rapidly, a Comprehensive Economic has resulted in high growth (over with a number of banks following Partnership Agreement (CEPA) 8% in 2010 and 2011), low the sovereign in tapping the encompassing investment, unemployment (4% in 2012), global bond market, and the trade in services and economic historically benign inflation domestic corporate debt and co-operation. Sri Lanka has (within single digits for over 50 equity markets have grown developed close political and consecutive months), and an significantly in recent times. economic ties with China, improving fiscal position on the and strong aviation and back of structural reforms and The overall policy thrust of the shipping links are already in an IMF Stand By Arrangement Government can be summarised place. Therefore, the strategic (budget deficit of 6.4% of GDP as a 5 hub strategy, where the objectives of Sri Lanka’s 5-hub for 2012 and a projected deficit Government hopes to position vision are in line with emerging of 5.8% for 2013). The financial Sri Lanka as a regional hub in global realities and trends. sector has also performed the following areas: Greater economic and political well with the banking sector integration with these emerging  Shipping and naval hub achieving strong results in 2012. giants places Sri Lanka in an  Aviation hub ideal position to play a pivotal Sri Lanka’s economy has always  Energy hub role amongst the drivers of been characterised by resilience. global economic growth in the  Knowledge hub Even during the war, economic medium to long-term.  Commercial and finance hub growth was maintained at an average of around 5%. With FactandFiction Annexes Country Report P: 301 Information of Shareholders Ordinary Shareholders as at 31st March, 2013 Residents Non-Residents Total No. of shares held No. of No. of % No. of No. of % No. of No. of % Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares Shareholders Shares 1 _ 1,000 2,497 493,498 0.66 36 11,027 0.01 2,533 504,525 0.67 1,001 _ 10,000 514 1,664,835 2.22 32 132,549 0.18 546 1,797,384 2.40 10,001 _ 100,000 154 4,840,152 6.45 26 606,714 0.81 180 5,446,866 7.26 100,001 _ 1,000,000 29 8,142,408 10.86 6 1,902,171 2.54 35 10,044,579 13.39 OVER 1,000,000 8 57,206,646 76.28 8 57,206,646 76.28 3,202 72,347,539 96.47 100 2,652,461 3.54 3,302 75,000,000 100.00 Category Individuals 2,942 60,686,255 80.92 90 2,620,213 3.49 3,032 63,306,468 84.41 Institutions 260 11,661,284 15.55 10 32,248 0.04 270 11,693,532 15.59 3,202 72,347,539 96.47 100 2,652,461 3.53 3,302 75,000,000 100.00 First Twenty Shareholders as at 31.03.2013 Name of the Shareholder No. of Shares % No. of Shares % as at 31.03.2013 as at 31.03.2012 Mr. K.D.D. Perera 30,699,599 40.93 30,916,399 41.22 SBL/Mr. K.D.D. Perera 3,400,000 4.53 2,900,000 3.87 Trustees of the D.S.Jayasundera Trust 8,698,017 11.60 8,698,017 11.60 Trustees of the Hayleys PLC Employees Share Trust 6,855,735 9.14 6,855,735 9.14 Lanka Orix Leasing Company PLC 2,434,148 3.25 2,423,128 3.23 Vallibel One PLC 2,182,584 2.91 1,812,584 2.42 Employees Provident Fund 1,819,473 2.43 1,819,473 2.43 Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd. Number 2 Account 1,117,090 1.49 1,117,090 1.49 Mrs. M.L. Johnpulle (Deceased) 907,165 1.21 907,165 1.21 Mr. G.M. Spittel (Deceased) 568,197 0.76 568,197 0.76 Mrs. R.N. Ponnambalam 540,315 0.72 540,315 0.72 M.S. Jayasundera (Deceased) 500,098 0.67 500,098 0.67 Mr. A.C. Wikramanayake 483,302 0.64 443,630 0.59 Mrs. F.C. Phillips & Mr. R.H.S. Phillips 482,304 0.64 482,304 0.64 Mrs. Y.M. Spittel 465,561 0.62 465,561 0.62 Aviva NDB Insurance PLC A/C No. 07 462,976 0.62 306,476 0.41 Mrs. P.M. Godamunne 443,447 0.59 443,447 0.59 Mrs. S.D. Wickramasinghe 440,281 0.59 440,281 0.59 Mr. G.N. Wikramanayake 370,422 0.49 370,422 0.49 Janashakthi Insurance PLC (Shareholders) 307,200 0.41 307,200 0.41 Browns Investments PLC 293,105 0.39 293,400 0.39 Total 63,471,019 84.63 62,610,922 83.49 Percentage of Public Holding 39.95%. P: 302 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Directors’ Shareholdings Name of Director No. of No. of Shares Shares as at 31.03.2013 as at 01.04.2012 Mr. A.M. Pandithage 2,338 2,338 Mr. K.D.D. Perera 30,699,599 (01.04.2012-30,916,399 ) 36,283,849 36,000,649 SBL/Mr. K.D.D. Perera 3,400,000 (01.04.2012-2,900,000) LB Finance PLC 1,666 (01.04.2012-1,666) Vallibel One PLC 2,182,584 (01.04.12 1,812,584) Royal Ceramics Lanka PLC Nil (01.04.12 370,000) Mr. M.R. Zaheed 1,487 1,487 Mr. W.D.N.H. Perera 11 11 Mr. S.C. Ganegoda 2,000 2,000 Dr. K.I.M Ranasoma 751 751 Walldock Mackenzie Ltd./Mr. L.T Samarawickrama 43,500 43,500 Mr. R.P. Pathirana 2,000 2,000 Mr. M.D.S. Goonatilleke 2,500 2,500 Share Trading Information for the Twelve Months ended 31st March, 2013 Highest Price Rs. 366.00 on 20th April, 2012 Lowest Price Rs. 280.00 on 11th December, 2012 Closing Price Rs. 298.70 No. of Transactions 1,034 No. of Shares Traded 1,314,324 Value of Shares Traded Rs. 434,506,880.40 Share Trading Information for the Twelve Months ended 31st March, 2012 Highest Price Rs. 426.00 on 19th April, 2011 Lowest Price Rs. 295.00 on 3rd November, 2011 Closing Price Rs. 360.00 No. of Transactions 1,741 No. of Shares Traded 18,938,893 Value of Shares Traded Rs. 7,188,680,168/Share Trading Information for the Twelve Months ended 31st March, 2011 Highest Price Rs. 415.00 on 01st February, 2011 Lowest Price Rs. 223.00 on 01st April, 2010 Closing Price Rs. 382.10 No. of Transactions 6,916 No. of Shares Traded 22,585,884 Value of Shares Traded Rs. 7,697,117,910/FactandFiction Annexes Information of Shareholders P: 303 Group Companies Sub Sector Company Nature of Business Fibre Ravi Industries Ltd. Industrial and household brush ware Rileys (Pvt) Ltd. Cleaning devices Haymat (Pvt) Ltd. Coir fibre mats Creative Polymats (Pvt) Ltd. Moulded rubber products Hayleys Fibre PLC Value added coir-based products Bonterra Lanka Ltd. Value added coir-based products Chas P. Hayley & Company (Pvt) Ltd. Coir and treated rubber timber products Volanka Exports Ltd. Coir-based products and essential oil Toyo Cushion Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Needled and rubberised coir products Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. Coir fibre pith Haylex BV Marketing Charles Fibres (Pvt) Ltd. Trading in coir-based products Hand Protection Dipped Products Group General purpose and speciality rubber gloves Purification Products Haycarb Group Activated Carbon and Environmental Purification Solutions Textiles Hayleys MGT Knitting Mills PLC Knitted fabric Construction Material Alumex Group Aluminium extrusions Agriculture Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. Crop production and protection materials, agricultural equipment and animal health products Agro Technica Ltd. Agricultural machinery and equipment Haychem (Bangladesh) Ltd. Crop protection chemicals Sunfrost (Pvt) Ltd. Fresh/processed vegetables HJS Condiments Ltd. Retailed-packed, processed vegetables Hayleys Agro Farms (Pvt) Ltd. Planting material Hayleys Agro Biotech (Pvt.) Ltd. Horticultural tissue culture products Quality Seed Company Ltd. Hybrid flower seeds Hayleys Agro Fertilizers (Pvt) Ltd. Fertiliser Plantations DPL Plantations (Pvt) Ltd. Plantation Management Hayleys Plantation Services (Pvt) Ltd. Plantation Management Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Processed tea and rubber Talawakele Tea Estates PLC Processed black and green tea Kelani Valley Instant Tea (Pvt) Ltd. Manufacture of ready to drink tea powder Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Export of bulk and retail packed tea Consumer Products Hayleys Consumer Products Ltd. Lighting products and solutions, photo imaging, health care, FMCG products Hayleys Electronics Lighting (Pvt) Ltd. Lighting products and solutions P: 304 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Sub Sector Company Nature of Business Leisure & Aviation Hotels Carbotels (Pvt) Ltd. Hotel Investment Hunnas Falls Hotels PLC Leisure Hotel Services (Ceylon) PLC Leisure Amaya Leisure PLC Leisure Culture Club Resorts ( Pvt) Ltd. Leisure Kandyan Resorts ( Pvt) Ltd. Leisure Eastern Hotels Ltd. Leisure Aviation & Destination Hayleys Leisure Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. Investments and Hotel Management Management Services Air Global (Pvt) Ltd. Airline representation North South Lines (Pvt) Ltd. Airline representation Millennium Transportation (Pvt) Ltd. Airline representation Hayleys Travels and Tours (Pvt) Ltd. Travel Agency and Destination Management Power & Energy Industry Inputs Hayleys Industrial Solutions (Pvt) Ltd. Engineering and projects, power generation, pigments and industrial raw materials Hayleys Life Sciences (Pvt) Ltd. Supplying health care equipment Haycolour (Pvt) Ltd. Textile dyestuff and binders Power & Energy Bhagya Hydro (Pvt) Ltd. Hydropower Neluwa Cascade Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. Hydropower Hayleys Hydro Energy (Pvt) Ltd. Hydropower Nirmalapura Wind Power (Pvt) Ltd. Wind power Power Engineering Solutions Pvt Ltd. Marketing of power generating equipment (Mawanana) TTEL Somerset Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. Hydropower TTEL Hydro Power Company (Pvt) Ltd. Hydropower Hayleys Neluwa Hydro Power (Pvt) Ltd. Hydropower Transportation & Logistics Hayleys Advantis Group Shipping agency, international freight forwarding, express freight, bunkering, husbanding and port agency, ship chartering, ocean container repairing and conversion, container yard operation, inland logistics, energy logistics, warehousing and third-party logistics Investments & Services Dean Foster (Pvt) Ltd. Investments Hayleys Business Solutions International Business Process Outsourcing and Centralised Shared (Pvt) Ltd. Services Hayleys Group Services (Pvt) Ltd. Secretarial/Investments Volanka (Pvt) Ltd. Investments FactandFiction Annexes Group Companies P: 305 Our Brands Global Markets and Manufacturing Ultimate in Aluminium Profiles Agriculture Plantations and Tea Exports Transportation and Logistics Leisure and Aviation Consumer Products Investments and Services Power and Energy P: 306 Awards Received During the Reporting Period Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 National Awards for Business Kelani Valley Plantations PLC National Award (1st Runner-up) Excellence  Honours for Overall Annual Report for Marketing Export of Fruits Agriculture/Agri-Business category and Vegetables Amaya Hills Kandy Hospitality Sector  Honours for Cover Photo/DesignRunner-Up 2012 Agriculture/Agri-Business category Quality Seeds HJS Condiments Limited Sector Gold Producer Seed Farms Gold Award Award for Manufacturing Food & Beverage Producer Plant Nurseries Bronze Award Sector Best Presented Annual Report Awards and SAARC Anniversary Foliage and Cut Flower Farms HJS Condiments Limited 2nd Runners up Awards for Corporate Governance Bronze Award in the Large Category Disclosures 2011 Hayleys Agro Farms Kelani Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) Hayleys PLC Award Winner Service Agriculture and Plantations Sector Winner Sector (Excluding Financial Services & Producer Seed Farms Bronze Award Gold Award Communication & IT Sector) Agro Technica Ltd. Quality Seed Company Limited Agriculture Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Award Winner Manufacture of Farm Machinery & Equipment and Plantations Sector Winner Silver Award Agriculture Sector Silver Award Lignocell (Private) Limited Manufacturing Hayleys Agro Biotech Ltd. Non-Traditional Exports Sector Medium Asia Responsible Retail/Wholesale Marketing Silver Award category Silver Award Entrepreneurship Awards (AREA) Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Greening Hotels Awards Dipped Products PLC ‘Investment in Amaya Hills, Kandy Certificate of Merit EU People’ category Producer Plantations Silver Award Switch-Asia Greening Hotels 2012 National Agri Business Awards National Plantation Awards 2012 Annual CA Annual Report Awards 2012 Awarded by National Agri Kelani Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) Hayleys PLC Silver Award for Diversified Business Council  Best among RPCs for ‘Commitment Holdings (Above 5 Subsidiaries) Hayleys Agriculture Holdings Ltd. to Value Addition,’ ‘Innovativeness’ and ‘Highest Investment for Social Kelani Valley Plantations PLC (KVPL) Silver Import & Supply of Farm Machinery, Welfare Activities and Corporate Social Award for Plantation companies Equipment & tools category Gold Award Responsibility’ Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC (TTEL) Bronze Extension Services category Gold Award  2nd place Replanting,’ in the Tea Award for Plantation companies sector, ‘Commitment to move towards Veterinary Care Products category mechanisation’ and Commitment to Hayleys Advantis Group Silver Award Gold Award HRD Capacity Building’ Services Category Agro Chemicals category Silver Award  3rd place Replanting’ in the Rubber Amaya Leisure PLC Hotel Companies Importation & Marketing of Seeds sector, ‘Highest Crop Productivity’ in the Certificate of Compliance Bronze Award Tea sector and ‘Commitment to Generate Hydro Power’ Sunfrost Ltd. ARC Annual Report Awards 2011 Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC (TTEL) Extension Services Large Gold Award Hayleys PLC  ‘Replanting Highest Rate (Percentage) HJS Condiments Ltd. and Extent in the Tea Sector’  Gold for Cover Photo/Design Diversified Business Category Marketing Export of Fruit & Vegetables  2nd place ‘Highest Crop Productivity’  Gold for Overall Annual Report Large Gold Award in the Tea sector Diversified Business Category  3rd place ‘Forestry Management,  Bronze for Written Text Environmental Friendliness and Selfsufficiency in Energy’ FactandFiction P: 307 Awards Received During the Reporting Period Highest Sales Average (High Toyo Cushion Lanka (Private) Ltd. Gold IJS Global Best Upcoming Agent and Low Elevations) at Colombo award for Agriculture value added Medium In the Asia Pacific Region Auctions Awarded by Forbes & Sector. Hayleys Advantis Group (Freight Walker Tea Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. Forwarding Sector) Lignocell (Pvt) Ltd. Silver Award for Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Agriculture value added Large Sector Bonterra Lanka Ltd. Silver Award for The Institute of Chartered Ship Vision Awards Annual Report Agriculture value added Medium Sector Brokers Sri Lanka Branch Awards Competition 2010 Awarded  Best Customer Service Award Colombo by League of American Mediterranean Service TripAdvisor “Certificate of Communications Professionals Hayleys Advantis Group (Ship Agency Excellence” 2012 (LACP) Business)  Amaya Lake Dambulla  Best Shipping Agent Customer Service Hayleys PLC  Amaya Hills Kandy Colombo USA Trade  Platinum Award Conglomerates &  Hunas Falls by Amaya Kandy Hayleys Advantis Group (Ship Agency Holding Companies  Langdale by Amaya NuwaraEliya Business)  Platinum Award Best Annual Report Cover in the Asia-Pacific Region  Number 36 ranking in the Top 100 Annual Annual Sri Lanka Tourism Awards LMD Top 100 (2011/12) Reports Worldwide  Number 8 ranking in the Top 50 Annual 2011 Hayleys PLC Reports in the Asia-Pacific Region.  Best Four Star Hotel Amaya Lake Resort  Ranked 3rd Dambulla Haycarb PLC  Bronze Chemicals LMD Most Respected Entities TripAdvisor’s Travelers Choice (2011/12) Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Awards 2013  Silver Agri Business Hayleys PLC  Langdale by Amaya  Ranked 3rd overall Top 20 Luxury Hotels in Sri Lanka  placed first for Nation-Mindedness Singapore Airlines Top Agent 14th Place Awards 2011/12 Top 25 Small Hotels in Sri Lanka Hayleys Travels Amongst Top Ten Travel 20th Place LMD Business Person of the Agents in Sri Lanka Year 2012 (Ranked amongst Top 10) Global Commerce Excellence  Mr. Mohan Pandithage Chairman and Star Awards 2012 for the Best Award in recognition of supporting Chief Executive Performing Entrepreneur the Sri Lankan Economy during Talawakelle Tea Estates’ Mattakelle Estate the period 1985 2009 Best Performing Entrepreneur Central Awarded by Airport Aviation Services/BOI/ Business Today Top 20 (2010/11) Province, Large Manufacturing Sector Sri Lanka Ports Authority/Shipper’s Academy Hayleys PLC Colombo in Association with Central Bank of  Ranked 9th Sri Lanka NCE EXPORT AWARDS 2011 • Hayleys Advantis Group (Freight Forwarding National Chamber of Exporters, Sector) 2 awards Sri Lanka • Hayleys Advantis Group (Ship Agency Business) 2 awards HJS Condiments Silver Award for • Hayleys Advantis Group (Air Express Agriculture Value Added Large Sector Transportation FedEx) 1 award P: 308 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Accreditations and Certifications received or renewed during the reporting period ISO 22000:2005 Food Safety Management System HJS Condiments Ltd. Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Kelani Valley Plantations PLC BRC Global Standard for Food Safety ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. HJS Condiments Ltd. Dipped Products PLC System Certification HJS Condiments Ltd. HACCP Haychem Ltd. Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys Agro Bio Tech (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys Agro Fertilizer (Pvt) Ltd. Alutec Extrusions (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys Advantis Group Australian Quarantine and Inspection Ship Agency Business Service Hayleys Advantis Group Hayleys Agro Biotech (Pvt) Ltd. OHSAS 18001:2007 Certification Freight Forwarding HJS Condiments Ltd. Mountain Hawk Express Fedex Hayleys Energy Services Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Logiventures (Pvt) Ltd. Logiwiz Ltd. Logistics International Ltd. Hayleys Energy Services Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Logiwiz Ltd. USDA NOP Certification of Organic Ravi Industries Ltd. Hayleys Exports PLC Production Methods Bonterra Lanka Ltd. HJS Condiments Ltd. Toyo Cushions Ltd. Chas P. Hayley (Pvt) Ltd. Kosher Certification Haycarb Group HJS Condiments Ltd. Dipped Products PLC Lignocell Pvt Ltd Mabroc Teas (Pvt) Ltd Organic EU Certification of Organic Production Methods HJS Condiments Ltd. Halaal Certification HJS Condiments Ltd. ISO 14001:2004 Environmental Management System Certification FDA Approval from USA HJS Condiments Ltd. HJS Condiments Ltd. SA 8000 Haychem Ltd. HJS Condiments Ltd. Hayleys Agro Fertilizer (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys Energy Services Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Hayleys Energy Services Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Ravi Industries Ltd. Global GAP Certification Haycarb Group Hayleys Agro Biotech (Pvt) Ltd. Dipped Products PLC Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Hayleys Advantis Group (all tea estates recertified) Ship Agency Business FactandFiction Annexes Awards Received During the Reporting Period P: 309 Awards Received During the Reporting Period Ethical Tea Partnership Certification Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC International Air Transport Association Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Hayleys Travels and Tours (Pvt) Ltd. Directive on Personal Protective BRC Global Standard for Consumer Equipment (PPE) Products Dipped Products PLC Issue 3: Feb 2010, Achieved Grade A Dipped Products Group ISO 17025:2005 Rainforest Alliance Certification Dipped Products PLC Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Forest Stewardship Council Ravi Industries Ltd. Kelani Valley Plantations PLC UTZ Certification Talawakelle Tea Estates PLC FSC Forest Management/Chain of NSF 42 Certification Renewal Custody (FM/COC) Haycarb Group Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Dewalakanda Rubber Factory Kelani Valley Plantations PLC Panawatta Rubber Factory Dipped Products PLC ISO 27001 Information Security Management Certification Hayleys Business Solutions International (Pvt) Ltd. P: 310 Memberships Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Given below is a complete list of trade organisations/chambers in which Hayleys Group has affiliations with. Type of Membership Council Role Vice President Vietnam Business Council of the Ceylon Facilitate trade and investment between Sri Lanka and Vietnam Chamber of Commerce Committee Member Environmental Management Systems Users Dedicated to mobilise development and maintenance of sound and Promoters Association Environment Management Systems (EMS) Presidency Agricultural Machinery Manufacturers’ Enhancing local industry through the provision of agricultural Association machinery Directorship Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology Enhancing technology based economic development in (NANCO) Sri Lanka via innovation Executive Committee National Agribusiness Council Contributing to the growth of Sri Lankan Agri related business Membership Committee Membership Committee on Biotechnology of the National Active involvement in promoting research, development and Science Foundation innovation in the field of biotechnology Committee Membership Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Enhancing business networking via affiliated associations and bilateral business councils. Executive Committee CropLife, Sri Lanka Promoting the safe use of pesticides for crop protection Membership/Chairman Committee Membership University Grants Commission Supporting the development of a University System of the highest quality appropriate to national needs and aspirations, in keeping with global trends Committee Membership Institute of Food Science & Technology Strengthening and sustaining Sri Lanka’s food industry Committee Membership Seed Producers Association of Sri Lanka Involvement in producing, processing, certifying and distributing seed and planting material to farmers Corporate Membership All Island Poultry Association (AIPA) Ensuring sustainability of the poultry industry in Sri Lanka Directorship Plantation Human Development Trust Providing sustainable development programs in the plantations industry Vice-President and Secretary Friends of Horton Plains, Talawakelle Enhancing sustainability in the NuwaraEliya district Committee Member Ceylon Rubber Traders Association Representing the interest of rubber sellers Committee Member Planters Association Representing the interests of regional planters Board Membership/Treasurer SLASSCOM Promoting research and innovation General Council Member Sri Lanka Representative Board Global Compact Network Ceylon Facilitate the progress of companies engaged in the Global Membership Compact with respect to implementation of the ten principles of the Global Compact in Sri Lanka. Advisory Council Membership Acts in an advisory capacity to the CASA Executive Committee Executive Committee Member Ceylon Association of Ships Agents (CASA) Decision-making role with regard to shipping matters Member of Committee of Main Address operational matters and reports to the Executive Lines & Feeder Committee Member of the Ocean Freight Sri Lanka Freight Forwarding Association Committing towards the promotion, development and protection Sub Committee of the Sri Lankan freight forwarding industry Committee Member Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Facilitate trade and investment between Sri Lanka and Russia Sri Lanka Russia Business Council Committee Member, Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Contributing to physical infrastructure development Infrastructure Committee FactandFiction P: 311 Memberships Type of Membership Council Role Directorship Sri Lanka Port Management and Consultancy Contributing to Port development Services Limited Executive Committee Member Association of Clearing and Forwarding Providing support and leverage to the shipping industry Agencies Executive Committee Association of Container Depot Operators Supporting the interest and business of Container Depot Membership Operators in Sri Lanka Steering Committee Member Council for Business with Britain Promoting bilateral trade between Sri Lanka and Britain Member Association of Container Transporters Enriching and setting standards of the container transport industry in Sri Lanka Directorship American Chamber of Commerce Encouraging trade, business and investment activities between Sri Lanka and the United States of America. Steering Committee Member Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Ports, Supporting growth and competitiveness of shipping, aviation Shipping, Aviation and Logistics Council and logistics industries Vice President Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Facilitate trade and investment between Sri Lanka and France France Business Council Vice President Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Encouraging the art and science of logistics and transport Vice President Indonesia Business Council Facilitate trade and investment between Sri Lanka and Indonesia Individual Supplier Member GLOBAL G.A.P Germany World’s leading farm assurance programme Board membership The Chartered Institute of Management To ensure a high level of professional competence among the Accountants Sri Lanka Governance Board membership and those aspiring to be members by supervising and regulating student training. Committee Member Sri Lanka Association of Air Express Supporting the interests of Air Express companies. Companies Member Global Projects Logistics Network Energy Representative Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Sri LankaFacilitate trade and investment between Sri Lanka and Russia. Russia Business Council Chairman Ceylon Association of Ships Agents Decision making role with regard to shipping matters. Breakbulk, Bulk, Tankers, Casual Callers and Bunkering Committee P: 312 Milestones Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 1878 1964 1994 2007 Charles Pickering Hayley forms Industries department is Group’s first overseas Hayleys becomes one of the Chas P. Hayley & Co. in Galle. formed to manufacture manufacturing facility first ten signatories worldwide agricultural machinery and Carbokarn Co. Ltd., opens to the CEO Water Mandale of 1909 spraying equipment. in Thailand. the UN’s Global Compact. Hayley & Kenny, a partnership formed between W W Kenny and Chas P Hayley, opens 1968 2001 2010 in Colombo. Haychem Ltd., a collaboration Hayleys steps into power Hayleys acquires its first with Bayer of Germany, generation in collaboration with city hotel Ceylon is formed to formulate AES Corporation of USA. Continental Hotel. 1913 agrochemicals. Hayley & Kenny purchases Thurburn Stores, 400, Deans 2002 2011 Road premises. 1973 Inland marketing companies Hayleys enters in to the Haycarb Ltd., is formed to realigned under 3 focused aluminum extrusions industry pioneer the manufacture and companies Hayleys Agri by acquiring the Alumex Group. 1936 export of activated carbon from Products Ltd., Hayleys Hayleys re-enters and wins Hayley and Kenny becomes a coconut shell charcoal. Consumer Products Ltd. the Best Corporate Citizens private limited liability Company. and Hayleys Industrial Award for the 4th consecutive Solutions Ltd. year that it took part in the 1975 1944 Ravi Industries Ltd., a competition. Chas P Hayley & Co. becomes Company engaged in the 2003 a private limited liability manufacture of brushes is • Group entered into ship 2012 company and fully owned acquired. owning business, where Hayleys acquires the subsidiary of Hayley & Maritime Holdings Ltd. Amaya Group. Kenny Ltd. makes its maiden investment 1976 in the Container Vessel Dipped Products Ltd., is 2013 1952 incorporated to pioneer “Orient Stride”. • Hayleys enters into wind George G Hayley with senior • Dipped Products Ltd’s initial manufacture of Rubber Gloves. power generation through executives also subscribing overseas plant is set up in Nirmalapura. to equity forms Hayleys Ltd. Thailand heralding its entry with a paid up capital of 1983 into the medical • 3 sectors post pre-tax profits glove market. of over Rs. 1 billion for the Rs. 200,000/-, to acquire from The first overseas venture, first time in the history of the heirs of the late Chas P Sorbtech Inc. (now Haymark Hayleys. Hayley and W W Kenny, the entire undertaking of Hayley Inc.) is formed in USA. 2006 • Hayleys adopts a new & Kenny Ltd. 1985 visual identity replacing its Overseas marketing companies former logo of 50 years with 1954 are formed in Holland, UK, one, more contemporary Hayleys Ltd., becomes a public Japan and Australia. and representative of the Company. diversity of the Group’s products and services. 1991 1958 • Hayleys ventures into • Hayleys achieves hat trick by winning Sri Lanka’s Best Shipping agency department hoteliering through its Corporate Citizen title for the is formed, later to be subsidiary Carbotels Ltd. third successive year. reconstituted as Maritime • Employee share ownership Agencies Ltd. (forerunner of • Mabroc Kelani Valley schemes are introduced launches the world’s Hayleys Advantis Ltd.). within the Group. first “Ethical Tea” to be • Hayleys steps into the recognised by the UN’s business of plantations. Global Compact. FactandFiction P: 313 GRI Content Index Index Description Report Section Status Page No. 1. Strategy & Analysis 1.1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the Organisation Chairman’s Statement  16-21 1.2 Description of Key Impacts, Risks & Opportunities Risk Management  158-164 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the Organisation Corporate Information  Inner Back Cover 2.2 Primary Brands, Products and/or Services Our Portfolio of Businesses  22-23 2.3 Operational Structure of the Organisation Group Companies  304-305 2.4 Location of Organisation's Headquarters Corporate Information  Inner Back Cover 2.5 Number of countries where the Organisation operates, and names of Our Portfolio of Businesses  22-23 countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the Report 2.6 Nature of ownership & legal form Corporate Information  Inner Back Cover 2.7 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types Our Portfolio of Businesses  22-23 of customers/beneficiaries) 2.8 Scale of the Reporting Organisation Reporting parameters  25-31 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or Chairman’s Statement  16-21 ownership 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period Awards Received During the  Reporting Period 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period Reporting parameters  25-31 3.2 Date of most recent previous report Reporting parameters  25-31 3.3 Reporting cycle Reporting parameters  25-31 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Report or its Contents Reporting parameters  25-31 3.5 Defining Report Content Reporting parameters  25-31 3.6 Boundary of the Report Reporting parameters  25-31 3.7 Any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Report Reporting parameters  25-31 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries,leased facilities, Reporting parameters  25-31 outsourced operations and other entities that can affect comparability from period to period and/or between organisations 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations Reporting parameters  25-31 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any re-statement of information provided in Reporting parameters  25-31 earlier reports 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary Reporting parameters  25-31 or measurement methods applied in the Report 3.12 GRI Compliance Index Annexes  314-320 3.13 Policy and current practice with regards to seeking external assurance for Chairman’s Statement  16-21 the Report  Fully Reported  Partially Reported  Not Reported P: 314 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Index Description Report Section Status Page No. 4 Governance, Commitments & Engagement 4.1 Governance Structure of the Organisation Reporting parameters  25-31 Corporate Governance 129-157 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an Corporate Governance  129-157 executive officer 4.3 The number of members of the highest governance body that are Corporate Governance  129-157 independent and/or non-executive members 4.4 Mechanisms for Shareholders and employees to provide recommendations Corporate Governance  129-157 or direction to the highest governance body 4.5 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance Corporate Governance  129-157 body, senior managers, and executives and the Organisation’s performance 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governing body to ensure conflicts of Corporate Governance  129-157 interests are avoided 4.7 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members Corporate Governance  129-157 of the highest governance body for guiding the Organisation’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics 4.8 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and Corporate Governance  129-157 principles relevant to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation 4.9 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the Corporate Governance  129-157 Organisation’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance. 4.10 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance Corporate Governance  129-157 4.11 Precautionary Approach Corporate Governance  129-157 4.12 Externally developed economic, environmental and social Charters and Corporate Governance  129-157 principles 4.13 Membership in industry/ business association Annexes  314-320 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the Organisation Reporting parameters  25-31 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Reporting parameters  25-31 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement including frequency Reporting parameters  25-31 4.17 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholders engagement Reporting parameters  25-31 and the Organisation’s response Economic Performance EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Delivering and Deriving Value  95 EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the Delivering and Deriving Value  96 Organisation’s activities due to climate change EC3 Coverage of the Organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Accounting Policies  201 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from Government  EC5 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local  minimum wage at significant locations of operation EC6 Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based Delivering and Deriving Value  96 suppliers at significant locations of operation  Fully Reported  Partially Reported  Not Reported FactandFiction Annexes GRI Content Index P: 315 GRI Content Index Index Description Report Section Status Page No. EC7 Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from  the local community at locations of significant operation EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services  provided primarily for public benefit through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement EC9 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts, Delivering and Deriving Value  96-97 including the extent of impacts Environmental Performance EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Delivering and Deriving Value  111 EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Delivering and Deriving Value  111 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source Delivering and Deriving Value  112-114 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source Delivering and Deriving Value  112-114 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements Delivering and Deriving Value  111 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products  and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved  EN8 Total water withdrawal by source  EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water  EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused  EN11 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to,  protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on  biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored  EN14 Strategies, current action & future plans for managing biodiversity  EN15 Number of IUCN Red List Species & National Conservation List Species with  habitats in areas affected by operations EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Delivering and Deriving Value  112-114 EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight Delivering and Deriving Value  112-114 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved Delivering and Deriving Value  115 EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight  EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight  EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination  EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Delivering and Deriving Value  116 EN23 Total Number of & Volume of significant spills  EN24 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed  hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally  Fully Reported  Partially Reported  Not Reported P: 316 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Index Description Report Section Status Page No. EN25 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related  habitats significantly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services,  and extent of impact mitigation EN27 Percentage of products sold & their packaging materials reclaimed  EN28 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Delivering and Deriving Value  117 sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations EN29 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other  goods and materials used for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type  Society SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, Highlights  15 impact assessments, and development programs SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analysed for risks related to Delivering and Deriving Value  108-109 corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies  and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption Delivering and Deriving Value  108-109 SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and  lobbying SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties,  politicians, and related institutions by country SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust,  and monopoly practices and their outcomes SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary Delivering and Deriving Value  108-109 sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local  communities SO10 Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with  significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Labour Practices and Decent Work LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, Delivering and Deriving Value  100-101 broken down by gender LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age Delivering and Deriving Value  102-103 group, gender, and region LA3 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary  or part-time employees, by significant locations of operations LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Delivering and Deriving Value  103 LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, including whether Delivering and Deriving Value  104 it is specified in collective agreements  Fully Reported  Partially Reported  Not Reported FactandFiction Annexes GRI Content Index P: 317 GRI Content Index Index Description Report Section Status Page No. LA6 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management– Delivering and Deriving Value  104 worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programmes LA7 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Delivering and Deriving Value  104 and number of work related fatalities by province LA8 Education, training, counselling, prevention of diseases, and risk-control Delivering and Deriving Value  104 programs in place to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions  LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category Delivering and Deriving Value  105 LA11 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the  continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career  development reviews, by gender LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per  category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee  category, by significant locations of operations LA15 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender  Human Rights HR1 Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and Delivering and Deriving Value  105 contracts that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights screening HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners  that have undergone human rights and actions taken HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning  aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise  freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for Delivering and Deriving Value  105 incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour  Fully Reported  Partially Reported  Not Reported P: 318 Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Index Description Report Section Status Page No. HR7 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for  incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour HR8 Percentage of security personnel trained in Organisation policies &  Procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations HR9 Total number of incidents of violations of rights of indigenous people and  actions taken HR10 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human Delivering and Deriving Value  105 rights reviews and/or impact assessments HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved  through formal grievance mechanisms Products Responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and  services are assessed for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services PR3 Type of product & service Information required by procedures and Delivering and Deriving Value  98-99 percentage of significant products and services subject to such information requirements PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning product and service information and labelling PR5 Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys  measuring customer satisfaction PR6 Programmes for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related Delivering and Deriving Value  98-99 to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary  codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer  privacy and losses of customer data PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance with laws and Delivering and Deriving Value  98-99 regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services  Fully Reported  Partially Reported  Not Reported FactandFiction Annexes GRI Content Index P: 319 GRI Content Index UNGC Principles GRI Indicators Cross Reference Issue Areas GC Principles Page/s Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 105-107 Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 105-107 Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 100-103 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 100-103 Principle 5 Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 100-103 Principle 6 Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 100-103 Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 110-117 Principle 8 Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 110-117 Principle 9 Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 110-117 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 108-109 P: 320 Glossary of Financial Terms Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 Actuarial Gains and Losses Deferred Taxation (except for a derivative that is a Other comprehensive income Is the effects of difference The tax effect of timing financial guarantee contract). Items of income and expenses between the previous actuarial differences deferred to/from that are not recognised in profit assumptions and what has other periods, which would only Financial Asset or loss as required or permitted actually occurred and the qualify for inclusion on a tax Any asset that is cash, an by other SLFRS’s. effects of changes in actuarial return at a future date. equity instrument of another assumptions. entity or a contractual right to Price Earnings Ratio Dividend Cover receive cash or another financial Market price of a share divided Amortisation Profit attributable to ordinary asset from another entity. by earnings per share as The systematic allocation of shareholders divided by reported at that date. the depreciable amount of an dividend. Measures the number Financial Instrument intangible asset over its useful life. of times dividend is covered by Any contract that gives rise to a Related Parties distributable profit. financial asset of one entity and Parties who could control Available for Sale a financial liability or equity to or significantly influence the Non derivative financial asset that Dividend Payout another entity. financial and operating policies are designated as available for Dividend per share as a of the business. sale or are not classified as loans percentage of the earnings per Financial Liability and receivable, held to maturity share. Any liability that is a contractual Retirement Benefits Present investment or financial assets at obligation to deliver cash or Value of a Defined Benefit fair value through profit and loss. Dividend Yield another financial asset to Obligation Dividend per share as a another entity. Is the present value of expected Biological Asset percentage of the market future payments required to A living animal or plant price. A measure of return on Gain on Bargain Purchase settle the obligation resulting investment. Business combination is from employee service in the Borrowings which the amount of the current and prior periods. All interest bearing liabilities. EBIT identifiable assets acquired and Abbreviation for Earnings liabilities assumed exceeds Return on Average Capital Capital Employed Before Interest and Tax. the aggregate consideration employed Total equity, minority interest and transferred. Profit before tax plus net finance interest bearing borrowings. Effective Tax Rate Gearing cost divided by average capital Income tax expenses divided Proportion of total interest employed. Capital Reserves by profit from ordinary activities Reserves identified for specific bearing borrowings to capital before tax. employed. Return on Average purposes and considered not of Shareholders’ Funds the entity, directly or indirectly, Equity Interest Cover Attributable profits to the including any director (whether Shareholders’ funds. Profit before tax plus net finance shareholders divided by average executive or otherwise) of that cost divided by net finance shareholders’ funds. entity available for distribution. Equity Accounted Investees An entity including an cost. Measure of an entity’s debt service ability. Revenue Reserves Cash Equivalents unincorporated entity such as Reserves considered as being Liquid investments with original a partnership, over which the Key Management Personnel available for distributions and maturity periods of three months investor has significant influence (KMP) investments. or less. and that is neither a subsidiary KMP are those persons having nor an interest in a joint venture. authority and responsibility Segments Contingent Liability Constituent business units A possible obligation that Fair Value for planning directing and controlling the activities of the grouped in terms of similarity of arises from past events whose Fair value is the amount operations and location. existence will be confirmed for which an asset could entity, directly or indirectly, only by the occurrence or be exchanged between a including any Director (whether SoRP non-occurrence of one or more knowledgeable or liability executive or otherwise) of that Statement of Recommended uncertain future events not settled between knowledgeable entity. Practice. wholly within the control of the willing parties in an arm’s length Market Capitalisation enterprise. transaction. Value Addition Number of shares in issue The quantum of wealth Current Ratio Fair Value Through Profit and multiplied by the market value generated by the activities of Current assets divided by current Loss of a share at the reported date. the Group measured as the liabilities. A measure of liquidity. A financial asset/liability Net Assets Per Share difference between turnover acquired/incurred principally Shareholders’ funds divided by and the cost of materials and Current Service Cost for the purpose of selling or services bought in. Is the increase in the present the weighted average number repurchasing it in the near term, of ordinary shares in issue. A value of the defined benefit part of a portfolio of identified Working Capital obligation resulting from basis of share valuation. Capital required to finance dayfinancial instruments that are employee service in the current managed together and for Non-controlling Interest to-day operations computed period. which there is evidence of a The interest of individual as the excess of current assets recent actual pattern of shortshareholders, in a company over current liabilities. term profit taking, or a derivative more than 50% of which is owned by a holding Company. FactandFiction P: 321 Notice of Meeting Hayleys PLC Company No. PQ 22 Notice is hereby given that the Sixty-Second Annual General Meeting of Hayleys PLC will be held at the Winchester, The Kingsbury, No. 48, Janadhipathi Mawatha, Colombo 01 on Friday, 28th June, 2013 at 3.00 p.m. and the business to be brought before the Meeting will be: 1. To consider and adopt the Annual Report of the Board of Directors and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March, 2013, with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. 3. To re-elect Mr. L.R.V. Waidyaratne, who has been appointed by the Board, since the last Annual General Meeting, a Director. 4. To re-elect Mr. H.S.R. Kariyawasan, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 5. To re-elect Mr. M.R. Zaheed, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 6. To re-elect Dr. H. Cabral, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 7. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities for the financial year 2013/14. 8. To ratify sum of Rs. 530,650./donated to charities in excess of the sum approved by the shareholders for the financial year 2012/13. 9. To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been reappointed as Auditors. 10. To consider any other business of which due notice has been given. Note: (i) A Shareholder is entitled to appoint a proxy to attend and vote instead of himself and a proxy need not be a Shareholder of the Company. A Form of Proxy is enclosed for this purpose. The instrument appointing a proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10 by 3.00 p.m. on 26th June, 2013. (ii) It is proposed to post ordinary dividend warrants on 8th July, 2013 and in accordance with the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange the shares of the Company will be quoted ex-dividend with effect from 1st July, 2013. By Order of the Board HAYLEYS PLC HAYLEYS GROUP SERVICES (PRIVATE) LIMITED Secretaries Colombo 27th May, 2013 P: 322 Form of Proxy Hayleys PLC Annual Report 2012/13 I/We* .......................................................................................................................................................................................... of ................................................................................................................................................................................................ being a shareholder/shareholders* of HAYLEYS PLC hereby appoint, 1. ............................................................................................................................................................................................... of .............................................................................................................................................................................................or failing him/them. 2. ABEYAKUMAR MOHAN PANDITHAGE (Chairman of the Company) of Colombo, or failing him, one of the Directors of the Company as my/ our* proxy to attend, speak and vote as indicated hereunder for me/us* and on my/our* behalf at the Sixty-Second Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on Friday, 28th June, 2013 and at every poll which may be taken in consequence of the aforesaid meeting and at any adjournment thereof. For Against 1. To adopt the Annual Report of the Board of Directors and the Statements of Accounts for the year ended 31st March, 2013, with the Report of the Auditors thereon. 2. To declare a dividend as recommended by the Directors. 3. To re-elect Mr. L.R.V. Waidyaratne, who has been appointed to the Board since the last Annual General Meeting, a Director. 4. To re-elect Mr. H.S.R. Kariyawasan, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 5. To re-elect Mr. M.R. Zaheed, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 6. To re-elect Dr. H.Cabral, who retires by rotation at the Annual General Meeting, a Director. 7. To authorise the Directors to determine contributions to charities for the financial year 2013/14. 8. To ratify sum of Rs. 530,650/donated to charities in excess of the sum approved by the shareholders for the financial year 2012/13. 9. To authorise the Directors to determine the remuneration of the Auditors, Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants who are deemed to have been reappointed as Auditors. (**) The proxy may vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting. As witness my/our* hands this ................................................... day of .................................. 2013. Witnesses: ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... ............................................... Signature of Shareholder Note: * Please delete the inappropriate words. 1. A proxy need not be a shareholder of the Company. 2. Instructions as to completion, appear on the reverse. P: 323 Form of Proxy Instructions as to Completion 1. To be valid, this Form of Proxy must be deposited at the Registered Office, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, by 3.00 p.m. on 26th June, 2013. 2. In perfecting the Form of proxy, please ensure that all details are legible. 3. If you wish to appoint a person other than the Chairman of the Company (or failing him, one of the Directors of the Company) as your Proxy, please insert the relevant details at (1) overleaf and initial against this entry. 4. Please indicate with an X in the space provided how your proxy is to vote on each resolution. If no indication is given, the proxy in his discretion will vote as he thinks fit. Please also delete (**) if you do not wish your proxy to vote as he thinks fit on any other resolution brought before the Meeting. 5. In the case of a Company/Corporation, the Proxy must be under its Common Seal which should be affixed and attested in the manner prescribed by its Articles of Association. 6. Where the Form of Proxy is signed under a Power of Attorney (POA) which has not been registered with the Company, the original POA together with a photocopy of same or a copy certified by a Notary Public must be lodged with the Company along with the Form of Proxy. Corporate Information Name of Company Head/Registered Office Secretaries Hayleys PLC Hayley Building Hayleys Group Services P.O. Box 70, No. 400, (Private) Limited Deans Road, No. 400, Deans Road, Legal Form Colombo 10, Sri Lanka. Colombo 10, A Public Limited Company Telephone: (94-11) 2627000 Sri Lanka. incorporated in Facsimile: (94-11) 2699299 Telephone: (94-11) 2627650 Sri Lanka in 1952. E-mail: info@sec.hayleys.com Founded 1878. Auditors Ernst & Young Please direct any queries Company Number about the administration of Chartered Accountants PQ 22 No. 201, De Saram Place, shareholdings to the Company Colombo 10, Sri Lanka. Secretaries. Accounting year end 31st March Bankers Investor Relations Hatton National Bank Please contact HSBC Strategic Business Unit Principal Activities Bank of Ceylon Telephone: (94-11) 2627662 Holding Company; carrying out investments in and providing NDB Bank E-mail: info@cau.hayleys.com management and services to Standard Chartered Bank Sampath Bank Hayleys Group Companies. Internet Commercial Bank of Ceylon www.hayleys.com Deutsche Bank Stock Exchange Listing DFCC The ordinary shares of the Citibank Company are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange of Sri Lanka. HAYLEYS PLC Hayley Building, P.O. Box 70, No. 400, Deans Road, Colombo 10, Sri Lanka. T: +94 112 627 000 F: +94 112 699 299 W: www.hayleys.com SCAN FOR ON-LINE VERSION http://Hayleys2012-13.AnnualReports.lk
