Sustainability Report | 2012 Contents 2 President & CEO statement 4 PostNord’s arena 5 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis 6 Governance and targets 9 10 Owners Society p8 11 Capital market PostNord’s 12 Customers 15 External partners targets 17 Employees 21 Environment 25 Suppliers How we are 26 Sustainability data reducing­ our p23 29 Accounting principles carbon dioxide 32 Attestation Report emissions Contact information p10–11 PostNord’s role in society How we improve p12–14 our customers’ competitiveness­ About the report The 2012 Sustainability Report is the group’s fourth sustainability report. It is intended for anyone who wants to get a picture of our sustainability Read more about work during the past year and our ambitions for the future. The report PostNord’s includes, unless otherwise indicated, the Nordic operations, since most of performance­in the the group’s sales and employees are located in this region. The last report Annual Report. was published on March 15, 2012. Information on the accounting policies applied and their scope is detailed in the Accounting Principles. The ­Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 3.0, Application Level C+. The Sustainability Report was adopted by PostNord’s Board of Directors on February 21, 2013. Ernst & Young AB has reviewed Every care has been taken in the PostNord’s 2012 Sustainability Report and confirmed that it was prepared ­trans­lation of this sustainability report. in accordance with Global Reporting Initiative’s Application Level C+. In the event of discrepancies, however, A GRI cross-reference table is available on the group’s website at the Swedish original will supersede www.postnord.com. the­ English translation. PostNord offers communication and logistics solutions to, from and within the Nordic region. We have the important universal service obligation of providing postal services in Sweden and Denmark. We are also the leader in business communication in the Nordic countries and one of the largest logistics operators in the region. Every working day we distribute 11 million letters, 400,000 parcels and 11,000 pallets of goods. We listen to and maintain dialogue with our customers to implement continuous improvement and provide solutions that strengthen our customers’ competitiveness. Our role. Our responsibility. PostNord’s active work with issues relating to quality and the environment creates value for our customers, owners and other stakeholders, and increases their confidence in us as a provider. Good leadership and dedicated employees are crucial to our ability to ­generate new business and enhance our ability to ­continue to deliver high-quality communication and logistics solutions. PostNord’s business is based on transport and we work continually to reduce our environmental impact. If we use less fuel we reduce our costs and enhance our competitiveness – while reducing our environ­ mental impact. Sustainable enterprise creates sustainable business We create value for our customers, owners­and other stakeholders as we effectively manage and distribute physical­and digital mail items. Through an open dialogue with stakeholders, we ensure that we develop our offer and our business in the right direction. Conversions and investment for the future PostNord’s net sales decreased by 1 percent in 2012 to SEK 38,920m (39,466). Operating profit totaled SEK 364m (1,571) and the operating margin was 0.9 (4.0) percent. The adjusted operating margin1) was 4.0 (4.7) percent. PostNord’s reported profit for 2012 is marked by the major An open dialogue changes that the group has undergone. Our strategy is to In order for PostNord to live up to the requirements, expecta­reposition the business in relation to the market trends. tions and preferences that are set for us, we must know about The major investments being made in the Swedish terminal and take on board the issues that are important to our stakestructure are crucial in terms of enabling us to address the holders. Our key stakeholder dialogues include those with ­substantial changes in anticipated letter and parcel volumes. ­decision makers and opinion leaders – these are particularly It is crucial for our continued success that we have managers noteworthy, since the design of future service requirements and leaders who exercise effective leadership in change and as it relates to ongoing market changes is a central issue. that we have committed employees. It is a challenge to con­ Our customers’ confidence in us as a supplier and business tinually adapt the business to changing conditions, improve partner is critical to our ability to generate value and our dia­efficiency and reduce costs. But the measures are n ­ ecessary, logue with customers and partners in our service network is and we strive to act effectively and responsibly in all of our ­paramount. We conduct regular surveys of customer and p ­ ublic c­ onversion efforts. perception of us; measurements that help us evolve. Internal dialogue within the company is important because Delivery precision creates value good leadership and dedicated employees are crucial to develHigh delivery precision and quality throughout the chain are oping our business in the right direction. During the year we important competitive advantages that are critical to our credimade extensive efforts to enhance employees’ knowledge and bility and ability to do business. Delivery precision is one of the understanding of PostNord’s market conditions and strategy. key success factors for our customers, and the quality of our deliveries is therefore essential. It is gratifying to note that the Our responsibility is to change delivery quality for overnight delivery of first-class letters has PostNord supports the principles of the UN Global Compact, and increased overall in the group. our responsibility also includes areas outside our own business. Our markets are changing and offering new business opportuniReduced carbon dioxide emissions ties. We have a responsibility to ourselves and to our environment We use different modes of transport to make on-time deliveries to constantly evolve and constantly work on improvements to to recipients. Road and air transport account for 88 percent of capitalize on these opportunities and create value. the group’s total carbon dioxide emissions. Reducing carbon dioxide emissions is a priority and we are dedicated to our ­overall target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by ­­ 40 percent between 2009 and 2020. Lars Idermark President and Chief Executive Officer 1) Operating margin before restructuring costs and non-recurring effects. 2 President & CEO statement PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 2012 highlights • Continued implementation of the Roadmap • Employee index (MIX) and leadership index (LIX) PostNord 2015 group strategy. The strategy aims to improved to 63 (57) % and 65 (59) %, respectively. reposition the business in relation to market trends, • Delivery quality for first-class letters (overnight) in secure profitability in Mail and generate continued Sweden and Denmark was 95.4 (94.7) % and 93.5 expansion in Logistics. (94.0) %, respectively. • Carbon dioxide emissions from PostNord’s • Continued investment in the terminal structure. operations­decreased 5% year-on-year. The investments provide greater flexibility, • SEK 65m was earmarked for the group’s efficiency­and profitability, and create opportunities Climate Fund. to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. PostNord’s arena PostNord’s stakeholders have different Understanding­how stakeholders view requirements and expectations for the us and our business is a prerequisite for group. These can change rapidly with the creation and provision of required changing market conditions in the services – today and tomorrow. ­communication and logistics industry. Environment Suppliers Owners Society PostNord’s business requires Every year, PostNord procures PostNord is owned 60% by the PostNord is an important extensive transport. Environgoods and services for billions. Swedish state and 40% by the corporate citizen. With a long-term, mental requirements are The basic assumption is to only Danish state. The overall mission stable and profitable business, increasing, and reduction of sign agreements with parties from the owners is that opportunities are created to carbon dioxide emissions is that undertake to comply with PostNord should create value meet and exceed demands a priority issue. PostNord’s supplier code. and ensure the execution of a for environmental compatibility Read more on pages Read more on page 25 universal service obligation. and social responsibility. 20–24 and 26 Read more on page 9 Read more on pages 10–11 PostNord External partners Employees Customers Capital market PostNord currently has 4,879 With nearly 40,000 employees, Our customers need to be able PostNord finances its distribution points, of which PostNord is one of the largest to reach their recipients. On operations partly through 4,363 are managed by external employers in the Nordic region, time, securely and effectively. external loans. Capital market partners. These play an important and this carries great social Read more on pages 12–14 confidence is therefore role in PostNord’s ability to offer responsibility. Being an important to PostNord. customers good service. attractive and stimulating Read more on page 11 Read more on page 15 workplace is part of our vision. Read more on pages 16–19 and 27–28 4 PostNord’s arena PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis In order to live up to the demands and PostNord conducts various surveys and dialogues with internal and external stakeholders to better understand and act on the expectations placed on us, we need to expectations placed on the company. Through this dialogue, understand the issues that our stake­ PostNord is better able to understand and manage trends, markets­, opportunities and risks. holders regard as important. Dialogue Stakeholder dialogues are conducted in different formats with stakeholders provides valuable and with varying frequency. Dialogue responsibility is allocated to different parts of PostNord’s operations, depending on the knowledge that helps us to continuously nature of the issues. Below is a summary of PostNord’s stakedevelop the group’s offer and operations. holder dialogues in 2012, divided by stakeholder group, type of dialogue and issues in focus. Regular measurement Read of stakeholder perceptions more Stakeholder Dialogue Important issues of PostNord Other monitoring on page Owners AGM, discussions, meetings. Value creation and financial Interim financial statements, 9 stability, sustainable business, annual report including corperformance of universal serporate governance report, vice obligation stipulated by sustainability report, presentalaw and license conditions. tions, other reporting. Capital Phone conferences, meetings Financial stability, cash flows, Price of PostNord’s outstandInterim financial statements, 11 market and other correspondence. ownership structure, sustainaing bonds. annual report including corpoble business, transparency. rate governance report, sustainability report, presentations. Society Discussions, meetings and Quality, security, simplicity, reliMeasurements (twice yearly) 10–11 correspondence with regulaability, availability, consideraof the public perception of the tory authorities, politicians tion of customer needs, value business (corporate image) in and opinion leaders, diaof products and services, Sweden and Denmark. logues and collaborations good management of the with industry organizations, company. interest groups (e.g. rural), sports and cultural organizations, organizations for sustainable development and social responsibility. Customers Communication through the Availability through good geoMeasurements (twice yearly) Measurements of delivery 12–14 sales organization, customer graphic coverage and scope, of customer satisfaction quality for letters and parcels, service, customer ombudshigh sales competence and and private and corporate measurements of environman/appellate authority, drivgood customer service, reliabilcustomers’ perceptions of mental impact of operations. ers and mail carriers as well as ity, security, environment, focus PostNord and PostNord’s through PostNord’s service on solutions for customers. operations. Customer percepnetwork of 4,879 distribution tion of PostNord’s partners points. is included in the surveys. External Continuous ongoing dialogue The function of cooperation Annual measurement of Mystery shopper measure15 ­partners with external partners with contacts at PostNord’s ­partners’ satisfaction (NPI). ments. through various channels. external partners, delivery reliability, information from PostNord in support of customer service. Employees Performance reviews, workCustomer focus, clear inforAnnual employee survey Monitoring of leadership qual16–19, place meetings, employee mation on group’s develop(FOCUS). ity, employee commitment, 27–28 dialogue, communication via ment and direction, good sick leave and gender equality. internal channels, dialogue working conditions. with trade unions, Senior M ­ anagement Meetings. Suppliers Procurement, purchasing Transparency in procurement Measurements of contract 25 negotiations and other processes, ability to pay, fidelity and compliance with ­dialogue in relation to delivery­ quality. supplier code. ­purchasing and quality ­monitoring meetings. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Stakeholder dialogue and materiality analysis 5 Governance and targets PostNord shall create long-term value Governance model PostNord’s governance model aims to secure and sustain for its owners and other stakeholders ­maximum value creation and to develop the business in the and to ensure the provision of universal best possible way. PostNord’s governance model consists of seven main elements. The principal corporate governance postal service on a commercial basis. includes formal governance, functional governance and Sustainability issues are integrated into ­contextual governance, which together with PostNord’s ­strategy and plans set the parameters, conditions, and PostNord’s governance model and ­direction for the group’s operations. ­several of PostNord’s group targets The other elements are comprised of governance by are related to sustainability. ­objectives for the group’s 250 top executives; management and implementation of group projects; business management systems and related certification for quality, environment and Roadmap PostNord 2015 safety; and monitoring and evaluation of activities supported Declining mail volumes necessitate major changes in the by the EFQM (European Foundation of Quality Management) group. Meanwhile, the logistics market is growing and holds Excellence Model. This model is based and focused on value potential for a strong regional operator like PostNord to further creation for all key stakeholders: owners, customers, society increase market share in the Nordic countries. An enhanced and employees. The model has a holistic perspective in terms market position in logistics is also important in terms of of the management and development of the business. ­meeting competition in the logistics industry. Read more about PostNord’s governance in the Corporate PostNord’s strategy is to develop the company in line with Governance Report in PostNord’s Annual Report. our mission, vision and core values. The strategy involves a repositioning of the group’s operations in line with market Risks and risk management changes in order to ensure profitability or Mail and continue PostNord’s risk management is an integral part of the the development of Logistics. The strategy was implemented ­company’s operational governance. Risks and risk according to plan during 2012. ­management are described in PostNord’s Annual Report. Sustainability issues are integrated into PostNord’s strategy and governance by objectives. 6 Governance and targets PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Mission Values PostNord connects people and businesses reliably, • Reliable efficiently and on time. • Accessible • Business partner • Environmentally sound Vision We deliver world-class communication and logistics solutions to satisfied customers. • We develop strong, profitable international logistics and information logistics operations through ownership, partnership and collaboration. • We are an attractive, stimulating workplace with committed, motivated employees. • We are an environmentally sound choice for our customers. We measure what matters PostNord’s corporate targets include both financial and nonprofit to the owners, while taking into account implementation financial targets. PostNord’s dividend policy is to pay 40% of net of group strategy and the group’s financial position and targets. Targets and performance Targets Performance 2012 FINANCIAL TARGETS CAPITAL STRUCTURE Equity/Assets ratio of at least 35%. 39 (47)% RETURNS Return on equity exceeding 10% over a business 2 (10)% cycle. OTHER TARGETS CUSTOMERS World-class communication and logistics solutions to satisfied customers. Customer value Improve customer value index (KVI). 71 (70) Corporate image Improve corporate image index (TRIM index). 35 (34) ENVIRONMENT Reduce the group’s climate impact. High-quality communication and logistics solutions. AND QUALITY CO2 emissions1) Reduce emissions by 40% 2009–2020. 372,981 (393,516) tons. Delivery quality, Sweden Meet the Swedish state’s requirement that at least 95.4 (94.7) % of 1st-class letters were delivered within 85% of first-class letters will be delivered the one day. following business day and 97% within three days. 99.9 (99.9) % of 1st-class letters were delivered within three days. Internal 2012 targets: Delivery quality, 1st-class letters (overnight), 95.0%2). Delivery quality for parcels was 96.8 (97.5)%. Delivery quality, parcels, 97.0%. Delivery quality, Denmark Meet the Danish state’s 93% quality 93.5 (94.0) % of 1st-class letters were delivered requirement for all services falling under the within one day. delivery obligation. Delivery quality for parcels was 96.6 (97.9)%. Internal 2012 targets: Delivery quality, 1st-class letters (overnight), 95.0%2). Delivery quality, parcels 97.0%. EMPLOYEES An attractive and stimulating workplace with committed, motivated and healthy employees and managers. Employee commitment Improve employee index (MIX) MIX: 63 (57) and leadership and leadership index (LIX). LIX: 65 (59) Workplace equality 40% female managers by 2015. 29 (29)% Sick leave Reduce sick leave levels. 4.9 (5.0)% 1) Figures include Nordic countries and non-Nordic operations of Strålfors. Historical figures have been adjusted for comparison purposes. 2) PostNord is internally governed by a total quality target for 1st-class letters. In 2012, 95.0 (94.5)% of the group’s 1st-class letters were delivered on time. The target for 2012 was 95.0%. 8 Governance and targets PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Two states – two owners The 2009 merger of Posten AB and Post 2012 Annual General Meeting PostNord maintains regular dialogue with its owners. One Danmark A/S created a new group with ­formal opportunity for this is PostNord’s open AGM. Quality better opportunities to address and take was a focus area during this year’s meeting, a topic emphasized by CEO Lars Idermark in his speech. advantage of market trends. PostNord’s PostNord’s service and quality were also issues in focus owners, the Danish state and the Swedish ­during the question and answer session, since local problems have arisen in some areas of the Swedish postal distribution. state, have clearly expressed their belief In response to the questions asked, the CEO and Head of that business and sustainability go hand ­business area Mail Sweden stressed the importance of delivin hand. ery quality and that the company is very anxious to deal with arising problems. Gender equality in senior positions was another issue PostNord is an important corporate citizen ­discussed. In his response, the chairman emphasized PostNord’s PostNord plays an important role in the societies in which it goal to have 40% female managers within the group by 2015. ­operates. The overall target of PostNord’s two owners is that ­PostNord will create value and fulfill the universal service obligaBusiness and sustainability go hand in hand tion. PostNord’s subsidiaries, Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S, are The conversion currently underway within PostNord is aimed commissioned to fulfill the universal service obligations in Sweden at adapting the operations and capitalizing on the opportuniand Denmark, respectively. Read more about the universal service ties created by ongoing market changes. The conversion, obligation on pages 58–59 of PostNord’s Annual Report. which includes cost reductions in the Mail business, is imporPostNord’s business and role in society, however, are much tant for PostNord’s ability to continue to create value and meet more comprehensive than this commission. In addition to the owners’ requirements. postal services, PostNord’s operations include a broad range of Like our owners, we are convinced that business and various communication and logistics services in the Nordic ­sustainability go hand in hand. The large terminal investments countries and other markets. that PostNord is making in Sweden are an example of how ­economic, social and environmental responsibility are linked Sustainability in focus in the group. Another example is the EFQM Excellence Model, The Swedish state’s ownership policy was revised in August which has been implemented throughout the group since 2012. 2012, clarifying that sustainable enterprise should be integrated The model is based on and focuses on creating value, both finaninto corporate governance to ensure long-term value creation. cially and for customers, the owners, society and employees. State-owned enterprises must conduct business through a longterm and responsible use of resources. Sustainable enterprise for Summary of owner-related group targets the Swedish government includes the areas of environment, Type of target Target Outcome 2012 human rights, working conditions, anti-corruption, business Return on equity 10% over a 2 (10)% ­ethics, equality and diversity. Boards of directors are required business cycle to formulate long-term overall sustainability targets related to Equity/Assets ratio At least 35% 39 (47)% activities, as well as strategies for achievement. The Ministry of Finance monitors the boards’ work. Board members and repreDividend sentatives of PostNord participated in seminars and discussed PostNord’s dividend policy is to pay 40% of net profit to the sustainable enterprise with the Swedish owner during the year. owners, while taking into account implementation of group The Danish government has clear expectations for responstrategy and the group’s financial position and targets. In 2012, sible growth and believes that a business approach to social dividend of SEK 368m were distributed to the owners. The responsibility promotes the company growth and competitiveBoard proposes a dividend to the 2013 Annual General ness while achieving positive social and environmental effects. ­Meeting of SEK 103m, corresponding to 40% of net profit. In March 2012 the Danish government published an action plan for corporate social responsibility (“Ansvarlig vækst”) for 2012–2015. In June it published the document “Forretningsdrevet samfundsansvar” with examples of companies that have linked business with sustainability. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Owners 9 PostNord creates value in society PostNord has an important role to play in is a challenge but also creates opportunities for companies that can quickly adapt their business. We are implementing extensociety. We strive to be a reliable, available sive changes to address changing conditions from digitization, and environmentally sound market declining letter volumes and rising parcel volumes. Every stage in mail processing has changed and continues ­participant, employer and operator. The to change – from drop-off by businesses and private individugroup’s ability to develop its offer and the als, through our mail terminals, to distribution by mail carriers. Major changes to a process as complex as mail management, business is dependent on its reputation presents challenges. For major changes, dialogue is conducted and on continued delivery of high quality. with politicians and other representatives of society. Read more about the group’s universal postal service obligation Economic, social and environmental responsibility in PostNord’s Annual Report. A long-term, stable and profitable business creates opportunities to meet and exceed demands for environmental compatibility A part of social development and social responsibility. Correspondingly, an environmentally PostNord distributes approximately 11 million letters, about sound and socially responsible business strengthens our 400,000 parcels and 11,000 pallets of goods to the Nordic ­competitiveness. For example, high quality levels, reduced fuel region’s 25 million inhabitants and two million businesses – consumption, employee satisfaction and low levels of sick leave every business day. While major adaptations are being made provide economic, environmental and social benefits for both due to changing demand, demographics changes are also PostNord and society. ­taking place, including an ageing population and continued urbanization. Central social function In Denmark, the group has made concentrated efforts to PostNord plays a major role in the communities of which we develop its offer in care and welfare distribution, a growing are a part. We want to strengthen our customers’ competitive­market. Post Danmark worked closely with IT suppliers, municiness by solving their communication and logistics needs – palities and regions during the year to develop a comprehentoday and tomorrow. Our Danish and Swedish Mail businesses sive logistics solution for using telemedical equipment in the offer a variety of other services, in addition to fulfilling the home. In one of Denmark’s first procurements in this field, ­universal service obligations. PostNord’s Logistics business Post Danmark won a contract from KMD covering a complete ­provides logistics services for flows to, from and within the distribution solution, from stock-keeping and distribution to entire Nordic region. Strålfors offers communication solutions installation, testing and training in the user’s home. that create strong, personal customer relationships for compaSweden is a sparsely populated country, and in rural areas, nies with large customer bases. Read more about PostNord’s mail is normally distributed to a mailbox cluster located on a businesses in the group’s Annual Report. nearby main road. Approximately 770,000 Swedish households and businesses are served by one of the over 2,000 Changed arena for PostNord mail carrier routes (rural mail carrier routes). Residents and Increasing digitization is rapidly changing conditions for all businesses with rural delivery may, unlike those living in urban postal and logistics operators. The accelerating pace of change areas, have their packages delivered by the mail carrier free of Distributed value Suppliers, 50.4% Employees, 48.8% Lenders, 0.2% Society, 0.6% Read more on page 26. 10 Society PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 charge. This makes things easier for, for instance, e-retailers in Community involvement and collaboration sparsely populated areas. PostNord’s e-commerce service offer PostNord focuses its community involvement and collaboration also means that our company improves the accessibility of on a few major projects, preferably in the areas of sports and home shopping via the Internet. ­culture and the support of children and young people. In this way, we obtain long-term continuity and benefit from our collaboraSecurity tions. We are proud of our brands and are pleased to show them Drug smuggling, theft and fraud are serious social problems. in contexts that matter to PostNord’s customers and employees. Police and the Customs Department are responsible for law Some of the collaborations of the group are as follows: enforcement and are the only ones allowed to open mail in Many of the group’s employees use a bicycle in their daily cases of suspected violations. PostNord works closely together work. In Denmark, for example, up to 70 percent of letters are with these authorities and PostNord’s employees are instructed delivered by mail carriers on bicycles. It is therefore natural for to contact their line manager and call the police if they suspect, PostNord to promote cycling through cooperation with the for example, that a consignment contains drugs. ­Danish Cycling Union and the Swedish Cycling Association. The PostNord actively works to improve security for the group’s Post Danmark Rundt cycle race is one activity under this initiative. customers and employees. Barring functions for some transSoccer has broad support among people regardless of age, ported electronics goods, personal alarms, special locks on gender, race or social class. Hundreds of thousands of people – vehicles and safety training for employees are examples of participants and spectators alike – are passionate about the measures to prevent theft and fraud. sport. Posten sponsors the Swedish Football Association. The written word is becoming increasingly important in the Investment for the future digital world. More and more people create their image of the PostNord is currently implementing one of the largest investworld by reading rather than by listening. Posten wants to ment programs in the Nordic region. The group plans to invest inspire everyone to read and write more. Considering the clear SEK 7 billion during the period 2013–2015. Investments include link between the written letter and our operations, we have reinvestments in vehicles and equipment and investment in a chosen to partner with the August Prize, Sweden’s biggest new terminal structure in Sweden. The terminal investment is ­literature prize after the Nobel Prize. an investment in the future to strengthen PostNord’s competiPost Danmark and Posten each issue special stamps, tiveness. The new terminal structure provides greater geo­where part of the price of the stamp goes to selected non-profit graphic concentration, and all the new terminals are equipped organizations that are chosen annually. The selected organizawith state-of-the-art technology, allowing for more automated tions are highly reputed and should work in aid, health or and cost-effective production and improved flexibility and the environment. For 2012 the collected money went to ­scalability. This is necessary since major changes are foreseen ­Hjerteforeningen in Denmark and Cancerfonden in Sweden. in letter and parcel volumes. The terminals’ geographic location The group also has a commitment to children and young also allows for more integrated rail transport, which reduces the people in need of support. In Denmark we support Julemærkegroup’s carbon dioxide emissions. The terminals in Hallsberg fonden in its work to help vulnerable children to achieve good and Rosersberg are planned to meet Green Building certificaself-esteem, and in Sweden we work with the Mentor Foundation requirements. In addition, Rosersberg will see the installation, which works closely with the business community to get tion of a 2,000 square meter solar park on the terminal’s roof. young people to opt out of violence and drugs. The terminal investment involves new establishments In addition to these efforts, PostNord has participated in ­several in some areas and closures in others. PostNord strives to regional, national and international initiatives for sustainable ­maintain an open dialogue with social stakeholders, agencies, ­development, climate issues and service and accessibility issues. employees and unions affected by these projects. Read more about PostNord’s community involvement at www.postnord.com Capital market confidence PostNord’s activities are funded in part by external borrowing. For investors and analysts that are now monitoring PostNord’s In 2012, PostNord established a commercial paper program creditworthiness due to the group’s external borrowing, it is and a bond program. At year end, external financing, in the important that disclosure is accurate, relevant and timely. form of interest-bearing debt, amounted to SEK 4,312m. Most ­Investor confidence and assessment of PostNord’s credit rating investors in PostNord’s bond program are institutional investors is a prerequisite for PostNord’s future access to external capital such as pension funds and insurance companies. The bonds to implement planned changes. are listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. The establishment of the bond program in particular means that the capital market is a stakeholder that has grown in importance for the group. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Society / Capital market 11 We create value for our customers PostNord strives to resolve customers’ c­ orrect what is not working fully and work to meet customer needs and wishes. Read more about dialogues and systematic communication and logistics needs in a measurements in the following section. timely, secure and efficient manner. By Customer dialogue in the business meeting and preferably exceeding the Focus on solving customer needs expectations placed on us, we increase Within and between different parts of the group, there is an exchange of experiences and collaborations with the specific our customers’ competitiveness. At the purpose of anticipating, understanding and resolving existing same time, we create value for PostNord. or new customer needs. Mail carriers and drivers, for example, are able to identify customer needs in their daily work. Business Delivery quality is crucial opportunities are created through sales units’ focus on solving PostNord provides services to both individuals and businesses. customer needs and sales and client manager dialogues with The group’s core customers are companies and organizations other group units. with large information and/or logistics flows, companies with Dialogue with corporate customers takes place mainly large customer bases and the need for customization of their through the sales force and account managers, with regular message. ­follow-up meetings being one component. Corporate customSuccessful quality work is an essential part of our offer ers have communicated, for example, that they expect and crucial for PostNord’s credibility and ability to do business. ­PostNord to be a proactive supplier, have good expertise, High quality is one of our main competitive advantages and an ­provide advice and act as a cohesive unit, regardless of which important factor for many customers when choosing a partner. part or parts of the group the customer has contact with. PostNord maintains high delivery quality for letters and parcels, and we work hard to maintain and improve it. Where there are Customer services – business leads and problem solvers quality deficiencies, we try to remedy them as soon as possible. PostNord has a number of Customer Service functions that Efficient production processes and employee pride and meet thousands of customers every day – both individuals and involvement are vital to maintaining and improving quality businesses. Dialogue takes place via the web, phone and email. ­levels. New business opportunities are created when Customer Service connect customer needs with salespeople, who deal with the Delivery quality for letters and parcels business leads. Of course, Customer Service employees do In both Sweden and Denmark the governments regulate much more than generate new business – on a daily basis ­PostNord’s quality levels for letters. In Sweden, at least 85% they face customers with diverse needs and wishes. Customer of first-class letters must be delivered the next business day Service is the group’s main channel for questions, complaints and (overnight delivery). At least 97% of letters should be delivered comments. Comments on overdue mail or missing parcels are within three business days. In Denmark, the quality requireexamples of matters that our Customer Service functions h ­ andle. ment for both letters and parcels is 93% relative to the respective service’s delivery terms. For commercial reasons, PostNord Our partners meet our customers normally maintains a level of delivery quality that exceeds the PostNord’s external partners are an important link in the mail state's requirements (see table on page 8). Read more about and parcel service offered by PostNord to Nordic consumers. the terms of the universal service obligation in PostNord’s Our external partners are responsible for 4,363 of the group’s Annual Report. total 4,879 distribution points. Collaboration with external ­partners is strategically important for PostNord, as they are in Responsiveness means more satisfied customers many cases the face of PostNord as seen by our customers Our daily contact with customers, combined with measureand therefore play a key role in our daily interaction with ments and surveys, is a prerequisite for creating better ­customers. PostNord conducts a continuous dialogue with ­customer offers, finding the right business opportunities external partners to ensure that services and offers are conand identifying and dealing with the challenges that arise stantly improved. Read more about PostNord’s distribution in operations. We constantly adjust and develop our offer, point network and external partners on page 15. 12 Customers PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 » It is important that we monitor both the technical and the customer-perceived quality of our deliveries. If a piece of mail does not reach the right recipient at the right time it is obviously of little comfort that we generally have few complaints relative to the number of items we distribute every day. We really take problems seriously and it is extremely important that the cooperation between customer services and production works. Lena Jansson, customer ombudsman. Customer ombudsmen for continuous improvement specific solutions. The metrics also show that the group’s prices PostNord has a customer ombudsman in Sweden and an and terms, as well as invoicing, have potential for improvement. appellate authority in Denmark. The aim is to develop the way we interact with small business owners and individuals who are Corporate image not satisfied with previous meetings or decisions. There is a Most of PostNord’s revenue comes from businesses, but the large range of issues, but three areas dominate the dialogues: business customers’ recipients are often individuals. PostNord’s problems with the delivery of letters and parcels, comments on reputation among individuals in society therefore plays an imporservice and treatment, and review of complaints. The influx of tant role. In Sweden and Denmark, where Posten and Post Dancustomer feedback helps with our improvement efforts, since mark are responsible for postal service, reputation is especially the customer ombudsman creates a link to, for example, important. Corporate image surveys are conducted on a weekly ­production, service owners, customer services and those basis during the year. In the surveys, individuals in Sweden and responsible for the group’s partners. Denmark answer questions about how they perceive Posten and Post Danmark. Corporate image index in 2012 was 35 (34). Systematic measurements The studies show that Post Danmark and Posten in Sweden Customer satisfaction essentially have the same basic strengths: dependability and PostNord monitors customer satisfaction and customers’ reliability. Perceptions are also the same in terms of develop­perception of us and our offer using measurements of KVI ment areas. This is mainly a question of how the public (Customer Value Index). These measurements include both ­perceives the company’s responsiveness to customers and private and corporate customers. The measurements are how easy it is to get in touch with the company, areas of ­carried out twice a year and include all of PostNord’s activities improvement that are a focus for PostNord. with a focus on the Nordic countries. In this year’s measurements the KVI was 71 (70). PostNord Mail habits of Swedish and Danish people scores the highest rating on the competence of its sales staff In Sweden and Denmark, surveys are conducted of individuals’ and understanding of the industry and company-specific habits and attitudes to communication from companies, agenaspects, as well as geographic coverage. The measurements cies and organizations where the recipient is the customer. This also point out areas that customers consider the group needs year’s survey shows that physical letters are appreciated by to improve; for example, customers say that PostNord as a many. For example, six out of ten Danes believe that the sender business partner could be faster in developing customer-­ gives the best impression by sending letters rather than, for International comparison, Overview, customer-related group targets: quality of 1st-class letters (2011) Type of target Target Outcome 2012 % Customer value Improve customer value 71 (70) 100 index (KVI). Corporate Improve Corporate Image 35 (34) Image index (TRIM index). Delivery quality, Meet the Swedish state’s 95.4 (94.7)% of 1st-class Sweden requirement that at least ­letters delivered within one 90 85% of 1st-class letters will be day. 99.9 (99.9)% delivered the following busiof 1st-class letters ness day and 97% within ­delivered within three days. three days. Internal 2012 targets: 80 Delivery quality 1st-class ­letters (overnight), for parcels was 95.0%1). Parcels, 97.0%. 96.8 (97.5)%. An Post PostNord – Denmark Delivery quality, Meet the Danish state’s 93% 93.5 (94.0)% of 1st-class bpost Poste Italiene Group Denmark quality requirement for all ­letters were delivered Correois PostNL services falling under the within one day. PostNord – Sweden delivery obligation. CTT-Correios de Portugal Internal 2012 targets: Royal Mail Group Delivery quality Czech Post Delivery quality, 1st-class Swiss Post for parcels was ­letters (overnight), 95.0%1). Le Groupe La Poste 96.6 (97.9) %. Delivery quality, parcels 97.0%. Posten Norge 1) PostNord is internally governed by a total quality target for 1st-class letters. In 2012, 95.0 94.5)% of the group’s 1st-class letters were delivered on time. The target for 2012 was 95.0%. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Customers 13 example, e-mails or text messages. Most recipients prefer to Activities during the year receive annual account statements and bills in physical form. Our customer dialogues and various surveys give us informaThe ability to choose the form in which companies and agention that helps us develop. Several initiatives are underway cies distribute information is one of the trends that emerged in within the group to further develop our offer in close dialogue this year’s surveys. In order to adapt products and services to with the customer. customer demand for physical and digital communication, it is Certification is a competitive advantage and is sometimes crucial to be aware of trends in recipients’ habits and opinions. required when submitting tenders to customers. During the year, PostNord continued the work started in 2010 to create a Studies of the Nordic e-commerce market group-wide certification program for quality, environmental For several years, PostNord has conducted studies of the Nordic efforts and occupational safety. As of 2013 business area Mail e-commerce market. A study conducted in 2012, “E-commerce in Denmark is also part of the certification program, which also the Nordic region” shows that “simplicity” is the main reason for includes business area Mail Sweden and the Swedish arm of shopping online, and customer demand for short delivery times business area Logistics. Another initiative focused on during is increasing. Half of the consumers surveyed said they want the year is the improvement of reporting of received customer their products delivered within three days when they shop online feedback to more quickly implement improvements. in their own country. Delivery precision is therefore also a key competitive advantage in relation to the e-commerce market. Examples of mail flow in PostNord’s Swedish operations 14 Customers PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Partners – part of the offer PostNord currently has 4,879 distribution In Sweden, there is annual certification of all partners to ensure that they have the right skills for addressing customers. In 2012, points, of which 516 are run by the 93% of Swedish partner outlets completed the certification. In ­company and 4,363 by external partners. cases where partner outlets do not have certified staff, an action plan is drawn up and monitored. Our partners are mainly well e ­ stablished We regularly measure customers’ perception of PostNord’s retail chains with national coverage. external partners as well as our partners’ perception of the cooperation with PostNord. Customer perceptions of PostDuring­the year, PostNord expanded the Nord’s partners are included in the group’s KVI customer number of distribution points by 261. ­survey. PostNord conducts continuous dialogue with partners to ensure the development of services and offers. Mystery shopPostNord’s face outward to customers per surveys are conducted annually with multiple partners. The PostNord’s cooperation with external partners is strategically aim is to identify areas for improvement and adapt the training important – our partners are part of PostNord’s interaction with they receive. PostNord discusses the results of these metrics customers. Because customers’ impressions are influenced by with partners, both centrally and with local merchants. accessibility and the capacity for trade to reach all the way to Annual surveys of partners’ perception of the cooperation the end consumer, the structure of the operators’ drop-of and with PostNord are also conducted for the Swedish distribution distribution networks is a competitive advantage. We therefore points. The results of the survey are compiled in a partner satisset high standards for our own service points as well as those faction index. The index aims to evaluate how our partners perfor our external partners. ceive their collaboration with PostNord. 4,879 Nordic distribution points1) 1,041 1,055 1,832 951 1) Number of distribution points in Sweden per January 14, 2013; Denmark per December 31, 2012; Norway per January 9, 2013; and Finland per December 21, 2012. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 External partners 15 Efforts for healthier employees The HälsoSAM project has been run in the Swedish In parallel with the HälsoSAM project, we conducted Mail business to reduce short-term sick leave. There an extensive training effort for managers, “Talking in were two targeted interventions in metropolitan practice”, where managers had the opportunity to areas, where short-term absenteeism is highest. develop their ability to conduct good conversations One for young employees with extensive short-term and become clearer as employers in difficult situasick leave, and a broader effort in cooperation with tions. In one of the units involved in the HälsoSAM occupational health services, where health coaching project, the leadership index improved by 22 pertalks and individual health plans were important centage points and the employee index by as much ­elements. as 39 percentage points, while short-term sick leave fell by 17%. » It’s about paying attention to sick HälsoSAM highlighted short-term leave and making it clear that this sick leave and the importance of is followed up. In my experience, being visible. sick leave can be reduced simply Malin Schiller, production manager, by talking about it. Gothenburg (Masthugget distribution area). Committed employees Committed and motivated employees The group’s 250 senior managers meet regularly at Senior Management Meetings (SMMs), where the CEO, Group Manageare crucial to PostNord’s success. Being ment and managers discuss PostNord’s strategy and the chalan attractive and stimulating workplace lenges and opportunities facing the group. Two such meetings were held in 2012. is part of our vision. As one of the largest employers in the Nordic region, we Systematic leadership development In order to develop and secure long-term leadership for Postalso have a responsibility to act as a Nord there is a common process for leadership planning, the role model. Management Planning Process, based on group strategy and targets. The process involves the development of talent, deve­ Leadership moves us forward lopment and evaluation of managers and succession planning. Good leadership is essential for employees to feel involved and Talents are identified at each management level, for which engaged in efforts to achieve established targets. The introducspecial development efforts are implemented. For certain stration of a team-based approach is an effort to increase engagetegic positions, there are targeted group-wide development proment and stimulate employees’ desire to constantly innovate grams. and improve. PostNord’s managers and leaders are responsible In addition to development programs for managers Postfor creating the right conditions for teamwork based on comNord’s first development program for young talent, Young Promonly agreed principles. We regularly monitor leadership and fessionals, was completed during the year. Twenty-six particiemployee commitment. pants from Denmark and Sweden participated. The program is PostNord has defined the behaviors that should charactertargeted to specialized talent between 25 and 35 years with an ize every manager’s and leader’s daily leadership. He or she academic background who have not yet held a manager role. A should: new round of the program will start in 2013. • deliver value by understanding and reacting to customer needs, prioritize and take overall responsibility Diversity and equality enrich • involve people by demonstrating trust, delegating and creaPostNord’s employees represent nearly 70 nationalities and ting conditions for good results speak around 50 different languages. This is a diversity that • take responsibility by developing the business, taking full both challenges and enriches our workplaces. We believe all ownership and implementing continuous improvement people have equal value and the group has zero tolerance for • be clear in their expectations, their feedback and their comdiscrimination. Codes of conduct and a special document munication. describing the group’s approach to diversity reflect the group’s positions. Managers play a key role in implementation and comDuring the fall, all management teams met to reflect on these pliance, and ensure that the zero tolerance policy is established criteria and how they can be translated into daily operations. among all group employees. An important area of focus in the coming years is to develop managers’ ability in leadership during change. Change manageGoal for gender equality ment expertise is a prerequisite for the successful implementaPostNord should offer men and women equal opportunities at tion of the important changes that PostNord is working with. work and prevent unfair pay differentials. Gender-based wage Professional development of group employees is equally differential is a diversity variable that the group focuses on and important to ensure that the needs of the business are met. wage surveys are conducted regularly. In 2012, the pay differenProfessional development for the individual employee is agreed tial within the group was 3.3 (3.9)%. Read more on page 28. between managers and employees at an annual performance review. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Employees 17 In order to accelerate gender equality between women and • Our Swedish “health promoters” who conducted two theme men, PostNord has a target of 40% female managers and leaddays with inspirational programs and tools to take back to ers within the group 2015. At year end, the share of female mantheir own workplaces. Our Danish equivalents – health agers was 29 (29)% while the distribution between women and ambassadors – conducted wellness weeks with inspirational men was 35/65 (35/65)%. activities for a better diet and more daily exercise. Selections made under the group’s recruitment processes • Active efforts at the Copenhagen letter and parcel center must take underrepresented gender into account when candiwith aids for deaf employees. Examples of aids are a sign date qualifications are otherwise equal. The group’s developlanguage interpreter and sign language training for new ment program for managers and young talent includes a miniemployees. mum target of 50% female participants. • Implementation by business area Logistics of a standard PostNord also has a scholarship, the Marianne Niverts introduction for production organization employees that Scholarship, which aims to encourage female leadership and to includes ergonomic and safe work practices. bring more women into leadership positions. The prize money • Implementation of a group-wide safety standard for improshould be used for “individual development efforts”. The scholved clarity and security. Compliance with the Minimum Secuarship was established in 2009 and is awarded annually during rity Requirement (MSR) standard will be fully satisfied by the 2010–2014. In 2012, the scholarship was awarded to Britt Koch end of 2014. Frykmann, Sales Manager in business area Mail Denmark, and to Caroline Öfverstedt, Head of Retail Business Development in In 2012, sick leave at PostNord was 4.9 (5.0)%. One of Postbusiness area Mail Sweden. Nord’s strengths as an employer is that we implement health promotion interventions at an early stage, including health proActivities for health and work environment file assessment, health education or exercise on prescription. Protecting employee health is important for both individuals and businesses – we need healthy and well employees who are Open communication able to assist our customers and contribute to PostNord’s sucPostNord seeks and encourages open communication, both cess. Many professional roles at PostNord are physically between managers and employees and between colleagues. demanding. Mail carriers, employees at our parcel terminals As a complement to the daily dialogue, we annually conduct and drivers are examples of physically demanding jobs. Stress an employee survey, FOCUS, in which employees express their is also a challenge for employees in several areas of work. Postviews on their own employment and leadership. 87 (86)% of Nord has a corporate policy for health and safety and has been the group’s employees responded to this year’s survey. The working with structured health promotion for many years. results of the survey are expressed as an employee index (MIX) In 2012, we focused on reducing stress to increase well-being and a leadership index (LIX). and job satisfaction. An analysis of the work factors that create The 2012 survey shows a clear year-on-year improvement. stress has been conducted and courses in stress management MIX improved by six percentage points to 63 (57)% and LIX will be offered during 2013 to managers and employees. improved by six percentage points to 65 (59)%. The LIX index is Initiatives during 2012 to improve health and safety include: closely linked to the MIX index, and managers are therefore • The “From Night Owl to Eagle” (Fra Natteravn till Ørn) project important in the future work to increase employee engageimplemented for 800 night workers at the Copenhagen letment. As in previous years, the results show that two of the ter and parcel center. The aim was to draw attention to the group’s areas of improvement are increasing customer focus in various risks of night work and to help employees to achieve the operations and increasing the degree of involvement in the better diets and sleep habits. group’s future. All managers should discuss the survey with 18 Employees PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 their employees and each unit should develop action plans The transition program offered by PostNord in conjunction based on the outcome of the year’s survey. 68 (61%) of employwith redundancy or for employees who leave the company for ees responding to this year’s FOCUS survey indicated that they medical reasons includes education, training, outplacement had worked with action plans based on last year’s results. The support and coaching. survey also shows that 79 (74)% of employees report that they had a performance review. Union cooperation PostNord’s management and the unions that represent our Increased commitment to PostNord’s future employees realize the importance of cooperating closely to Last year’s FOCUS survey clearly revealed that employees felt best meet the future challenges facing the group. PostNord colthey did not have sufficient knowledge about PostNord’s overlaborates with the unions at both the group level and in each all targets. During the year a program of internal mobilization business area. was implemented. Mobilization efforts are concentrated on Employee participation rights are based on each country’s providing information to employees to create awareness of labor law legislation and are regulated at the national level. The and insight into the change process that is underway and to Collaboration and Employee Participation agreement specifies involve them in generating understanding and ownership. As that the unions should receive early information and have the part of the program, two rounds of employee dialogue were opportunity to influence negotiations and collaboration in conducted to give all employees an opportunity to discuss order to increase understanding and participation in the PostNord’s group strategy, Roadmap PostNord 2015, with their changes taking place. Collective agreements are signed in managers, and the impact this has on their own workplace. each country. All employees are covered by collective agreeThis year the FOCUS survey showed that the mobilization ments. program and dialogues have had a positive effect, although there is still room for improvement in terms of knowledge and Summary of group targets related to employees understanding of the group’s strategy and targets. In 2013 the Type of target Target Outcome 2012 internal dialogue will focus on PostNord’s values of availability, Employee commitment Improve employee index, MIX 63 (57) reliability, business partner and environmental soundness. Leadership Improve leadership index, LIX 65 (59) Sick leave Reduce sick leave 4,9 (5,0)% Responsible transition 40% female managers and Equality leaders by 2015 29 (29)% PostNord is implementing extensive changes to align the Mail business in particular in relation to market developments. PostNord’s ambition is to act both effectively and responsibly in all conversions of the company’s operations. The average number of employees in the group decreased by 2,001 during the year and amounted to 39,713 (41,714). 39,150 (41,063) are employed in PostNord’s Nordic operations. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Employees 19 Investment in electric vehicles Many of the group’s employees use bicycles in their In recent years PostNord has also invested in daily work. PostNord is conducting tests of the latest approximately 1,200 large, custom-designed electric generation of electric vehicles for both collection bicycles with high load capacity for the Danish operand delivery of mail in Sweden and Denmark. Of the ations. The investment in electric vehicles is an group’s approximately 5,000 electric vehicles, more important component of PostNord’s efforts to than 80% are small electric vehicles such as bicycles achieve the long-term target of reducing the group’s and mopeds. We are also testing larger electric vehicarbon emissions by 40% between 2009 and 2020. cles because there is a need to be able to cover longer distances with heavier loads. » The investment in electric vehicles positive for both the working enviis an essential element in the deveronment and society at large. And lopment of PostNord’s vehicle because mail distribution with fleet. Electric vehicles reduce the electric vehicles is more ecogroup’s impact on the environfriendly, I think this increases motiment and are also quieter, which is vation for many mail carriers. Martin von Horsten, Distribution Manager at Post Danmark. Environmental work improves competitiveness Being the environmentally sound choice Reducing the environmental impact of our transport for customers is part of our vision. PostIn order to be the environmentally sound choice for our cusNord’s operations require various types tomers, we must reduce PostNord’s environmental impact. Since transportation accounts for the largest part of our enviof transportation. We work hard to ronmental impact, we focus on reducing the consumption of reduce our own environmental impact, fossil fuels. Most of PostNord’s deliveries are transported by road, at least for part of the route. Reducing carbon dioxide and therefore also that of our customers. emissions from road and air transport is therefore one of PostNord’s top priority initiatives in terms of achieving the longEnvironmentally sound solutions term emissions target. PostNord improves our customers’ competitiveness by providRoad transport accounts for 83% of the group’s total carbon ing efficient and secure communication and logistics solutions. dioxide emissions. Part of PostNord’s mission is to provide the To fulfill our mission with the required level of delivery preciuniversal service obligation, which means that we need to prosion, we use most modes of transportation in our operations. vide overnight delivery of mail throughout Sweden and DenWe strive to do all of our work in the most environmentally effimark. In Sweden, for reasons of geography, it is necessary to cient way possible, and we work hard towards our long-term use airplanes for some of these transports. Air transport target of reducing carbon dioxide emissions by 40% by 2020. accounts for 5% of the group’s total carbon dioxide emissions. Many corporate customers have their own ambitious environmental targets and look beyond their own operations. In Overall long-term targets addition to efforts to reduce their own environmental impact, Our long-term environmental target is to reduce carbon dioxcustomers place demands on their suppliers. This particularly ide emissions by 40% during the period 2009–2020. The tarapplies to the purchase of logistics services. For example, many get has been broken down into short-term comparative targets customers demonstrate interest in and impose requirements – grams of CO2/letter and grams of CO2/parcel – and is measfor specific environmental data for the services they buy, enviured and monitored at all levels of the organization. In practice ronmental and quality certificates, the use of alternative vehicle this means that we measure liters of diesel/10 km and kWh/m2 fuels and training drivers in fuel-efficient driving. We are able to in production on a monthly basis. demonstrate the environmental impact of the services cusIn 2012, PostNord’s carbon dioxide emissions fell by 5% to tomers purchase from us as well as the steps we are taking to 372,981 (393,516)1) tons. Compared to base year 2009, the reduce environmental impact. This represents a competitive group’s emissions have now been reduced by 11%. The lower advantage for us and for our customers. carbon dioxide emissions from transport are mainly due to efficiency improvements in transport design and switching to fuelefficient vehicles. In Sweden, most of our fuel suppliers have Total CO2 emissions, 2009–20121) CO2 emissions by category Tons 500,000 Road transport, 83% Air and ferry transport, 5% 400,000 Business travel, 2% 300,000 Electricity, 5% Heating, 5% 200,000 100,000 0 09 10 11 12 Total CO2 emissions 1) Emissions data includes completed acquisitions. Previously reported values have been adjusted. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Environment 21 » With better knowledge of environmental issues we become more confident in talking to customers and other stakeholders about our environmental work. Demonstrating that PostNord is the environmentally sound choice for customers is an important part of our vision. Göran Dahlberg, Sales Manager, Mail Sweden. offered diesel with higher blends of biofuel since the turn of the New terminals reduce environmental impact year. As these fuels are made available, this will help reduce carThe build-up of new terminals continued in Sweden during the bon dioxide emissions. In Denmark, biofuel has also been year. The new terminals will have a distinct environmental problended with diesel and gasoline since the summer of 2011. file, including a greater integration of rail transport that will help With regard to the group’s premises and buildings, energy effireduce carbon dioxide emissions. Read more on page 11. ciency and the increased use of green electricity have helped reduce emissions. Testing alternative fuels for heavy vehicles PostNord’s Logistics business continued to test hybrid electric PostNord’s Climate Fund trucks and trucks that run on bio-DME1) biofuel. The drivers are PostNord’s Climate Fund, established in 2009, helps the group generally satisfied – especially with the DME truck. However, fuel achieve its goal of reducing carbon dioxide emissions. The size availability is currently a limiting factor since DME is only availaof the Climate Fund is equivalent to what it would cost to offset ble in a few Swedish locations. In 2013 we will also test trucks that the entire group’s carbon dioxide emissions. For 2012, SEK 65m run on liquefied methane in combination with diesel. was earmarked for environmental and climate improvement measures through the Climate Fund. Managers, leaders and Monitoring eco-driving employees throughout the business offer proposals on how In both the mail carrier and logistics operations, we have projects the funds can be used. Since the Climate Fund was introduced to monitor fuel consumption at the driver level. For example, in 2009, approximately 80 different environmental and climate PostNord conducted a contest in which several mail carriers and improvement projects have been initiated. truck drivers from Sweden and Denmark competed the areas of pre-driving checks, eco-driving, precision driving and a theory Activities during the year test. The winner in the mail carrier vehicle category then particiIncreasing the number of electric vehicles pated on behalf of PostNord in our trade association InternaPostNord is steadily increasing the proportion of electric vehitional Post Corporation’s (IPC) contest in Montpellier in France, cles. Today we have 5,050 electric vehicles – mainly smaller vehiwhere PostNord’s team came in second place. cles such as electric mopeds, electric bicycles and club cars. During the year, we conducted tests with normal-sized electric cars Increased fill rate and route optimization in Denmark and Sweden, with mostly good results. Improved Route optimization and increased fill rate are two examples of battery performance is a prerequisite for future large-scale use ongoing logistics improvements. Driving the smartest possible on longer routes. Competitive pricing is also an important factor. routes and constantly striving for high fill rates in the vehicles During the year we also continued to purchase large, customand trucks is a way to create cost efficiency while achieving a designed electric bicycles with high load capacity for our Danish lower environmental impact per piece of mail. mail operations since mail carrier routes have become longer and the vehicles are loaded more heavily. Greener air transport Together with our supplier of air services, we started a project during the year focused on reducing fuel consumption and environmental impact. Using “Green Flights”, flying at higher Electric vehicles, 2009–2012 altitudes and other measures have already reduced fuel con6,000 sumption by nearly 11%. 4,000 2,000 0 1) DME stands for dimethyl ether; when produced from biomass this fuel is called bio09 10 11 12 DME. DME can also be produced from natural gas. The DME being tested by Electric vehicles PostNord is manufactured from black liqour, an energy-rich, viscous by-product of the pulp industry. 22 Environment PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Energy efficiency in facilities and properties Noise Ten percent of the group’s environmental impact is associated PostNord cares about the surroundings, and we therefore priwith energy consumption in our facilities and properties. A oritize reduction of the noise from our operations. Despite this, range of efficiency measures are being implemented to reduce people are sometimes disturbed by PostNord’s activities. Comenergy consumption. Some are technical in nature and some plaints to municipalities can lead to a requirement to conduct measures deal more with behavioral change. The first category noise measurements and possibly take other action. During includes replacement of light fittings with lower energy ones, the year the group continued to work to reduce noise nuisance energy measures related to machinery, overhaul of heating for local residents from the businesses in Huddinge and Halmand ventilation and replacement of doors. The “Grön Adfærd” stad, Sweden. project in Denmark is an example of a successful effort to change behavior. Chemicals The operations of Strålfors include graphic services. The Strålfors Web-based environmental diploma graphics business is regularly reviewed to investigate how the New group-wide web-based environmental training was impleoperation could reduce its use of chemicals and solvents. For mented during the year. All managers, leaders, specialists and example, replacing isopropanol in the dampening solution with administrators in the company will undergo training to other chemicals with a lower concentration of solvent reduces enhance their knowledge of general and group-specific envithe emissions of volatile organic compounds (VOCs). During ronmental issues. 2012, Strålfors continued its work to minimize VOC emissions. Waste disposal Environmentally licensed operations The waste generated in the group’s operations consists primarPostNord runs operations in Sweden, France and Poland that ily of paper, cardboard and wood. The group works actively to require registration under national law. Read more in the Enviminimize waste and increase recycling. In 2012, 76 (73)% of ronment section of PostNord’s Annual Report. waste was sent for recycling and 24 (26)% for energy recovery. See also page 26. How we reduce our environmental impact We transport more than 65% of mail We are improving the We collaborate with our customers volumes in Sweden by rail between energy efficiency of and suppliers to develop new smart sorting terminals. In Norway, the majoour facilities and buycommunication and logistics solutions rity of goods are transported by rail. ing green electricity. throughout the chain. We continuously upgrade our vehicles to more eco-efficient alternatives. Vi testar framtidens bränsle för miljöns skull postennorden.se/miljo r Vi testa ns bränsle framtidens skull för miljö jo e/mil nnorden.s poste We participate in tests of new fuels and new technologies. We fill our trucks as much as possible and Our drivers know how We have one of Europe’s largest optimize routes. to drive fuel efficiently electric vehicle fleets among postal and safely. operators. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Environment 23 Employee-led energy saving campaign One project carried out with funds from the Climate 280 served as climate ambassadors. The employees Fund during the year is “Grøn Adfærd” (Green Behavwere able to reduce energy consumption in a total ior), an extensive campaign in our Danish operations of 270 buildings by approximately 20%. A result of aimed at conserving energy. Workplaces that con–10% has been maintained following completion of served the most energy received an award. The the campaign. campaign involved 14,000 employees, of which » It’s not often that a campaign reduemployees can make a big diffeces energy consumption by 20%. rence to the environment. This campaign proves that a strong company with dedicated Thomas Nissen, Head of Facility Management. Responsible procurement Each year PostNord purchases goods requirements for procurement of textiles and leather that include both environmental issues and social aspects. and services worth billions, mostly for ­PostNord uses these requirements to customize its tenders transport and services. During the year for clothing purchases. we continued to work on developing PostNord’s supplier code group-wide processes for procurement PostNord should only sign contracts with suppliers who undertake to comply with PostNord’s supplier code. The supplier and monitoring of suppliers. code was last updated in December 2012 and includes the requirements contained in the UN Global Compact. The supGroup-wide processes plier code also requires suppliers to take responsibility for their PostNord has adopted a joint procurement process, currently subcontractors’ compliance with PostNord’s requirements. being implemented, to take advantage of the group’s potential synergies and cost savings. Monitoring and compliance One example of a step towards group-wide processes is the PostNord conducts regular status meetings with transportashared contract catalogue for procurement agreements that tion providers that include contractual compliance. Monitoring PostNord set up in 2011. The ambition is that the catalogue will compliance with the requirements we impose for transport eventually include all of the group’s procurement agreements. providers also takes place through annual audits. The introducProcurement process efficiency is monitored through contion and implementation of annual audits for all PostNord’s tractual fidelity targets set by the group. Contractual fidelity major transport providers was initiated by the group in 2012. monitors that purchases are made from suppliers with which Implementation will continue in future years. Annual audits are the group has signed an agreement, so that the purchases are more extensive and include general contract compliance, comas cost effective as possible. pliance with PostNord’s specific requirements for transport providers, monitoring of environmental data and monitoring of Qualification of new suppliers environmental standards. As part of the contracts awarded under LUF/FSVD1), potential For the purchase of promotional clothing from Asia, our suppliers of goods and services are asked to conduct a selfsuppliers are required to show reports that they have checked assessment in which they rate themselves on factors such as their subcontractors. Once a contract is concluded, monitoring the environment and quality. Purchasing managers then contakes place through status meetings with the supplier. Work is duct a supplier evaluation, together with the client, before conunderway to develop monitoring in clothing purchases. tracts are signed. The qualification process of our transportation providers Business ethics ensures that the supplier meets the general codes of conduct During the year PostNord updated its guidelines to avoid bribas well as the group’s specific requirements for transport. ery and initiated implementation of a whistle-blower system. ­PostNord complies with EURO classification for supplier’s The guidelines comply with the new Swedish anti-bribery legis­vehicle fleets, tires and fuel. EU standards are applied for lation and include the new industry code developed by the machinery, and specific requirements are set for noise levels. Swedish anti-bribery institute “Institutet mot mutor”. The group PostNord buys promotional clothing through agents in will provide additional guidance in a future group-wide code of Sweden who in turn make their purchases from contracted conduct on how its employees should behave in relation to production units, primarily in Asia and Eastern Europe. The external contacts. PostNord’s group-wide code of conduct is Swedish Environmental Management Council has drawn up timetabled for implementation in 2013. 1) Utilities Procurement Act (LUF): Act on Procurement in the fields of Water, Energy, Transport and Postal Services (Sweden). Utilities Directive (FSVD): (Denmark). PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Suppliers 25 Sustainability data Economic data Environmental data Generated value, SEKm 2012 2011 2010 CO2 emissions (tons) 2012 2011 2010 2009 Net sales, external 38,920 39,466 41,669 Fossil CO2 emissions, of which, payments received entire group 372,981 393,516 417,647 418,286 from the state 25 24 25 Transport, EN16 Other income 253 274 289 Fossil fuels 328,116 339,479 343,380 348,577 Participations in the earnings of associated Renewable fuels 19,352 14,817 15,045 15,166 companies 7 –2 6 Financial income 238 367 174 Business travel, EN17 6,771 8,433 7,894 6,947 Total 39,418 40,105 42,138 Energy use Heat and electricity, EN16 38,093 45,604 66,374 62,762 Distributed value by stakeholder, SEKm Suppliers Initiatives to reduce CO2 emissions (procurement of Transport expenses 8,084 7,540 7,384 eco-labeled electricity), EN18 –33,535 –29,585 –14,437 –13,862 Cost of premises 2,158 2,134 2,236 Other costs 7,301 7,6291) 8,1781) Other emissions to air for Other personnel expenses 176 2212) 912) transports (tons), EN20 Net investments in tangible Carbon monoxide 368 541 500 and intangible fixed assets 2,329 1,939 1,272 Nitric oxide 1,142 2,014 1,775 Total 20,048 19,463 19,161 Hydrocarbons (VOC) 128 93 166 Employees Particulates 21 33 30 Wages, salaries and other remuneration 14,082 14,792 15,780 Energy use Statutory social costs 2,628 2,532 2,648 Fuel transports (TJ), EN3 Pension expenses 1,698 1,641 2,032 Fossil fuel 3,821 4,073 4,388 Other personnel expenses 23 382) 362) Renewable fuel 195 164 133 Other expenses, provisions 889 881) 3231) Interest expenses for pensions 90 195 104 Business travel by car (TJ), EN31) 55 282 423 Total 19,410 19,286 20,923 Heating (district heating and gas) (MW h), EN4 154,863 156,382 170,229 Creditors Electricity use (MW h), EN4 211,920 218,983 247,053 Interest to lenders 87 57 98 Total 87 57 98 Waste, tons, EN221), 2) Society Paper 16,099 16,807 22,005 Current tax Sweden 13 6 10 Cardboard/paperboard 2,839 2,258 3,067 Current tax Denmark 31 76 102 Plastic 518 683 1,277 Current tax Norway 71 33 82 Glass 3 5 5 Current tax Finland –2 –1 –1 Metal 629 777 563 Current tax rest of world 6 7 Wood 1,812 2,120 2,059 119 114 200 Combustible 4,604 5,544 5,347 Dividend Swedish state 63 223 607 Electronics 98 66 72 Dividend Danish state 40 145 393 Hazardous waste 138 128 171 1033) 368 1,000 Landfill 3 29 51 Total 222 482 1,200 Other 77 12 43 Total distributed value 39,767 39,288 41,382 1) Only PostNord’s operations in Sweden and Denmark. Does not include companies acquired in 2012. 1) Previously reported value has been adjusted with regard to PostNord’s Annual Report, group Note 6, Provisions. Relates in all material respects to the Employees 2) 2011 data is not directly comparable with 2010 due to change of waste management stakeholder group. contractor in Denmark. 2) Previously reported value has been adjusted; relates in all material respects to the Suppliers stakeholder group. 3) Board’s proposal. 26 Sustainability data PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Employee data Number of employees/agency staff, Personnel turnover, LA2 1) 2) 5) 2012 2011 2010 LA11) 4) 5) 2012 2011 2010 Total Nordic, % 10.9 10.6 10.7 Total Nordic, employed staff 49,297 48,568 51,405 Total number of terminations 4,220 4,111 4,452 of which, basic staff 38,824 38,697 41,499 Mail Denmark, % 13.2 13.9 14.2 of which, temporary staff 10,473 9,871 9,906 –29 yrs 25.8 40.3 29.1 Total Nordic, agency staff 1,107 724 30–49 yrs 10.2 11.2 9.7 Mail Denmark 15,072 16,710 19,725 50– yrs 14.4 11.8 15.1 of which, basic staff 12,130 13,181 14,808 women 15.2 14.3 14.6 of which, temporary staff 2,942 3,529 4,917 men 12.1 13.7 14.0 Plus agency staff 34 37 Mail Sweden, % 7.3 7.0 5.2 Mail Sweden 24,656 22,397 21,938 –29 yrs 11.9 10.5 7.3 of which, basic staff 18,102 16,961 17,751 30–49 yrs 3.6 2.3 2.1 of which, temporary staff 6,554 5,436 4,187 50– yrs 9.3 10.2 7.4 Plus agency staff 343 131 women 7.7 7.5 5.2 Logistics 7,185 6,841 6,704 men 7.0 6.6 5.1 of which, basic staff 6,433 6,202 6,213 Logistics, % 13.1 12.1 13.0 of which, temporary staff 752 639 491 –29 yrs 21.7 26.1 16.3 Plus agency staff 658 517 30–49 yrs 9.8 8.3 7.2 Strålfors 1,288 1,341 1,673 50– yrs 11.8 6.5 9.9 of which, basic staff 1,187 1,237 1,614 women 15.1 10.9 15.0 of which, temporary staff 101 104 59 men 12.6 12.4 12.5 Plus agency staff 72 39 Strålfors, % 12.5 10.3 15.0 Group-wide functions 1,096 1,279 1,365 –29 yrs 11.5 12.9 16.4 of which, basic staff 972 1,116 1,113 30–49 yrs 11.4 8.5 12.2 of which, temporary staff 124 163 252 50– yrs 14.9 12.6 20.3 Plus agency staff 0 0 women 13.6 7.2 13.7 men 11.9 11.9 15.7 Occupational injuries – Sick leave, LA71) 3) 2012 2011 2010 Group-wide functions, % 32.3 19.6 34.3 Total Nordic –29 yrs 56.5 64.0 45.0 occupational injuries 40 72 88 30–49 yrs 36.6 13.3 35.9 of which, deaths 0 0 0 50– yrs 26.9 24.1 31.5 sick leave, percentage 4.9% 5.0% 5.2% women 21.8 21.2 23.3 men 44.6 18.0 45.2 Mail Denmark occupational injuries 37 128 171 of which, deaths 0 0 0 Average number of employees 2012 2011 2010 sick leave, percentage 5.0% 5.2% 5.5% Total for group 39,713 41,714 44,060 Mail Sweden Mail Denmark 12,521 13,766 15,187 occupational injuries 43 45 46 Mail Sweden 17,686 18,311 19,010 of which, deaths 0 0 0 Logistics 6,718 6,381 6,275 sick leave, percentage 5.1% 5.2% 5.3% Strålfors 1,509 1,921 2,206 Group-wide functions 1,279 1,335 1,382 Logistics occupational injuries 50 55 54 Total Nordic 39,150 41,063 43,395 of which, deaths 0 0 0 Mail Denmark 12,521 13,766 15,187 sick leave, percentage 5.0% 4.9% 5.2% Mail Sweden 17,540 18,180 18,889 Logistics 6,677 6,324 6,232 Strålfors Strålfors 1,133 1,458 1,705 occupational injuries 17 3 7 Group-wide functions 1,279 1,335 1,382 of which, deaths 0 0 0 sick leave, percentage 3.1% 3.8% 3.5% Group-wide functions occupational injuries 2 1 3 of which, deaths 0 0 0 sick leave, percentage 2.4% 2.1% 2.3% 1) Companies within Logistics that are not reported; Eek Transport AS, Nils Hansson Logistics AB, Harlem Transport AS, acquired assets of Byrknes Auto AS and Mereco Transport A/S. 2) Values for 2010 and 2011 for personnel turnover of men in group-wide functions have been adjusted compared to previously published information. 3) Occupational injuries per 1 million hours worked. 4) Agency staff. Number of paid hours converted to full-time equivalents. 5) Mail Sweden now includes the company Tidningstjänst AB, with 1,955 employees (1,166 basic staff and 789 temporary staff) in 2012. Tidningstjänst AB’s employees are not included for 2011 and 2010; employee data is therefore not comparable between years. PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Sustainability data 27 Contd. Employee data Distribution of employees by age and gender LA 131) 5) 2012 2011 2010 Wage differential women/men, LA141) 5) 2012 2011 2010 BASIC STAFF Total Nordic Mail Denmark 12,130 13,181 14,808 of which, basic staff, % 3.3 3.9 3.7 –29 yrs, % 8 9 13 women 25,922 25,818 24,932 30–49 yrs, % 50 50 51 men 26,777 26,816 25,864 50– yrs, % 42 41 36 of which, temporary staff, % 2.3 3.7 5.6 admin staff, % 11 16 women 20,399 20,393 20,010 production staff, % 89 84 women, % 35 36 37 men 20,863 21,153 21,127 men, % 65 64 63 Mail Denmark of which, female managers, % 28 27 27 of which, basic staff, % 0.5 1.2 1.1 of which, male managers, % 72 73 73 women 25,851 26,339 25,673 Mail Sweden 18,102 16,961 17,751 men 25,980 26,645 25,947 –29 yrs, % 13 14 15 of which, temporary staff, % 1.0 1.0 1.0 30–49 yrs, % 41 41 42 women 21,811 22,661 22,464 50– yrs, % 46 45 43 men 22,030 22,882 22,679 admin staff, % 12 14 Mail Sweden production staff, % 88 86 of which, basic staff, % 2.7 2.8 3.0 women, % 39 40 41 women 24,141 23,556 22,712 men, % 61 60 59 men 24,787 24,206 23,395 of which, female managers, % 32 33 32 of which, temporary staff, % 0.9 0.3 0.9 of which, male managers, % 68 67 68 women 19,968 19,497 18,013 Logistics 6,433 6,202 6,213 men 20,142 19,546 18,183 –29 yrs, % 23 24 25 Logistics 30–49, % 50 49 48 50– yrs, % 27 27 27 of which, basic staff, % 1.2 0.4 1.5 admin staff, % 24 27 women 28,260 28,688 27,399 production staff, % 76 73 men 28,613 28,584 27,006 women, % 19 19 19 of which, temporary staff, % 0.6 2.4 2.8 men, % 81 81 81 women 20,918 20,295 19,992 of which, female managers, % 21 22 21 men 20,797 20,779 19,441 of which, male managers, % 79 78 79 Strålfors Strålfors 1,187 1,237 1,614 of which, basic staff, % 9.8 10.3 13.5 –29 yrs, % 13 11 13 women 31,418 30,699 29,277 30–49 yrs, % 56 57 63 men 34,504 33,851 33,243 50– yrs, % 31 31 24 of which, temporary staff, % 15.1 11.1 21.7 admin staff, % 41 41 women 20,582 22,241 20,806 production staff, % 59 59 men 23,692 24,712 25,327 women, % 35 35 34 men, % 65 65 66 Group-wide functions of which, female managers, % 36 31 31 of which, basic staff, % 31.8 33.7 28.2 of which, male managers, % 64 69 69 women 39,226 36,865 34,528 Group-wide functions 972 1,116 1,113 men 51,693 49,277 44,256 –29 yrs, % 2 2 4 30–49 yrs, % 49 50 53 1) Companies within Logistics that are not reported: Eek Transport AS, Nils Hansson Logistics AB, Harlem Transport AS, acquired assets of Byrknes Auto AS and Mereco 50– yrs, % 49 48 43 Transport A/S. admin staff, % 100 100 5) Mail Sweden now includes the company Tidningstjänst AB, with 1,955 employees production staff, % 0 0 (1,166 basic staff and 789 temporary staff) in 2012. Tidningstjänst AB’s employees are women, % 54 51 50 not included for 2011 and 2010; employee data is therefore not comparable between men, % 46 49 50 years. of which, female managers, % 41 41 39 of which, male managers, % 59 59 61 Total 38,824 38,697 41,499 –29 yrs, % 13 13 15 30–49 yrs, % 46 46 47 50– yrs, % 41 41 38 admin staff, % 16 20 production staff, % 84 80 women, % 35 35 36 men, % 65 65 64 of which, female managers, % 29 29 29 of which, male managers, % 71 71 71 28 Sustainability data PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Accounting principles PostNord AB is the parent company of Employee data for Tidningstjänst AB has been included for 2012. Tidningstjänst AB was part of the group in 2011 and 2010 the PostNord group, formed through the as well, and efforts are proceeding to apply uniform accounting June 24, 2009 merger of Post Danmark principles with the aim of fully integrating Tidningstjänst AB in the 2013 sustainability report. in the employee data in this A/S and Posten AB. This is the group’s report for the first time. fourth Sustainability Report. Until 2009, Methods of measurement, environment Posten AB and Post Danmark A/S pubTransportation lished sustainability reports for their Road: In Sweden, Denmark and Norway transport is carried out with PostNord’s own vehicles and through contractors. Conrespective operations. tractors are used for all transports in Finland. Emissions to air are calculated based on the amount of fuel purchased and PostNord’s sustainability report provides an overview of the type of vehicle used, as well as the transport administration sysgroup’s sustainability work and the group’s ambitions and tartem. Calculations based on subcontractor costs are also used gets for the future. in some divisions. Factors used to calculate emissions to air are The Sustainability Report is prepared in accordance with the nationally recognized factors in the Nordic region and are used, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Report Guidelines, for example, by the Network for Transport and Environment Version 3.0, Application Level C+. The cross-reference table for (NTM), the Swedish Environmental Protection Agency and the GRI indicators can be found on PostNord’s website. Danish Energy Agency. Economic data and the average number of employees are reported pursuant to the same principles as those used in PostAir: PostNord purchases air freight externally for operations in Nord’s Annual Report and therefore include the entire group. Sweden and Denmark. PostNord did not use any air transport Data on employees and the environment include, unless otherin Finland or Norway during the year. The Swedish operation wise indicated, the Nordic operations. The Nordic operations receives data from suppliers on amount of fuel and distances. made up 97% of consolidated net sales and approximately 99% The Danish operation registers executed transport in a transof the group’s average number employees in 2012. Environmenport administration system and emissions are calculated based tal data includes the non-Nordic operations of Strålfors. In case on ton-km. The emission factors used are nationally recognized of deviation, the scope is shown next to the specific information. factors for each country. The companies acquired during 2011 and 2012 – Eek Transport A/S, Mereco Transport AS, PostNord Logistics TPL (forRail: Only the Swedish and Norwegian operations use rail transmerly Green Cargo Logistics) and Svensk Morgondistribution port to any great extent. All rail transport in Sweden is purAB – have been included in the environmental reporting. Hischased from Green Cargo which is eco-labeled as a Good Envitorical data has therefore been recalculated for comparability ronmental Choice. Rail transport in Norway uses fossil-free fuel. purposes. Harlem Transport AS and Byrknes Auto AS, which were acquired towards the end of 2012, are not included. These Ferry: Only the Danish operation uses ferry transport to any great companies will be included in the 2013 sustainability report. extent. Information on executed transport is registered in the Because Svensk Adressändring AB and Tidningstorget AB do transport administration system and emissions are calculated in not have a significant environmental impact, they are not ton-km. The emission factors used are nationally recognized. included in the environmental data. Otherwise, the consolidation principles are the same for economic data and environmental data. Electricity and heating Electricity: Electricity consumption data is obtained chiefly Logistics companies Eek Transport AS, Nils Hansson Logisfrom electricity suppliers or by reading meters. Electricity purtics AB and Mereco Transport AS (acquired in 2011) and the chased in Sweden is eco-labeled Good Environmental Choice companies Harlem Transport AS and Byrknes Auto AS and in Denmark it is largely wind generated. This electricity is (acquired in 2012) have not been included in the reporting of assumed to have no carbon dioxide emissions, since only the employee data. All of these companies will be included in the usage phase is included in the reporting. In cases where elec2013 sustainability report. PostNord Logistics TPL (formerly tricity is included in the rent, or is otherwise not received Green Cargo Logistics), acquired in 2012, is included. directly from the supplier or cannot be determined through PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Accounting principles 29 meter reading, consumption is estimated based on size of are conducted by means of a statistically assured test mail premises (applies to certain parts of the Swedish operation). activity which fulfills the requirements set forth in the EN standFor this electricity, carbon dioxide emissions are calculated ard 13850. These measurements were conducted in 2012 by based on Nordic or Danish electricity mixes. TNS-SIFO and Quotas QmbH in Sweden and Denmark respecHeating: Offices and terminals are primarily heated by district tively. The results of the two measurements are weighted heating or natural gas. Heat consumption is monitored by together into a group-wide outcome based on mail volume in meter readings or invoice records. In certain cases, heat coneach country. sumption is estimated based on size of premises. The emission factors used are nationally recognized. Premises that are Quality, parcels heated by electricity are calculated in accordance with the The production systems in Sweden (LUPP) and Denmark (GTT) above. are two independent systems that measure the proportion of parcels that are delivered on time from first production scanBusiness travel ning to the customer. Test products are weighted according to Reported emissions from business travel refer to air, rail and car 19 (MyPack), 25 (Postpaket) and 15 (DPD Företagspaket 16:00) travel. Records are received from the travel agencies that Postfor Sweden and Erhvervspakker, PrivatPakker and Postpakker Nord has contracts with. For car travel, emissions are calculated for Denmark. based on fuel consumption and generally recognized emission Since the two measurements are not directly comparable, factors. this is done in two separate measurements. Measurements will be gradually harmonized in 2013 via a system called CEM. PostWaste Nord will then have a joint Nordic report on delivery quality for Reported waste amounts are received from PostNord’s waste parcels based on the MyPack, PallEtt and DPD products. management contractors. Methods of measurement, partners Methods of measurement, customers An annual survey is conducted in Sweden of our partners’ perCustomer value ception of their collaboration with PostNord. In 2012, 285 ranWith the formation of the new joint group, PostNord has new domly selected Swedish partner outlets were interviewed. The group-wide key data and monitoring tools for developing cusinterviews were conducted by phone. The survey results are tomer capital. compiled in a Partner Satisfaction Index (NPI), a weighted averSince 2011, KVI (customer value index) has been PostNord’s age value of four separate questions about the overall percepmonitoring tool for regularly following up customer satisfaction tion of collaboration with PostNord. and customers’ perception of the business. It replaces the various customer satisfaction surveys that previously existed in Methods of measurement, employees the organization. Measurements are made twice a year and Average number of employees include all PostNord’s business areas and Strålfors, with a focus Calculated by dividing the total number of paid hours by the on the Nordic countries. standard number of hours for a full-time employee. The key ratio consists of three overall satisfaction questions. The three questions have previously existed in both the KTA Total number of employees and the NKI and are also used in several external metrics such The total number of employees at the end of the period. as Svenskt Kvalitetsindex (SKI), Danskt Kvalitetsindex (DKI) and Divided into basic staff and temporary staff. the European Performance Satisfaction Index (EPSI), which also allows for external benchmarking. Basic staff Refers to all full and part-time monthly salaried employees. Quality, first-class mail The definition of basic staff is that it shall cover the basic Swedish External Monitoring (SWEX) and Danish External Monrequirements of a “normal” production flow. Temporary staff itoring (DEX) are two independent external quality metrics that cover “peaks” in production; for example, during Christmas or continuously measure the number of first-class letters that are holidays. delivered on time from customer to customer. Measurements 30 Accounting principles PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Personnel turnover tems and sorted into various categories such as falls, crushing Number of people ending their employment in 2011 in relation and traffic injuries. The duty to record occupational injuries is to basic staff at the end of the year. made very clear. Sick leave Employee index (MIX) Sick leave in relation to the regular, contracted working time, The results of the group’s employee surveys are compiled in an reported as a percentage. employee index (MIX). Surveys are conducted in cooperation Sick leave comprises absence due to illness when the with an external party, are anonymous and are analyzed by a employee himself/herself is sick. partner independent from the group. Regular, contracted working time in hours includes the time of both hourly paid employees and temporary workers. In addiLeadership index (LIX) tion to regular working time, this includes sick leave, vacation, The results of the group’s employee surveys are compiled in a parental leave and care for sick children and other paid leave. leadership index (LIX). LIX measures levels of employee satisfaction with line managers, the degree to which employees Occupational injuries believe their line manager lives up to PostNord’s leadership criRegistered occupational injuries in relation to hours worked teria; deliver, involve, take responsibility and clarity. (does not include injuries incurred during work-related travel). Even minor injuries (first aid level) have been included in the Methods of measurement, society report. Calculations are based on total hours worked, irrespecCorporate image tive of type of employment. The injury ratio is calculated as the Corporate image is a survey conducted by external company total number of injuries per 1 million hours worked. OccupaTNS SIFO. The survey is based on a metric whereby approxitional injuries are reported to the line manager in Sweden and mately 400 private individuals per week (200 in Sweden and Denmark. Registration takes place in the C2 system in Sweden, 200 in Denmark) answer questions on how they perceive Posthe Skadesanmeldesessystemet (SKA) in Denmark and in a ten and Post Danmark. The survey is comprised of five key ledelsesoch informationssystem (LIS) in Norway. Statistics on questions that, together, form an index. reported occupational injuries can be retrieved from the sysPostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Accounting principles 31 Auditor’s Review Report on PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report [Translation of the auditor’s report in Swedish] To the readers of the PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report Introduction a. an update of my/our knowledge and understanding of the We have been engaged by the Board of Directors of the PostNord AB’s organization and activities, ­PostNord AB to review PostNord AB’s Sustainability Report for b. an assessment of suitability and application of the criteria the year 2012. The Board of Directors and the Executive regarding the stakeholders’ need for information, ­Management are responsible for ongoing activities regarding c. an assessment of the outcome of the Company’s the environment, health & safety, quality, social responsibility ­stakeholder dialogue, and sustainable development, and for the preparation and d. interviews with the responsible management, at group level, presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with subsidiary level, and at selected business units in order to the applicable criteria. Our responsibility is to express a assess if the qualitative and quantitative information stated ­conclusion on the Sustainability Report based on our review. in the Sustainability Report is complete, accurate and ­sufficient, The Scope of the Review e. shared internal and external documents in order to assess ­­­if We have performed our review in accordance with RevR 6 the information stated in the Sustainability Report is comAssurance of Sustainability Reports issued by FAR. A review plete, accurate and sufficient, consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible f. an evaluation of the design of the systems and processes for the preparation of the Sustainability Report, and applying used to obtain, manage and validate sustainability informaanalytical and other review procedures. A review is substantion, tially less in scope than an audit conducted in accordance with g. an evaluation of the model used to calculate carbon IAASB’s Standards on Auditing and Quality Control and other ­emissions, generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. The proceh. analytical procedures of the information stated in the dures performed consequently do not enable us to obtain ­Sustainability Report, assurance that we would become aware of all significant i. a reconciliation of financial information with the Company’s ­matters that might be identified in an audit. Accordingly, we do Annual Report for the financial year 2012, not express an audit opinion. j. an assessment of the Company’s declared application level The criteria on which our review are based are the parts of according to GRI guidelines, the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3, published by The k. an assessment of the overall impression of the Sustainability Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which are applicable to the Report, and its format, taking into consideration the consistSustainability Report, as well as the accounting and calculation ency of the stated information with applicable criteria, principles that the Company has developed and disclosed. We l. a reconciliation of the reviewed information with the sustainconsider these criteria suitable for the preparation of the ability information in the Company’s Annual Report for the ­Sustainability Report. financial year 2012, Our limited assurance review encompasses the indicators presented in the GRI Cross-reference table, which can be found Conclusion on PostNord AB’s website, www.postnord.com, as well as the Based on our review, nothing has come to our attention that pages referred to in this Sustainability Report and in the causes us to believe that the information in the PostNord AB’s Annual Report as indicated in the table of contents. Sustainability Report has not, in all material respects, been Our review has, based on an assessment of materiality and ­prepared in accordance with the above stated criteria. risk, e.g. included the following procedures: Stockholm, 21 February 2013 Ernst & Young AB Lars Träff Curt Öberg Authorized Public Accountant Authorized Public Accountant 32 Attestation Report PostNord Sustainability Report 2012 Contact information PostNord AB 105 00 Stockholm, Sweden Visitors: Terminalvägen 24, Solna Tel +46 10 436 00 00 Tietgensgade 37 1566 København V, Denmark Tel +45 33 61 00 00 www.postnord.com Contact information Per Mossberg, Senior Vice President & Head of Group Communications, tel +46 10 436 3915 Henrik Rättzén, Senior Vice President & Chief Financial Officer, tel +46 10 436 4394 Oscar Hyléen, Vice President & Head of Investor Relations, tel +46 10 436 4191, ir@posten.se Monica Edblad, Investor Relations and Sustainability Communication, tel +46 10 436 4425, ir@posten.se Per Ljungberg, Vice President & Head of Media Relations, tel +46 10 436 4421, press@posten.se Greenhouse gases emitted though the p ­ roduction of this printed matter, including paper, other ­materials and transport, were o­ ffset through investments in the equivalent amount of certified reduction units in the Kikonda Forest Reserve Forestation project in Uganda. Nordic Ecolabel printed matter. Photography: Peter Phillips, Mads Armgaard, Lars Schmidt, Søren Nielsen, Hans Carlén, Henrik Petit, Berit Hvassum. Production: PostNord in co-operation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson. postnord.com
