Coldec Holding – Communication on Progress Period covered February 21st 2012 – February 21st 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that Coldec Holding reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. This annual Communication on Progress describes our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy and our daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Ron Bleize Director of Coldec Holding Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Coldec Holding respects and supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We will not carry out business with any countries or regimes where flagrant human rights abuses are known. Coldec Holding is committed to ensuring that all our employees are treated fairly and with respect. We will not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment. Implementation As we expand our operations internationally all efforts are made to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Coldec Holding respects and protects human rights in its daily operations. This responsibility extends beyond the organizations own activities and includes relationships with business partners and suppliers and clients. Internally, the human resource policy includes a procedure offering mediation to staff as a resolution to any problems experienced in the work place. If organizational changes are to be made, staff will be informed and will have an opportunity to influence outcomes. Coldec Holding offers equal opportunities and has a flexible working policy. Measurements of Outcomes In the past year, Coldec Holding as not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights, nor did we receive any complaint from employees, business partners or clients in relation to (potential) human rights violations. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6; the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Coldec Holding will not do business with any organization who uses forced or child labour. All our employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions including wages, working hours, leave, benefits etc. Coldec Holding complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides a range of different safety related training to staff as appropriate to their job role. Risk assessments are reviewed annually and we carry out regular safety audits of all sites and departments. Measurements of Outcomes Coldec Holding has received no grievances or complaints from employees or others in relation to (potential) labour rights violations, nor has Coldec Holding been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Agency workers are given clear information regarding their hours and working requirements and are free to make use of all welfare facilities provided including the staff canteen, rest areas, shower facilities etc. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessments, Policy and Goals Coldec Holding has targets set each year to increase the amount of waste we are able to recycle. Our environmental management strategy is to continuously improve the environmental performance of our organization. This environmental management is integrated in the organizational structure and planning of activities, the responsibilities, practices and procedures. Environmental management is central to the processes and resources used within our company. Implementation Our environmental management is based upon national, EU and other relevant legislation, the principles of sustainable procurement and waste reduction. Coldec Holding has built its own waste-water recycling machine which results in re-use of over 70 % of all our waste-water. Furthermore waste is prevented through raising awareness of the employees regarding the use of paper, water and energy. Sustainable production processes are being implemented and Coldec Holding is currently investigating the possibilities of cradle-to-cradle manufacturing. Measurements of Outcomes The environmental performance is measured through setting responsibilities, objectives, operational procedures, training, monitoring and communication systems. Coldec Holding has not had any environmental incidents and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals As integrity is a vital part of our company policy, the personnel of Coldec Holding cannot accept any form of corruption. Therefore, either employees nor members of the management team accept remuneration outside of the agreed quotation. Coldec Holding is compliant with the Bribary Act and does not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion and does not operate in countries or with organizations who are corrupt. Implementation Coldec Holding has a strong anti-corruption policy, based on international standards. We have extensive guidance on the acceptance of gifts. Any gifts sent by suppliers and customers to specific staff members, are collected by the management and divided equally amongst employees. Furthermore, employees are not permitted to accept payment for recommending the services of a third party to a client. Measurement of Outcomes Coldec Holding has never been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery. Should our company come across an incident of corruption, Coldec Holding will take appropriate action.
