CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2012 This report includes the actions carried out by Tradecorp during the year 2012, from 16th January 2012, the moment of our adhesion to the Global Compact, until 16th January 2013. The report is divided into three parts: Part I includes the letter of renewal of Tradecorp’s commitment which its CEO presented to the Global Compact together with a descriptive profile of the company. Part II includes Tradecorp’s philosophy regarding Corporate Social Responsibility and an analysis is made of the actions carried out in 2012 in relation with the 10 principles of the Global Compact. Part III measures the results obtained during the year 2012, using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators. CONTENTS PART I Letter of commitment from the CEO  Donations to institutions that are involved with human rights, the abolition of Description of the company forced labour and child labour Tradecorp  Study on the company’s salaries and comparisons with the average wages for similar Tradecorp: a Sapec group company profiles in other companies Tradecorp’s work model  Analysis of the diversity indicators in the company Our product catalogue  Great Place to Work and Human Resources Programme  Decrease in occupational hazards  Development of products for Organic Agriculture PART II CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY  Use of recycled materials and sustainable materials  Reusing and recycling water in factories Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility Actions for environmental protection Our groups of interest  Protection and restoration of habitats Scope of the report Anticorruption policy Actions Development of a Code of Conduct  Development of a Protocol for Responsible Purchases PART III  Enacting the Global Compact and the 10 principles  Internal commitment to the Global Compact Global Compact principles related to Global Reporting Initiative indicators, Tradecorp indicators and measurement of outcomes CONTENTS CONTENTS Dear stakeholders, DESCRIPTION We have gained OF THE COMPANY broad experience The following is Tradecorp’s Communication on Progress in which the main actions carried out in Corporate Social Responsibility during the year 2012 are described. Tradecorp in the field of crop nutrition As executive director of Tradecorp, I am pleased to express our interest and our commitment Tradecorp is a Spanish company, which, to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 principles. We are interested in continuing since it was founded in 1985, has been to renew our commitment year after year and to progress with the application and enacting developing its activities in the agricultural of these 10 principles within our area of influence. sector. Thanks to our long history, we have gained broad experience in the field of crop During the year 2012, a series of actions has been implemented which have allowed us to nutrition, particularly in the segment of increase the scope that the principles of the Global Compact have within the company and micronutrients and special fertilisers. in its area of influence. The development and implementation of an internal Code of Conduct was one of the more noticeable of these actions. The code is internationally applicable PART I PART I MISSION: to be a leading example to both throughout Tradecorp. We also established a Protocol for Responsible Purchases which allows distributors and growers as a producer us to evaluate the appropriateness of our suppliers from the standpoint of compliance with of plant health solutions. This is achieved the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and with the Labour Rights established by the through the commercialisation of high qualInternational Labour Organisation. ity, speciality products and services, which maximize value for its customers, employLikewise, I would like to emphasize the boost in the development of Organic Agriculture ees and shareholders. products this year. This has allowed us to increase the number of trademarks that are approved for Organic Agriculture by Ecocert and to achieve that more than half of our sales VISION: To be a quality and professional come from Organic Agriculture approved trademarks. reference in the micronutrient and speciality fertiliser global market, achieving excellence Our objective for 2013 is to continue working and improving our commitment to the prinin service and increasing added value for ciples of the Global Compact in accordance with the strategy of our company and enacting our customers. these 10 principles of the Global Compact within our area of influence. Through the publication of this report, we wish to share with our groups of interest our comTradecorp: a Sapec group company mitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations’ Global Compact, and to state our interest in contributing towards sustainable development. In the year 2000, Tradecorp integrated into the Sapec group, a family company established in 1926 in the chemical and mining sector. Since its foundation, the group has Yours faithfully, been expanding its activities into various industrial and services sectors within the Iberian Peninsula. The incorporation into the Belgian group broadened Tradecorp’s perspective even Nicolas Lindemann more by combining the enterprising spirit Executive Director of the group with our know how within the agricultural sector. Tradecorp’s work model To comply with our mission and our vision we have developed a work model which is based on 5 different cornerstones to help us become a point of reference regarding quality and professionalism within our sector and to ensure we offer an excellent service. One of the main values and one of the most differentiating OUR CONTINUOUS We undertake to offer the highest quality in our products and elements in Tradecorp is its team. Consisting of more than 200 SEARCH services. To do this, we implemented a Quality & Environmental OUR TEAM professionals from different countries and cultures, the techniFOR QUALITY Management System, certified according to ISO 9001:2008 and cal and local teams in each area offer farmers and distributors a AND EFFICIENCY ISO 14001:2004 by DNV. close, professional and customised service. PART I PART I The development of sustainable and effective products perWe are concerned with complying with human and labour mitting an increase in yield and quality of harvests is one of rights, with the conservation of the environment and the OUR R&D Tradecorp’s priority objectives. Therefore, research and develsustainable use of natural resources. Therefore, among our POLICY opment of new products has always been one of Tradecorp’s OUR FOCUS maximum priorities is compliance with REACH, we respect and characteristic features. ON SUSTAINABILITY promote the principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we are ISO 14001:2004 certified, many of our main products have been approved by ECOCERT for Organic Agriculture and we are members of Globalgap. OUR CUTTING EDGE In our line of continuous technological improvement we impleTECHNOLOGY AND ment ever more efficient technologies which respect the enviTHE VERSATILITY OF ronment and which have allowed us to increase our production OUR PRODUCTION capacity by +200%. PLANTS Our product catalogue Our catalogue consists of products of the highest quality with formulas for all kinds of crop and adapted to local agricultural conditions. As a result of our commitment to sustainability, many of these have been approved by Ecocert for their use in Organic Agriculture. Our solutions are grouped in the following ranges: Chelates: Special correctors: Tradecorp chelates guarantee a correct absorption and assimilation of This range meets different needs, such as salinity and sodicity problems trace elements by crops, avoiding precipitation and the formation of and pH regulation in irrigation water. PART I PART I non-soluble products that could decrease their efficacy. Tradecorp chelates are presented as microgranules (WG) with total and instant solubility without forming lumps or sediments. Some of our brands: Some of our brands: Ultraferro®, Tradecorp® Range y Tradecorp® AZ Range Saltrad®, Lower 7® Foliar fertilizers: Biostimulants: Range of differentiated formulas, highly concentrated in micro and maThe products in this range stimulate natural processes in plants to imcronutrients. This range of solutions has been developed to meet specific prove nutrient uptake and nutrient efficiency, enhancing also the toleneeds of crops such as the protein content in cereal, sugar content in rance of plants to abiotic stress. Their specific mode of action promotes sugar beet, caliper in fruit, etc. better sprouting, rooting, flowering and fruit set. It includes biostimulants based on seaweed extracts and/or L-α free amino acids enriched with essential nutrients. Some of our brands: Some of our brands: Final K®-Fainal K®, Folur®, Tradebor®, Calitech® Aton® Range, Delfan® Range, Boramin Ca®, Ruter AA®, Phylgreen® Range Humic acids: NPK and starters: This Tradecorp range provides a complete improvement in fertility and Range of NPK fertilizers with a balanced concentration of macronuhas a positive effect on physical (structure); chemical (availability of trients, enriched with essential micronutrients. This range is formed nutrients) and biological features (increase of microbial life) in the soil. by products adapted to the nutritional needs of crops in the different Besides, it enhances root development. growth stages. Some of our brands: Some of our brands: Humistar®-Humifirst®, Humistar® WG-Humifirst® WG, Turbo Root® Nutricomplex® Range, Turbo Seed® Zn Our perception of Corporate Social Responsibility Scope of the report Corporate Social Responsibility in Tradecorp can be seen in all we do and in the day to day This report includes the main actions carried out during the year 2012 in all places where running of the company and it is an essential part of the company’s strategy. We comply Tradecorp operates, although special emphasis is placed on Mexico, Brazil and Spain. These with the laws of the countries where we operate, together with international norms such as regions have a special place in this report for the following reasons: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the Human and Labour Rights established by the International Labour Organisation. Of all the countries where we operate, Mexico, Brazil and Spain account for the greatest number of employees. Furthermore, we analyse and carry out actions that allow us to improve the safety and quality of life within the company, and we comply with our commitments to the communities Spain also holds a special place because it is here that we have our production where we operate and with society as a whole. The development of a Code of Conduct in plants. We have paid special attention to the environmental questions related to our 2012 has likewise allowed us to organise and regulate our ethical principles, converting them factories. into obligatory standards within the company. The actions in the following part are identified with the principle and area of the Global Compact they represent. The following symbols are used to identify the area in the principles of the Global Compact: Our groups of interest CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY In order to select Tradecorp’s groups of interest, we have chosen those groups where the Human Rights company’s activity has the greatest repercussions. The following groups of interest have been defined: Labour Rights Suppliers and partners Employees The Environment Clients Society in general Anticorruption This report is being published in our website and has been sent by e-mail to the members of staff responsible for the different regions and to department managers in the central office and the factories. PART II PART II We analyse and carry out actions to improve safety and quality of life within the company Development of a Code of Conduct Applicable principles: All Diagnosis Actions Although there are laws that regulate human and labour rights in many of the In 2012, Tradecorp developed a Code of Conduct applicable to all the regions countries where Tradecorp has offices, within the company itself there was where it operates. The Code of Conduct includes the following aspects: no specific document that enlarged on this information and defined it for the Respect for human rights company’s field of action. In this sense, and although these laws and regulations Labour conditions and safety at work exist, Tradecorp wished to express its commitment to human rights, labour Product and service quality rights, safety at work, the quality of its products and services, respect for the enAnticorruption policies vironment and anticorruption policies. Industrial and intellectual copyright The environment Following its adhesion to the Global Compact, Tradecorp realised the need to develop a policy to regulate these aspects internally and that could be known by In order to ensure that all the company’s employees could get to know the Code CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY all the groups of interest of the company. of Conduct, the text is available in Spanish, English, French, Italian and Portuguese. A newsletter containing the Code of Conduct in the available languages was sent to the team and a limited number of copies were printed for consultation in the central office and the factories. Policy In order to show Tradecorp’s commitment to the Code of Conduct, it was also The Code of Conduct is mainly based on the Universal Declaration of Human made public via the company’s website. Rights, on the Declaration of the International Labour Organisation concerning Principles and Fundamental Rights at Work, on the United Nations Global ComTo respond to any doubts or irregularities that may arise, an e-mail account was pact and on the mission and vision of the company itself. set up at bestpractices@tradecorp.sapec.pt. Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes The Code of Conduct was sent to 78.3% of the team by e-mail (to all workers having an e-mail account). To maximize its scope, printed copies were produced for the factories where a large number of workers have no corporate e-mail. PART II No irregularities or breaches of Tradecorp’s Code of Conduct were detected in PART II 2012. In 2012, Tradecorp developed a global Code of Conduct that applies to all the regions Development of a Protocol for Responsible Purchases Applicable principles: Human rights, labour rights and the environment Diagnosis Actions Tradecorp shows its commitment to human rights, labour rights, respect for the In 2012, Tradecorp developed a Protocol for Responsible Purchases applicable environment and anticorruption policies through its Code of Conduct. However, in all its offices and to be applied to all significant suppliers and partners. WheTradecorp wished to enlarge upon this commitment wherever possible within its reas the Code of Conduct was aimed at regulating the internal behaviour of the area of influence. Tradecorp team, the Protocol for Responsible Purchases is aimed to ensure Tradecorp collaborators respect human rights and the labour rights defined in the Therefore, Tradecorp decided to establish a Protocol for Responsible Purchases Universal Declaration of Human Rights and in the Declaration of the International in order to make its stakeholders aware of the importance of the areas of action Labour Organisation concerning Principles and Fundamental Rights at Work. of the Global Compact and to encourage respect for human rights and labour rights regarding those companies Tradecorp works with. The Protocol for Responsible Purchases is accompanied by a form which Tradecorp’s suppliers and partners are asked to fill in. This form includes quesCORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY tions related to the principles of the Global Compact in the fields of Human Policy Rights, Labour Rights and the Environment. Tradecorp’s Protocol for Responsible Purchases is fundamentally based on the The application of the Protocol was divided into three stages according to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and on the Declaration of the Internationsignificance and risk of the suppliers and partners: al Labour Organisation concerning Principles and Fundamental Rights at Work. 2012: The sending of the form to those current suppliers with purchases of more than €250,000 a year. 2013: The sending of the form to those current suppliers with purchases of between €250,000 and €50,000 a year. 2014: The sending of the form to those current suppliers with purchases of between €50,000 and €10,000 a year. PART II Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes PART II For the stage corresponding to 2012, the form was sent to 100% of the suppliers whose sales amount was over €250,000 a year. Replies were received from 60% of the suppliers consulted, of which 100% were considered APT. Make its stakeholders aware of the importance of the areas of action of the Global Compact Enacting the Global Compact and the 10 principles Applicable principles: All Diagnosis Following our adhesion to the United Nations Global Compact and the definition Newsletter 2: Labour Rights of our groups of interest, we realised the need for communicating this adhesion On this issue: More information on… Labour principles and, especially, of involving the team. In order to encourage the participation of Principle 3: What does freedom of association and collective bargaining involve? the team, a communication activity was developed to inform on what the adhePrinciple 4: What does forced and compulsory labour mean? sion to the Global Compact meant and to open a means of communication for Principle 5: What is child labour? the team to put forward their doubts and to make comments and proposals to Principle 6: What does discrimination in respect of employment and occupation help to enact the principles of the Global Compact Network. mean? Did you know that…? We are committed to Labour Rights... … But there is still a lot to do CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Newsletter 3: The Environment Policy On this issue: More information on… the Environment Principle 7: What is a precautionary approach? This communication action was essentially based on the 10 principles of the Principle 8: What is environmental responsibility? United Nations Global Compact. Principle 9: What is an environmentally friendly technology? Did you know that…? We are committed to the Environment... … But there is still a lot to do Actions Newsletter 4: Anticorruption The communication action consisted of the sending of 4 newsletters which On this issue: More information on… Anticorruption explained what the Global Compact was together with the 4 areas of action: Principle 10: Forms of corruption. International Anticorruption Day. human rights, labour rights, the environment and anticorruption. Furthermore, Did you know that…? We are committed to Anticorruption... information was provided concerning the different actions that the company had … But there is still a lot to do put into practice in each one of the fields of action, together with information on the state of the world in each of the different areas so as to request the team to The newsletters were sent to most of our internal staff via e-mail. As the language propose actions for improvement both within the company and individually. In of the company is English, the newsletters were sent in English although they all cases, the team was asked to make clear their doubts and comments and to were also translated into Spanish and Portuguese. provide proposals for actions by Tradecorp that could be carried out to respect PART II PART II and enact the principles of the Global Compact. The newsletters which were sent had the following contents: Newsletter 1: The Global Compact and Human Rights What is the Global Compact? Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes What does the Global Compact do? What other companies endorse the Global Compact? The newsletters on the Global Compact were sent to those workers in the comWhat are the 10 principles? pany who have an e-mail account. They were sent to 78.3% of the company. On this issue: More information on… Human Rights Did you know that…? We are committed to Human Rights... …But there is still a lot to do Internal commitment to the Global Compact Applicable principles: All Diagnosis Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes When Tradecorp confirms its adhesion to the Global Compact and makes it a The letter of commitment was signed by: part of its strategy, Tradecorp understands that the commitment and support of The CEO the team is essential to respect and enact the 10 principles in the Global ComThe CFO pact. Only this way each person will apply and enact the principles from their The executive director own area of action and influence. 100% of the department directors in the Central Offices, factories and laboratories. 100% of the Area Managers: Latin America, South-East Europe, Middle East and Policy North Africa, Europe and Sub-Saharan Africa, Brazil and Mexico. The letter of commiment is mainly based on the Global Compact principles. Furthermore, the letter of commitment was signed by a large number of the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY workers in the central office, factories and laboratories. Actions In order to get the team’s commitment to the principles of the Global Compact, Tradecorp wrote a letter of commitment that the team, but especially the Area Managers and department directors, signed. In this letter, the signatories committed themselves to respect, implement and ensure respect for the following: Human rights are a fundamental element of our way of living and are a structuring element in our relationship with collaborators, clients and suppliers. I will integrate the human rights charter into any internal procedures that exist in my structure. I will do my best so that none of our collaborators, clients and suppliers is complicit of human rights abuse. I will guarantee in my structure that; The freedom of association is a fully respected right. There is no forced or compulsory labor. There is no child labor. PART II PART II There is no discrimination of race, colour, gender, confession or any other discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. I will ensure that proper measures are taken to minimize our ecological footprint while purchasing, producing, packing, transporting, distributing, selling and disposing of our products. I will define my strategy so it respects environmental friendly technologies. I will include respect for the environment into any internal procedures that exist in my structure. I will encourage my collaborators, clients and suppliers to have the same respect and care for the environment. I will fight and exclude from my business and structure all form of corruption whether passive or active. I will act so that the above principles are respected by my collaborators, clients and suppliers. Tradecorp understands that the commitment and support of the Tradecorp team is essential to respect and enact the 10 principles Donations to institutions that are involved with human rights, the abolition of forced labour and child labour Applicable principles: 1, 4 and 5 Diagnosis In Tradecorp, Corporate Social Responsibility is found in all the activities of the company. We comply with the laws of the countries where we operate together Casa de Abrigo da Criança Nosso Lar – Sorriso /MT with international standards, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the APPCMR – Associação de Apoio aos Portadores de Câncer de Mossoró e Região Labour Rights established by the International Labour Organisation. Mossoró/ RN However, we also endeavour to extend this responsibility within our area of influIn Mexico, a donation was made to Teletón, a foundation that works on the ence and to do this we have developed actions with suppliers and the commuimprovement of the quality of life of handicapped children and youths. The donity in general. nation, consisting of 24 wheelchairs, was aimed towards children suffering from muscular dystrophy, an illness characterised by weak muscles and alterations in the muscular proteins that can cause the death of the cells that make up this CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY tissue. This action involves clients, suppliers, Tradecorp team and people related Actions to these groups. Together with our internal actions regarding the principles of the Global Compact, we have developed actions which have allowed us to make these principles known among our suppliers, together with actions aimed at the community of Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes which we form a part. In this sense, Tradecorp has opted to support institutions that are involved with human rights, the abolition of forced labour and the aboliThe donations were made in the following way: tion of child labour. Spain: donation of €3000, divided between the regional divisions of Cáritas in Madrid, Avila and Albacete, these being the areas where Tradecorp is present in In Spain, a donation was made to Cáritas, the official confederation of charity Spain through its offices and factories. and social entities of the Catholic church in Spain, set up by the Conferencia Episcopal. In Spain, Cáritas carries out important work to socially support various Brazil: The donations were distributed in the following way: groups in a precarious situation and/or situation of social exclusion. o Instituto Boldrini – Campinas / SP: R$ 5000 o Grupo Primavera – Campinas / SP: R$ 5000 In Brazil, donations have been made to diffeerent institutios that work with chilo Casa do Caminho de Araguarí – Araguari /MG: R$ 2000 dren: o Lar de Meninas – Sarandi / RS: R$ 2000 Instituto Boldrini – Campinas / SP, a reference hospital for the treatment of child o Aliança Esportiva de Mandaguai – Mandaguai / PR: R$ 2000 PART II PART II cancer, especially relevant for its high recovery rate, which is greater than 70%. o Casa Transitória de Jundiaí – Jundiaí / SP: R$ 2000 Grupo Primavera – Campinas / SP, a foundation which provides complementary o GEPO – Grêmio esportivo Pedro Osório – Tupanciretã / RS: R$ 2000 education programmes for more than 500 young girls between the ages of 8 o CEMAM – Casa Abrigo Laura Vicuña do Centro Maria Auxiliadora – Petrolina / and 18. Furthermore, the Brazil team has also taken part in presentations in the PE: R$ 2000 centre. o Casa de Abrigo da Criança Nosso Lar – Sorriso /MT: R$ 2000 Casa do Caminho de Araguarí – Araguari /MG o APPCMR – Associação de Apoio aos Portadores de Câncer de Mossoró e Lar de Meninas – Sarandi / RS Região Mossoró/ RN: R$ 2000 Aliança Esportiva de Mandaguai – Mandaguai / PR Casa Transitória de Jundiaí – Jundiaí / SP Mexico: The donation to Teleton consisted of 24 wheelchairs for children sufGEPO – Grêmio esportivo Pedro Osório – Tupanciretã / RS fering from muscular dystrophy in Durango, Tamaulipas, Guadalajara, Hidalgo, CEMAM – Casa Abrigo Laura Vicuña do Centro Maria Auxiliadora – Petrolina / Irapuato and Puebla. PE Study on the company’s salaries and comparisons with the average wages for similar profiles in other companies Applicable principles: 4, 6 Diagnosis Actions Although Tradecorp draws up its labour contracts in accordance with current legThe Human Resources Programme was carried out by Towers Watson and conislation in the different countries and in all cases in compliance with human and sisted of a study of the profiles of Tradecorp employees, including variables like labour rights, it has also carried out a study to analyse the situation of the comlevel of studies, years of experience, salary, etc., and on a series of personal interpany’s human resources. In this way, the management of the company is better views to better get to know to what extent the employees functions fulfil their able to understand up to what point the employees fulfil their expectations and expectations and their plan for professional development. their plan for professional development. This human resources programme also consists of an analysis of the company’s wages for its employees and a compariIn this first stage, the salaries of a large number of employees in the Madrid ofson of the average wages for similar profiles in companies within the sector. fice, factories and laboratories were studied. In 2013 the profiles of those employees that were not interviewed in 2012 will be examined, both in Spain and CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY in local teams, particularly in Mexico, Brazil, Middle East & North Africa, Latin America and Asia Pacific. Likewise, a study will be made of the profiles of the factory employees. Política This study is based on the labour principles established in the Global Compact and on our Code of Conduct. Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes In the framework of this programme, 52% of the team’s profiles were studied. With regard to salaries, 100% of the employees whose profiles were studied have a salary similar to the standard for people with a similar profile in the agrochemical sector. PART II PART II ...better understand up to what point the employees fulfil their expectations and their plan for professional development Analysis of the diversity indicators in the company Applicable principles: 6 Diagnosis Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes Although the personnel selection processes in Tradecorp are carried out following All of the Tradecorp team (offices and factories) was analysed for this study. The objective criteria, like training and experience, in 2012 a study has been made to result of this analysis for 2012 established that Tradecorp team was composed of: analyze the diversity indicators in the company so as to ensure that we comply with the principle 6 of the Global Compact. By sex: 78% men 22% women Policy By age: The analysis of the diversity indicators of the company was carried out in accor18% employees under 30 dance with the policy established in our Code of Conduct and the principles of 76% employees between 30-50 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY the Global Compact. 6% employees over 50 By nationality: Actions 56.8% Spanish 15.4% Mexican Three factors were studied at an international level in order to analyse the diver14.7% Brazilian sity indicators of the company: 2.6% French Sex 2.2% Belgian Age 1.8% Ecuadorian Nationality 1.5% Egyptian A study was also made of the percentage of people in management positions in 1.1% Italian regions and departments to see whether they were men or women and to estab4% other nationalities (Portuguese, German, Moroccan, Algerian, Australian, lish their age range. Polish, Colombian, Bolivian). With regard to the employees’ position within the company, when analysing all the people in management positions in regions and departments: PART II By sex: PART II 67.7% men 32.4% women By age: 91.9% between 30 and 50 8.1% over 50 ...personnel selection processes are carried out following objective criteria, like training and experience Great Place to Work and Human Resources Programme Applicable principles: 3, 4, 6 Diagnosis Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes Tradecorp is a company that is committed to human and labour rights. These The Human Resources Programme was launched in January 2012. Within the rights are respected in all its activities, but Tradecorp is also interested in knowing framework of this programme, the following interviews were carried out: the working atmosphere inside the workplace and to know how its team feels, so 60% of the employees in the Madrid office as to be able to take steps in those areas that require improvement. 9% of the factory employees 8% of the employees in Tradecorp’s offices abroad Policy The implementation of this programme has meant we have got to know that 95% of the persons interviewed feel happy and that their functions fulfil their These actions are based on Tradecorp’s labour policy which is established in the expectations. Code of Conduct. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY For 2013, we expect to interview 100% of the employees in the Madrid office and 80% of the team in Tradecorp’s offices abroad. With regard to the factory Actions employees, it is planned that another specific programme be carried out in accordance with the functions developed in the different factories. Tradecorp carried out different actions for this analysis: With regard to a Great Place to Work, the programme was launched in Mexico On the one hand, there is the Human Resources Programme which was and Brazil: launched in 2012. With this programme, the management of the company In Brazil, the questionnaire was sent to 100% of the team and 100% of them wished to discover to what extent the functions and responsibilities of its replied. The points obtained in Brazil in the Great Place to Work programme was team fulfilled its expectations and their professional plan. 60%. From the results in Brazil, it was found that: On the other hand, there is the Great Place to Work programme, the aim of o 72% consider that Tradecorp do Brasil is an excellent place to work. which is to study and improve the working environment in Tradecorp. o 88% consider that there is no age, race, sex or sexual orientation discrimination. The Human Resources Programme consisted of a series of personal interviews In Mexico, the questionnaire was sent to 100% of the team and 100% of carried out by the human resources company, Towers Watson. In these personal them replied. The points obtained in Mexico in the Great Place to Work prointerviews, the professional situation of the interviewees was analysed, their gramme was 90%. strong and weak points and labour expectations. In this way, Tradecorp endeavPART II PART II oured to help its team make a career within the company, in accordance with its future plans. Great Place to Work is a global research, consultancy and training company Tradecorp is interested which helps organisations to analyse and improve their working environment. A in the working environment questionnaire was issued for the Great Place to Work programme and more than inside the workplace 50 indicators related to the working environment were evaluated. Great Place to Work analyses the working environment, taking into account the relationship between bosses and workers, respect towards employees, no discrimination of workers, pride in work and the relationships between colleagues. Decrease in occupational hazards Applicable principles: 4 Diagnosis Safety in the workplace is a priority question for Tradecorp. Given that the work in our factories may imply occupational hazards, a detailed study has been made on the number of accidents that have occurred in our different production plants and actions have been established to improve the situation and minimise occupational hazards and, as a result, the possibilities of accidents and injuries. Policy These actions were based on Tradecorp’s security policy established in the Code CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY of Conduct. Actions The study which was carried out analysed the number of minor and major accidents that had taken place, the reasons behind the accident and a series of data to endeavour to reduce accidents at work as far as possible. A study of our factories is carried out each year to analyse the different work posts and the risks they involve and appropriate measures are taken to decrease the possible number of accidents at work. Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes The study took into account 100% of the team in the production plants, which are located in Sanchidrián and Albacete, Spain. In this stage, we have only included the factory team because they are the ones whose tasks involve the greatPART II PART II est risk if accidents. In 2012, the following was recorded: 5.8 minor accidents per 100 workers per year and No major accident at work. The actions for improvement carried out in 2012 have meant that we have managed to decrease the number of labour accidents with regard to the figures obtained in 2011, when there were 16.3 minor accidents per 100 workers per year and 2.9 major accidents per 100 workers per year. Actions for improvement have been carried out in order to decrease occupational hazards Development of products for Organic Agriculture Applicable principles: 7, 9 Tradecorp is a company committed to environmental protection Diagnosis and the sustainable use of natural resources Tradecorp is a company that is committed to the conservation of the environment and the sustainable use of natural resources. Therefore we work on the development of products that permit the maximum potential in quality and yield of harvests, but keeping sustainability in a priority position by developing products that respect the environment. Policy This action is based on Tradecorp’s Code of Conduct and the principles of the CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Global Compact. Actions Since 2006, we have been working on the approval of our organic products by recognised entities that give a guarantee to the farmer that the product being used complies with the requirements for its use in Organic Agriculture. Currently, Ecocert Ibérica, a Spanish entity belonging to Ecocert, carries out a technical verification of our products, an audit of our production plants and an exhaustive analysis “in situ” of our production processes. Many of our main products have been approved for Organic Agriculture and many of them comply with both European standards and the NOP (National Organic Programme). Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes PART II In 2012, Ecocert approved: PART II 49 of our trademarks for Organic Agriculture under European standards 15 of our trademarks for Organic Agriculture under the NOP standard 31 of our trademarks for Organic Agriculture, complying with European standards and the NOP Furthermore, the trademarks approved for Organic Agriculture, under European standards, the NOP or both, have a special place in our sales. In fact, 55.20% of our sales are accounted for by trademarks approved for Organic Agriculture. Use of recycled and sustainable materials Applicable principles: 7 Diagnosis Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes As a result of our commitment to the environment, we have for some years 100% of the brochures printed from the Central Office and in Mexico were encouraged the use of digital formats for certain documents. However, for those printed using recycled paper. cases in which we still have to use paper or cardboard, we have promoted the 100% of stationery items used in the Central Office is now recycled paper or use of recycled and/or sustainable materials. In 2012, we made an analysis of the certified to have come from responsibly managed forests. materials that we use so as to decrease our use of virgin fibres and encourage the In our packaging, more than 70% of the fibres used for the manufacture of use of recycled and/or sustainable materials whenever possible. our boxes of 15 and 20 kg come from recycled fibres. In the case of the 1 and 5 kg boxes, 100% of the fibres used in manufacture of the cardboard come from recycled fibres. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Policy This action was carried out in accordance with our commitment to protect the environment as laid down in the Code of Conduct. Actions In 2012, the use of recycled materials, especially regarding paper and cardboard was encouraged. Thus: More than 70% of the fibres used Recycled paper was the preferred material for printing brochures and catalofor the manufacture of our 15 and 20 kg boxes gues come from recycled fibres. We have opted for the use of recycled paper or paper with fibres from the responsible management of forests for our stationery (sheets of paper, post it…) We have also opted to use recycled materials for our packaging (boxes for soIn the 1 and 5 kg boxes, 100% of the fibres used PART II PART II lids) in the manufacture of the cardboard We have opted to use recycled and/or sustainable materials for our promotional gifts (books, bags… in recycled paper). come from recycled fibres Minimizing water consumption Reusing and recycling water in the factories is a priority for Tradecorp Applicable principles: 7 Reusing and recycling policies Diagnosis have been established to optimize water consumption Due to our business activity, the analysis of our consumption, reusing and recycling of water is especially important when analysing our impact on the environment. Given that the greatest consumption of water occurs in our production plants, we have carried out an analysis of water consumption, reusing and recycling in our factories. Policy In accordance with our ISO 14001:2004 certified Environmental Management CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY System and with our Code of Conduct, to minimise water consumption is a key issue for Tradecorp. Policies have therefore been established for the reusing and recycling of water that allow us to optimize water use in our production plants, which is where this resource is mostly spent. Actions Various actions have been carried out in Tradecorp’s production plant in Albacete which have allowed us to optimise water consumption: Thanks to the water processing plant that has been installed, we can recycle each litre of water used before it reaches the drainage system. We have also installed a decalcifier which allows us to reduce the consumption of osmotised water by 90%. To encourage the reusing of water, 100% of the water used to clean the humic acid drying tower is re-used for new productions of this product. PART II PART II On the other hand, in the Sanchidrián production plant, all the water used in the manufacturing process is reused and there is no liquid waste. Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes In Albacete, a third of the water used for the manufacture of our products becomes part of the product itself, given that the products are liquids. The remaining two thirds are used during manufacture and they are recycled prior to the drainage system. In Sanchidrián, 100% of the water used in the manufacturing process is reused in the process and there is no liquid waste. Tradecorp carries out internal studies and audits Actions for environmental protection to better know its situation Applicable principles: 7 and implement the appropriate improvements Diagnosis In order to comply with principle 7 of the Global Compact (“Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges”), Tradecorp carries out internal studies and periodic audits which allows it to be aware of its situation and make the appropriate improvements. Policy The actions described in this section are in line with our ISO 14001:2004 certification and with the environmental principles defined in our Code of Conduct. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions To optimise the use of energy, we carry out energy audits in the production plants. As a result of the conclusions in these studies, we carried out an action which consisted of the installation of frequency variators in both plants which will allow us to reduce our electricity consumption. As with the studies related to the optimisation of the use of energy, we also measure yearly the emissions from our production plants. In order to decrease these emissions we have changed the gas-oil boilers in our factory in Sanchidrián and replaced them with natural gas boilers. With the same objective, we have made modifications in the Albacete factory to the drying tower so as to reduce CO2 emissions. Initiatives have been carried out in both factories to control the dumping of residual water. In our Sanchidrián factory, the reuse of all the washing water has PART II PART II eliminated any kind of residual water dumping. On the other hand, in the Albacete centre, our laboratories carry out a daily analysis of the main parameters of liquid waste to ensure that it includes no harmful elements. So as to control the generation of waste in both plants, studies are carried out on waste reduction. Thanks to these studies, 12 actions were implemented last year which have allowed us to reduce waste in both plants. Likewise, the viability of a further 8 initiatives for waste reduction is at present under study. Tradecorp also supports actions Protection and restoration of habitats that contribute to the protection Applicable principles: 8 and restoration of habitats Diagnosis Although Tradecorp endeavours to keep a preventive focus to favour the environment, it also puts into place actions that contribute to the protection and restoration of habitats that have been damaged in the past and to encourage environmental awareness. Policy This action is in line with our Code of Conduct. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions Besides carrying out actions to optimise the use of energy and decrease the use of natural resources, in 2012 Tradecorp also carried out actions for the protection and restoration of habitats. The two reforestations that were carried out in 2012 fulfilled a double objective; on the one hand, to contribute to the recovery of two protected areas and, on the other hand, to encourage environmental awareness in the Tradecorp team. In total, 150 people took part in the reforestations which included Tradecorp personnel (central office, factories, laboratories and the Mexico office) and family members and friends. Special emphasis was placed on the participation of children. The reforestations took place in Spain, in the protected area of the Parque Regional de la Cuenca Alta del Manzanares, in Madrid; and in Mexico, in the protected area of the Bosque de los Colomos, in Guadalajara. PART II PART II Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes In the reforestation carried out in Mexico in 2012, 130 pinus devoniana pine trees were planted, an autochthonous species requiring little care and being resistant to plagues and the climatic conditions. This year, it was decided to plant bigger pines so as to increase their probability of survival. The reforestation in Spain was carried out in collaboration with the NGO Reforesta. 240 trees native to the High Manzanares Basin area were planted, including holm oaks, cork oaks, juniper trees and gall oaks. Anticorruption policy Applicable principles: 10 Diagnosis Although Tradecorp has periodic independent audits and complies with the anticorruption laws and standards, it wished to involve its internal staff in positions of responsibility with the company’s anticorruption policy. Policy This action was carried out in line with our commitment to the Global Compact and our Code of Conduct. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Actions To promote the team’s commitment to anticorruption, a form was designed to be signed by all the Area Managers, department directors and by the Executive Director. In this form three questions were made regarding anticorruption acMEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS tions: Have you made any financial contribution or contribution in kind in your region to political parties, politicians or related institutions? In which country or countries? Total value of the financial contribution or contribution in kind. Has there been any legal action in your region as a result of behaviour against competition laws and/or monopolistic practices? In which country or countries? Total amount Has your region been given any fines or non-monetary sanctions for a breach of laws or regulations? In which country or countries? Monetary value of significant fines PART II Number of non-monetary sanctions Monitoring. Measurement of outcomes The form was returned having been duly completed by the seven Area Managers, the department directors and the Executive Director. The conclusions reached for 2012 were that: No financial contribution or contribution in kind were made to political parties, politicians or related institutions. No legal actions were taken for behaviour against competition laws and/or monopolistic practices. No fines or non-monetary sanctions for a breach of laws or regulations were received. PART III GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES RELATED TO GLOBAL REPORTING GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INITIATIVE INDICATORS, TRADECORP INDICATORS AND INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES LA13 % of men in the company 78% HUMAN RIGHTS Composition of governance bodies and (total of employees in the company) breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other % of women in the company 22% indicators of diversity. (total of employees in the company) Principle 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human % of employees under 30 18% rights. (total of employees in the company) GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP % of employees between 30 and 50 76% (total of employees in the company) INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT % of employees over 50 6% HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that re100% (total of employees in the company) Percentage of significant suppliers, ceived the responsible purchases protocol contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that 60% Principle 2. MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS signed the responsible purchases protocol Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HR3 78,3% GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP Total hours of employee training on policies % of employees that received formation and procedures concerning aspects of huINDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT and information concerning human rights, man rights that are relevant to operations, labour rights, the environment and antiincluding the percentage of employees corruption (by e-mail) HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that re100% trained. Percentage of significant suppliers, ceived the responsible purchases protocol contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. EC5 % of people with higher wages than others 0% Percentage of significant suppliers that 60% Range of ratios of standard entry level wage in other companies with a similar profile signed the responsible purchases protocol by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation. % of people with similar wages to others in 100% other companies with a similar profile HR3 % of employees that received formation 78,3% Total hours of employee training on policies and information concerning human rights, % of people with lower wages than others 0% and procedures concerning aspects of hulabour rights, the environment and antiin other companies with a similar profile man rights that are relevant to operations, corruption (by e-mail) including the percentage of employees trained. LA7 Rate of minor accidents in the factories 5,8% Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. Rate of major accidents in the factories 0% (no. of accidents/100 employees/year) PART III PART III LABOUR RIGHTS Principle 3. Principle 5. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. right to collective bargaining. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that re100% HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that re100% Percentage of significant suppliers, ceived the responsible purchases protocol Percentage of significant suppliers, ceived the responsible purchases protocol contractors, and other business partners that contractors, and other business partners that have undergone human rights screening, have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. and actions taken. Percentage of significant suppliers that 60% Percentage of significant suppliers that 60% signed the responsible purchases protocol signed the responsible purchases protocol HR3 % of employees that received formation 78,3% HR3 % of employees that received formation 78,3% Total hours of employee training on policies and information concerning human rights, Total hours of employee training on policies and information concerning human rights, MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS and procedures concerning aspects of huand procedures concerning aspects of huMEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS labour rights, the environment and antilabour rights, the environment and antiman rights that are relevant to operations, corruption (by e-mail) man rights that are relevant to operations, corruption (by e-mail) including the percentage of employees including the percentage of employees trained. trained. Principle 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that re100% Percentage of significant suppliers, ceived the responsible purchases protocol LA13 % of men in the company 78% contractors, and other business partners that Composition of governance bodies and (total of employees in the company) have undergone human rights screening, breakdown of employees per employee and actions taken. category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other % of women in the company 22% Percentage of significant suppliers that 60% indicators of diversity. (total of employees in the company) signed the responsible purchases protocol % of employees under 30 18% (total of employees in the company) HR3 % of employees that received formation 78,3% Total hours of employee training on policies and information concerning human rights, and procedures concerning aspects of hu% of employees between 30 and 50 76% labour rights, the environment and antiman rights that are relevant to operations, (total of employees in the company) corruption (by e-mail) including the percentage of employees trained. % of employees over 50 6% (total of employees in the company) PART III PART III GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT HR2 Percentage of significant suppliers that re100% EN30 € invested in habitats protection 1950 Percentage of significant suppliers, ceived the responsible purchases protocol Total environmental protection expenditures contractors, and other business partners that and investments by type. have undergone human rights screening, and actions taken. € invested in the correct management of 11000 Percentage of significant suppliers that 60% hazardous waste signed the responsible purchases protocol € invested in the correct management of 25000 non hazardous waste HR3 % of employees that received formation 78,3% Total hours of employee training on policies and information concerning human rights, € invested in the optimization of natural 25000 and procedures concerning aspects of hulabour rights, the environment and antiresources man rights that are relevant to operations, corruption (by e-mail) including the percentage of employees trained. € invested in control of spills 101000 € invested in control and decrease of 360000 emissions MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS € invested in controlling noise pollution 1500 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7. Principle 8. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are 15 EN6 Electric energy kWh/l or kg produced 0,063 (Albacete) Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts approved for Organic Agriculture under Initiatives to provide energy-efficient 0,514(Sanchidrián) of products and services, and extent of NOP standards or renewable energy based products impact mitigation. and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Natural gas kW/l or kg produced 7,726 (Albacete) Number of Tradecorp brands that are 49 approved for Organic Agriculture under 3,71 (Sanchidrián) European standards EN10 % of water that is reused Sanchidrián: Number of Tradecorp brands that are 31 Percentage and total volume of water recy100% approved for Organic Agriculture under cled and reused. European and NOP standards % of water that is recycled Albacete: % of total sales that are sales of brands 55,2% 66% approved for Organic Agriculture PART III PART III GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT EN13 No. of reforested trees 370 Habitats protected or restored. No. of people involved in the restoration or 150 protection of habitats EN16 CO2 emissions in kg Albacete:464.014 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas Sanchidrián: emissions by weight. 1.876.537 EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas 3 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emisemissions sions and reductions achieved. EN23 Total number of significant spills. 0 Total number and volume of significant MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS spills. EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are 15 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts approved for Organic Agriculture under of products and services, and extent of NOP standards impact mitigation. Number of Tradecorp brands that are 49 approved for Organic Agriculture under European standards Number of Tradecorp brands that are 31 approved for Organic Agriculture under European and NOP standards % of total sales that are sales of brands 55,2% approved for Organic Agriculture EN28 Monetary value of significant fines for non1 fine Monetary value of significant fines and total compliance with environmental laws and 1500 € number of non-monetary sanctions for nonregulations. compliance with environmental laws and regulations. Non-monetary sanctions for non-compli0 ance with environmental laws and regulations PART III PART III Principle 9. ANTI-CORRUPTION Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP Principle 10. INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. EN6 Electric energy kWh/l or kg produced 0,063 (Albacete) Initiatives to provide energy-efficient 0,514(Sanchidrián) GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE TRADECORP TRADECORP or renewable energy based products INDICATOR INTERNAL INDICATOR MEASUREMENT and services, and reductions in energy requirements as a result of these initiatives. Natural gas kW/l or kg produced 7,726 (Albacete) 3,71 (Sanchidrián) SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contri0 Total value of financial and in-kind butions to political parties, politicians, and contributions to political parties, politicians, related institutions by country EN10 Sanchidrián: and related institutions by country. % of water that is reused Percentage and total volume of water recy100% cled and reused. SO7 Total number of legal actions for anticom0 % of water that is recycled Albacete: Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 66% petitive behavior, anti-trust, and practices and their outcomes. monopoly practices and their outcomes. EN18 No. of iniciatives to reduce greenhouse gas 3 MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS MEASUREMENTS. GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES AND GRI INDICATORS Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emisemissions sions and reductions achieved. SO8 Monetary value of significant fines for non0 Monetary value of significant fines and total compliance with laws and regulations. number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws and regulations. EN26 Number of Tradecorp brands that are 15 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts approved for Organic Agriculture under Total number of non-monetary sanctions for 0 of products and services, and extent of NOP standards noncompliance with laws and regulations. impact mitigation. Number of Tradecorp brands that are 49 approved for Organic Agriculture under European standards Number of Tradecorp brands that are 31 approved for Organic Agriculture under European and NOP standards % of total sales that are sales of brands 55,2% approved for Organic Agriculture PART III PART III Alcalá 498 2nd Floor 28027 Madrid (Spain) Tel.:+34 91 3273200 Fax: +34 91 3047172 e-mail:global@tradecorp.sapec.pt www.tradecorp.com.es I-68-12-12-V1
