our responsibility Arla Foods’ Corporate Social Responsibility Report Arla Foods addresses ethical and quality matters in a sustainable and responsible manner, in order to safeguard the company’s reputation and profitability. From Our Responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct ANSVARSFULLT FÖRETAGANDE | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 2 Content 1 Foreword 2 About Arla 4 Responsible company 6 Business principles 8 Operational principles 10 Case study 12 Procurement 14 Market conduct 16 Confidence in products 18 Food safety 20 Food and health 22 Case study 24 Care for the environment and animal welfare 26 Environment and climate 28 Case study 30 Agriculture 32 Respectful relations 34 Workplace 36 Community relations 38 Human rights 40 Case study 43 Reference to Global Compact Unless otherwise indicated, the facts and figures in this report cover Arla Foods’ fully owned dairy companies in 2012. Some examples from fully owned subsidiaries and joint venture dairy companies are also included. The report’s chapters correspond to the eleven areas of Arla Foods̕ Corporate Social Responsibility Code of Conduct, which was first published in the spring of 2008. More information is available at www.arla.com. ©Arla Foods amba, 2013 Project coordinator: Arla Foods Production management: Anna Michélsen Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen Graphic design: Waldton Design Graphic production: Formalix Translations: Amesto Translations Photography: Thomas Carlgren, Torben Hjulmand (28), Thomas Rolsted (36), Niels Aage Skovbo (29), Gustav Winblad (10), Martin Zetterquist (23, 28) and Arla’s archive Printing: Scanprint A/S, 2013 Email: csr@arlafoods.com 3 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ANSVARSFULLT FÖRETAGANDE Working responsibly in Arla The Code of Conduct governs Arla’s responsibility work Arla’s principles for ethics and sustainable development are contained in Our Responsibility – Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct. Arla’s Board of Directors approved the Code of Conduct and it is now available in eight languages and can be downloaded from www.arla.com. The Code serves as both a tool and a compass, guiding us on how we should behave and take responsibility within our business. Responsibility through our entire value chain Arla strives to work in a responsible manner throughout its entire value chain, from the work at the farms, through to operations and distribution, even including recycling of packaging material. Organisation and embedding the culture To ensure commitment to the Code internally, we have established a CSR committee with CEO Peder Tuborgh as chairman and with representatives from the senior management team. The committee prioritises the areas that need additional focus to ensure the company’s commitment to responsibility for the long term. Responsible company • Business principles • Operational principles A holistic approach • Procurement • Market conduct The 11 areas that the Code describes are the ones Care for the environment covered in this report, from business principles to and animal welfare human rights. This year we have chosen to group • Environment and climate these areas under four themes, see the illustration • Agriculture to the right. Respectful relations • Workplace • Community relations Welcome to our 2012 CSR report • Human rights Arla is a global company. Each of our business groups Confidence in products deliver content and material to this annual report. The report • Food safety describes how we are succeeding in our work with responsibility and also • Food and health gives us the opportunity to readdress, and clarify, the areas on which we need to focus in the future. Arla’s increasing responsibility Arla is growing, and the larger and more global our company becomes, the greater our responsibility. It is very reassuring therefore to know that our company is based on a strong, responsible foundation. All our colleagues, owners and partners play their part in ensuring that Arla is, and continues to be, a sustainable company, which is imperative for our success in the long term. I am proud to report that during the past year Arla has This report is part of that work and in it we present a achieved many ambitious goals related to growth and our selection of initiatives which have taken place during the global presence. We have merged with dairy companies past year. This report also forms part of Arla’s Annual in Germany and the UK, and we have increased in size on Report 2012 which is available to download several markets. Today Arla is one of the world’s leading at www.arla.com. dairy companies, which means that we naturally have additional opportunities when it comes to our corporate Our focus in the future responsibilities. Our approach to running a responsible Working responsibly at Arla permeates the business now encompasses more countries and more entire company. In order for us to succeed people. This, of course, presents us with challenges and we will ensure that both existing and new we hope that we can become a source of inspiration to colleagues, especially leaders, embrace the world around us. We aim to retain our position as a the Arla culture and our Code of leading dairy company and to maintain our reputation as Conduct and embed these in their a sustainable business. way of working. As we work to develop the dairy company of Good progress in sustainability and responsibility the future, I am certain that our Within the area of sustainability we are pleased to focus on health, naturalness and report many examples of our progress. The effects of the inspiration, as well as the steps environmental strategy we launched last year are now to maintain the sustainability beginning to show. We are saving more energy and water. of our company, will be major We are reducing food waste as well as the environmental cornerstones on which to build impact of our packaging. Furthermore, we have significantly long-term success. We continue improved the processes we apply to ensure that we to take responsibility for our make responsible purchases. We have also introduced actions and to fulfil the role a whistleblowing policy so that all colleagues have an which, quite rightly, is expected additional means by which to report any deviations from of a company in our position. our Code of Conduct. We take this opportunity It is a pleasure to read the results of this year’s to thank you for your interest Barometer survey. Our colleagues’ engagement and pride in following Arla’s development in working for Arla improved again this year. Excellent towards becoming an even more leadership and committed colleagues are an important responsible company. precondition for delivering results and achieving high-level responsibility. Aarhus, Denmark, February 2013 Arla supports the UN Global Compact Five years ago Arla joined the United Nations’ Global Compact, a global initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a member, we are committed to aligning the 10 basic principles of the Global Compact to our operations and strategies, and to communicate them to our colleagues, owners, suppliers, partners and the world around us. Peder Tuborgh, CEO 1 About Arla Arla Foods is a global cooperative dairy company owned by dairy farmers in Sweden, Denmark, Germany, UK, Belgium and Luxembourg. Our products are sold under well-known brands in more than 100 countries. We have production facilities in 12 countries and sales offices in 30. Arla is also the world’s largest supplier of organic dairy products. Growing company with more owners However, other markets, including Russia and the Middle Arla continues to work in pursuit of its growth strategy. East are in growth. We have increased our investments During the year, two mergers with other dairy cooperatives in China and signed an exclusive partnership agreement completed. The merger with Milk Link in Britain made Arla with China’s largest dairy company, Mengniu, the benefits the UK’s largest dairy company, while the merger with the of which include opportunities to increase our exports to German dairy company, Milch-Union Hocheifel (MUH), China. We will also invest in new and existing sites. For made Arla Germany’s third-largest dairy company. As a example, work has begun on building the world’s largest result of these mergers, Arla is the world’s sixth largest dairy fresh milk dairy at Aylesbury, just outside London in the company with a total of 12,256 owners in six countries. UK, and in Germany, Pronsfeld dairy is to be expanded. The milk powder facility at Vimmerby in Sweden will also Farmers face financial difficulties be extended to allow for more production to increase Arla’s objective is to ensure that the owners receive the export to non-European countries. highest possible payment for their raw milk. During 2012, due to a global surplus of milk, the milk price fell by a total Closer to Nature™ gains momentum of DKK 0.10 (EUR 0.015), compared to the 2011 level. Arla’s overarching Closer to Nature™ commitment continues In addition to the high cost of feed and other materials to gain momentum throughout the company. Closer to required on farm, the low milk price means that many dairy Nature™ aims to ensure that our products are as natural farmers are experiencing financial difficulties. During spring as possible and that our supplying farms and Arla’s own 2012 Arla introduced a series of cost-saving measures in processes have as little impact on the environment and order to drive efficiencies throughout the company and climate as possible. create the potential to raise the milk price. New vision and revised strategy Investing in our future In January 2013 a new vision, mission and revised strategy Competition on the European markets remains tough and for Arla were announced. Read more at www.arla.com. consumer spending has reduced as a result of the recession. Owners Number of colleagues, Net revenue Raw milk in million of kilos Arla Foods is an agricultural average full time employed DKK 63.1 billion, of which Denmark  4,419 cooperative owned by 12,256 Denmark  7,536 72 per cent comes from our UK2,342 dairy farmers in Sweden, Sweden3,599 core markets of UK, Sweden, Sweden2,059 Denmark, Germany, UK, UK3,017 Denmark, Germany, Finland Germany917 Belgium and Luxembourg. Germany1,135 and the Netherlands. Finland226 Finland  362 Netherlands200 Management Netherlands361 Profit for the year Belgium53 Chairman: Other countries 2,102 DKK 1.9 billion. Luxembourg27 Åke Hantoft Total18,112 Other countries 166 Vice chairman: Total  10,409 Jan Toft Nørgaard As of 31 December 2012, the CEO: Peder Tuborgh total number of colleagues Vice CEO: Povl Krogsgaard employed by Arla was 19,646. 2 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | About arla Organisation of the Arla group Revenue by market Others 14.3% UK 25.0% Executive Board Value markets 6.7% Growth markets Corporate Supply Chain Corporate Affairs 7.4% Netherlands 2.4% Finland 3.8% Corporate Human Resources Corporate Finance & IT Sweden 18.7% Denmark 10.8% Germany 10.9% Arla’s total revenue has increased by 15 per cent since 2011. Global Categories Consumer Consumer Subsidiaries & Operations International UK Consumer Consumer Consumer Germany & Denmark Sweden Netherlands Revenue by product group Other products 4.9% Corporate Supply Chain handles Corporate Human Resources handles contact with owners, global supply colleague training and organisational Whey products 3.6% chain efficiency, global procurement development issues for the whole Powder products Fresh and investments under the group under the management of 8.2% products management of Povl Krogsgaard. Ola Arvidsson. 43.4% Butter and Corporate Affairs comprises group Corporate Finance & IT handles spreads 14.4% development and communication finance, IT and legal affairs under the Cheese 25.5% under the management of management of Frederik Lotz. Peder Tuborgh. Fresh products, cheese, butter and spreads have increased their contribution to Arla’s total revenue. Consumer Business Groups are Global Categories & Operations responsible for the production of has general responsibility for Arla’s fresh produce, logistics, marketing three global brands – Arla®, Lurpak® and sales of Arla products in the and Castello® – and responsibility Milk price DKK different areas. for global innovation, quality and Consumer Denmark, under the environment. This business area also 3.0 management of Peter Giörtz-Carlsen. handles milk planning and logistics, 2.5 Consumer Sweden, also including industrial sales, production of cheese, 2.0 Finland, under the management of butter and spreads and milk powder Christer Åberg. in Scandinavia, as well as production 1.5 Consumer UK, under the of cheese in Germany (formerly 1.0 management of Peter Lauritzen. Allgäuland) under the management 0.5 Consumer Germany & Netherlands, of Jais Valeur. under the management of 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Tim Ørting Jørgensen. Subsidiaries wholly owned by Arla: Consumer International, including Arla Foods Ingredients, Rynkeby During the year, the milk price changed repeatedly, both countries outside core markets, under Foods, Cocio and Dairy Fruit. increasing and decreasing, due to changes in demand on the management of Finn S Hansen. the global market. The diagram shows the average price per kilo of milk paid to owners during the year, including supplementary payments. Owner democracy Owners in Arla 15,000 Germany, Belgium Denmark Sweden UK and Luxembourg 3,354 owners 3,661 owners 1,584 owners 12,000 3,657 owners Denmark and Sweden 9,000 54 district councils Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and UK 6,000 Denmark and Sweden Local organisations 16 regions 3,000 The Board of Representatives 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 169 members and 10 employee representatives Germany Luxembourg Sweden Belgium The Board of Directors Denmark UK 20 members and 4 employee representatives During the year, the number of owners has increased by Following the new owner situation, a review of owner representation will be 53 per cent, mainly due to the mergers with the dairy conducted during 2013. All elections and polls are held according to the ‘one cooperatives Milch-Union Hocheifel (MUH), Germany, member, one vote’ principle. The Board of Representatives is Arla’s top and Milk Link in the UK. decision-making body. About arla | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 3 4 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Responsible company Is it possible to run a profitable business ethically? At Arla, the answer is a resounding YES. But it’s not something that simply happens – it takes know-how, will power and hard work. Business principles Procurement Arla is an international business as well as a dairy Arla sources goods and services across the world. Our cooperative owned by farmers in Denmark, Sweden, ambition is for our suppliers to meet our code of conduct for Germany, Britain, Belgium and Luxembourg. We comply suppliers, which governs ethical, social and environmental with local legislation in all the countries in which we operate responsibilities. We encourage them to support us to meet and we are also committed to the principles contained our aim of procuring goods and services in a sustainable within our Code of Conduct. This enables us to act credibly way. See page 12. and with integrity and sets a good example of responsible business conduct. See page 6. Operational principles Market conduct Arla will create value for its owners. In the democratically We must constantly adapt to the increasingly competitive, governed farmer cooperative, all owners have an fast-moving and international market place. It is essential opportunity to influence significant decisions. Owners elect that consumers trust us if we are to sell our products. representatives to the company’s governing bodies. The By acting responsibly, communicating openly and Board of Directors is responsible for making decisions about maintaining an ongoing dialogue with customers and the company’s general strategies and for ensuring that the consumers, we create the right conditions for trust. company is managed with the cooperative owners’ best See page 14. interests in mind. See page 8. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 5 We act credibly and with integrity in all of our operations. Business principles Support for Global Compact ❙ Two new cooperative members ❙ Whistleblowing policy implemented Fair business and good citizenship Compliance in every situation incorporate this initiative and its principles in its strategy and Arla is committed to meeting or exceeding all applicable company culture and to communicate this commitment to laws, rules and regulations in force in the countries in which colleagues, owners, suppliers, partners, customers and the we have operations. Compliance is therefore key to Arla public. To learn more about the 10 principles, see page 43. being a responsible company. Our commitment to Global Compact also means that Compliance with competition laws is one such area. every year Arla has to report, openly and honestly, how the Arla’s management teams are committed to ensuring the company is adhering to its Code of Conduct. This report group’s compliance with the competition laws in force at describes the progress Arla has made over the year and any time. In 2012, as in previous years, training seminars where it sees opportunities for improvement. Arla is also an have been conducted throughout the organisation to active member of the Global Compact Nordic Network. ensure that all colleagues concerned are fully informed of the requirements of competition law and to assist them in Whistleblowing policy in place complying with the rules. In 2012, a global whistleblowing policy was approved Also during the year, we have implemented a new global by the Board. The whistleblowing function provides policy on the legal review of contracts. The aim of the policy an additional opportunity to report information about is to ensure that an appropriate policy for the mandatory possible irregularities and is in addition to the traditional legal review of substantial commercial contracts covered by channels already in place. The function is available to all the scope of the policy, prior to signing, is in place in order Arla colleagues. They have the option to report on other to manage inherent risks. One such risk is the potential Arla colleagues’ conduct in relation to issues covered violation of national legal requirements and laws. By ensuring by our Code of Conduct, either via a weblink or by an prior legal review of substantial contracts Arla supports its externally managed telephone service. Reports may be commitment to abide by the national laws in force. made anonymously. The identity and interests of both the reporter and the subject of the investigations is protected. Arla’s support for Global Compact The whistleblowing system was implemented in April Arla Foods’ Code of Conduct complements the 10 basic 2012. Since its implementation 10 cases have been reported, principles of the UN Global Compact initiative. As a and half of these have been anonymous. All 10 cases were participant of Global Compact, Arla undertakes to reviewed and three reports led to further investigations. 6 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | Responsible company CSR Committee development agenda CSR Performance Ladder certificate in the Netherlands Arla has a CSR Committee, chaired by CEO Peder Tuborgh. In February 2012, Arla Nijkerk in the Netherlands The purpose of the Committee is to ensure Arla maintains was certified according to the national standard CSR its commitment to develop as a responsible company and Performance Ladder. The standard recognises other the Committee’s tasks include addressing issues related to standards such as ISO 26000 and GRI, Global Reporting the adherence to the Code of Conduct. Initiative, and takes a holistic view to sustainability work, Initially the CSR Committee was heavily involved in the including stakeholder dialogue. The certificate demonstrates revision and implementation of the Code of Conduct, now that Arla Nijkerk has a management system in place for CSR its focus is on increasing the pace of Arla’s development that systematically addresses stakeholders’ expectations. agenda in respect of issues associated with the ethical Arla Nijkerk is the first dairy to receive this certification in dilemmas arising from implementing the Code. As part the Netherlands. Experiences gained will provide valuable of this development, in 2012, the CSR Committee invited input into the futher development of the CSR agenda. colleagues to share the experiences and dilemmas they faced when doing business in different countries. Code of conduct for suppliers Arla only enters into contracts with suppliers that comply Two new cooperative members of Arla Foods amba with the laws prevailing in the countries in which they On September 27, 2012, the EU Commission approved the conduct operations, and which support and respect merger between Arla and Milk Link Limited in the UK and internationally recognised human rights. on September 28, 2012, approved the merger between Arla The options available to Arla in case of a breach of and Milch-Union Hocheifel eG in Germany. Following the contract by a supplier under the code of conduct for implementation of the two mergers Milk Link and suppliers are extensive. Not only is Arla entitled to terminate Milch-Union Hocheifel are each a cooperative member, as is any contract, the company can also reject products which Hansa Arla Milch eG (formerly Hansa-Milch) with which Arla have been manufactured by or for the supplier in breach of merged in 2011. its obligations. Following the mergers with Milk Link and Milch-Union In 2012, Arla did not experience any breach of the code Hocheifel, Arla’s owners have discussed the cooperative’s of conduct for suppliers. future democratic structure. Read more on page 8. Merger conditions Bribery and facilitation payments Disputes The approval of the merger in Sweden In 2010, Arla implemented its policy on Arla is very rarely involved in legal disputes. between Arla and Milko in 2011 was subject to bribery and facilitation payments globally and It is the policy of Arla to seek to avoid or Arla divesting Milko’s plant in Grådö, Sweden, educated colleagues on issues concerning resolve all disputes in an amicable fashion, and some of Milko’s trademarks. These bribery, facilitation payments and gifts. with due account being taken to the rights and divestments were made in 2012. The merger Instructions on the application of the policy obligations of the company. between Arla and Milk Link in the UK required were reissued to Arla’s 300 most senior leaders a similar remedy. Read more on page 14. during the course of 2012. Global Compact The merger with Milch-Union Hocheifel The policy includes reporting Please see page 43 for more information did not raise any market concerns and requirements and the need for managerial on Global Compact and its fundamental subsequently no remedy has been required. review in respect of all facilitation payments principles. and serves to take active steps to eliminate Protection of Arla’s brands such payments. Arla has a well established global Intellectual In 2012, as in 2011, there were no property policy outlining our general and incidents of either bribery or facilitation global view on how we make use of intellectual payments reported. property within the business. The policy ensures that intellectual property aspects are considered, if relevant, from merger and acquisition activities to products. Responsible company | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 7 We manage our business in a good cooperative spirit that promotes the financial interests of our owners. Operational principles More new members ❙ Review of democratic structures ❙ Performance price under pressure More dairy farmers join the cooperative Mergers and new cooperative members With effect from 1 October, the new owners, as a On 1 October, Arla merged with the German dairy company group, receive the same account price as the Swedish and Milch-Union Hocheifel eG (MUH) and the British dairy Danish owners. At an individual level, however, the previous company Milk Link. Both mergers have been approved by payment models will continue to be applied. Following the the EU competition authorities. As a result of the mergers, completion of the mergers, all owners receive the same Arla has gained new members in Germany, Belgium and owner information via Owner Update, a newsletter which Luxembourg, the three countries in which MUH members is distributed in five languages – Danish, Swedish, German, operate, and, for the first time, members in the UK. The English and French. mergers have added a total of 4,300 new dairy farmers and 2.4 billion kilograms of raw milk per year, which is in line New democratic structure under discussion with Arla’s growth strategy and the company’s growing milk Following the mergers with Milk Link and MUH, Arla’s requirements. owners have discussed the cooperative’s future democratic Following debates and meetings of the members structure. Arla’s corporate philosophy is founded on the where concerns were aired and many questions asked, basis that all its cooperative owners exercise democratic the decision to merge was approved by the vast majority influence via a dynamic and structured process. The in Arla, MUH and Milk Link. Milk Link and MUH members purpose of Arla’s democratic structure is to ensure that Arla continue to be members of their respective cooperatives. remains a cooperative with modern and well-structured Both companies are cooperative members within the Arla processes, in which the owners are properly represented group as is Hansa Arla Milch, with which Arla merged in and committed to Arla’s future. 2011. The new owners are represented on the Arla Board It is anticipated that the owners’ discussions will lead to of Directors and on the Board of Representatives. Milk Link a decision in February 2013 regarding the future structure of has two seats on the Board but only one vote, and 10 seats the Board of Directors, the number of seats on the Board of on the Board of Representatives. MUH also has two seats on Representatives, how representation is distributed between the Board and nine seats on the Board of Representatives. the different electoral divisions, and proposals for the 8 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | Responsible company future structure of the cooperative member committees. possible. During the last quarter of 2012, the milk price Arla Foods amba’s Articles of Association will be amended increased by DKK 0.23 in two steps. in accordance with the Board of Representatives’ decision. Employee representation on the Board of Directors and on Training for elected representatives the Board of Representatives is also being discussed in a All elected representatives in Arla are offered training and process involving EWC, Arla’s European Work Council. they can take part in a mentor programme. In 2011–2012 newly elected members of the Board of Representatives Performance price under great pressure took part in a two-part introductory programme called Arla’s performance price (the payment made to owners plus Arla Kick In. Part one was a general introduction to the Arla consolidation) in 2012 amounted to DKK 2.71 (EUR 0.358), a business and part two was a mentor programme in which fall of DKK 0.10 (EUR 0.015) compared to Arla’s performance newly elected representatives from Sweden, Denmark and price 2011, which was DKK 2.81 (EUR 0.373) per kilogram Germany were paired with a mentor from another country. of milk. The main reason is due to supply outstripping During 2012 there were 36 pairs. After the 2013 elections, a demand on the world market, which adversely affected new mentor programme will begin, in which representatives prices, predominantly in the first half of the year. The price from all countries will take part. The purpose of the mentor reductions put significant pressure on members, not least programme is to help newly-elected representatives have because the price of animal feed and diesel, for example, the best possible induction into their new role on the Board rose during the same period. For some Arla members this of Representatives. As part of the mentor programme, the resulted in them suffering serious financial difficulties. mentor pair visit one another’s farms to learn more about Many aired their frustration and, for example, in the UK the conditions facing Arla farmers in countries other than protests took place. Towards the end of the year, there was their own. an upturn in the global market making milk price increases Owner and supplier facts New functions in the Owners’ Net 2010 2011 2012 The Owners’ Net is a website for Arla owners Owners, total 7,178 8,024 12,256 in Sweden and Denmark. During the autumn, of these in Sweden 3,529 3,865 3,661 two new functions were added to the Owners’ of these in Denmark 3,649 3,514 3,354 Net, which allow owners to see data and test of these in Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg results for the milk they supply to Arla. The (Hansa Arla Milch and MUH, 2012) – 645 3,657 information is clearly presented as diagrams of these in the UK (Milk Link, 2012) – – 1,584 and tables. The Owners’ Net also features AFMP members in the UK 1,362 1,330 1,232 digital archives which contain all the data Suppliers in Finland 1,060 1,000 813 registered for individual farms. The owners of these under contract 260 243 223 requested both the new functions and users’ Suppliers in Germany (Arla Foods Käsereien) – 1,338 1,388 reactions have been positive. Corresponding Motions to the Board of Representatives meeting 5 1 2 websites containing owner information Participants in owner seminars 380 200 0 established within former Hansa-Milch, MUH Appeals to Appeals Committees in Sweden and Denmark 43 13 21 and Milk Link will continue to be used until a common solution is in place. At the end of 2012 the number of owners Competition for raw milk totalled 12,256, which is a 53 per cent increase During the year, approximately 50 Swedish Changes to the Board of Directors compared with the previous year. During the owners asked to leave Arla in order to supply In April, two employee representatives on year, the volume of milk supplied by owners milk to another company. During the same the Board of Directors stepped down due to increased by 16 per cent compared with 2011. period 30 new owners from other dairy a breach of the Board’s rules of procedure About 60 per cent of Arla’s 400 elected organisations in Sweden joined Arla. In following them sharing sensitive information representatives take part in our training Denmark, about 10 owners have asked to from a meeting. Two Danish trade unions programmes each year. During the training leave to supply milk to another dairy. protested against the consequence of the season 2011/2012, 494 training days were Arla sold the former Milko dairy in Grådö breach, however the case was settled in held (342 in 2010/2011). Participation in the to a Swedish supermarket chain. The sale October. Two new employee representatives introductory programme is almost 100 per cent. was a condition of the Swedish competition have been appointed to the Board. authority’s approval of the Arla-Milko merger Owners’ seminar in 2011. Arla wanted to retain all its members Member Services cuts The owners’ seminar is run by elected and all the milk in this area and this was The department in Arla responsible for representatives for new or old members. The communicated by letter and at member contact with the owners was affected by the seminars aim to increase members’ knowledge meetings in the region but approximately cost-reduction initiative introduced in Arla of Arla’s business. Participants meet in small 35 members chose to leave Arla. during last year. For example, a number of groups so that everyone has an opportunity services were cancelled and Arla’s presence at to express an opinion. During the year new agricultural fairs reduced. material for the owner seminars has been produced but no owner seminars were held. New seminars are planned for 2013. Responsible company | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 9 Democracy put to the test as Arla’s ownership grows More owners in more countries. Following this year’s mergers, Arla has become the world’s sixth largest dairy company. Two of Arla’s owners share their impressions of the challenges facing the business. T he mergers that have taken place in the last two years have almost doubled the number of Arla owners, from approximately 7,000 to about 12,000 dairy farmers. Arla has developed from being a purely Danish-Swedish cooperative to now having owners in Germany, the UK, Belgium and Winblad. “We need to grow to ensure as good a milk price as possible. That is what is most important. The milk price has been unacceptably low in recent years. But we must not forget that there is a definite risk for Swedish dairy farmers in establishing a European milk price because our Luxembourg. The cooperative company structure remains. cost levels are relatively high. This will demand continuous What does an original and a new owner think about the rationalisations on farms. However, having more owners mergers? means that there are more farmers to invest in the company, which is a good thing. We have to build long-term The farmers decide the future security for both the owners and the company.” Christina Winblad runs the Womtorp Farm outside Ahead of the decision, not all Swedish owners were Eskilstuna in Sweden with her husband. She has supplied as convinced as Christina Winblad. She believes that there milk to Arla since 1990 and is currently Chairman of the are owners in Sweden who do not think that Arla needs to Board of the East Region and has a seat on the Board of continue to grow. They think Arla has grown too big already Representatives. Christina Winblad was on the Board of and is too complex. Representatives when the decision to merge Swedish Arla “I am convinced that it is still worthwhile exerting an and Danish MD Foods was made in 2000. influence as an elected representative in Arla,” concludes “The mergers in the past year fit well with Arla’s Christina Winblad, “even though the company is now bigger strategy to achieve profitable growth,” says Christina and has more owners in more countries.” 10 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | Responsible company Christina Winblad has 275 dairy cows and 430 hectares including pasture on her farm in Sweden. Her British colleague Simon Banfield has 160 dairy cows, 300 beef cattle and 300 hectares. Both have seats on the Board of Representatives. Mergers between complementary companies Review of the democratic structure Christina Winblad stands firm in her conviction that the Even before the mergers were realised, Arla had started way Arla should tackle the milk surplus in the EU, which is the process of reviewing the cooperative’s democratic estimated to become even greater when EU milk quotas system. There are proposals to reduce the number of are abolished, is to move into emerging markets, such as representatives on the Board of Directors and current China. She believes that Arla has to find new markets for its discussions are also addressing the structure of the district milk and for this reason the company has to grow. and regional organisations. “The two new companies, MUH and Milk Link, have Since merging with Arla, both MUH and Milk Link have excellent products and facilities,” says Christina Winblad. been represented on the Arla Board of Directors and Board “For example, MUH, which is Germany’s largest producer of of Representatives. Simon Banfield believes that Milk Link long-life milk and invests in milk powder production, is is well represented and he is well aware how much work a well-equipped to serve a market like China.” seat on the board entails. One dairy farmer who was enthusiastic about the “It is important to find farmers who are keen to work merger with Arla was Simon Banfield, who runs Admiston on the Board, as there is a lot of travelling and reading to do Farm, an hours’s drive west of Southampton on the south in preparation for meetings. In fact, only a few farmers have coast of England. His farm has delivered milk to Milk the resources to do this, and even fewer of them are ready Link since the cooperative’s formation in 2000. Simon to stand and be counted,” he says. “In the past, a farmer Banfield held a seat on the Milk Link board for eight years. may only have had to drive a couple of hours to get to a Following the merger, he has a seat on the Arla Board of meeting. Nowadays a meeting may mean you’re away from Representatives. home for a number of days. And let’s not forget these are “Milk Link had a growth strategy for some years and farmers who have livestock to care for around the clock.” when the potential of a merger with Arla arose, it was “In Sweden, we have had to reshuffle the deck, so to quickly apparent that the two companies were an excellent speak. We have had to find ways to work more efficiently strategic fit,” says Simon Banfield. “We are the UK’s largest and more case-oriented,” says Christina Winblad. “We need producer of cheese and Arla is the country’s largest a smaller Board and we have proposed that the regional processor of fresh milk. We make a strong team – and we Board should work in a different way.” will grow larger and stronger still.” Farmer solidarity Milk price to the owners must be raised Both Christina Winblad and Simon Banfield believe that Both owners agree wholeheartedly on what is now most there is much to be gained from meeting colleagues in other important for Arla; to reap the benefits of the mergers in the countries and getting new insights, but also from realising form of synergies, and to deliver a good milk price to make that they share many similarities. the owners feel confident and secure on their farms. “Regardless of which country they come from, once you “I feel that Milk Link and Arla have incredibly similar have gathered a group of dairy farmers in a room, they will ask cultures and focus,” adds Simon Banfield, “and, above all, first about the milk price, then about the weather, and finally we are owner-oriented. This means that the company never about the dairy company. There are very minor differences in pays more for milk than it can afford. Overpaying has always our outlook. Dairy farmers across the globe have a common been the beginning of the end. We have seen several tragic language which surmounts cultural differences. I am very examples of this in the UK.” much looking forward to visiting other farmer owners in our respective countries,” concludes Simon Banfield. Responsible company | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 11 We challenge and encourage our suppliers to support us in our commitment to abide by our Code of Conduct. Procurement Towards preferred suppliers ❙ Supplier assessment improved ❙ Only certified cocoa Improved programme for sustainable sourcing Preferred suppliers developments, the supplier assessment process is now The global procurement department has overall responsibility being applied in Denmark, Sweden, the UK and the for procurement in Arla. The purchases made by the Netherlands. One of the obstacles for implementing department represented around 67 per cent of our total assessments in more countries is the, so-far, limited access spend in 2012, compared to 69 per cent in the previous year. to common IT platforms. Arla now has approximately 930 preferred suppliers In 2011, we assessed ingredient and packaging suppliers that are approved by the global procurement department. considered to be in high-risk categories in terms of product Signed contracts govern the relationship between Arla and quality and social responsibility. In 2012, ingredient and these suppliers and they are Arla’s first choice suppliers. packaging categories classified medium risk were assessed We continue to work towards our target of 100 per cent of as well as suppliers who did not comply in 2011. The all preferred suppliers having signed our code of conduct for scope of our assessment is continuously broadened and suppliers. Of all the suppliers handled globally, a total of 85 per it now also includes logistics, cold storage, pest control, cent (spend-wise) have signed the code, which corresponds to employment agencies, canteen provision and laundry a two per cent improvement compared to 2011. services. The supplier assessment process is robust and as a Supplier assessment process consequence we are seeing a decreasing requirement for The global procurement department aims for a procurement audits, allowing us to focus on suppliers who do not comply process that is transparent and coherent across the Arla with our standards. The assessments have also led to the group. This will send the unified message both internally phasing out of existing suppliers and exclusion of potential and externally to suppliers and customers that sustainable suppliers, which do not meet our requirements. sourcing is of great importance to us. Since 2009, we have been developing tools and Improved questionnaire processes for sustainable sourcing for all the countries As part of the supplier assessment process, suppliers in which we operate. Following tests and further are requested to complete an assessment questionnaire 12 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | Responsible company regarding their ethical and social accountability, social responsibility and product quality. Suppliers will have to environmental commitments, food safety and product pass this screening in order to be considered as a supplier to quality. The social responsibility section has been Arla. The programme was launched at the end of 2012. significantly strengthened and a new version of the questionnaire was rolled out at the end of the year. Sourcing of ingredients for Dairy Fruit Arla’s subsidiary, Dairy Fruit, is using Arla’s programme for Supplier audits in 2012 supplier assessment. To date, 46 per cent of its suppliers We carry out a number of audits every year, during which have been assessed according to the programme. During we visit suppliers and carry out inspections of relevant 2013, Dairy Fruit expects all its 190 suppliers to be assessed. areas. In 2012 we conducted approximately 60 audits During 2012, Dairy Fruit conducted 14 audits, compared to globally, which is approximately the same number as last 25 in the previous year. year. Dairy Fruit sources agricultural products from around the world. For example, ingredients such as spices and Transparent and coherent sourcing berries are sometimes sourced from China where Dairy Fruit By the end of the year we had determined a global has an agent that screens potential suppliers. The agent is standardised requirement for third party certifications for fully aware of Arla’s requirements and its code of conduct each sourcing category. Specific certification requirements for suppliers. Potential new suppliers are visited by Dairy have been decided for ingredients and primary packaging Fruit representatives and, if a supplier meets the company’s materials. The requirements were implemented in the requirements, an audit is carried out. global procurement department’s standard contracts. Today, Dairy Fruit has a small number of suppliers Another part of the global standardised requirements is in China, including two suppliers of strawberries. When a programme for pre-selection of potential new suppliers. strawberries are harvested, the work is supervised by Suppliers will be required to take part in a screening process, representatives of the Chinese agent to ensure that Arla’s which looks at their management of selected key areas within requirements are met. Arla’s ambitions and processes for sourcing in China are similar to those of Dairy Fruit. Global contracts Audit checklist Follow up on palm oil Maintenance Packaging A new audit checklist with a strengthened Since 2011, Arla has been buying Green Palm repair, 32% social responsibility element is being Certificates covering the entire use of palm operations 9% prepared and is due to be ready for use at oil and palm oil related ingredients. Over the Energy 12% the beginning of 2013. The purpose of the last few years, palm oil usage has increased. Business project is to ensure that only one global audit Our aim is to support the development services 15% checklist is used for suppliers and third party of sustainable palm oil production. As a Ingredients manufacturers, as well as internally and as part consequence, we revised Logistics 19% 14% of due diligence assessments before mergers our palm oil statement and acquisitions. Auditors should be chosen during 2012 and, as and trained thoroughly, as we acknowledge part of this, applied The diagram shows the external spend that it requires specialist skills to conduct for membership of handled by Arla’s global procurement audits. RSPO (Round table for department, distributed across product and Sustainable Palm Oil). service categories. Compared to 2011 the UTZ certified cocoa share for ingredients reduced, while all other Since the beginning of 2012 all our branded categories have increased. Our 10 largest products containing cocoa have been suppliers account for 19 per cent (same produced with UTZ certified cocoa. For Cocio figure as in 2011) of our total external spend. branded products, this has been the case since In 2012, the following companies were our 2011. At the end of 2012 almost all cocoa was five largest in order of size of spend: Tetra certified. We reached 99 per cent of the cocoa Pak (packaging materials and processing used by the Arla group being UTZ certified. and packaging machinery), IBM (IT services), The remaining one per Elopak (packaging materials and machinery), cent is organic cocoa Logoplaste (packaging materials) and DS Smith that will be certified in Packaging (packaging materials). the first quarter of 2013. Read more about cocoa production on the Ivory Coast on page 40. Responsible company | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 13 We have good, honest relationships with all of our stakeholders. Market conduct Mergers in Germany and the UK ❙ Tough competition ❙ Own brands increasing Continuing growth on the global market Growth means increased responsibility Different strategies on different markets Arla continues to deliver its growth strategy. Two mergers The mergers in the UK and Germany have enabled Arla to were completed during the year and both have been achieve two of its strategic goals for 2015 – to become the approved by the EU competition authorities. On 1 October largest dairy company in the UK and one of the three largest the merger between Arla and the British dairy company, dairy companies in Germany. We are the market leader in Milk Link, came into force, resulting in the company Denmark and Sweden, while in Finland and the Netherlands becoming the UK’s largest dairy company. Official approval we are number two. Within all of these relatively mature of the merger is subject to Arla selling Milk Link’s Crediton markets we continue to face strong competition. dairy and, until its sale, Arla must operate the business at In emerging markets, such as China and Russia, the Crediton as a separate, independent business. Crediton situation is markedly different. In these markets our dairy produces long-life milk and cream, flavoured dairy products are sold primarily as premium products. Our goal drinks and fresh bulk cream. first and foremost is to build Arla’s global brands in selected Coinciding with the development in the UK, a merger cities and regions. with the German dairy company, Milch-Union Hocheifel Arla has been present in the Middle East for several (MUH), also completed. MUH produces fresh and long-life decades, and is still gaining market shares. Butter, cheese dairy products at Pronsfeld in western Germany, close to the and cream have the strongest market positions. border with Belgium and Luxembourg. The merger means Arla exports processed products and milk powder to Arla is Germany’s third largest dairy company. many other countries and strives to make nutritional foods When Arla merged with the Swedish dairy company Milko available in poorer countries, for example, Bangladesh and in autumn 2011, the Swedish competition authority approved Nigeria. To make products with the same nutritional content the merger on the condition that Arla sold five of the Milko at a lower price, we work with different ingredients. brands and the Milko dairy at Grådö in Sweden. During 2012 No matter our position in the markets in which we Arla fulfilled these obligations and sold the brands and the operate, we endeavour to act ethically and professionally and dairy to purchasers approved by the authority. always in accordance with applicable competitive regulations. 14 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | RESPONSIBLE COMPANY Closer to Nature™ gains momentum Arla and own brands Arla’s Closer to Nature™ ambitions continue to be In our core markets, the share of dairy products sold under embedded throughout the company. Closer to Nature™ customers’ own labels varies from country to country. aims to ensure that our products are as natural as possible, For example, in Germany and the UK, 81 and 85 per cent that milk is produced on the farms in harmony with nature, respectively of fresh milk is sold under the major retailers’ and that Arla’s own processes impact the environment own brands. In Denmark and Sweden this figure is lower, as and climate as little as possible. We have clearly defined, 39 and 10 per cent respectively of fresh milk is sold under long-term goals for activities within the framework of Closer retailers’ own brands. to Nature™ and an in-house system to monitor our progress. The trend for products to be sold under retailers’ own Reviews of both ingredients and packaging brands is likely to continue as has been the case in recent years, developments are conducted at both national and global with the recession resulting in consumers increasingly choosing level, while other activities are subject to different focus in lower-priced products. For Arla it is important that producing different countries. For example, this year in Denmark, Arla products under both our own and our customer’s brands is has made special efforts to reduce food waste, see article profitable. For example, in the UK and the Netherlands, we on page 28. The USA and Canada have focused on saving work in long-term partnerships with customers on product and energy and Arla in the UK has launched many different range developments for mutual benefit. eco-friendly initiatives. In the UK and Germany, Arla has also conducted activities which aim to encourage children and Food inspiration young people to spend time in the natural environment. In Knowledge of cookery, diet and ingredients are key to a Finland and Sweden we have launched major campaigns healthy lifestyle, and Arla contributes in different ways, for to promote organic products this year. In many countries example by providing recipes inspiring the general public we have focused on spreading knowledge about how to cook. Arla also contributes to cookery competitions, for dairy farms work and carried out a series of activities in example, the official Swedish Chef of the Year competition partnership with the dairy farmers. To learn more about and a similar competition for confectioners. In Finland we environmental initiatives in Arla, see page 26. sponsor the Finnish national cookery team. In 2012 the In surveys carried out in Denmark, Sweden and Finland Danish recipe service, Karolines Køkken, celebrated its 50th to understand what consumers expect from Closer to anniversary with a new cook book and many cookery events. Nature™, their response was first and foremost that we In Sweden, Arla organises Arla Guldko, a competition should offer products without additives and that our for customers including retailers, schools and caterers. The processes have as little impact on nature as possible. competition aims to highlight shining examples, which can inspire others. Dialogue with consumers Consumer perception of Arla Customer’s perception of Arla Consumers can voice their complaints and In Denmark, Sweden and Finland we measure Good relationships with all our customers opinions via Arla Forum, our consumer contact consumer perception of Arla annually. In are essential, and many of them express service. The service also responds to questions general our products are awarded top scores. their appreciation for us as a partner and on various subjects including product quality, In all three countries consumer perception supplier. This reflects the fact that we take our packaging, advertising campaigns and recipes of Arla has decreased slightly. This appears responsibilities seriously and we play an active via telephone, email and letter. In general, to be a general trend which also applies to role in developing the industry. In Denmark, the different types of issues that are raised other companies. In Sweden and Finland we Sweden and the UK, Arla ranks as one of in different countries and often reflect the continue to have a very good reputation. the top three suppliers to the retail sector. topics being debated in society at that time. Consumers’ feedback is that we should In Sweden for the second year in succession It is therefore important that we respond improve communication of our activities Arla is the company that wholesalers in the on a national basis. During the year several and aims, where our products originate, and restaurant and catering industry prefer. In countries also have intensified consumer how they are processed. Many believe that the UK Arla was awarded the title of ’Own dialogue via social media channels, for we should become more closely engaged in Label Dairy Supplier of the year 2012’. In the example, Twitter, Facebook and blogs. society and engage more in organic production Netherlands we took first place in a survey and eco-friendly packaging. of the country’s largest retailers, called the No of contacts 2010 2011 2012 Advantage Report. In Spain we rank as one of Denmark 20,500 20,300 20,600 2010 2011 2012 the four best suppliers in terms of developing Sweden 28,000 26,500 26,400 Arla in Denmark 61.0 64.9 62.4 our product category. In many other countries, Sweden (web) 40,000 45,000 45,000 Arla in Sweden 71.3 77.7 76.4 including the United Arab Emirates, Oman UK 24,000 25,000 27,000 Arla in Finland 69.5 73.1 70.5 and Qatar, we measure customer satisfaction Finland 16,000 15,000 14,000 among our most important customers. In Germany – 8,000 18,000 The table shows the total scores on a scale countries where our products are sold via The Netherlands 5,800 6,100 5,500 from 0 to 100 (where 100 was best), which distributors, it is more difficult to get a clear USA 1,400 160 250 consumers gave Arla in a survey carried out by picture of what our customers think of us. Canada – 800 1,500 Reputation Institute, spring 2012. Arla subsidiary Rynkeby Foods is number 13 of the 20 largest suppliers to the Danish retail sector. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 15 16 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS Confidence in products Supplying safe products is Arla’s top priority. And we strive to do more – we aim to make it possible for consumers to make their own informed choice of products based on clear information and knowledge. Food safety Food and health As a responsible food manufacturer we are dedicated to Arla is committed to meeting consumer demand for healthy ensuring that eating and drinking our products does not products and reliable nutritional information. We inform cause illness or injury. We make every effort to ensure that our consumers about the ingredients in all our products our processes are safe and that high quality standards are so they can choose those that best suit their tastes and maintained throughout the entire supply chain, from the fulfil their needs. Through research, we aim to increase our raw material to the finished product. In the event of an issue understanding of the role of dairy products in a balanced diet. we have full traceability of our raw materials, ingredients See page 20. and end products enabling us to take immediate action. See page 18. CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 17 We meet consumer demand for safe dairy products. Food safety Food safety in focus ❙ Quality philosophy becomes an export ❙ Antibiotic awareness campaign Safe products are our top priority Well-established food safety tools This is a sub-group of Arla’s larger Food Safety Network, Food safety is a top priority at Arla and we have which works with food safety issues across the organisation. well-established procedures and methods to ensure that During the year the number of customer and consumer we can guarantee the quality of our products at all times. enquiries about chemical substances, for example, Within the group we are constantly increasing the number Bisphenol A, phthalates, pesticides and heavy metals of production facilities in our portfolio and sometimes have increased. Analytical methods have improved, and transfer production between different sites. Such activities we expect to see growing demand for more expertise in naturally present extra challenges. However, one of Arla’s this area. To improve our skills, we engage with external advantages is that we can exploit a wealth of know-how specialists. We are also constantly striving to reduce the risk within the group to take food safety to the next level. of contamination by, for example, making specific demands To prevent hazards of any kind in processing, we employ of our suppliers. a HACCP system (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Point). The materials used at the dairies for equipment and All our dairy colleagues receive food safety and food hygiene packaging are monitored to ensure that those which come training on a regular basis and relevant colleagues are into contact with our products do not constitute any risk. trained in the use of the HACCP tool. Another important During the year we have improved equipment monitoring focus area is how to respond to incidents quickly and procedures and suppliers’ documentation. Documentation efficiently in order to limit the impact. We are working to is a challenge facing everyone in the industry and we share introduce a common global set of rules, a Code of Practice, our knowledge internally and with other food companies. describing how to deal with incidents, for use at all Arla Tracing raw materials and ingredients is also important. facilities around the world. We continue to work to improve our procedures and Allergen risk management and control are already well evaluate proposed changes to production. In this way we implemented in Arla. Dairies and product developers can can quickly and safely trace raw materials and products turn to Arla Foods’ Allergy Network for support. This is a even though the task is becoming ever more complex cross-organisational group of specialists, whose aim is to because our facilities are increasing in size and there are gather knowledge, prevent allergy-related risks and ensure more frequent product changes on the production lines. that this knowledge is put to good use in the organisation. 18 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS Food safety certificates Our production sites in the USA already meet the new One method by which to systematically increase food requirements of the American Foods Safety Modernisation safety is to qualify for food safety certification. 51 of Act (FSMA). The revised legislation involves a shift in focus Arla’s 74 production sites are certified according to the from control to preventive work. FSMA will, however, also ISO 22000 food safety management standard. In the USA bring about an increase in the number of inspections at and Canada our dairies are certified according to the facilities outside the USA, which may put more pressure SQF (Safe Quality Food) Programme. Sites that remain on resources in Arla. During 2012 FDA (U.S. Food and Drug to be certified according to ISO 22000 all meet national Administration) completed an inspection of some of our standards for food safety. During the year, in response to Danish sites, which received excellent feedback. They were requests from customers, a number of sites have also been praised for their high food safety standards. certified according to the new versions of BRC (British In Denmark a new law on heat-treating raspberries has Retail Consortium) and IFS (International Food Standard). been introduced following outbreaks of Norovirus sickness Maintaining several different types of food safety certificates caused by contaminated raspberries. Rynkeby Foods and is challenging, therefore Arla’s long-term strategy is to Dairy Fruit already meet the new requirements. apply the new FSSC 22000 food safety standard, which encompasses several other standards, including ISO 22000 New Danish-Chinese knowledge centre and ISO/TS 22002-1/PAS 220. Dairy Fruit and some other In partnership with Chinese Mengniu, Arla has created a plants are already working with FSSC 22000, and several of knowledge centre promoting food safety, read more on our dairies plan to do so in coming years. page 31. Discarded milk with antibiotics Product recalls Focus on listeria tons/year in Sweden and Denmark If we have to recall a product from consumers The European authorities have intensified or stop a product that has been delivered to efforts to follow up on how companies meet 4,000 our customers, we have procedures in place to the EU regulations regarding the Listeria 3,500 ensure that we can act immediately. monocytogenes which may cause serious 3,000 Despite our efforts and food safety disease. The regulations have been interpreted 2,500 routines, we have recalled products on six differently by the authorities in different 2,000 occasions during the year, since the products EU member states. Arla has been working 1,500 did not meet required standards. to reduce the risk of listeria in the factory 1,000 environment for many years and we have 500 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 well-established inspection and risk prevention 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Recalls 2 4 0 4 6 procedures, which ensure that we reliably meet the EU requirements. Sick animals are sometimes treated with Recent research antibiotics. Milk from the cow is discarded Through research and development work, we Longer shelf life, same quality standard during the period of treatment and for a strive to improve and refine our food safety To make both our customers’ and our own period of time afterwards. To ensure that no analysis methods. Here are some examples: logistics and planning easier to manage, we antibiotics remain in the milk we carry out Raw milk inspection Since 2010, Arla has strive to extend the shelf life of our products checks and any milk containing antibiotics worked with the dairy company Fonterra, and while maintaining their quality. One example is discarded. During 2012 the volume of a leading supplier of analytical equipment to is a milk drink produced at Stourton dairy in discarded milk increased and during the year develop a method by which to test if raw milk the UK. By making changes to the production milk has been discarded on 39 occasions. has been deliberately contaminated. Pilot process, we have increased shelf life from During the spring the volume of milk tests carried out this year were successful and 15 to 20 days. discarded increased in Denmark. The increase the method will soon be tested at Mengniu’s led to a campaign among milk producers dairies in China. This will be one of the and their advisers to inform them in how to first tasks for the new China-Denmark Milk improve the way they handle medicines. We Technology Cooperation Centre. The aim of the are continuing to focus on this issue. We have centre is to promote food safety in the Chinese also carried out more tests and revised the dairy industry. Read more on page 31. guidelines for safe milking. The number of Food safety maintenance During the year we positive incidents registered on farm samples have improved the predictive microbiology shows a slightly decrease throughout the year method we use to help estimating the compared to 2011. However, despite these microbiological shelf-life of our products. The initiatives, more than twice the volume of method makes it easier and faster to develop milk has been discarded this year in Denmark new products while maintaining food safety compared with the previous year. In Sweden standards. the volume of milk discarded continues to fall. CONFIDENCE IN PRODUCTS | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 19 We meet consumer demands for healthy products and nutritional information about products. Food and health Milk + exercise = health ❙ Lactose-free expansion ❙ New recipes for healthier products Dairy products for everyone Milk and physical activity health claim for our products containing our own bacteria, Arla aims to offer consumers not only healthy products but Lactobacillus casei F19. also information about their impact on health. During the year in Sweden, Denmark and the UK, we worked actively New health brand launched to communicate milk products’ nutritional benefits in In September we launched our new health brand Arla combination with physical activity. We sought to inspire our Wellness® in Sweden, initially. During its creation our consumers to train and exercise, and, for example, some of product developers, marketing colleagues and research, our activities were linked to the London Olympic Games. nutrition and food legislation specialists worked closely to Read more on page 22. create products that have communicable health claims. Arla Wellness® is a product range comprising milk and yogurt New EU health claims regulations products with added vitamin D, vitamin C, calcium and/or In May 2012 the EU published a new list of approved health fibre. The products also contain lactic acid bacteria. We can claims. The new regulations restrict health communication make health claims about these products in relation to bone on packaging and in advertising. The majority of the claims health, digestion and the immune system. However, the on the approved list concern vitamins and minerals and marketing communication, based on the new EU regulation their effect on the body’s physiological functions. on nutrition and health claims, has been questioned by a Arla has a range of products which contain bacteria consumer organisation. which have a positive health impact, called probiotics. As yet no health claims relating to probiotic bacteria have Healthy alternative products been approved in the new legislation. Any company which In our efforts to offer consumers healthy alternative wishes to make health claims for probiotic products must products, we strive to reduce the sugar, salt and fat content specifically apply for approval. The clinical studies on which of existing products. the applications are founded must be carried out Following the natural stevioglycosides sweetener, which in accordance with the recently published EU guidelines. is extracted from the plant Stevia rebaudiana, or sweet Arla has 40 years’ experience in research and development leaf, being approved for use in the EU in autumn 2011, into products with probiotic bacteria and we are now we have introduced products sweetened with Stevia on performing the studies needed to attain an approved several European markets. Stevia is 300 times sweeter than 20 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | confidence in products sugar and is used to replace artificial sweeteners in lowHigh protein products calorie products. One of the challenges in using Stevia as a Consumers in Scandinavia are currently showing a great sweetener is that its taste profile works better with some deal of interest in high protein products. During the year fruit flavours than with others. To ensure that taste isn’t Arla launched milk, yogurt and yogurt drinks with extra compromised, yogurt products are sweetened with milk protein. Cocio launched a protein-enriched chocolate a combination of Stevia and sugar. milk. These products are suitable for people who engage It is difficult to reduce the amount of salt in cheese in frequent physical training as the protein is beneficial for without jeopardising its flavour and consistency. In Denmark restitution and building muscle mass. They also facilitate an in particular, the salt content in cheese has been widely even protein intake throughout the day. discussed and we have made special efforts to reduce it. By November 2013 we are confident that all our Danish New whey product cheeses will meet the Danish authorities’ maximum Arla Foods Ingredients has developed a new whey-based thresholds. A higher salt content will be permitted for product which can be used in pH-neutral drinks. The product cheeses primarily intended for export and therefore sold opens new opportunities for developing clinical nutrition only in limited quantities in Denmark. Between 2012 and products, for example, products beneficial for building 2015, Arla’s global research and development unit will run muscle mass and rehabilitation after illness. The product a project to find an alternative to reduce the salt content is unique because it can withstand the high temperatures in cheese. In the UK the salt content in butter has been necessary to produce products with a long shelf-life. reduced. A number of products with a lower fat content, Arla launches organic infant formula including butter, crème fraîche and several cottage cheeses, Arla Baby&Me® is a new range of organic infant formula have been launched in the UK. and baby food which has already launched in Denmark The so-called ‘fat tax’ introduced in Denmark in 2011 and will soon be launched in Finland and China. During the was withdrawn at the end of 2012, but this will not have development of the new product range, we followed in the any effect on Arla’s efforts to continue to develop low-fat footsteps of several mothers to study their daily lives, which products. gave us unique consumer insight. Lactose-free expansion consumers. Various types of allergies have behaviour. The research committee’s task is Consumer interest in lactose-free products been discussed in Denmark, Germany, Finland to challenge Arla’s research and development continues to increase. In volume terms, and other countries. The health properties unit to push the barriers, and to ensure that Sweden and Finland are by far our biggest of homogenised milk have been discussed in the right strategic decisions are made to markets for lactose-free milk – both fresh and Sweden. Lactose intolerance is another topical achieve continued growth in Arla. long-life. Sales of lactose-free milk in Sweden subject. have trebled since 2008 and doubled in the Research project UK, whereas sales in Denmark have grown Cheese for vegetarians Arla supports and plays an active part in five-fold, although from a relatively modest We are frequently asked by vegetarians what a series of research projects which aim to level. Sales are approximately 10 times higher kind of rennet/cheese enzymes we use in our develop good, high-quality and healthy food per person in Sweden than in Denmark. hard and cream cheeses. Animal rennet is products, exemplified below. Finland is the country where Arla supplies the an enzyme extracted from calf stomachs. It The effect of probiotics administered largest number of lactose-free products. coagulates the milk to form cheese curd. There to children in infancy. An EU project in are also microbial cheese enzymes. By using a partnership with Norrland’s University Hospital No. of lactose-free products microbial cheese enzyme, the cheese becomes in Umeå, Sweden. 2009 2010 2011 2012 suitable for vegetarians, and the cheese and Nutritional value in relation to environmental Finland 20 31 30 37 whey protein can also be kosher-certified and sustainability. A doctoral thesis at University of Sweden 15 19 32 32 Halal. The trend in the dairy industry is to use Copenhagen, Denmark, partly funded by Arla. UK 8 9 11 11 more microbial cheese enzyme and at the end Innovative salt content reduction. In Denmark – 1 3 3 of 2012 most of Arla’s cheeses were produced cooperation with other cheese producers and Germany – – 2 8 using microbial enzyme. Exceptions include the universities in Aarhus and Copenhagen, a number of protected brand-name cheeses Denmark. Consumer dialogue important in Sweden which continue to be produced A comparative study to evaluate a food By listening to our consumers and acting using animal rennet. These product’s recipes supplement based on whey protein with on their feedback we have an excellent are protected and currently permit the use of a conventional food supplement based opportunity to adapt and develop products animal rennet only. on peanuts and soy. that suit their needs. On our European Tested as a treatment for markets there is widespread interest in natural AFESAC – new research committee undernourished children. A products and many people enquire about Arla has established a research committee, clinical study in cooperation additives in our products. Another frequently Arla Foods Executive Scientific Advisory with an American aid asked question is which products are suitable Committee (AFESAC), whose members are organisation. for vegetarians. Public debate in different leading global specialists in food, microbiology, countries has an impact on our dialogue with technology, packaging, nutrition and consumer confidence in products | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 21 Can milk provide more than nutrition? Arla’s goal is not only to sell milk and milk products, it is also to ensure that these contribute to consumers’ well-being. A rla works to make milk products available for as many people as possible, including consumers with lactose intolerance, for example, and people who must follow a special diet. One example is Arla Foods Ingredients which has developed a whey protein for use most people. In this part of the world, demand is in decline even though milk is a relatively inexpensive food with high nutritional value. This is despite consumer interest in nutritious diets increasing globally. “In Sweden, new findings about possible negative in the healthcare industry to accelerate the healing of effects of dairy consumption receive a lot of attention, muscle injuries. Arla also wants its products to contribute to making people unsure about the healthiness of milk. It has consumers’ well-being, but how do you do that when it is also been easy to pick on milk by saying that it is uncool or something beyond the company’s sphere of influence? only for kids,” says Annika Strömberg. “However in other “Well-being can be achieved in different ways,” says countries, such as Spain, milk has been promoted as a Annika Strömberg who is health manager at Arla in Sweden. healthy drink for adults, especially women.” “If we think about well-being as health, Arla can work to In the Nordic region, new nutritional recommendations communicate and provide information about the role of will be presented in 2013. These will focus on the milk and milk products in a healthy and balanced diet. But importance of a balanced diet, in which milk provides a we can also offer advice about how to lead a healthier good and nutritious element. Despite the fact that current lifestyle in general, such as the importance of exercise and research cannot point to any clear link between saturated good eating habits.” fat from milk and poor health, the recommendation from the authorities remains unchanged – we must reduce our Milk as part of a balanced diet consumption of saturated fat. In Northern and Western Europe, for example, milk has “There is so much in milk that is good. It is a natural long been a staple commodity that has been available to source of 10 different vitamins and minerals that we need 22 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | confidence in products Three British Olympic gold medalists (left) were part of a campaign to promote the benefits of milk, explains Ash Amirahmadi (middle), vice president for milk and member services and marketing at Arla in the UK. Annika Strömberg (right), health manager at Arla in Sweden, is convinced of the importance of milk as part of a balanced diet. every single day,” says Annika Strömberg. “In Sweden and believe that consumers can achieve well-being and this is Finland, the majority of milk is also enriched with vitamin D, what we hope to inspire them to do,” says Ash Amirahmadi. which many people in Northern Europe do not consume in sufficient quantities. Skimmed milk also contains very little Arla sponsors Olympic venture fat. Those who exclude milk and milk products altogether Another similar campaign has been taking place in Sweden, from their diets can suffer from insufficient calcium intake.” where Arla was chosen as official supplier to the Swedish Olympic Committee as well as a partner in a project that is Milk + exercise = health aimed at bringing to life Olympic dreams among children What has Arla been doing to communicate this message? and young people. The cooperation has enabled more active For many years, the company has been contributing towards athletes to train to an elite level and has contributed to the activities encouraging children and young people to exercise Committee’s efforts to inspire children and young people. and be active, such as the Aktiv Rundt programme in In conjunction with this, Arla’s packaging was redesigned Denmark, which aims to stimulate children to undertake to carry an Olympic theme and on the internet and in physical activity, eat well and get the right amount of sleep. advertisements, sports stars talked about their training and In the UK, Arla has been taking part in a joint industry what they ate before and after exercise in order to perform campaign since 2010 aimed at young people – Make Mine at their peak. Advice on diet and exercise was also shared. Milk. The campaign uses well-known artists, actors and TV “The nutritional content of milk makes it a suitable celebrities photographed with milk moustaches and talking sports drink. It is a natural source of vitamins, minerals and about the benefits of milk. British athletes have also spoken carbohydrates, and the protein helps to rebuild muscles about their training and milk’s goodness. after exercise,” concludes Annika Strömberg. “Combining milk and sports is nothing new, but the campaign has definitely helped to reverse the negative trend of decreased milk consumption in the UK,” says Ash Amirahmadi, who is vice president for milk and member services and marketing at Arla in the UK. “Studies are now showing a distinct change in attitude among consumers. Today, milk is seen as a much ’cooler’ drink. The fact that it has a low fat content and is highly nutritious also seems to have been accepted.” The British campaign also explained in an easily understandable way what effect the different nutrients in milk have on the body. The link between milk and training was given a particular boost when three Olympic gold medallists, Laura Trott, Nicola Adams and Jade Jones [pictured], were used in the campaign in the autumn of 2012 directly after the Olympic Games in London. “The campaign was primarily about grabbing attention, but once we reached the consumer, the main message was about milk’s nutritional content combined with the low fat Link for more information content. By combining products with an active lifestyle, we www.makeminemilk.co.uk confidence in products | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 23 24 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE Care for the environment and animal welfare From international climate summits to turning the cows out to pasture on individual dairy farms. At Arla we address a wide range of environmental and agricultural issues. And our goal is always the same – to work consistently towards reducing our environmental and climate impact, and maintain high animal welfare standards. Environment and climate Agriculture Food production and the transportation of products invariably We want to ensure that farms supplying milk to Arla operate affect the environment by discharging substances into in a way that shows respect for milk quality, animal welfare the air, the fields and the water. Our ambition is therefore and the environment. Our milk suppliers must therefore to minimise this discharge and continually reduce our adhere to our high standards when it comes to milk environmental impact within the entire supply chain in order production, animal health and feed quality. See page 30. to contribute to sustainable development. See page 26. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 25 We continually improve our environmental performance by applying sound and sustainable principles – from cow to consumer. Environment and climate Reduced climate impact ❙ Testing new fuels ❙ Investments in energy-saving technology Environmental strategy stimulates continual improvement Environmental Strategy 2020 – in word and deed comprehensive review of the routes means our transport Arla’s current environmental strategy was launched in 2011. network is now more efficient. The strategy can be downloaded from www.arla.com. It is Butter production at Westbury Dairies in the UK has now beginning to make a difference. The strategy covers increased, generating efficiencies. One of our biggest products’ complete life cycle, from milk production on the climate improvements has been the transfer of production farm to how consumers deal with packaging and leftovers. of Anchor butter from New Zealand to the UK, where it is The section of the strategy focusing on the farm is described sold. It is now made in the UK from milk from UK farmers. in the Agriculture chapter on page 30. We strive to reduce our climate impact in different ways, for example, we are testing various types of fuels and Lower greenhouse gas emissions alternative types of vehicles. In the UK, 11 lorries are so-far Within the framework of its environmental strategy, Arla’s equipped to run on liquid natural gas and diesel. Liquid goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from production, natural gas emits 24 per cent less carbon dioxide. In the UK transportation and packaging by 25 per cent by 2020, we have also tested and now put into everyday use, a lorry compared to the 2005 levels. Emissions of greenhouse gases that is a combined tanker and refrigerated vehicle which have continued to decrease during 2012. In 2013 further means it carries finished product on one leg of its journey focus will be placed on reaching the 2020 goals. and raw milk on its return to the dairy, which means it never runs empty and its performance is now being analysed. Lower emissions from transportation In Denmark and Sweden, each milk collection Arla is consistently working to optimise transportation and truck driver is trained every five years in the use of minimise fuel consumption. We have invested in new and energy-efficient driving techniques. larger vehicles to gain efficiencies. We have also revised routes and increased pumping speeds on our tankers to Difficult to achieve climate goal for packaging minimise idle running and therefore fuel consumption. Packaging innovations are enabling Arla to continue to The merger of Milko and Arla in Sweden could have reduce its climate impact in the UK. For example, during resulted in longer milk collection routes however, a the autumn, new plastic bottles were evaluated and will 26 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE be introduced in the beginning of 2013. These weigh Denmark, and Visby in Sweden as well as Hollandtown dairy 15 per cent less than their predecessors and are made of in the USA and the Cocio chocolate milk facility in Denmark 15 per cent recycled plastic. Our goal is to produce plastic have all adopted a variety of energy-saving changes, bottles using 50 per cent recycled plastic. mainly by introducing heat recovery from production and For a long time now in Scandinavia and the Netherlands, optimising ventilation. Another energy-saving measure is Arla has packed liquid products in cartons and a large switching to LED lighting. This has been done at several proportion of our packaging consequently has a low climate plants this year including Jönköping (Sweden), Stourton impact. This means that achieving a 25 per cent reduction (UK), and Hollandtown (USA). The investment in new lowin greenhouse gas emissions from packaging is a challenge. energy lamps has a 2–3 year payback. Paramount to any packaging developments is its ability In terms of renewable energy, during the year the milk to meet food safety, shelf life and logistics requirements. powder plant in Visby now receives about 40 per cent of Furthermore, consumers expect packaging to be functional, its energy as biogas, which is purchased from a unit that for example, it must be easy to open and close. generates biogas mainly from manure from farms. Reduced consumption of water and energy Smaller volume of waste Arla’s environmental strategy targets a reduction in water and Another of the goals in the environmental strategy is to energy consumption of three per cent a year until 2020. Also drastically reduce food and packaging waste. At Skövde by this date, half of our energy consumption must originate in Sweden, the dairy has invested in new curdling tanks, from renewable energy sources. The consumption of water which reduce product waste and considerably optimise the has decreased by 2.5 per cent and energy by 1.9 per cent, production processes. Another example is Kruså dairy in despite higher production volumes. Renewable energy usage Denmark where production processes have been improved has decreased from 17 to 16 per cent due to newly acquired so that less cheese curd is wasted. sites using less renewable energy. To enable consumers to waste less, milk cartons in During the year DKK 133 million has been invested in Sweden and the Netherlands have carried information special environmental and energy-saving initiatives. For about how consumers should recycle the packaging. Learn example, Arla’s milk powder plants Akafa and Arinco in more about Arla’s intentions to help consumers minimise food waste on page 28. Energy consumption Climate impact Environmental awards TWh millions of tons CO2-e We frequently receive awards for our efforts to 3.5 2.0 protect the environment and climate. During the year Arla in the Netherlands received the 3.0 1.5 Dutch Lean & Green Star Award. In the UK we 2.5 received several awards, including Recycling 2.0 Oil Business of the Year and Best Environmental 1.0 1.5 Gas Sustainability initiative, both for our zero Renewable 1.0 sources waste to landfill achievement. Furthermore, 0.5 Packaging District Transport the company has become the first major dairy 0.5 heating Electricity 0 Operations processor in the UK to achieve the Carbon 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Trust Standard, which is awarded by one of the leading global organisations, that verifies The diagram lists all Arla facilities at the The diagram above lists Arla’s main companies’ reduced greenhouse gas emissions. end of 2012. Previous years’ data has been operational areas at the end of 2012. Since updated. During 2012 improved production 2005, Arla’s total climate impact has decreased Adverse criticism of climate compensation and energy efficiency has resulted in lower by 7.8 per cent, this is despite increased Since 2009 Arla has compensated for energy consumption despite larger production production volumes. The greatest challenges emissions from Yoggi Yalla® production and volumes. to achieving the climate goal lie within the during 2012 we also started to compensate for transport and packaging areas. all Swedish organic products marketed under International climate partnerships the Arla Eko® brand. We compensate for the Arla participates in several international FSC-certified packaging impact we have on the climate by planting initiatives, the purpose of which is to minimise The transition to FSC cardboard in our trees in Mozambique in partnership with the climate impact throughout the dairy supply liquid carton packaging has been initiated in Plan Vivo foundation. At the end of 2012, Arla chain. These include the Global Dairy Platform, Denmark, Sweden and the Netherlands. The was criticised for this with one claim being that International Dairy Federation and Sustainable Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) certificate the farmers in Mozambique are not paid in Agriculture Initiative. means that the cardboard is produced from accordance with the agreement and that our responsibly forested timber. We aim for all our marketing promises more than we can deliver. Discharges from plants liquid cartons to be made from responsibly Arla has taken this criticism seriously and we At Troldhede dairy in Denmark there was forested timber. have launched an internal investigation. an accidental discharge of sludge due to a defective seal. The damage was immediately repaired to ensure that the accident will not be repeated. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 27 Can Arla influence how much food is wasted? In Europe, more than 25 per cent of the food is wasted. The EU and other institutions have launched campaigns to reduce the waste. What can Arla do to help? I n recent years there has been significant focus on the vast amount of food that goes to waste. In Western countries food waste is calculated to be as high as 25–30 per cent. The fact that food waste accounts for 14 per cent of global greenhouse gas emissions further highlights the need for complete control over their behaviour. “We quickly realised that this complex issue needs to be approached from many different angles. To begin with, we decided that we could encourage consumers to purchase the amount of products they need, handle them correctly, this to be addressed. In Arla’s Environmental Strategy 2020, use them before the ‘best-before’ date, and, above all, use which was introduced in 2011, one of the four main points up everything they buy. We aimed to make it easier to waste is an intention to reduce food waste. Arla wants to help less!” consumers halve the amount of dairy products that are wasted, and the company also aims to reduce waste in its Many activities in a wide-ranging campaign production processes. During 2012 work focused on creating awareness of the “The kick-off for Arla in Denmark was the problem, finding solutions and producing new packaging Environmental Strategy and, almost simultaneously, we to reduce waste. Karolines Køkken, Arla’s Danish cookery signed an agreement with the Ministry of Environment service, focused on creating new recipes to make it easier in which, along with others in our industry, we promised to plan shopping and create meals using left-overs. To date to introduce a series of specific measures to reduce food Arla in Denmark has 160,000 subscribers to the weekly meal waste,” explains Maja Møller, who is responsible for plans, which make sure that no ingredients are wasted. Even stakeholder dialogue at Arla in Denmark. milk cartons are used to spread the eco-wise message. While Arla can reduce waste internally, it is a big “We have also upgraded our Smartphone recipe challenge to influence consumers when you don’t have application to include an ‘Empty fridge’ function. For 28 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE Arla wants to help consumers halve the amount of dairy products that are wasted, explains Maja Møller, who is responsible for stakeholder dialogue at Arla in Denmark. For example, Arla has developed recipes that make it easier to plan grocery shopping as well as create meals using left-overs. example, you can scan bar codes using the app to get good our consumers and this kind of issue makes this possible. ideas for how the products in your fridge can be used in Food waste is also a part of our supply chain so, as food cooking. The idea was conceived after Christmas. We asked producers, we believe it is a natural step for us to take.” people on Facebook to tell us what they had left in their “There will always be people who react negatively fridges and responded by posting short YouTube videos – people who don’t like to use left-overs. To get to these showing how to cook with the product, for example cheese consumers, we believe we should spread a more positive left over after Christmas.” message. We aim to inspire people to use our products in In the coldstores at Arla sites there are sometimes new ways and we are working to change people’s attitudes. products with a shelf-life that is too short to be sold in Maybe we are giving traditional housekeeping a modern stores. One solution to avoid throwing the products away twist? Basically, it’s all about planning. And if you plan well, is to donate these products to charities, which distribute you save time, which is in short supply for most of us.” them to those in need. In Denmark, Arla cooperates with At Arla in Denmark, many different departments Fødevarebanken (The Food Bank) and there are similar have been following up on how they have worked partnerships on several Arla markets, including the towards the goal of reducing food waste: sales, marketing, Netherlands, Germany, Finland, the UK and Canada. communications, production and logistics, to name but a In terms of packaging that helps to reduce food few. Maja Møller believes that this is one of the reasons that waste, Maja Møller believes there’s still a long way to go. the campaign has been so powerful and holistic, and that In Scandinavia Arla has traditionally marketed its products Arla in other countries and other organisations can learn to households with children, and adjusted pack sizes much from the Danish initiative. accordingly. However, society has changed. Today there is “Our goal is ambitious. The most important thing is also a need for packs suitable for smaller households. This that we work towards it and that we believe we can achieve presents Arla with a dilemma because the company faces it. We will only achieve our goal if we work together, both tough competition for space on supermarket shelves, which internally at Arla and, of course, with the consumers, and limits the number of products it can supply. At the same with others who share our interest, for example, the Danish time, Arla has to ensure that production is rational. organisation Stop Spild af Mad (Stop Wasting Food). We all “One change which directly reduces waste is the have a duty to act socially responsibly.” reduction we have made to the size of butter packs, from 10 to 8 g. Studies revealed that as much as 40 per cent of each pack was wasted. We have also introduced a new yogurt carton, which makes it easier to use every last drop.” Complementary campaigns In Denmark the media has focused heavily on food waste during 2012 and each campaign has been superseded by another. Suddenly food waste has become a household term, which people can relate to, but does everyone react Reduced waste in Arla production processes Reducing waste is one of the four main points in Arla’s Environmental positively? Strategy 2020. On the one hand, this involves supporting consumers “The reaction to our initiative has generally been and, on the other, and equally importantly, reducing waste in Arla’s positive,” says Maja Møller, “and clearly what we are processes. Read more about this in the Environment and climate section doing does benefit a lot of people. We aim to get close to on page 27. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 29 We support sustainable agriculture. Agriculture Farmers’ role in the environmental strategy ❙ Organic milk surplus ❙ Common quality programme Towards even more sustainable dairy farming Sustainable milk production in progress One of the most important inspirations for Arla’s work Within the framework of the Arla environmental strategy to reduce climate impact is a research project written by presented in 2011, we continue the development of a Ph.D. student employed at Arla. Through this research sustainable milk production. Four focus areas have been we have new knowledge about the factors which impact selected: the climate at every stage of the dairy supply chain ending • Feed – Sustainable feed provision with the finished product. Now that we are equipped • Fertilizers & Nutrition – Effective handling and usage with new knowledge of these factors and the potential • Energy – Efficiency and renewable sources for improvement, actions can be prioritised. The research • Livestock & Nature – Animal welfare and biological project was presented this year in a doctoral thesis, which diversity attracted international attention. During 2013 new common goals for Arla’s supplying farms Tough times for organic milk – and new opportunities will be identified, including the percentage by which the Arla is the world’s largest supplier of organic milk but in the Arla farmers, in total, will be expected to reduce their last two years the demand for organic milk has decreased greenhouse gas emissions. Members will be offered the significantly in Sweden, and to a lesser extent in Denmark. opportunity to have their greenhouse gas emissions Organic farmers are feeling the effects of this reduced calculated at farm level and to receive advice and suggested demand as the extra payment they receive for supplying areas for improvement. The aim is to include all Arla dairy organic milk, decreased in 2011 and again in 2012. farmers in this endeavour. However, for practical reasons, To boost the organic business, Danish organic milk is the initiative was launched initially in the UK, Denmark now being sold on the German market. Some Danish farms and Sweden. In the UK, meetings were held with about 30 are certified in accordance with the German Naturland per cent of the farms which belong to the Arla Foods Milk organic labelling scheme. Special marketing efforts have also Partnership (AFMP). In Denmark and Sweden the majority been made in Denmark to coincide with the annual EcoDay of farm meetings are planned for the first quarter of 2013. in April, when the cows are turned out to pasture. 30 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE In Sweden, the wholesale price of organic milk has Quality philosophy becomes an export reduced and the price of conventional milk raised in order In partnership with Chinese Mengniu, Arla has opened to narrow the gap. We have also intensified marketing a knowledge centre, called the China-Denmark Milk efforts and updated the packaging of our basic range of Technology and Cooperation Center. The centre, which has organic products. In Sweden we compensate for the impact the support of both the Danish and Chinese authorities, will of producing these products on the climate by planting trees encourage cooperation between the dairy industries in both in Mozambique. Tree-planting also contributes to social countries with the overall goal of promoting food safety. development and biological diversity in Mozambique. This The Arlagården® quality programme was a contributory has been criticized, see page 27. factor in reaching the agreement. Chinese companies are No new organic farms have been recruited since 2011. interested in learning from Arla’s know-how and experience of maintaining high milk quality, traceability and monitoring The Arlagården® quality programme to Germany milk quality on farm. Arla’s quality assurance programme for milk production on the farm is important for us and also for our customers. Sustainably cultivated soy The Arlagården® quality programme is applied in Sweden In January 2012 Arla decided to accelerate the transition and Denmark and during the year we worked closely with to responsibly-produced soy in response to the adverse representatives of our German members with a view to effects of soy production in South America on people and introducing the programme in Germany. An updated version the environment. By 2015 all soy used to feed cattle on Arla of Arlagården® was introduced this winter and it will apply farms must be cultivated in accordance with the principles to all the German Arla members by the end of 2014. All and criteria of the RTRS, the Round Table on Responsible German farms will be visited in 2013 and 2014. Soy. During the year, we engaged in dialogue with important In the UK all the farms which supply milk to Arla use the stakeholders, initially in Denmark and Sweden, to find a Red Tractor Farm Assurance scheme which is very similar common path towards the exclusive use of responsibly to Arlagården®. In the future Arlagården® will also be cultivated soy. For several years now, Arla has also introduced in the UK. supported Nordic research on alternative compound feed. Arla’s milk inflow Reduced climate impact Number of cows per farm kg CO2-e per kg milk 2010 2011 2012 Other Denmark Denmark 134 141 153 countries 1.6% 42.4% 1,5 Other UK 121 123 126 Netherlands Electricity on farm 1,2 Sweden 62 66 70 1.9% Diesel on farm Finland 2.2% Germany 45 47 49 0,9 Transport of Germany, feed to farm Finland 24 25 28 Belgium, 0,6 Feed production Belgium 51 52 54 Luxembourg N2O manure 9.6% Luxembourg 57 57 58 0,3 CH4 manure Sweden 19.8% UK 22.5% 0,0 CH4 cow Source: National industry organisations. 1990 2005 1990 2005 Approximately 15,600 farms supply milk to Denmark Sweden Arla in, Denmark, Sweden, Germany, the The number of cows per farm is a calculated UK, Finland, Belgium and Luxembourg. This Arla works closely with the farmers to reduce average which includes all milk producers in amounts to about 92 per cent of Arla’s total the climate impact of dairy farming. We each country. volume. In these and other markets we also have developed a model for calculating the buy milk from other local suppliers which meet greenhouse gas emissions from farms. Arla our quality standards. The total inflow of milk has chosen 2005 as the year from which we increased by 13 per cent during the year. will measure our continuous improvement activities. The diagram indicates by how much Improved milk quality emissions have been reduced between 1990 Arla is working to improve milk quality on and 2005 in Denmark and Sweden. farms in the long term. For example, we visit farms to give advice and test for heat-resistant Technical advice for dairy farms (thermoduric) bacteria. In Sweden we visited Arla provides technical advice, for example about 90 farms and, as a result of the advice on milk storage room design, to Danish and we gave, the incidence of bacteria reduced by Swedish dairy farmers. We have produced a approximately 60 per cent on these farms. In check list for refurbishments, which includes Denmark the visits reduced the average level guidelines for structuring such a process of bacteria by 70 per cent. High milk quality so that the equipment delivered meets the gives a higher milk price per litre and therefore expectations of the farmer who ordered it. increases farmers’ profitability. CARE FOR THE ENVIRONMENT AND ANIMAL WELFARE | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 31 32 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | RESPECTFUL RELATIONS Respectful relations Arla has relationships with people, organisations, communities and countries. No matter what the relationship is, we are committed to maintaining mutual respect. Workplace Human rights Arla has 19,600 colleagues in 30 countries throughout We have production facilities in many countries and our the world. We strive to continually improve our work products are sold throughout the world. We also operate environment and organisation. We also work to strengthen in countries that do not yet have fully recognised human our corporate culture, Our Character, which describes rights or that do not yet live up to them. Regardless of the what we stand for and how we behave in order to achieve country in which we have operations, we maintain a firm our common targets, uniting us despite differences in conviction that the human rights of every individual should historical and cultural backgrounds. If all colleagues enjoy be respected and upheld. See page 38. good working conditions, and are committed to their work, together we can do the best job possible. See page 34. Community relations We accept extensive responsibility for community relations within the framework of our core business. In addition, we endeavour to involve ourselves in wider social issues which are relevant to our business activities. We want to contribute to the development of communities and do so by building long-term relationships with people, businesses and organisations. See page 36. RESPECTFUL RELATIONS | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 33 We have competent and committed employees, and provide safe and healthy working conditions. Workplace More Arla colleagues ❙ Barometer improvements ❙ Fewer accidents at work Concern for colleagues’ safety and well-being An organisation for the future even better alignment. Although the 2012 results show Last spring a comprehensive programme of change was improvements, colleagues still want less bureaucracy in implemented throughout the company. The purpose being Arla. The only score that has not increased is that for work to make the organisation more transparent and flexible in environment. When it comes to change and the information order for it to take advantage of new strategic opportunities about change, colleagues feel there is room for improvement. and economies of scale. A number of colleagues’ positions primarily in Denmark, Sweden and the UK, were affected Dairy education by organisational changes and redundancies in order Arla needs highly qualified colleagues and therefore to improve the company’s competitiveness. To assist contributes actively to education and training courses in colleagues in finding new employment, Arla offered a Denmark, Sweden and the UK. At Kold College in Odense, number of activities, including coaching, CV writing and job Denmark, Swedish and Danish students are currently search training. enrolled on dairy courses. Arla was among the companies Following rationalisation initiatives, mergers and behind this initiative and we continue to help develop the acquisitions during the year, the total number of people training. During 2012, 18 Danish students, all of them with employed at Arla increased to 19,600 colleagues. upper secondary qualifications, began this training. Next year we hope to recruit students with the same level of The Barometer – the annual colleague survey schooling to at least 23 of the 60 places financed by Arla. The Barometer 2012 was carried out in November and the Arla in the UK was one of the driving forces behind EDEN results were available in mid-December. The survey was sent (European Dairy Education Now), which is a broad-based to over 14,000 colleagues in 29 countries and in 16 different professional dairy qualification which meets European languages. The response rate was 88.2 per cent. standards. At present 25 Arla colleagues are taking part The overall results from the survey show both highly in dairy technology training courses through EDEN. Eight engaged colleagues and a wish for senior leaders to international students are also training to become dairy communicate strategy and vision more clearly, to ensure engineers at Copenhagen University in Denmark. 34 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | RESPECTFUL RELATIONS High score for leadership training Continued focus on work safety The ALP (Arla Leadership Programme) for middle managers We are continuing to work with risk prevention at all our and managers in Denmark, Sweden and the UK began in facilities. During the past two years, Arla in the UK has 2010. The aim of the training is to reinforce the connection successfully reduced the number of workplace accidents by between the company’s ambitious strategy for growth and 40 per cent. One contributory factor has been that ambitious managers’ individual areas of responsibility. As in previous and clear goals for safety in the workplace are included in years, participants give the programme a high score, the company’s business plan. During the year, increased averaging 4.4 on a five-point scale. attention has been placed on risk and incident reporting. In the Middle East and Africa we continue to develop In Sweden, a system is in place which aims at our managers and two ALP modules were delivered during systematically and continually improve the workplace. the year. Commercial Roadmap training courses have also Initiatives include increased reporting of risks and incidents been conducted, which drives commercial excellence. with a view to reducing the number of workplace accidents During the year we launched three additional leadership in the long term. In Denmark, the number of serious training schemes in Denmark, Sweden and the UK. One is accidents with long term abscence has decreased. for recently promoted managers and one for experienced managers who are new to Arla. ALP4 (Arla Leadership Focus on employer branding Programme for Functional Managers) was also introduced It is important that Arla can attract and retain qualified this year. This is a leadership training course for senior colleagues. Even though our products are well-known, managers with responsibility for functional areas, for public awareness of what it is like to work at Arla can be example, marketing directors, HR directors and dairy further improved. Increased emphasis is being placed on managers. Part of the course takes place at London Business the need to strengthen Arla’s image as an employer. For School, which participants consider to be very positive. The example, during the year we attended job fairs and other course received top scores. Arla also offers Arla Specialist similar events and colleagues are often invited to be guest training (ASP) for the leaders of high-level specialist speakers. We are also asking colleagues to be ambassadors functions who are not line managers. for Arla as we know that the image projected by them plays an important part in the public’s perception of the company. Our goal is for Arla to be considered an employer of choice which can attract the best talent. Accidents at work Following the mergers in the UK and Work environment awards The number of workplace accidents involving Germany during autumn 2012, a variety of Three British former Milk Link creameries, more than one day’s absence per one million activities are planned to ensure that new Tuxford & Tebbutt, Reece’s and Llandyrnog, working hours. colleagues in the group understand the each won the prestigious British Safety Council company’s core values, culture and working Sword of Honour award. 30 methods. Birkum dairy in Denmark is nominated 25 for the European Agency for Safety and 20 Absence and colleague turnover Health at Work’s work environmental prize for At Arla’s facilities in Denmark, colleagues companies with fewer than 100 employees. 15 are now offered free treatment by a The award is presented for good practice 10 physiotherapist, chiropractor or masseur. This within risk prevention and management5 initiative has reduced short-term absence employee cooperation. due to illness by 15 per cent and long-term 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 absence by 20 per cent. Continuous skills development Absence due to illness has also been In Denmark a survey has been carried out to The total number of workplace accidents is reduced in the Netherlands, where it is thought map the reading, writing and mathematics approximately the same as last year, even to be due to colleagues being offered training skills of 4,000 colleagues. To date about though the number has increased in some sessions led by a physiotherapist. 3,000 have taken part. About 20–25 per countries. The total number has decreased by At Kruså dairy in Denmark, colleague cent of these will be offered training with a nearly a third since 2008. turnover in 2012 was only a quarter of the view to improving their basic skills. A similar turnover 2008, following the introduction of programme has been introduced at Oakthorpe Integrating the new companies flexible working hours. During the high season, dairy in the UK. In May 2012, the integration programme for colleagues work every second Saturday and activities in Sundsvall and Östersund, Sweden, during the low season they can take part in The Barometer results was finalised following the merger with the training courses. In addition to the dairy’s Please read more about Swedish dairy company Milko. We worked work with Lean (a method which engages the results from the hard to help the new Arla colleagues to adjust colleagues in change processes), the workforce colleague survey on as quickly as possible and feel that they belong has become more engaged and productivity page 39. to the new organisation. Participants gave the has increased. introduction programme a score of 4.8 on a five-point scale. RESPECTFUL RELATIONS | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 35 We maintain good, respectful and constructive community relations. Community relations Broad social engagement ❙ New youth health foundation ❙ Popular farm visits We build lasting relationships Engagement is important with, for example, The World Wild Fund for Nature (WWF) In markets where we are a major player it is even more and nature preservation associations. important that we communicate our engagement in society. Another important area for us is disseminating Increasing numbers of consumers study the companies knowledge of our products’ origins, work on the farms and responsible for the products they buy so it is imperative that how milk is produced. In Sweden we invite about 50,000 we account for our actions and behaviour both in business schoolchildren a year to visit our farms and we provide and in other commitments linked to the company. teaching materials about life on the farm free of charge. Arla’s primary contribution to social development is to Similar activities are offered in Denmark, Germany, Belgium create jobs and economic growth in the areas in which we and Luxembourg. In the UK and Denmark we also invite operate. Local heritage is important to us and therefore schoolchildren to visit our dairies. companies in the group are free to contribute to their As an international company we can contribute to local community in the way they feel is most appropriate education at different levels. In several countries we offer and fosters most colleague involvement. There are several practical work experience placements, and subjects and examples of local initiatives in the fact box on next page. tutorials for students as part of their examination work. After the UK, Sweden and Denmark are the markets in Several of our colleagues are also guest lecturers for higher which we have the highest turnover. In both countries Arla education training courses. Read more page 34. is a well-known company, which means that we have many opportunities to exert an influence on important issues. In The Children for Life project Denmark, Arla’s CEO chairs the government’s food industry Arla has run the Children for Life project since 2008. This is growth committee and he is also vice chairman of the a long-term aid project, which aims to give underprivileged Board of Aarhus University. During the year, in Denmark children a better future by providing food and sponsoring and Sweden, we have actively engaged in dialogue with their education. From the outset we have worked with SOS politicians, members of the European parliament and Children’s Villages in the Dominican Republic and since 2011 government environmental and agricultural committees in Honduras too. In Bangladesh we continue to work in with a view to raising issues related to conditions in the partnership with a local charity organisation. dairy industry so that we can shoulder responsibility for The Children for Life project is intended to involve our sustainable development. In both countries we also interact colleagues in the local areas in which we operate and to 36 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | RESPECTFUL RELATIONS contribute to their development. We aim to find ways of Arla as neighbour providing aid that are connected with our products and that At locations in which we already have operations and where really do make a difference. we build new facilities, we acknowledge that we have an impact on the local area. In February 2012 construction New foundation to promote youth health began on the new dairy at Aylesbury in the UK. We involve In 2012, in Denmark Arla launched a new and long-term local community representatives as much as possible at initiative: the Arla Foundation. The foundation will actively every stage of the project, and have regular meetings and contribute to teaching 10 to 14-year-olds more about food, publish a newsletter. Local people do raise concerns about natural ingredients and physical exercise in order to inspire the building and we respond as quickly and clearly as this generation to adopt a healthy lifestyle. possible to the issues raised. The foundation will work with other bodies involved in Arla’s subsidiary Rynkeby Foods is currently building a young people’s eating habits and lifestyle. The foundation’s new high bay warehouse, which has received criticism from Board comprises key Arla colleagues and external experts, local residents. We have done our utmost to ensure that whose specialist areas are relevant to the work of the building work creates as little disturbance as possible and foundation. In connection with the establishment of the we have held open meetings. The dilemma we face is that if foundation, Arla in Denmark has decided to reprioritise its we did not build the high bay warehouse, we would have to other sponsor activities in order to increase its focus on move the facility elsewhere. encouraging young people to adopt a healthy lifestyle. Arla farm visits No. of visitors 2010 2011 2012 Out and about in the natural environment Cows out to pasture, Denmark 40,000 63,000 86,000 Arla is strongly committed to the natural Cows out to pasture, Sweden 80,000 100,000 125,000 environment and several of our projects aim School farm visits, Denmark 10,000 15,000 11,500 to increase public interest in our forests, fields School farm visits, Sweden 42,000 43,000 50,000 and lakes. Here are some examples: School farm visits, Germany – 5,800 * 9,500 ** Canada We sponsor nature experiences for * Hansa Arla Milch ** Hansa Arla Milch and MUH schoolchildren. Colleagues contribute to the local area by collecting litter. Visiting one of our supplying farms in the Sport, outdoor pursuits and charity The Netherlands We encourage children to spring, when the cows are turned out to partnerships appreciate the value of biological diversity pasture, has become a very popular event. Arla takes part in a large number of projects for through tree-planting projects. In 2012 there were more visitors than ever charity. Our engagement has a positive effect UK We encourage children to explore nature in Sweden and Denmark, and for the second on our colleagues’ pride and engagement as through our Kids Closer to Nature programme. consecutive year, visits to see the cows turned they can work together on activities, which Germany We contribute to children’s nature out to pasture were organised in Finland. In are often outdoors and in addition to their projects. Denmark there were also open days on farms everyday role. Sweden We offer school programmes and festivals with a focus on nature, which including teaching materials and visits to the attracted 126,000 visitors (2011: 145,000). In Community projects countryside. the UK we support our dairy farmers to make it In the UK Arla’s colleagues contribute to local possible for schoolchildren to visit their farms. communities via the Community Challenge Sport and a healthy lifestyle initiative. In 2012 Arla contributed to 37 Arla is keen to encourage people to adopt a Communicating via milk cartons (2011: 46) different Community Challenge healthy lifestyle. Here are some examples: In Sweden, Denmark and the Netherlands projects to a total value of DKK 145,000 (2011: Denmark Football schools and projects, which too, we use the back of milk cartons as a 140,000). Another example is the Danish Team encourage children to be physically active. channel through which to educate and inspire Rynkeby cycling event, where 790 riders in 13 Poland Fun runs and training events for consumers. Topics during the year included Danish and four Swedish teams raised DKK 16 children and young people. ecology, reducing food waste, information millions for the Children’s Cancer Foundation Russia Junior football tournaments. about the WWF Earth Hour and tips for an in Sweden and Denmark. More examples of Saudi Arabia We support projects, which aim active lifestyle. charity projects: to teach schoolchildren the importance of The Dominican Republic We help to pay for eating breakfast. Food as charity scientific literature and further training for UK We sponsor a rugby team, whose For quite some time, Arla has focused on doctors. members talk to schoolchildren about leading reducing the volume of product wasted within Canada We sponsor events where profits are a healthy lifestyle. the business and by consumers. In several donated to cancer research. Sweden We sponsor ski schools and children’s countries, including the UK, Germany, Poland, UK We partner a national cancer charity for ski competitions, and football and basketball Denmark, Finland and Spain, we cooperate which colleagues raise money. tournaments for young people. with organisations, which ensure that products Denmark Partnership with the Children’s with a shelf-life that is too short to be sold to Cancer Foundation, where profits on a juice customers are donated to charity. product are donated to the foundation. We sponsor a UN campaign, which aims to share information on specific results from aid projects. RESPECTFUL RELATIONS | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 37 We respect and support internationally recognised human rights. Human rights Continuous work with diversity ❙ Women colleagues in Saudi Arabia ❙ Stress still an issue Equal rights for all Focus on increasing diversity communication. Local languages may be used if necessary In 2010 we started work on increasing diversity in Arla, and to reach a specific target group. in 2011 we produced a strategy for creating a corporate culture which is diverse and has an inclusive approach. We More nationalities represented in Arla want to ensure that everyone is treated equally regardless We seek to have colleagues at all levels of the company of their gender, ethnicity, social or national origins, race, skin representing many different nationalities. Our systems do colour, religion or beliefs, sexual orientation, political views, not currently allow us to measure the distribution of current age, disability or marital status. and potential colleagues by nationality. A function of this During 2012 work with diversity has focused on kind will be introduced during 2013 in the countries in which our recruitment processes and leadership training. We it is permitted. are striving to improve awareness of how we recruit. Following the completion of mergers during the year, For example, we have considered the fact that all the Arla gained more owners and more colleagues, which we photographs in our job advertisements show young people believe can lead to increased diversity. with a northern European appearance. As we wish to attract colleagues who represent society’s diversity, because they Women working for Arla in Saudi Arabia add to our pool of skills and develop the company, we will For several years now it has been Arla’s goal to offer work change this. to women in Saudi Arabia. This became possible for the More than 100 leaders in Denmark and a group in the first time last April. Developments in Saudi Arabia in recent Middle East have participated in training in diversity and years mean that it is now easier to employ women, although how to work inclusively. Due to a reduction in the number employers have to take special measures. For example, of colleagues that could conduct the training, fewer people women and men are not allowed to work together in Saudi took part than originally planned and no similar training Arabia. This means that a number of practical issues have to courses have been conducted in other countries. be resolved. To avoid communication barriers between the different At present there are 16 women employed at a packing countries and language groups, Arla has chosen English plant at the Danya Foods plant in Riyadh. To make this as our common company language. All company-wide possible, the women have a separate department with functions must use English as their language of written its own entrance, prayer room, changing rooms and toilet 38 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | RESPECTFUL RELATIONS facilities. Arla also arranges the women’s transport to and partners understand our point of view and respect our Code of from the workplace. Furthermore, at Arla’s head office in Conduct, which also encompasses many other issues. Riyadh, we have employed a group of women to carry out In Nigeria we work with a packing plant and three market research. packaging suppliers. These are visited twice a year, once by Having female colleagues is also valuable because we our partner and once by an Arla representative accompanied learn more about Saudi consumers. There is great interest in by our partner. During this year’s visits there was no cause working for Arla in Saudi Arabia and every week we receive for concern and we noted that conditions, for example, a large number of applications from well-educated women. the work environment and safety at the workplaces, have improved. In our dialogue with the suppliers, we are The Barometer results also aware that Arla is not the only customer requesting In the 2012 survey a number of the questions asked how better working conditions, which means that workplace well colleagues feel they are treated at the workplace. improvements are being introduced more quickly. For example, do they believe that Arla takes personal In Bangladesh, for some years now we have audited concerns into account, takes care to maintain colleagues’ our packaging supplier twice a year. The audits include work-life balance and takes action to prevent bullying in monitoring that employees’ human rights are respected. In the workplace. The results show that despite colleagues the latest audit, carried out in 2011, there was no cause for acknowledging work is better organised, the incidence of concern. In 2012, the organisation changed and the workers stress has not decreased, similarly, the score for life work were employed by Arla. Therefore we have not carried out balance has not improved. The results show that bullying an audit but have maintained contact and paid visits as we has decreased. do to any other department. There have been no obvious We have analysed the results from the last three deviations from our Code of Conduct and our colleagues in Barometer surveys to establish if the age and gender of the Bangladesh know about the Code and its contents. respondent affected their responses. It has transpired that women are slightly more positive to their situation than men, Partnership with Médecins sans Frontières and older people are more positive than younger people. The humanitarian organisation Médecins sans Frontières helps people in crisis across the world. Arla Foods Dialogue in the Third World Ingredients has chosen to support this work through an When we visit and audit our partners in the Third World, we annual financial donation and to inform MSF about our focus specifically on human rights issues, including child labour findings of clinical studies into the nutritional properties and working conditions. It is important that our business of milk components. Employees by gender Employees by age European Work Council % % As an employer, Arla respects the right of 100 30 employees to form and join trade unions and ■ Men ■ Women 25 to engage in collective bargaining. In addition 80 to Arla’s cooperation with representatives of 20 60 trade union organisations at a national level, 15 during the year we also continued to work 40 with the European Work Council (EWC), which 10 is Arla’s international labour relations forum. In 20 5 the EWC, representatives of the labour market organisations in Denmark, Sweden, the UK, 0 0 All Top 300 Top 50 <20 20–29 30–39 40–49 50–59 60– Germany, the Netherlands, Finland and Poland meet members of corporate management The ratio of males to females varies in different The variety of ages of Arla colleagues is and HR managers from business groups and parts of the organisation. Among our top currently satisfactory. Age should not be, and functions. managers there are significantly fewer women is not, a factor when we recruit people. Arla than men. The share of women among the top values the fact that its workforce comprises a 300 managers has increased during 2012 from balanced mix of ages. 17 to 23 per cent. At the lower managerial levels, the share of women is higher. One of our focus areas is to recruit more women to the most senior positions. As we have a strong recruitment base, in the longer term it should be possible to achieve a more even gender distribution in top management at Arla. RESPECTFUL RELATIONS | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 39 Demand for certified cocoa will improve conditions for growers Arla has paid attention to cocoa production for a long time recognising that cocoa farmers find it difficult to earn a living and child labour is therefore a very real risk. T hree years ago Arla decided that all the cocoa purchased by the group for its own branded products must be certified. It has taken time to implement this decision because supply has been limited. However, since 2011, all of the cocoa products from Arla subsidiary, Cocio, have been produced Study tour to the Ivory Coast In June 2012 Mikael Horsbøll travelled to the Ivory Coast with Arla buyer Jane Hansen and Sanne Vinther, who at the time was responsible for stakeholder relations in Arla. The trip had long been planned and was to follow up an using UTZ-certified cocoa from the Ivory Coast, and since audit in 2009 but it was postponed twice due to political 2012 all the cocoa used in Arla branded products has also unrest in the country. The schedule comprised visits to Arla’s been certified. UTZ Certified is a certifying organisation main supplier, purchasing stations, growers’ cooperatives which ensures that cocoa production is financially, and agricultural schools, and meetings with a variety of environmentally and socially sustainable. international and local interest groups. The main purpose of “UTZ cocoa costs considerably more, but we buy the trip for the Arla representatives was to look at ways of it because it is the right thing for us to do, not because counteracting the risk of child labour in cocoa production. consumers demand it,” says Mikael Horsbøll, marketing “This was my first visit to the Ivory Coast,” says Mikael director at Cocio, which produces, markets and sells Horsbøll, “and I knew that the people who live there do chocolate drinks. “We do not advertise the fact except for so in very different conditions to those in Europe. What printing the UTZ logo on most of our packaging. We buy struck me most was that we think so differently. For the certified cocoa because we believe we have a responsibility cocoa farmers, what matters most is feeding their families to improve conditions for the cocoa growers and their here and now. When you realise this, you appreciate how families.” complex the child labour issue really is.” 40 ARLA | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | RESPECTFUL RELATIONS When the cocoa pods have been harvested they are opened and the beans are collected. The beans are then fermented to achieve the valuable cocoa taste before being dried, explains Mikael Horsbøll, marketing director at Cocio. Responsible cocoa production changes. If we don’t there is a great risk that they are forced Production in the Ivory Coast faces two basic difficulties: to let their own children work to earn money for the family. the cocoa farmers are paid little for their crops and yields This is why the UTZ programme works so well – yields are low. Farmers can only just survive on the fruits of are improving as is cocoa bean quality so the farmers are their labour and there is lack of knowledge of how good rewarded for the work they put into farming.” agricultural practices can increase yields of higher quality. “We have learned that cocoa growing has to be Cooperative makes farmers stronger achieved in a responsible way and that it has to provide an Another of Arla’s focus areas is that, as far as possible, the acceptable level of income. Only when these factors are cocoa should come from farmer-owned cooperatives, as this met, will social conditions, including child labour, improve,” structure provides the most transparent supply chain. The emphasises Mikael Horsbøll. “This is where UTZ Certified cooperatives pay farmers a fairer price and, in the long term, comes in.” support the building of financial stability for the individual UTZ’s overriding strategy is to improve the cocoa farmer. Today, for example, an individual farmer can be farmers’ financial situation and thereby make it possible persuaded to sell at a lower price to a travelling buyer from to continue to address environmental and social issues. whom he (or she) gets cash in hand, even though he knows To help support the process of certification, Arla’s main that he would get more for his crop if he sold it to the supplier runs a programme to develop, aid and support cooperative. The problem is that he might have to wait a improvement of the cocoa farmers’ social conditions. For week or more for his money. example, there are several local educational units with “It is very unfortunate that we are unable to guarantee mobile agricultural schools where farmers learn to develop that children will have no involvement in the production of and improve their production in terms of both better yield cocoa,” concludes Mikael Horsbøll, “however we are helping and quality. to make production sustainable for the farmers so that they can earn sufficient money from their work and avoid having Education is key to prosperity to make their children work.” There is clear evidence that the farmers who attend school are making progress quickly, simply by learning new techniques and improved working methods. Farmers who receive training also become more receptive to other types of knowledge, for example, that children should never lift heavy weights or be exposed to hazards. Children may help to carry out household or other light About Arla cocoa processing The bulk of Arla’s production of chocolate flavoured drinks takes duties but these should not prevent them from going to place at Arla’s subsidiary Cocio in Esbjerg, Denmark, and at Esbjerg school, because gaining an education is most important. dairy. The products are marketed under brands such as Matilde®, “When you talk to the farmers, you realise that they, Cocio® and Pucko®. like us, want the best for their children and that they know In addition to its main supplier, Arla works with other suppliers what is best for them. They want their children to go to which provide smaller volumes of Arla’s cocoa. school, they don’t want them to work in the fields but they UTZ Certified have had no choice and no opportunity to improve the For more information about situation for themselves.” UTZ Certified, visit “It is clear that we have to support them to make www.utzcertified.org. RESPECTFUL RELATIONS | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 41 Which market is mentioned where? The table below shows where information about a specific Arla market or subsidiary can be found in this report. Chapter Page DK UK SE DE NL FI Other Business principles 6–7 ● ● ● ● Operational principles 8–9 ● ● ● ● ● Belgium, Luxembourg Case study – owners 10–11 ● ● Procurement 12–13 ● ● ● ● Dairy Fruit, Cocio China Market conduct 14–15 ● ● ● ● ● ● Rynkeby Foods China, Russia, Bangladesh, Nigeria, USA, Canada, UAE, Oman, Qatar Food safety 18–19 ● ● ● ● Rynkeby Foods, Dairy Fruit China, Canada, USA Food and health 20–21 ● ● ● ● ● Arla Foods Ingredients, Cocio China Case study 22–23 ● ● ● ● Spain – milk and health Environment 26–27 ● ● ● ● Cocio and climate USA Case study 28–29 ● ● ● ● ● Canada – food waste Agriculture 30–31 ● ● ● ● China, Belgium, Luxembourg Workplace 34–35 ● ● ● ● ● Middle East, Africa Community relations 36–37 ● ● ● ● ● ● Rynkeby Foods Belgium, Luxembourg, Dominican Republic, Honduras, Bangladesh, Poland, Spain, Canada, Russia, Saudi Arabia Human rights 38–39 ● ● ● ● ● ● Arla Foods Ingredients Saudi Arabia, Nigeria, Bangladesh, Poland Case study – cocoa 40–41 ● ● Cocio RESPONSIBLE COMPANY | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 42 Arla supports the Global Compact Five years ago, Arla signed up to the Global Compact, the UN initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a member, we are committed to observing the Global Compact’s 10 fundamental principles. The table below shows where the content of this report relates to the 10 principles of the Global Compact. The Global Compact principles Businesses should… Arla Examples Page Human Rights 1. support and respect the protection of Business principles 6–7 internationally proclaimed human rights; and Procurement 12–13 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human Food and health 20–21 rights abuses. Workplace 34–35 Community relations 36–37 Human rights 38–39 Case study 40–41 Labour 3. uphold the freedom of association and the Business principles 6–7 effective recognition of the right to collective Procurement 12–13 bargaining; Workplace 34–35 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and Human rights 38–39 compulsory labour; Case study 40–41 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. support a precautionary approach to Business principles 6–7 environmental challenges; Procurement 12–13 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater Market conduct 14–15 environmental responsibility; and Environment and climate 26–27 Case study 28–29 9. encourage the development and diffusion of Agriculture 30–31 environmentally friendly technologies. Anti10. work against corruption in all its forms, Business principles 6–7 corruption including extortion and bribery. Since 2008, Arla has been a member of the Global Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Compact’s Nordic Network, and in May 2009, Arla Principles, an initiative from the Global Compact and signed up to Caring for Climate, a voluntary and UNIFEM (the UN Development Fund for Women). complementary action platform, which seeks to Read more about the Global Compact and its demonstrate leadership around the issue of climate principles at www.unglobalcompact.org, and more change. In 2010, Arla’s CEO Peder Tuborgh signed a CEO about Arla’s Code of Conduct at www.arla.com. RESPONSIBLE COMPANY | OUR RESPONSIBILITY 2012 | ARLA 43 Arla Foods amba Sønderhøj 14 DK-8260 Viby J. Phone +45 89 38 10 00 Email arla@arlafoods.com www.arla.com
