2012 sustainability report The Company ALFA comprises five business groups: Alpek (petrochemicals), Nemak (high-tech aluminum auto components), Sigma (refrigerated food), Alestra (telecommunications and information technologies), and Newpek (natural gas and hydrocarbons). ALFA is the largest producer of aluminum engine components for the automotive industry in the world, and one of the world’s largest producers of polyester (PTA, PET and fibers). In addition, it leads the Mexican market in petrochemicals such as polypropylene, EPS and caprolactam. It is the leading maker of processed meats in North America, and of cheeses in Mexico, as well as in the telecommunications and information technologies (TI) services for the business segment in this country. ALFA uses natural gas as a source for 90% of the energy consumed in its operations. It is the largest processor of recycled aluminum in North America and one of the largest in the world. Partner in one of the largest PET container recycling plants in North America. Sponsors ALFA Planetarium, one of Mexico’s leading interactive museums, which welcomes more than 320,000 visitors a year. Letter from the Chairman of the Board and the PRESIDENT For the ninth consecutive year, we are pleased to share our company’s Sustainability Report with you. This document outlines the most important actions taken in 2012 to continue operating in a responsible and sustainable manner. Even though the world’s financial environment was difficult in 2012, our companies performed well by benefiting from the trends in the markets we serve, particularly the automotive industry and consumer products in the U.S. and Mexico. We made substantial progress in the area of sustainability. Our priority continued to be the health, safety and development of our employees. We strengthened wellness, nutrition and safety programs. As a result, in 2012 we reduced the Our Sustainability Committee served as a central forum frequency rate and seriousness of accidents in our plants. for generating ideas, creating synergies, transferring best practices among the ALFA companies, and working to In order to increase the impact of its actions in the strengthen a long-term sustainability strategy. We also community, ALFA Foundation launched a major educational published our Code of Ethics to reinforce the ethical values project in Monterrey, Mexico. It is aimed at supporting and business philosophy that we have practiced since this the academic development of young people through the company was founded. stimulation and reinforcement of their preparation, so that they are better suited to successfully complete their studies. This coming year presents major challenges. Economically, the global scenario for 2013 remains uncertain. We worked on running increasingly cleaner operations. Our Environmentally, new regulations in some countries and energy efficiency and emission reduction programs, in place the decreasing availability of water in certain regions have for several years, continued to bear fruit. In Veracruz, Mexbecome increasingly important issues. ico, we began building the first of three power and steam cogeneration plants that will make us even more efficient. Nevertheless, we at ALFA firmly believe that challenges are also opportunities which we must capitalize with effort, Also, we started up two major water and waste managededication and perseverance. These attitudes have been ment projects. To improve our performance regarding water the pillars of our work ethics throughout our history and comsumption, we created the ALFA Water Committee. have enabled us to attain a position of leadership and Regarding waste management, three more DAK Americas commitment as a responsible corporate citizen, in the plants reached the “zero waste” objective, while four ALFA interests of our employees, of the clients that honor us with plants in Mexico began pilot programs of the same type. their preference, and the communities that welcome us. San Pedro Garza García, N.L., Mexico, January 31, 2013 Armando Garza Sada Álvaro Fernández Garza Chairman of the Board of Directors President 1 global footprint revenues: u.S. $15,152 million employees: 59,847 2 ALFA comprises five business groups: The largest private The largest producer The leading company A leading company Company engaged petrochemical comof aluminum engine in the processed in the telecomin the exploration pany in Mexico. The components for the meats market in munications and and exploitation of leading producer automotive industry North America. The IT services for the natural gas and of polyester (PTA, in the world. leading producer of business segment in hydrocarbons. PET and fibers) in cheese in Mexico. Mexico. North America. highlights Operates the largest plant of expandable Plants: highlights highlights polystyrene (EPS) 34, in 14 countries Plants: Presence: in the Americas. 34 and 133 distribu200 cities Sole producer of Capacity: tion centers, in in Mexico polypropylene and 48 million nine countries equivalent Employees: caprolactam in heads per year clients: 1,748 Mexico. 440,000 Employees: 20,099 highlights Capacity: 1.25 million tons Plants: per year 20, in three countries Employees: Capacity: 29,022 6.5 million tons per year Employees: 4,675 3 our SUSTAINABILITY VISION For ALFA, generating value through sustainable development is fundamental to the growth GLOBAL COMPACT Since its founding in 1974, ALFA has of the company. In addition to creating assumed the commitment of being a economic value, ALFA seeks to promote the responsible company toward its associates, well-being and advancement of its employees the community and the environment. In pursuit of this principle, every year since 2006 and communities, and to operate in harmony ALFA has signed the UN Global Compact, an with nature. ALFA has followed this principle initiative that promotes social and economic for almost 40 years, and is convinced this development, as well as universal values. ALFA is committed to keep on carrying out is the only way to build a more promising its activities within the framework of the ten environment for current and future generations. principles of the UN Global Compact. ALFA’s sustainability efforts are based on four pillars: To reach adequate business returns, ECONOMIC commensurate to the investments made and the risks taken. INTERNAL To promote the health, safety and WELL-BEING development of employees. COMMUNITY To be a responsible citizen towards the community. ENVIRONMENT To reduce emissions into the air, soil and water. 4 MISsioN Become a source of pride for our workers and VALues shareholders; exceed stakeholder expectations Integrity Our actions are governed by our commitment to ethical conduct and social through leadership, innovation and long-term responsibility. exceptional performance. Respect and Empathy We consider diversity as a strength. We seek to VISIoN incorporate individuals with different backgrounds and experiences. We aspire to provide a work environment that promotes trust and cooperation. Commitments with our stakeholders: Stockholders Achieve outstanding long-term Results Oriented We are committed to value creation and to the continuous improvalue creation through profitable growth, continuvement of our businesses. All our employees ous portfolio optimization and careful investment embody a personal commitment to improin new opportunities. ving the performance of the company. Employees Be a great place to work. Attract Innovation and Entrepreneurial and develop the best talent, motivating them to achieve their full potential. Approach Encourage and reward innovation and development of new business CLIENTS Exceed expectations with superior expeopportunities. riences and innovative offerings. Client Based Dedicated to exceeding our Suppliers Build long lasting mutually beneficial clients’ needs. relationships. Community Encourage safe and sustainable operations. Contribute to the development of our communities. CODE OF ETHICS In 2012, ALFA formally drafted and released its Code of Ethics. This document explicitly establishes guidelines for the behavior it expects from its companies and employees. The Code is available at www.alfa.com.mx clients EMPLOYEES Stakeholders ALFA promotes a close working relationship STocKHOLDERS with all its stakeholders, and is convinced that its development is directly linked to these groups. The company strives to maintain an ongoing dialogue with each group, in order to understand and respond to their concerns and establish initiatives for mutual benefit. SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY 5 to the full advancement of our employees At ALFA, sustainability begins at home, with its own employees. ALFA recognizes the contribution its employees make to achieve the company’s goals, and is aware that without their efforts it could not have built its present state nor aspire to a better future. The company strives to provide them with a safe and secure workplace environment, opportunities for advancement, and a healthy balance between work and family life. 18.4% reduction in the accident rate and 9.2% in the frequency rate. 2,909 courses and 27 average man-hours of training to develop the skills and potential of employees. 3,494 children of ALFA employees received company support for their studies. 6 Health and safety • Polioles Altamira, DAK Americas Cosoleacaque and DAK Americas Argentina completed their fifth, third and third years, respectively, free of lost time injuries. • Nine work centers completed a year or more with no lost time injuries. Development and training • Sigma University has 13 schools offering 11 programs, 10 workshops and 36 clinics that provide service to all areas of the company. Work-family balance • 24 Sigma work centers received the “Family-Responsible Company” award. • 30,000 participants in sporting, social, cultural and family development events organized by Nemak Mexico. employees by gender Equal opportunities 22% • Programs like the Equal Employment Opportunity Policy at WOMEN DAK Americas and Incorporation of Women and Inclusive Business at Nemak Mexico demonstrate ALFA’s commitment to build an increasingly inclusive workforce. 78% MEN 265 people with disabilities worked at ALFA in 2012, 114 more than the previousyear.NemakBrazilledthis number with 68, and Sigma with 67. 7 TO the QUALITY OF LIFE OF OUR COMMUNITY ALFA encourages a relationship of trust with the communities where it operates, striving for mutual benefit in all cases. The company promotes the development of the community through various initiatives, such as support for educational institutions and social programs, as well as volunteer work. In this way ALFA contributes to the goal of generating sustainable development. 15,000 students benefited through alfa’s support of 123 schools. 5,273 people participated in community events organized by ALFA. 3,964 man-hours of communityworkwere contributed by 1,223 ALFA employees in support of disadvantaged communities. Community engagement • Nemak Canada and Nemak Wisconsin supported the United Way, while Nemak Tennessee participated in Habitat for Humanity and the Food Drive initiatives, focused on building homes and collecting food for poor families, respectively. 8 Education • 114 collaboration and research agreements with universities and technical schools, benefiting 1,313 students. • 704 outstanding students completed their internship at ALFA work centers in 2012, 53 more than in 2011. Community development • 700 community members benefited from events held by Nemak Argentina, and 500 students took part in the Nemak soccer tournament organized by Nemak Hungary. Social programs • 847,402 tons of Sigma products donated to the Food Bank. • $6’960,189 Mexican pesos donated by Sigma and its employees to the Teleton in Mexico, an institution that helps children with physical disabilities. 51 social assistance institutionssupported by ALFA companies. 9 to environmental care ALFA develops strategies for reducing the impact of its operations on the environment. In 2012, it continued to promote energy efficiency and emission reduction programs. Moreover, it began projects to improve performance in water management and waste disposal. Waste management • Three more DAK Americas plants in the U.S. (Cedar Creek, Cooper River and Columbia) reached the “zero waste” goal in 2012. • Four ALFA plants in Mexico (Nemak, Polioles Lerma, Terza and Sigma Noreste) began waste elimination pilot programs. Recycling • 483,000 tons of recycled aluminum were used in Nemak processes. This avoided the emission of 4.83 million tons of CO2, equivalent to the emissions of 1.89 million cars in one year. • Clear Path Recycling, a joint venture between DAK Americas and Shaw Industries in the U.S., recycled 54,432 tons of PET containers, saving 327,000 m³ of sanitary landfill and 1.1x106 GJ, equivalent to the consumption of 11,370 U.S. households. Value chain • Nemak Mexico and Sigma took part in the Environmental Leadership Program for Competitiveness, whose objective is to increase efficiency and competitiveness of small and mid-sized businesses through environmental efficiency projects. Sigma led this effort, involving 57 of its suppliers, and Nemak Mexico brought this project to 11 suppliers. Environmental awareness • 44 schools and 5,000 students celebrated Earth Day, an event organized by DAK Americas, in which employees offered talks and information about the benefits of recycling. • 6,635 employees of Nemak Mexico participated in conferences, exhibitions and presentations on the subject of recycling and biodiversity, offered by the company as part of its Health, Safety and Environmental Management System. 10 ENERGY • In 2012, ALFA consumed 32.9x106 GJ of energy from the use of fossil fuel, of which 90% was generated with natural gas, the cleanest fuel source. In 2010 and 2011, these percentages were 78% and 85%, respectively. 2012 2011 Energy consumption 32.9x106 GJ 31.0X106 GJ Emissions • 4.7x106 GJ of energy saved through energy efficiency proj• ALFA began building a dedicated power ects, 7% more than in 2011. This is the equivalent of the and steam cogenerating plant in Veracruz, consumption of 449,943 Mexican households in one year. Mexico, which will generate energy more • Alestra introduced the “Green Grid Guidelines” standard efficiently and cleanly. With a capacity of at its data centers, including a switch to movement-activat97 MW, this plant will avoid the emission ed LED lighting and the isolation of cold and hot corridors, of 100,000 tons of CO2 a year, equivalent to among others, saving a total of 600,000 kWh in the year. taking 46,000 automobiles off the road in the same period. Tons CO2 2012 2011 Direct 2’356,623 1’980,000 Indirect 1’691,347 1’615,000 Total 4’047,970 3’595,000 Biodiversity • Wildlife at Work certified the DAK Americas Cape Fear plant for its wildlife habitat management program, which has 100 refuges for birds of different species. • Petrotemex Mexico has 300 hectares of buffer zones, which have been preserved and reforested to continue functioning as a natural habitat. water • 40 wastewater treatment plants processed 22,464 m³ of liquid, equivalent to the consumption of 281,500 people during one year 11 to educational support In 2011, this institution sponsored by ALFA and its companies, redefined its goals and strategies to focus its efforts on the area of education, aware that this is the most efficient way to transform the future of society. 157 educationalandsocial assistance institutions supported by the foundation. 77 events held by the ALFA Planetarium. 323,112 visitors including 103,353 school children. 12 As a result, in addition to supporting teaching institutions at all levels and regions, the company launched an important educational project aimed at empowering and maximizing the efforts of talented youngsters in high school who live in disadvantaged areas in Monterrey, Mexico. In 2012, the characteristics and scope of this project were set forth in detail. Phase one of this project will start up in the first half of 2013, attending its first group of students. In this phase, extracurricular centers will be created where youngsters can receive additional preparation to complement their academic work. Through these centers, ALFA Foundation seeks to strengthen the development of young students’ many capacities. More than 70,000 plastic bottlecaps were donated by visitors to ALFA Planetarium, to create a 58 m² mural called “Water and Us”, in celebration of the “UN International Year of Water Cooperation in 2013”. The bottlecaps were later recycled and the proceeds went to support child chemotherapy treatment through AMANEC, A.C. Dinosaurs: eggs and babies An interactive experience in which the public got a first-hand look at the prehistoric world through exploration stations and observation of dinosaur fossils, nests and eggs. The experience included a paleontology course for children. Matisse Picasso A workshop through which visitors learned about two of the most important artists of the 20th century, visited their studios, and discovered their art and pictorial innovation through interactive activities that helped them understand their creative process. Curious George “Let’s Explore” This interactive temporary exhibition encourages kids’ natural curiosity while they experiment and explore basic concepts of mathematics, science and engineering, just like the famous children’s book character “Curious George”. 13 GRI index GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported Strategy and analysis 1.1 Statement from See 2012 Sustainability Report, page 1. Fully Chairman of the Board and the President. Importance of Sustainability for ALFA For ALFA, operating under a sustainable development outline is fundamental to its viability and long-term business growth. In addition to creating economic value, ALFA promotes the development and well being of its employees and communities, as well as operating in harmony with nature. Strategic priorities and key issues Employees • To offer a healthy, safe and inclusive workplace. • To offer opportunities for personal and professional growth. Community • To support education particularly. • To operate in safe facilities. • To elaborate healthy food products. Environment • To reduce carbon and water footprints of its manufacturing operations. • Waste reduction. Broader trends MExico • The possibility of stricter environmental legislation in the future, hence leading to a forced reduction of emissions. • A possible significant reduction in water availability. WORLD • Climate change process. • Compliance with international standards on environmental, health and nutrition issues, and so forth. Main events, accomplishments and failures Events • The economic situation in Europe caused a lesser growth in the Eurozone. • American automotive industry continued to recover. • The change in the Mexican federal government. Accomplishments (ALFA) • Favorable financial results. • Alpek issued public shares (IPO). • Nemak acquired American company J.L. French. • Natural gas and hydrocarbon business continued to grow. • Construction of an energy cogeneration plant began. • ALFA signed two contracts to provide Pemex with oil exploitation services in Mexico. Strategy: ALFA aims to capitalize on its strengths to capture growth opportunities in existing and related businesses, through organic growth or acquisitions, with the goal to create value to its stakeholders. Challenges and goals Short term • To consolidate recent incursion markets. • To maintain a healthy financial condition. • To continue gaining experience in the hydrocarbon industry. • To continue improving energetic efficiency in its operations. • To continue developing innovative and sustainable products. MID TERM (3 5) To continue participating in markets where a leadership position can be reached and maintained. To increase cost-competitiveness based on human talent and cutting-edge technology. 14 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported 1.2 Description of key Most significant impacts Stakeholder Fully impacts, risks, and opportunities. • To eliminate industrial and workplace accidents. Employees, community • Polluting emissions (air, ground and water). Community, environment • Water consumption. Community, environment Main challenges Stakeholder • To eliminate industrial and workplace accidents. Employees, community • Emissions reduction. Community, environment • Water management improvement. Community, environment Main opportunities Stakeholder • Reinforcement of safety equipment and programs. Employees, community • To explore cleaner and/or renewable energy sources. Environment, community • Reducing non-renewable raw material consumption; Environment, community boosting recycling. Employees, community • Continuous support to education programs. Company’s priorities • Investments and occupational security and health proSecurity equipment investing grams. Preventive health programs • Energy efficiency project and emission reduction. Training programs • Aluminum, PET and water recycling programs. Cogeneration plants and cleaner energies usage • Education and environmental support. Water consumption optimization Aluminum and PET recycling. Investing in water treatment plants ALFA Foundation Support to schools and vulnerable groups Risks and opportunities in the next 3-5 years and their impact on ALFA’S COMPANIES • Slow economic growth. • Less availability and/or cost increase on of raw materials and goods. • Difficulty to obtain financing and/or increased interest rates. • Stricter environmental regulations. Opportunities • Growth through mergers and acquisitions in relevant markets. • Add value to products and services. • Boost sustainable products innovation. • Enter new business ventures where ALFA’s expertise and capabilities can be capitalized. Strategies to address such risks in a 3-5 years span • Growth in current or related businesses. • Hedge contracts, negotiation to transfer cost increases to the client, global sourcing. • Energy efficiency projects, raw material and feedstock recycling. • Innovation/added value products and services development, new technologies. • Maintaining adequate financial health. Internal governance mechanisms to address such risks • Constant review of business strategy and, when appropriate, adapt it to the new circumstances. • Risk Management Committee. • Policies issuing and reviewing. • Greater impulse in the energy, innovation, sustainability and human resources areas. • To improve dialog with stakeholders. 15 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported Organizational profile 2.1 Name of the ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. Fully organization. 2.2 Primary brands, Business groups and products Fully products, and/or services. Group Main products and services Brands Alpek Polyester (PTA, PET and fibers), plastics Laser, Melinar, Delcron, Dacron, Styropor, Hydrotec, and specialty chemicals (polypropylene, Profax, Valtec, Terza, Luxor. EPS, polyurethanes and caprolactam). Nemak Aluminum heads and blocks for gas and Nemak. diesel engines; transmission parts. Sigma Processed meats, cheese, yogurt and FUD, San Rafael, Chimex, Iberomex, Tangamanga, prepared meals. San Antonio, Zar, Chen, Braedt, La Villita, Chalet, Yoplait, Guten, Sosúa, Checo, Norteñita, Bar-S, Zar. Alestra Data centers, Cloud applications, inforAlestra. mation security, managed networks and consultancy services, vertical applications for specific industries. Newpek Natural gas and hydrocarbons. 2.3 Operational structure Percentage of ALFA’s ownership in its businesses: Alpek 85%; Nemak 92.5%; Sigma 100%; Alestra 100%; Fully of the organization, Newpek 100%. In addition, it has four corporate support areas: Development, Legal and Institutional Relations, including main Finance and Human Capital. divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, Joint Ventures: and joint ventures. Polioles (ALFA 51%, BASF 49%) Nemak (ALFA 92.5% Ford 7.5%) Indelpro (ALFA 51% Basell 49%) Temex (ALFA 91.5% and BP 8.5%) Terza (ALFA 51%, Shaw Industries 49%) 2.4 Organization’s headAve. Gómez Morín 1111 sur, Col. Carrizalejo, San Pedro Garza García, N.L. Mexico. C.P. 66254. Fully quarters. 2.5 Number of countries Mexico, Argentina, United States, Germany, Austria, Brazil, Canada, China, Slovakia, Spain, Hungary, India, Poland, Fully where the organization Czech Republic, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Peru, Dominican Republic (18 countries total). operates, and names of countries with either major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. 2.6 Nature of ownership ALFA, S.A.B. de C.V. is a stock limited company with variable capital, whose regulations comply with Mexico’s laws Fully and legal form. on Mercantile Corporations and the Stock Market. 2.7 Markets served ALFA’s products serve mainly the food and beverage, automotive, packaging, textile, construction, furniture, teleFully (including geographic communications and energy sectors. Their main markets are located in Mexico, United States, Germany and Brazil. breakdown, sectors served, and types Market presence of customers/ beneficiaries). Geographical Industry fields Costumers types zone North, Central and Food and beverages, autoFood and beverage bottles, containers and packaging South America, motive, packaging, textile, manufacturers; construction companies and contractors; Europe and Asia. construction, telecommuninylon manufacturers. cations, energy. Automotive parts manufacturers. Retail, supermarkets and convenience stores. Information and telecommunications market for the corporate sector. 2.8 Scale of the reporting Employees 59,847 by december 31st, 2012 Fully organization. Total operations See pages 2 and 3 on Sustainabilty Report 2012 Revenues USD $15,152 million Total capitalization in terms of debt and See 2012 Annual Report: http://informe.alfa.com.mx/ equity ia/2012/ Total products and services rendered See page 3 on 2012 Sustainability Report Total assets USD $11,827million 16 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported 2.9 Significant changes Alpek listed shares in the Mexican Stock Market. Fully during the reporting Nemak acquired American company J.L. French. period regarding size, Alpek refinanced debt with bond issue to international markets. structure, or ownership. Alestra extended its telecommunications network. Newpek connected 135 new hydrocarbons wells to sales. ALFA signed two contracts to provide Pemex with services on oil exploration and exploitation. 2.10 Awards received in the See back cover of 2012 Sustainability Report. Fully reporting period. Report parameters 3.1 Reporting period for ALFA’s sustainability activities from January 1st to december 31st, 2012. Fully information provided. 3.2 Date of most recent Published on february 29th, 2012. Reports activities from january 1st to december 31st, 2011. Fully previous report (if any). 3.3 Reporting cycle. Annual. Fully 3.4 Contact point for Enrique Flores R. ALFA Vice President of Corporate Communications eflores@alfa.com.mx Ph. (52) 81 8748Fully questions. 1207. 3.5 Process for defining See About This Report, page 32. Fully report content. 3.6 Boundary of the report See About This Report, page 32. Fully (countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, JV, suppliers). 3.7 State any specific See About This Report, page 32. Fully limitations on the scope of the report. 3.8 Basis for reporting on See About This Report, page 32. Fully joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. 3.9 Data measurement See About This Report, page 32. Fully techniques and the bases of calculations for the Indicators and other information in the report. 3.10 Explanation of the See About This Report, page 32. Fully effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons for such re-statement. 3.11 Significant changes See About This Report, page 32. Fully from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 3.12 Table of the Standard See pages 14 31. Fully Disclosures in the report. 3.13 Policy and current The 2012 Report was externally verified by Universidad Anáhuac. Attached to this document is the Letter of Fully practice with regard to Verification. Moreover, attached as well is the Letter of Verification by GRI (GRI Check), which validates the present seeking external assudocument with a B+ level. rance for the report. 17 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported Governance, commitments and engagement 4.1 Governance structure 2011 2012 Fully of the organization, including committees The Board consists of The Board of Directors comprises 11 proprietary members who have not alternates. under the highest 12 regular members Each member was chosen based on their academic background, professionalism, governance body without deputies. business records and consistency with ALFA’s values.The 100% of Board members are responsible for specific male, of Mexican nationality, and among 50 to 65 years old. Average age is 55. No tasks, such as setting other diversity indicators are shown. strategy or organizational oversight. In order to correctly perform its duties, three committees assist the Board of Directors n: a) Audit; b) Corporate Practices; and c) Planning and Finance. Each committee is headed by an independent board member and they meet from four to six times a year to discuss relevant matters. All board members participate in at least one of such committees. The Audit and the Corporate Practices committees are formed by independent members only. The three committees follow up on topics related to the company’s social and environmental performance. The Audit Committee examines and makes recommendations to the Board on matters such as the external auditor selection and their fees, coordination with the company’s internal audit department and the analysis of accounting policies, among others. ALFA has internal control systems with general guidelines. These are submitted to the Audit Committee for its opinion. Moreover, the external auditor validates the effectiveness of the internal control system and issues the corresponding reports. The Corporate Practices Committee makes recommendations to the Board in such matters as employment terms and severance payments for senior executives and compensation policies, among others. The Planning and Finance Committee evaluates all matters related to its particular area and issues recommendations to the Board on matters such as feasibility of investment, the company’s strategic positioning, alignment of investment and financing policies, and review of investment projects. The Human Capital and Audit department, as well as the Audit and Corporate Practices committees of the Board of Directors are responsible for monitoring the members of the Board’s ethical performance. Salary compensation for directors is set by comparing standards of companies similar in size and the industrial field in which they operate. 4.2 Indicate whether the The Chairman of the Board does not hold an executive position in the company. He is responsible of convening, Fully Chair of the highest preparing the agenda and presiding all meetings. Furthermore, he is responsible for the Board’s correct operation governance body is also and organizing annual assessments. an executive officer. 4.3 Number and gender of The Board of Directors consists of 11 members, 9 of which are independent. Fully members of the highest governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. 4.4 Mechanisms for shareCommunication channels between the Board of Directors and shareholders, including: Fully holders and employees • The Communications Department provides information and ongoing attention to shareholders through diverse to provide recommenforums, in addition to conveying their concerns to the Board of Directors. dations or direction to • Shareholders meetings. the highest governance • The Transparency Mailbox, which offers free access to shareholders and other audiences. body. Shareholders’ most relevant concerns (occupational, economic, environmental and social): • To achieve an attractive investment return. • To have a competitive business portfolio in attractive industries and sustained growth potential in the long term. • That ALFA adheres to the corporate governance guidelines. • That an appropriate and constant communication exists between shareholders and other stakeholders. • That ALFA fully complies with its obligations to pertinent authorities. Processes to learn about labor relations’ status: • Daily interaction between boss and subordinates. • Daily interaction with unions. • Organizational climate studies. Corporate committees or other employee representative bodies in a position to convey concerns and/or suggestions: In addition to unions, associations of employees exist to channel concerns and suggestions through their companies’ Human Resources departments and the Transparency Mailbox. What’s more, other media such as boss-subordinate interaction, union representation, internal publications, Intranet and bulletin boards are widely available. Employees’ most relevant concerns (occupational, economic, environmental and social): • To be offered with professional growth opportunities. • To be rewarded with a competitive wage in relation to their duties. • To work in an inclusive and participative organizational climate. • To work under evermore increasing health and safety conditions. 18 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported 4.5 Linkage between The Board members and senior executives’ compensation is set by comparing standards of companies similar in Fully compensation for size and the industrial field in which they operate. In the particular case of executives and managers, a portion of members of the hightheir monetary compensation is variable and is linked to their performance in their respective area, as well as their est governance body, achievements of previously set goals and the company’s results. senior managers, and executives. 4.6 Processes in place for ALFA holds a Conflict of Interests policy for the Board members and its employees. This policy states that Fully the highest governance responsibilities and duties of the members of the ALFA Board of Directors are governed under the Mexican Stock body to ensure conflicts Market Law (LMV, acronym in Spanish), under the applicable dispositions in Mexico to stock issuers, and taking of interest are avoided. into account the Mexican Stock Exchange Code of Professional Ethics, the Code of Better Corporate Practices and the internal regulations of the Mexican Stock Exchange, as well as ALFA’s Code of Ethics. In accordance with the aforementioned LMV, members of the Board have a duty of due diligence and thus should always act in good faith to society’s best interest. They should also maintain confidentiality in regard to the company’s information or public affairs, as well as to keep from participating or be present during deliberation and voting on issues that might pose a conflict of interest. By ordinance, those members of the ALFA Board of Directors who might have a conflict of interests in deciding over any matter are compelled to inform the Chairman and the rest of the Board, as well as to keep from participating in the discussions and from exercising their vote on board meetings. Regarding employees, ALFA’s policies state that they must avoid any situation in which their interests might differ from those of the company. All employees who might have interests or relations with current or potential clients and suppliers must immediately inform their superior. 4.7 Process for determining Members of the Board of Directors are elected based on their professionalism, business record, leadership, experiFully the composition, ence and compliance with ALFA’s code of values. qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body and its committees. 4.8 Internally developed 2011 2012 Fully statements of mission or values, codes of There was no How do these concepts pass through all levels of the organization? conduct, and principles global Code of There are several channels to circulate the Mission, Vision, Code of Values and the Code relevant to economic, Ethics for all ALFA. of Ethics, such as induction programs, values campaigns, Intranet and Internet websites environmental, and It was stablished and planning and results meetings, among others. social performance as a commitment and the status of their for 2012. How has the implementation of this philosophy impacted on the economics, implementation. the environment and the social? Economically, it has framed the business strategy that ALFA has been executing in recent years, which is to increase competitiveness of its businesses and to participate in markets where it can consolidate and/or have a strong leadership position in a global environment. On the environmental aspect, a greater effort in the preservation of the environment stands out, which has resulted in concrete actions like the creation of a Sustainability Committee, responsible for setting up a strategy and vision at ALFA, including effort coordination and monitoring of the companies in this regard. Socially, there’s a greater emphasis on linking ALFA to its communities, including the creation of ALFA Foundation and the design of a community support strategy especially focused on education. ALFA’s Code of Ethics embraces international standards such as those determined by the UN Global Pact. The commitment of creating and publishing a global Code of Ethics for all ALFA was fully complied. 4.9 Procedures of the The Board of Directors follows procedures consistent with those set by the corporate governance standards Fully highest governance established in Mexico’s Stock Exchange Law (LMV) and the Code for Better Corporate Practices. Moreover, the body for overseeing Board is supported by the Audit, Corporate Practices and Planning and Finance committees to review the strategy, the organization’s management and results of the company, including environmental and social issues. identification and management of economic, How are the risks and opportunities assessed? environmental, and Assessment is based on complying with ALFA’s business strategy criteria and investment policies: affairs related to social performance, and current operations, competitive position reinforcement, attractive markets (profitability and growth) and synergy adherence or compligeneration, among others. ance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. 4.10 Processes for evaluating There are several board members’ evaluation aspects, such as attendance at Board and their particular committee Fully the highest governance meetings, their involvement in strategic decision-making process as well as the effectiveness of such decisions. body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. 19 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported 4.11 Explanation of whether 1. Identified risks Fully and how the precautionary approach or Work-related principle is addressed • Workplace accidents. Due to the nature of their operations, some of ALFA’s companies handle raw materials, by the organization. products and processes that could pose a risk of an accident. • Strikes. Despite Human Resources programs and a zero-strikes or serious conflict record, this should always be regarded as a potential risk. Environmental • Emissions, spills or discharges that could potentially pollute air, land and water due to the nature of feedstock, products and processes, including their handling and transportation. • Post-purchase product cycle. Some of ALFA’s products like PET, polypropylene or polystyrene foam could pose a risk to the ecosystem. At Sigma, the sale of a food product not apt for human ingestion, for causes that could or could not be attributed to the company, might pose a risk to the consumer’s health. Community-related • Potential neighbors’ rejection of a plant’s operations due to emissions, explosions, traffic, life-quality detriment, etcetera. Economical • Changes in regulations. • Economic unpredictability. • Cyclic nature of some businesses. • Lesser availability of raw materials and feedstock like water and energy, and so forth. • Increased energy cost. 2. MEASURES THE COMPANY HAS TAKEN TO PREVENT SUCH RISKS Work-related • Noticeable boost to investments and programs on safety. • Work relations programs, including training, integral development of workers and their families, company-family relationship, competitive wages and benefits, as well as promoting an inclusive and participative, healthy work environment. Environmental • Investing in the best available process technology to reduce or eliminate emissions. • Investments to promote final product recycling (PET recycling plant). • Complying with regulations set by authorities, suppliers and industry sectors. • Promoting an environmental culture, in and outside the company. Community-related • Promoting the company’s proactive involvement in programs that benefit the community. • Supporting communities with volunteer groups in case of natural disasters and other contingency situation • Boosting ALFA Foundation’s education support. • Participating in community interest initiatives and events (i.e., schools improvement, health clinics, and so forth). Economical • Constant business strategy revision and update. • Search for feedstock and substitute materials or self-sufficiency. • Boost innovation and technological development. 4.12 Externally developed Social Environmental Economical Fully economic, environmental, and social charters, From 2012 onwards, the • Liderazgo Ambiental para la Competi• Job generation. principles, or other greater focus of ALFA’s efforts tividad (Environmental Leadership for • Investments in technology initiatives to which the has been on education, with Competitiveness, Monterrey, Mexico). development centers. organization subscribes contributions made out to: • Adopt a Highway (NC, U.S.) • Participation in Corporate or endorses. • UDEM, ITESM, Mano Amiga. • Comité Local de Ayuda Mutua (CLAM, Chambers and Associations. • Teletón and Food Banks. Mutual Aid Local Committee). • Suppliers Development • Red Sumarse. • Working mainly on reducing the water Program. • ANSPAC. and carbon footprint. Some examples are: • Movimiento Congruencia. • Cleaner energies–energetic efficiency • UN Global Pact. programs. • ALFA Planetarium. • Zero Waste Programs. • Welfare and charitable • Recycling (Aluminum, PET). institutions (Cáritas, orphan• Water-treating facilities. ages). • Nature reserves preservation. • Ecological culture circulation. 20 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported 4.13 Memberships in associ• Consejo Coordinador Empresarial (CCE) ations (such as industry • Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana (COPARMEX) associations) and/or • Cámara Nacional de la Industria de Transformación (CAINTRA) national/international • Consejo Mexicano de Hombres de Negocios (CMHN) advocacy organizations, • Consejo Empresarial Mexicano de Comercio Exterior, Inversión y Tecnología (COMCE) and how the organiza• Consejo Cívico de Instituciones de Nuevo León (CCINLAC) tion participates in • Asociación Nacional de la Industria Química (ANIQ) them (as governance • Instituto Mexicano de Ejecutivos de Finanzas (IMEF) bodies, projects or • Asociación Pro Superación Personal A.C. (ANSPAC) committees, providers • Comisión de Estudios del Sector Privado para el Desarrollo Sustentable (CESPEDES) of substantive funds). • Asociación de Industriales del Sur de Tamaulipas, A.C. (AISTAC) • Alianza Verde Automotriz • Comité Local de Ayuda Mutua (CLAM) • Centro para la Integración y Desarrollo de la Industria Automotriz (CIDIAC) • Confederación de Cámaras Industriales (CONCAMIN) • Cámara Nacional de la Industria de la Transformación (CANACINTRA) • Cámara Nacional de Industriales de la Leche (CANILEC) • Consejo Mexicano de la Industria de Productos de Consumo (CONMEXICO) • Asociación Nacional de Establecimientos TIF, A.C. (ANETIF) • Consejo para el Fomento de la Calidad de la Leche y sus Derivados (COFOCALEC) • Asociación Nacional de Transporte Privado (ANTP) • Asociación Mexicana de Bancos de Alimentos (AMBA) • Ejecutivos de Relaciones Industriales, A.C. • Cluster Automotriz (CLAUT) • Consejo Nacional de Autoregulamiento Publictario (CONAR, Brazil) • National Associate for PET Containers Resources (U.S.A.) • Manufacturers and Chemical Industry Council of NC (Carolina del Norte, U.S.) • National Right-to-Work Legal Foundation Employers’ Association (U.S.) • American Foundry Association (U.S.) • IHK Dillingen (Cámara Nacional de Comercio, Germany) • Barren County Chamber of Commerce (Kentucky, U.S.) • Association of China Casting (China) • Cámara de Comercio Exterior (Argentina) • Cámara de Industriales Metalúrgicos (Argentina) • Asociación Argentina de Componentes (Argentina) • Silesian Union of Private Employers (Poland) • Slovak Society for Quality (Slovakia) • Slovak Association for Maintenance (Slovakia) • Automotive Industry Association (Slovakia) • Slovak Centrum of Productivity (Slovakia) • Society Human Resources (Tennessee, U.S.) • Tennessee Chamber of Commerce (Tennessee, U.S.) • Sheboygan Chamber of Commerce (Wisconsin, U.S.) • Confederación Patronal de la República Mexicana (COPARMEX) • Cámara Nacional de la Industria de Transformación (CAINTRA) • Asociación Nacional de la Industria Química (ANIQ) • Red Sumarse en Nuevo León • Movimiento Congruencia • National Associate for PET Containers Resources (U.S.) • The PET Resin Association (U.S.) • National Council of Textile Organizations (NCTO, U.S.) • America Fiber Manufacturers Association (AFMA, U.S.) • Carolinas Air Pollution Control Association (CAPCA) • Association of the Nonwoven Fabrics Industry (India) • Association of the Hungarian Automotive Industry (Hungary) • Association of Hungarian Foundries (Hungary) • Asociación Brasileña de la Fundición (ABIFA, Brazil) • Cluster Automotriz (CLAUT) • Centro para la Integración y Desarrollo de la Industria Automotriz (CIDIAC) A number of the companies’ executives participate in the corporate governance bodies of some of these organizations, although not in all. The economic contributions that ALFA, its companies or executives and employees grant these organizations do not exceed what their other partners normally give out. 21 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported 4.14 List of stakeholder Shareholders, clients, employees, community and suppliers. Fully groups engaged by the organization. 4.15 Basis for identification The process to define ALFA’s stakeholders is based on the following chriteria: ALFA considers every person or Fully and selection of stakeinstituiton affected and impacted directly or indirectly by the company’s operations. holders with whom to Said affectations and impacts are mainly linked to labor, financial, commercial, government, community and engage. environmental relations stablished by the company in the performance of its functions towards said groups. Under this chriteria, each business unit defines its own stakeholders, which at ALFA’s level are: employees, shareholders, suppliers, clients and community. 4.16 Approaches to stakeThe vast majority of ALFA’S companies maintain an open and constant dialogue with their stakeholders. The Fully holder engagement, criteria is that all stakeholders are important and deserve to be heard in a timely manner. The relationship including frequency of with them is always carried in a professional, ethical and transparent way. Frequency of contact depends engagement by type on the audience and its particular situation. The company, however, keeps an open door policy for all their and by stakeholder stakeholders. In 2012, new channels to communicate with the audiences were devised. For example, ALFA, group. Sigma and Alestra now make use of social media —Facebook and Twitter— to constantly publish data and articles. See paragraph 4.17. 4.17 Key topics and concerns Audience Relevant media Frequency Concerns Response Fully that have been raised through stakeholder Shareholders Results meetings Quarterly, annual Attractive investment Investing in business engagement, and how E-mail Continuous return. with potential growth the organization has Direct phone lines Continuous Competitive business and profitability. responded to those key Board meetings Bimonthly portfolio in attracCompetitiveness topics and concerns, Bulletins Continuous tive industries with boost. including through its growth potential. Adherence to reporting. Adherence to corporate governance corporate governance practices. Response: practices. Compliance with Constant cothe Mexican Stock mmunication with Exchange Law (LMV) shareholders. and the Code for Better Corporate Practices. Communications and Industrial Relations Departments. Clients and Visits to plants Continuous More efficient and Development of consumers E-mail Continuous innovative products added value products Satisfaction surveys Periodical at a fair price. and services. 01 800 lines Continuous Fairs Continuous Focus groups Continuous Employees and Organizational climate Periodical Safe working Safety programs their families surveys conditions Benefit programs and Transparency mailbox Continuous Competitive wages wage reviews Meetings Continuous and benefits Education and Ethics Committee Continuous Growth training programs Training Continuous opportunities/ career Family development Human Resources Continuous plans programs Communication Annual Life balance forums Continuous Intranet Periodical Bulletins Communities Discussion panels and Bimonthly Less polluting Emission reduction perception surveys emisions programs Neighborly visits and Periodical Industrial safety Investing in safer dialogue Sustainable/biodeequipment and E-mail Continuous gradable products technologies Website Continuous Plants events Continuous Suppliers Suppliers portal Continuous Development support Suppliers’ Meetings Continuous Development Purchases department Periodical program surveys Audits Periodical E-mail Continuous 22 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported EC Economic EC1 Direct economic 2011 (U.S. $ million) 2012 (U.S. $ million) Partially value generated and distributed, including Revenues 14,728 15,152 revenues, operating costs, employee comAssets 10,816 11,827 pensation, donations Capital investments 1,362 874 and other community investments, retained Paid taxes 372 119 earnings, and payments to capital providers and Dividends 138 162 governments. Payments to suppliers 138 11 Direct economic value generated 14,740 15,196 Economic value retained 250 408 Direct jobs 57,000 59,847 EC2 Financial implications See Statement from the Chairman of the Board and CEO, page 1 Sustainability Report 2012. Fully and other risks and Complement: Climate change is subject to the company’s attention given the possible consequences it may opportunities for the have on the availability of feedstock and certain resources used by the company, like energy and water. In this organization’s activities regard, ALFA has implemented strategies that aim to reduce their carbon and water footprint through a more due to climate change. efficient and sustainable operation. EC3 Coverage of the organiRetirement plans, education support and medical assistance are available to all plant employees. The retirement Fully zation's defined benefit system consists of a fixed contribution plan provided by the company, ranging from 4% to 17% of the salary. plan obligations. EC4 Significant financial In 2012, the company did not receive significant financial aid from governments, except for tax incentives Fully assistance received destined to technology development projects. from government. EC5 Range of ratios of stanALFA’s standard entry level salary, compared to Mexico’s minimum wage in 2012 was 2.3 to 1. ALFA’s Fully dard entry level wage employees in the U.S., who perceive the lowest salary, receive 1.85 times over the minimum wage in regions by gender compared to where the company operates. These two countries represent the 75% of ALFA’s workforce with 45,000 local minimum wage at employees. significant locations of operation. EC6 Policy, practices, and Depending on the type of feedstock and equipment required to operate, as well as factors such as quality, Fully proportion of spendprice and service, ALFA’s companies seek their supplies with local suppliers in the countries and communities in ing on locally-based which they operate. Some companies like Nemak and Sigma, hold supplier development programs targeted to suppliers at significant small and medium businesses. Expense ratio of local supply from the total bought by ALFA companies in 2012 locations of operation. fluctuated between 10% and 95%, depending on the company. The average of local suppliers sought by ALFA companies was 60% globally in 2012. Proportion of spending on local suppliers (most significant companies): ALPEK 38% NEMAK 61% SIGMA 63% EC7 Procedures for local ALFA hires local staff for the companies they establish and maintains the workforce of those companies Fully hiring and proportion it acquires. This allows for greater engagement with the local communities and it contributes to their of senior managedevelopment. By the end of 2012, 90% of ALFA’s executive and managerial positions were held by local staff ment hired from the members. local community at significant locations of operation. EN Environmental EN1 Materials used by Petroleum products (paraxylene, ethylene, propylene, glycols) as well as aluminum scrap, meat and dairy Partially weight or volume. products. EN2 Percentage of materials 2011 2012 Partially used that are recycled input materials. NEMAK used 483,000 tons NEMAK Mexico used 483,000 tons of recycled aluminum and 470,250 tons of of recycled aluminum in its sand in its processes. NEMAK Poland used 14,467 tons of aluminum, steel and processes. sand. NEMAK Tennesse recycled 250 tons of scrap metal and DAK America’s Cape Faer and Columbia sites, used 1,360 tons of recycled PTA in their processes. Also Clear Path Recycling (ALFA & Shaw Industries joint venture), recycled 54,432 tons of PET containers for their use in other processes. 23 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported EN3 Direct energy consump2011 2012 Fully tion by primary energy source. 31 X 106 GJ Direct energy consumption 2012 85% was natural gas. Natural gas 29.64 x 106 GJ (~90%) Others (fuel oil, carbon, diesel) 3.29 x 106 GJ (~2%) Total 32.9 x 106 GJ See page 11 Sustainability Report 2012. These figures represent the energy consumption derived from burning fuel in Alfa plants. These data does not include the consumption at Bar-S, Newpek, J.L. French, steam from EN4 Indirect energy conIndirect energy consumption 2012 Fully sumption by primary source. Steam 5.4 x 106 GJ Electricity 0.6 x 106 GJ Gasoline 0.2 x 106 GJ Diesel ~0.74 x 106 GJ LPG ~0.07 x 106 GJ Total 7.01 X106 GJ ALFA consumes steam derived from burning fuel in third-party facilities. This steam is utilized in its processes and it also generates electricity for its own use. 2012 consumption is shown in the chart above. EN5 Energy saved due to 2011 2012 Fully conservation and efficiency improvements. 4.4 x 106 GJ (2007-2011) 4.7X106 GJ This data responds to saved energy due to energy efficiency programs implemented between 2007 and 2012. EN6 Initiatives to provide 2011 2012 Fully energy-efficient or renewable energy In the period 2007-2011,U.S. $58 See 2012 Sustainability Report, page 11. In 2012, U.S $20 million based products and million were invested in 288 energetic were invested in 314 energy efficiency programs, such as new services, and reductions efficiency programs, such as new technologies, fuel switching and better practices, among others. in energy requirements technologies, fuel switching and better Such projects aim to reduce depletion of primary sources like natuas a result of these practices, among others. Such projects ral gas, fuel oil, carbon, etc., as well as electricity and the indirect initiatives. aim to reduce depletion of primary impact it carries. Projects’ total energy savings amount to 4.7 x 106 sources like natural gas, fuel oil, carGJ a year. bon, et cetera, as well as electricity and During the 2007-2012 period, U.S. $78 million have been invested, the indirect impact it carries. Projects’ which is equivalent to withdraw from circulation 424,000 cars in total energy savings amount to 4.4 x the same period. 106 GJ a year, which is equivalent to put 397,000 cars out of transit in the same period. EN7 Initiatives to reduce inAll companies carried out programs to reduce indirect energy consumption. As an example, 100 telepresence Partially direct energy consumpand six videoconference rooms have been installed, reducing the energy consumption derived from tion and reductions transportation to attend live meetings. achieved. EN8 Total water withdrawal Water withdrawal by source 2011 2012 Fully by source (m3) Public utilities 3´217,900 Wells 7´814,901 Rivers or lakes 98´835,520 From third parties 5´056,701 Total 118’492,915 121´074,678 EN9 Water sources signiNo significant damage to water sources derived from the company’s consumption was registered. Fully ficantly affected by withdrawal of water. EN10 Percentage and total voApproximately 50% of water consumed in ALFA’s companies is reused in their processes. Fully lume of water recycled and reused. 24 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported EN11 Location and size of Nemak plant in Monterrey, Mexico, is located within a protected area known as Yuca Forest, as well as Fully land owned, leased, Wilmington and Charleston in the U.S. All three facilities carry out reforestation and care programs. In 2012, managed in, or adjaDAK Americas obtained habitat certification by CF Wildlife Habitat for the third year in a row. The Temex plants cent to, protected areas in Cosoleacaque, Mexico, as well as those in Wilmington, NC and Charleston, SC are located alongside diversity and areas of high biovalue areas. The first case is a rainforest whereas the other two are woodlands among rivers. diversity value outside protected areas. EN12 Description of If not properly disposed of in waste deposits, containers and other PET, polystyrene and polypropyleneFully significant impacts of manufactured products could pose a threat to nature reserves. In order to prevent such situations, ALFA, activities, products, and in association with Shaw Industries, has invested in a PET container recycling plant. Moreover, permanent services on biodiversity campaigns are held to raise awareness on product recycling and final disposal as well as environmental care. in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13 Habitats protected or ALFA operations in Monterrey, Cosoleacaque and Altamira in Mexico, as well as those in Wilmington and Fully restored. Charleston in the U.S., located next to or in important biodiversity areas contributed actively in their protection and preservation, together with local authorities and institutions. Actions to be highlighted are the placing of bird shelters, reforestation and species transplant, and so forth. The Yucas primarily located in the NEMAK Monterrey plant are considered a protected species, and thus NEMAK keeps a preservation and maintenance program in their gardens, an area close to 5,000 m2. EN14 Strategies, current See EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, EN10, EN11, EN13 and EN14 indicators. Fully actions, and future plans for managing The company operates permanent projects in: impacts on biodiversity. • Emission reduction (the use of cleaner energies, dust covers, gas capture systems, etcetera). • Material recycling (mainly PET and aluminum). • Waste disposal programs. • Water treating plants. EN15 Number of IUCN Red Operations of ALFA’s companies do not pose a threat to endangered species. Fully List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN16 Total direct and indirect CO2 ton 2011 2012 Fully greenhouse gas emissions by weight. Direct 1,980,000 2,356,623 Indirect 1,615,000 1,691,347 Total 3,595,000 4,047,970 These figures correspond to ALFA’s total emissions for the period, excluding Bar-S, Newpek and J.L. French. Direct emissions cover the fuel usage in Sigma’s plants and transport fleet. Indirect emissions cover the electricity usage, Enertek, DAK Columbia and Polioles Altamira steam usage. The methodology used for measurement is based on “The GHG Protocol Corporate Standard” of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. • GHG emissions from stationary combustion 4.0 • GHG emissions from purchased electricity 4.0 • GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources 4.0 EN18 Initiatives to reduce CO2 ton 2010 2011 2012 Fully greenhouse gas emissions and reductions Aluminum recycling ~4,600,000 ~4,860,000 ~4´830,000 achieved. Cogeneration projects ~1,200,000 ~1,205,000 ~1,205,000 Indelpro-Pemex project ~1,000,000 ~1,000,000 ~1,000,000 Energetic efficiency ~865,000 ~881,000 ~896,000 PET recycling ~150,000 ~805,000 ~1´005,000 Energetic integration ~120,000 ~120,000 ~120,000 Total ~7,935,000 ~8,871,000 ~9,056, 000 EN21 Total water discharge Discharge volume (m3) Fully by quality and destination. Public sewage 1´879,522 m3 Rivers or lakes 99’751,243 m3 Oceans NA Other 965,405 m3 25 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported EN22 Total weight of waste 2011 2012 Fully by type and disposal method. This information Treatment or confinement wasn’t available at Weight or volResidue method (compost, reuse, recythis time. ume (tons/ m3) cling, incineration, landfill, etc.) Process waste, litter, solid 35,000 ton aprox. Internal/external recycling, landfill, residues. confinement. Oil (spent, thermal, pol3,600 ton aprox. Oxidation process, confinement, luted). recycling (for energy generation). Sand residues. 50,000 ton aprox. Landfill, recycling. Steel and aluminum scrap. 7,900 ton aprox. Internal/external recycling. Paper, cardboard and PET. 2,100 ton aprox. Internal/external recycling. It is important to mention that over 60 significant residues are generated in ALFA’s companies. The chart above shows those most common. Also worth mentioning is the fact that in 2012 several ALFA facilities launched a Zero Waste program (see 2012 Sustainability Report, page 10). EN23 Total number and No significant residue spills were registered in ALFA companies during 2012. Fully volume of significant spills. EN26 Initiatives to mitiSee 2012 Sustainability Report, pages 10-11 and EN3, EN10, EN11, EN13, EN14, EN18, EN21, EN22, EN23 Fully gate environmental indicators. impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. EN27 Percentage of products Most companies do not use packaging materials for their products, since they are stocked up in bulk through Fully sold and their packachutes or tanks. Other companies recycle and reuse materials such as pallets and sacks whereas others, like Sigma ging materials that are do have a use for them. In particular, this company has developed containers and packages that are lighter and reclaimed by category. friendlier to the environment. EN28 Monetary value of No fines or sanctions were received for breach of environmental regulations. Fully significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. EN30 Total environmental 2011 2012 Fully protection expenditures and investments by This information wasn’t available at the time. U.S. $26.4 million type. LA labor practices and decent work LA1 Total workforce by 2011 2012 Partially employment type, employment contract, and Total workforce 57,000 59,847 region broken down by gender. Employees 31,296 31,795 Unionized 27,176 28,599 Men 43,320 (76%) 46, 681 (78%) Women 13,680 (24%) 13,166 (22%) The percentage of employees with full time contract is 97%, and with part time contract is 3%. The percentage of unionized workers with full time contract is 93%, and with part time contract is 7%. ALFA’s workforce by continents is divided by: Asia, 645 employees. Europe, 4,462 employees. America, 54,740 employees. LA2 Total number and rate 3,798 unionized employees ceased to work in ALFA’s companies in 2012 (1.30% monthly average rotation), Fully of new employee hires whereas 5,589 non-unionized employees ceased their activities in ALFA also (1.50% monthly average rotation). and employee turnover by age group, gender, For a better comparability, see chart on page 18 Sustainability Report 2011 and region. http://informe.alfa.com.mx/rs/2011/ 26 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported LA3 Benefits provided to Full-time employees are given a Christmas and vacation bonus, food stamps, savings fund, years of service Fully full-time employees acknowledgement and a retirement system which consists in a fixed contribution plan provided by the company, that are not provided to ranging from 4% to 17% salary. Temporary employees and part-time workers do not benefit from the retirement temporary or part-time plan. employees, by major operations. LA4 Percentage of em47% . Fully ployees covered by collective bargaining agreements. LA5 Minimum notice Notice is general, a week in advance. Fully period(s) regarding significant operational changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. LA6 Percentage of total All employees are represented in committees. These are formally put together and they have clear goals, strategies Fully workforce represented and plans of action, as well as monitoring and review of results. The amount of employees who engage in the in formal joint managecommittees varies by work center, always representing the Human Resources, Unions and Health and safety areas. ment-worker health and In general lines, around 2% to 4% of the workforce participates in these committees. safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. LA7 Rates of injury, oc2010 2011 2012 Fully cupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, Injury rates 1,475 1,728 1,838 and number of workrelated fatalities by Lost days 26,265 30,265 26,024 region and gender. Fatal accidents 0 2 0 Frequency 10.55 11.28 10.24 Accidentality rates 259.59 281.31 229.69 LA8 Education, training, A special emphasis on health issues is made during family events in addition to promoting physical activity Fully counseling, prevencampaigns. There are available medical services as well as preventive medicine and weight-loss campaigns in most tion, and risk-control work centers. programs in place Some of the most important programs implemented in ALFA’s companies are: to assist workforce • Vacunar es prevenir (To vaccinate is to prevent, for employees and their families) members, their families, • Periodical medical check-ups (employees) or community members • Health fairs (community, employees and their families) regarding serious • Yo decido bajar de peso (I choose to lose weight, for employees) diseases. • Know your numbers (community and employees) • Coworking with national and international Red Cross (community, employees and their families) • Cruzada Nacional contra el sobrepeso y la obesidad (National campaign against overweight and obesity for employees) • SAFE program (community) • Programa Integral de Salud (Integral Health Program for employees) • Programa Escuela Saludable (Healthy School Program for communities). LA9 Health and safety topPrograms to reduce workplace accidents and occupational diseases are constantly developed with support from Fully ics covered in formal the Safety, Health and Hygiene committees. Internal worker guidelines cover these issues. agreements with trade unions. LA10 Average hours of train2011 2012 Partially ing per year per employee by gender and 1.86 million of man-hours for In 2012, an average of 27 hours of training per employee were equally given by employee category. training. to men and women in 2,909 courses. This investment amounted to U.S. $7.3 million. It is important to mention that a significant portion of training activities is not accounted due to their being held within the companies at no extra cost. Some of the training areas were general administration, environment, health and safety, leadership and floor training. LA12 Percentage of emplo2011 2012 Partially yees receiving regular performance and career 80% approximately. 76% of ALFA’s companies’ workforce received performance evaluations development reviews by during 2012. gender. 27 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported LA13 Composition of With operations in 18 countries, our workforce encompasses great diversity of nationality, race, religion and Fully governance bodculture. ies and breakdown 22% of our workforce consists of women. See 2012 Sustainability Report, page 7. of employees per employee category acInside ALFA’s Board of Directors there are no female members. cording to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. LA14 Ratio of basic salary There is no base salary distinction for male and female personnel in the same job position. Compensation is Fully of men to women by determined based on knowledge, capability and expertise. employee category. HR Human Rights HR4 Total number of inciNo discrimination acts complaints were registered in ALFA’s companies during 2012. Fully dents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. HR5 Operations and signifiIn ALFA, there is full freedom of association for our employees, and they benefit from collective labor agreements Fully cant suppliers identified or contracts, for which there is no risk of violating this right. 47% of the workforce holds a collective labor in which the right to agreement. This opening is followed by the companies’ Human Resources Committees. exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. HR6 Operations and ALFA fully complies with labor legislation in all countries where they operate, as well as the UN Global Pact, so Fully significant suppliers there’s no potential risk of child labor in the company’s work centers. identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the elimination of child labor. HR7 Operations and signifiIn 2012, no complaints were registered for practices contrary to the above nor were complaints registered for Fully cant suppliers identified forced-labor. This is ensured through labor contracts. ALFA provides benefits such as flexible schedule, parental as having significant risk leaves beyond those covered by legislation, nursery rooms in their premises and working from home, which are a for incidents of forced or testament to ALFA’s disposition to help its employees adapt to different working conditions. On a different note, compulsory labor, and ALFA’s policy to maintain the workforce of those companies they acquire is an effort to be highlighted. measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. HR8 Percentage of security 100% of ALFA’s employees in security areas have been trained on issues covered by the Global Pact on Human Fully personnel trained in the Rights. organization's policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. HR9 Total number of incidents No ALFA’s business units or facilities are located in zones populated by indigenous people. Even so, it is important Fully of violations involving to highlight that thanks to human rights abiding practices, in 2012 there were no violations of indigenous people’s rights of indigenous rights with whom there might be community or work relations. people and actions taken. HR11 Number of grievances No complaints on human rights violations were registered in any of ALFA’s operations during 2012. Fully related to human rights filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. 28 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported SO Society SO1 Percentage of opera100% of ALFA’s companies’ operations conduct activities and programs focused on community engagement, Fully tions with implemenfrom working in collaboration with civilian entities (Red Cross, Civil Protection, Health institutions) to internally ted local community developed programs under these premises. Some examples are: engagement, impact assessments, and deve• The essence of ALFA Fundación. lopment programs. • Internal and External Communication Program, at Akra Polyester • SHE Programs, at Indelpro • Community Advisory Panels (DAK Americas, U.S.) • Earth Day celebration, all ALFA’s plants (CAINTRA’s School-Company Plan, at Alestra) • Environmental awareness by talks in school, job fairs, at NEMAK U.S. • Annual Community Engagement Program, at NEMAK Mexico • Volunteering, at all ALFA’s plants • Agreements with universities, all ALFA’s plants • Gansos Community and Healthy School programs, at SIGMA SO2 Percentage and total 100% of ALFA’s operations. ALPEK with 20 plants in three countries, NEMAK with 34 plants in 14 countries, Fully number of business SIGMA with 34 plants in nine countries, Alestra in Mexico and Newpek in the U.S. units analyzed for risks related to corruption. SO3 Percentage of emplo100%. Fully yees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in In 2012, 320 reports related to corruption acts were received, whereas all of them were properly addressed and Fully response to incidents of solved. Depending on the incident, the actions taken vary between a simple cautioning or reprimand, to the corruption. terminations of the employee’s job contract. SO5 Public policy positions Through its participation in associations and chambers, ALFA helps develop public policies on issues in its expertise Fully and participation in within a legal framework and the highest ethical standards. public policy development and lobbying. SO6 Total value of financial ALFA does not grant this type of contributions. Fully and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. SO7 Total number of legal There were no sanctions on these grounds. Fully actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. SO8 Monetary value of There were no sanctions on these grounds. Fully significant fines and total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations. SO9 Operations with signifi60% of ALFA’s companies operations’ present a potential negative impact risk on their communities due to the Fully cant potential or actual processes they conduct. In order to alleviate this risk, the strictest controls and necessary measures are observed. negative impacts on See chart SO10. local communities. SO10 Prevention and Facility Risk type Mitigation actions Fully mitigation measures implemented in operaColombin Bel Fires. Strict controls on all processes, preventive training, direct tions with significant contact with authorities, communication with neighboring potential or actual companies and mutual help programs. negative impacts on local communities. Akra Polyester Chlorine gas, thermal oil Water spray systems, control valves and fire detection or methanol leakage. systems. Indelpro Hydrocarbons or combusPreventive facility maintenance, instrumented safety system tion gas leakage. and vent control program. DAK Americas Chemical emissions into Constant on-off-failure control which ensures a prompt the atmosphere. detection and shutdown in case of any incident. Polioles Hazardous material emis1. Process control system. sion risk, fires or explo2. Pressure relief devices on containers. sions due to the handling 3. Contingency response plans. of flammable substances. 4. Engaging in mutual help groups. 5. Emergency brigade staff training. 6. Fire fighting water supply. 7. Fire detection and alarm system. 29 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported Univex Hazardous material Surveillance program for equipment and line cracks and leakage. thickness, emergency training program, fire and rescue, engaging in mutual help groups. Nemak Mexico Atmospheric emissions, 1. The Health, Safety and Environmental Management fires caused by natural System cover procedures to prevent and respond to risks gas, explosions. in addition to helping mitigate damages. System features include monitoring, operational controls, simulations and audits. 2. There’s also a strategic alliance with the Mutual Help Committee on the western regions. 3. Crisis Management Committee kick-start. 4. A specialized supplier with Pemex supervising these connections on a daily basis and complying with CRE’s (Energy Regulatory Commission, in Spanish) regulations. Nemak Global Emissions into the New equipment installation to contain emissions throughatmosphere. out 2012, facility optimization, joint work with authorities and agencies to mitigate risks, training on safety in nearby communities. PR Product responsibility PR1 Life cycle stages in 2011 2012 Fully which health and safety impacts of products and This The following chart shows those ALFA’s companies which can measure their products services are assessed information lifecycle. This indicator is not applicable to Nemak, Alestra and Alfa Corporation. Security and for improvement, and wasn’t environmental risks analyses are conducted annually at Akra Polyester to all the manufacture, percentage of signifiavailable at storage, distribution and supply processes. Such risk analyses, duly documented, are not cant products and serthis time. applicable to the development, consumption or service processes, nor marketing and promotion vices categories subject activities. Corrective actions are taken for those activities or processes that might represent a to such procedures. significant risk to the environment or the personnel’s safety. Akra DAK PetroteIndelpro Sigma Polioles Polyester Americas mex Product developNA Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes ment Manufacturing Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Marketing and NA Yes No Yes No Yes promotion Storage, distribution Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes and supply Purchase and NA Yes Yes Yes No Yes service Disposal, reuse or Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes No recycle Percentage of 100% 100% 100% 100% 30% 100% products to which this evaluation is applied to PR2 Total number of No fines or sanctions due to accidents of this nature were registered during 2012. Fully incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcome. 30 GRI CONTENTS 2012 Reported PR3 Type of product and The following chart shows those ALFA’s companies that label their products. Fully service information required by procedures, DAK Polioles Sigma Terza and percentage of Americas significant products and Origin of the components of the product or service Yes No No Yes services subject to such information requireContent (if there are substances that may have Yes No No No ments. environmental or social impact) Safe use of the product Yes Yes Yes No Disposal of the product and its environmental and Yes Yes Yes No social impact Other Yes Yes PR4 Total number of No fines or sanctions on the breach of these regulations were registered in 2012. Fully incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes. PR5 Practices related to 2011 2012 Fully customer satisfaction, including results of This All ALFAS’s companies have a system to measure client satisfaction, the most common being 1-800 surveys measuring information numbers, e-mail, live meetings and periodical satisfaction surveys. In 2012, the average satisfaction customer satisfaction. wasn’t result measured through the companies was 84%. available at the time. PR6 Programs for adherence This paragraph applies only to Sigma and Alestra. Fully to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing commuAlestra Sigma nications, including Voluntary marketing The Alestra Code of Ethics has a specific chapter PABI Code advertising, promotion, codes or standards apon advertising and sales. The company commits to and sponsorship. plied by the company. respecting its clients and be truthful in its advertising and pitching. Frequency in which Permanent Reviewed every time advercompliancy is tising is devised. reviewed. PR7 Total number of No fines or sanctions for breaching these regulations were registered in 2012. Fully incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR8 Total number of subsNo complaints caused by personal data leakage were registered during 2012. Fully tantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. PR9 Monetary value of No fines or sanctions for breaching the regulations were registered in 2012. Fully significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services. 31 About this report GRI 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10 and 3.11 This Report contains ALFA’s sustainability activities conducted Measurement methods were based on those defined by throughout the year 2012. It is the ninth consecutive the GRI. To convert Mexican peso to U.S. dollars in terms of sustainability report published by the company, and covers income and expense items, we used the average exchange its five business groups: Alpek, Nemak, Sigma, Alestra and rate for the month in which the peso transactions were carried Newpek. It also includes its operations in 18 countries. out. On the balance sheet, the exchange rate used was that of $13.01 Mexican pesos per dollar, on december 31st, 2012. The Report frequency is annual, the preceding being released inThis is consistent with the methodology used in our financial 2011. For the seventh year running, we express our support to reports. the 10 principles of the UN Global Pact. In 2012, we reported a total of 106 fully reported indicators, 20% more than in 2011 Finally, the About this Report, the 10 principles of the United with 90. This should be taken into account when comparing Nations Global Compact, the third party check letter and the previous Reports. GRI check application B+ level letter sections are included in this second part of the Report. Three criteria were used for content selection: first, consistency with the 2011 report; second, in accordance to the most This Sustainability Report is the second to be reviewed with relevant events of 2012 and third, based on the indicator’s the GRI level and a third party check. For the preparation of materiality of those industries ALFA serves and in reference to this document we have worked with the consulting firm Ética concerns expressed by our stakeholders through the multiple y Estrategia Consultores S.C. and Universidad Anáhuac del communication channels. Norte’s Centro IdeaRSE, who has validated the application of GRI methodology and our B+ level qualification. The same GRI methodology was used, in its 3.1 version (the version used in 2011 was the 3.0). This meant modifications and increased number of indicators to report were in place. Moreover, this report sought to cover them in greater depth. As for the report’s design structure, a significant change from 2011 took place. This document is divided in two sections. The first section contains the message of the President of the Board of Directors and ALFA President, company profile, our sustainability strategy and a summary of each of our core lines: Our Employees, Our Communities and Our Environment, as well as the achievements of ALFA Foundation, closing with the most important awards on social responsibility received during the reported year. The second section encloses information on the company’s sustainability actions, grouped within the GRI Index and comparability to 2011 (when applicable). The structure follows the indicators proposed by the GRI. Some indicators are located in the first part, as specified in the index. This allows us to better identify the data comparability to the previous year’s Report. 32 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONs GLOBAL COMpACT Human Rights Principle I (PM I) To support and respect human rights protection. Principle II (PM II) To not be an accomplice of rights abuse. Labor Conditions Principle III (PM III) To support the principles of freedom of association and the right to collective negotiation. Principle IV (PM IV) To eliminate forced and obligatory labor. Principle V (PM V) To abolish any way of child labor. Principle VI (PM VI) To eliminate discrimination on employment and job positions matters. Environment Principle VII (PM VII) To support the preventive focus towards environmental challenges. Principle VIII (PM VIII) To promote a greater environmental responsibility. Principle IX (PM IX) To encourage development and spreading of environmental respectful technologies. Fight against Corruption Principle X (PM X) To act against every form of corruption, including extortion and bribery. 33 third party check letter 34 35 gri check letter 36 AWARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS 2012 In 2012, ALFA and its companies were granted several awards and certifications by government bodies and private institutions throughout various countries. The foregoing, besides being a recognition of the work carried out, represents a commitment to continue operating in a responsible way. Company Award / Certification Granted by Country Alestra Mitigation of Greenhouse Gases Emissions Nuevo Leon State Government Mexico Clean Industry Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Safe Company Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Mexico ALFA Corporate Offices Safe Destruction and Environment Contribution Eco Trust Mexico DAK Americas Cape Fear Wildlife at Work Wildlife at Work U.S.A. Nemak Alabama ISO 14001 KIWA International Cert. U.S.A. Nemak Canada ISO 14001 KIWA International Cert. Canada Nemak Kentucky ISO 14001 Intertek U.S.A. Nemak Monclova ISO 14000 DNV Mexico Clean Industry Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Nemak Monterrey Clean Industry Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Affiliation Certificate Congruencia Movement Mexico Environmental Leadership for Competitiveness Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico ISO 14001 ABS Quality Evaluations U.S.A. Nemak Poland ISO 14001 Det Norske Veritas Poland Nemak Saltillo EcoFest SEMAC Canacintra Mexico Nemak Tennessee ISO 14001 KIWA International Cert. U.S.A. Nemak Wisconsin ISO 14001 Intertek U.S.A. Petrotemex Environmentally Responsible Company Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Clean Industry Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Integral Responsibility National Chemical Industry Association Mexico Petrotemex Altamira Safe Company Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Mexico Petrotemex Cosoleacaque Clean Industry Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Self-management Work Safety and Health Program Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Mexico Polioles Family Responsible Company Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Mexico Clean Industry Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Safe Company Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Mexico Integral Responsibility National Chemical Industry Association Mexico Sigma Family Responsible Company Ministry of Labor and Social Welfare Mexico Strategic Alliance with Nuevo Leon’s Food Ministries of Health and Education Mexico and Beverage Industry Environmental Leadership for Competitiveness Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Inclusive Company OAS and UTSC Mexico Terza Environmental Leadership for Competitiveness Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Contribution to the Environmental Protection and Ministry of Environment and Natural Resources Mexico Conservation www.ALFA.COM.MX 37
