COMPLEX WORLD: ADVANTAGE SAAB A N N UA L R E P O R T 20 12 CONTENTS Saab in brief ... Cover – Profitable growth 18 ADMINISTRATION REPORT Financial statements 59 … and our 2012 results inside – Performance 19 Financial review 44 Notes 71 Saab today 1 – Portfolio 20 Business areas 46 Dividend motivation 121 Saab’s DNA 2 – People 22 Risks and risk Proposed disposition Chairman’s statement 4 Geographic areas 28 management 52 of earnings 122 CEO comment 6 Market segments 30 Other information 56 Audit report 123 Gripen 8 Sustainability 32 Corporate governance Megatrends 10 report 124 – Ethics 36 Market and Shareholder information 135 – Society 37 Driving forces 12 Financial information 2013 – Environment 38 and contact details 142 Saab’s business model 14 – Employees 40 Glossary 143 Strategic goals 16 While every care has been taken in the translation of this annual report, readers are reminded that the original annual report, signed by the Board of Directors, is in Swedish. IMPORTANT EVENTS IN 2012 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 During Q1 2012, FMV (the Major orders received during It was announced during Q3 In December, Saab signed a Swedish Defence Materiel AdQ2 include the extension of that the U.S. Army’s signed a framework agreement with ministration) placed an order Airbus’ contract for ailerons second contract for the CarlPiaggio Aero Industries of for maintenance and updating for the A320 series, the Thai Gustaf man-portable weapon Italy. Under the agreement, work for Gripen C/D and Saab Navy’s order for upgrades to system and the Thai Navy orSaab received an initial order Sensis was selected by the the combat management sysdered an upgrade of the comfor the delivery and integration American Federal Aviation Adtem for H.T.M.S. Chakri Narubat management system for of surveillance systems for ministration (FAA) for the Airebet, and the Australian Defrigates H.T.M.S. Naresuan Piaggio Aero’s new surveilport Surface Surveillance Cafence Materiel Organisation and H.T.M.S Taksin. Combilance aircraft. pability (ASSC) programme, order of ammunition for the tech acquired 70 per cent of two significant acknowledgeCarl-Gustaf. the shares of the Norwegian Saab received an order for the ments of Saab’s expertise and company Bayes Risk ManaRBS15 Mk3 air-to-surface world-class high-tech soluSaab made a public bid during gement AS. missile from German partner tions. the quarter for HITT N.V., a air company Diehl BGT Defence. and marine traffic manageAs part of the strategy to inCombitech acquired Sörman ment company. This acquisicrease our presence in key The European unmanned Information during Q1 as part tion is in line with our overall markets, a MoU and a Technitechnology demonstrator of Combitech’s strategy to exstrategy to strengthen our pocal Partnership Agreement Neuron held its first flight from pand its range of services and sition on the global traffic ma(TPA) were signed with the InIstres, France – an important grow in the Nordic consulting nagement market. dian company Pipavav Demilestone in the programme, market. fence and Offshore Engineein which Saab has played a A MoU (Memorandum of Unring Co Ltd. crucial role in design, deveDuring the quarter, Hungary derstanding) was signed with lopment and production. extended its contract with the Inter-American DevelopAn agreement between Saab Sweden for the use of Gripen ment Bank for a project offeAutomobile’s creditor and During Q4, the Swedish parlithrough 2026 to ensure the ring financing to Latin AmeriSaab AB, Scania and National ament voted in favour of allocontinued development of its can cities to promote Electric Vehicle Sweden wing the government to place defence capability. sustainable development. (NEVS) regarding the Saab an order for the acquisition of brand was announced in Sep40-60 Gripen E. This decision During Q2, Magnus Örnberg tember. demonstrates broad political was appointed Saab’s new consensus to upgrade SweSenior Vice President and dish air defence to one of the Chief Financial Officer. most modern in the world as well as continued faith in GriSaab premiered its new Maripen as the backbone of this. time Security Aircraft the Saab MSA. During the quarter, the Gripen E/F demonstration aircraft The first graduating class of was shown for the first time to Saab’s Technical Secondary the Swiss public at the Swiss School graduated in June. Air Force’s annual exhibition at Axalp-Ebenfluh. SAAB IN BRIEF… Saab offers world-leading solutions, products and services for military defence and security. New technology is continuously developed, adapted and improved to meet customers’ changing needs in over 100 countries. The most important markets are Europe, Asia and North America. Saab has about 14,000 employees and annual sales in 2012 were approximately SEK 24 billion, of which around 25 per cent was related to research and development. New market organisation from 2013 – six market areas To create profitable and long-term growth, we are placing clear focus on increasing our international presence and sales outside of Sweden. This expansion is directed towards markets with strong demand and favourable conditions for growth. We have therefore established six market areas. NORDIC & BALTIC Includes Sweden and other Nordic and Baltic countries. Head office in Stockholm, Sweden. AMERICAS EUROPE & GREATER MIDDLE EAST INDIA Covers North and South America. Includes other European countries Includes India. Head office in New Head office in Washington, D.C., and parts of the Middle East. Head Delhi. USA. office in in London, UK. SUB-SAHARAN AFRICA ASIA PACIFIC Includes countries south of the Covers other Asian countries, New Sahara. Head office in Centurion, Zealand and Australia. Head office South Africa. in Bangkok, Thailand. Sales distribution 2012 Business areas, % Market segments, % Geographical markets, % Aeronautics, 24 Air, 39 Sweden, 36 Dynamics, 18 Land, 33 EU excluding Sweden, 19 Other Europe, 2 EDS, 17 Americas, 12 SDS, 23 Naval, 11 Asia Paciﬁc, 20 S&S, 13 Civil security, 8 Commercial aeronautics, 6 Africa, 6 Combitech, 5 Other, 3 Other, 5 … AND OUR 2012 RESULTS t0SEFSCPPLJOHTBNPVOUFEUP.4&,    BOEUIFPSEFS Outlook statement 2013: CBDLMPHBUUIFFOEPG%FDFNCFSXBT.4&,     t*O XFFTUJNBUFUIBUTBMFTXJMMJODSFBTFTMJHIUMZDPNQBSFEUP t4BMFTJODSFBTFEQFSDFOUUP.4&,    &YDMVEJOHBDRVJTJtions sales decreased 2 per cent. Exchange rates had no signiﬁcant imt5IFPQFSBUJOHNBSHJOJO FYDMVEJOHNBUFSJBMOFUDBQJUBMHBJOTBOE pact on sales. other non-recurring items, is expected to be in line with the operating NBSHJOJO FYDMVEJOHNBUFSJBMOPOSFDVSSJOHJUFNT PGQFSDFOU t(SPTTJODPNFBNPVOUFEUP.4&,    DPSSFTQPOEJOHUPB HSPTTNBSHJOPGQFSDFOU   Key ﬁnancial ratios (MSEK) 2012 2011 t0QFSBUJOHJODPNFXBT.4&,    DPSSFTQPOEJOHUPBOPQFSBOrder bookings 20,683 18,907 ting margin of 8.5 per cent (12.5). This included a non-recurring item of .4&,GSPNBSFEVDUJPOPGBQPUFOUJBMFBSOPVUMJBCJMJUZJODMVEFE Order backlog at year-end 34,151 37,172 DBQJUBMHBJOTPG.4&,  EKVTUFEGPSOPOSFDVSSJOHJUFNTUIFPQFSales 24,010 23,498 SBUJOHNBSHJOXBTQFSDFOU   EBITDA 3,168 4,088 t/FUJODPNFXBT.4&,    XJUIFBSOJOHTQFSTIBSFBGUFSEJMVEBITDA margin, % 13.2 17.4 tion of SEK 14.33 (20.38). Operating income (EBIT) 2,032 2,941 t5IFPQFSBUJOHDBTInPXPG.4&,   JOXBTOFHBUJWF Operating margin (EBIT margin), % 8.5 12.5 mainly as a result of a higher utilisation of, and reduction in, advances Income after financial items 1,906 2,783 and milestone payments as well as a higher net amount spent on acquiNet income 1,539 2,217 sitions and divestments than in 2011. In the fourth quarter the operating DBTInPXBNPVOUFEUP.4&,   Operating cash flow -396 2,477 Earnings per share, SEK (after dilution) 14.33 20.38 t1SPQPTFEEJWJEFOEGPSJT4&,QFSTIBSF   Operating cash flow per share, SEK -3.63 22.69 Dividend per share, SEK 4.50 1) 4.50 Major events after the conclusion of the year: Return on equity, % 11.3 18.1 t0O'FCSVBSZ  4BBCBOOPVODFEUIFTJHOJOHPGBOBHSFFNFOU Equity/Assets ratio, % 47.5 41.1 XJUIUIF4XFEJTI%FGFODF.BUFSJFM ENJOJTUSBUJPO '.7 GPS(SJQFO& Total research and development (R&D) 5,946 5,116 5IFBHSFFNFOUJODMVEFTEFWFMPQNFOUBOENPEJmDBUJPOPG(SJQFO&GPS expenditures 4XFEFOEVSJOHUIFQFSJPEBOEBQPTTJCMFPSEFSGPSOFXQSPInternally financed R&D 1,798 1,355 EVDUJPOPG(SJQFO&GSPN4XJU[FSMBOE'.7IBTUPEBZQMBDFEBOJOJUJBMEFR&D share of sales 7.5 5.8 velopment order of SEK 2.5 billion for operations during 2013-2014. ReNo. of employees at year-end 13,968 13,068 maining orders from Sweden are expected in 2013-2014. The total value of possible orders under the agreement amounts to a total of SEK 47.2 Share of women, % 22.0 22.0 billion. Academic degree, % 55 54  1SPQPTFECZUIF#PBSEPG%JSFDUPST Long-term ﬁnancial goals and results Sales, SEK billion Operating margin, % Equity/Assets ratio, % Dividend, SEK Organic sales growth shall average The operating margin after depreciaThe equity/assets ratio shall exceed The long-term dividend objective is 5 per cent annually over a business tion/amortisation (EBIT) shall be at 30 per cent. to distribute 20–40 per cent of net cycle. least 10 per cent. The goal is formuincome over a business cycle to At year-end 2012, the equity/assets lated as an average over a business shareholders. In 2012, the organic growth was ratio was 47.5 per cent (41.1). cycle. -2 per cent (-4). For 2012, the Board of Directors . In 2012, the operating margin after proposes a dividend of SEK 4.50. depreciation/amortisation (EBIT) This would represent 30 per cent of was 8.5 per cent (12.5). the net income. 25 5024 47 23 24 48 13 4.50 4.50 41 41 39 38 37 35 3.50 9 2.25 6 4 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 20121 1) Proposed by Board of Directors SAAB TODAY OUR VISION OUR STRATEGIC HOUSE It is a human right to feel safe. Since 2010, our strategy has focused on four priority areas. Our aim is to create long-term value by accomplishing these strategic OUR MISSION priorities. We will also maintain a solid balance sheet, focus on To make people safe by pushing intellectual and technological capital efficiency and generate strong cash flow. boundaries. Proﬁtable growth OUR BUSINESS CONCEPT We continuously evaluate our position and identify growth opporSaab constantly develops, adopts and improves new technology tunities. We focus on areas with a strong market position and on to meet changing customer needs. Saab serves the global market strengthening our position in areas with good growth opportunities. of governments, authorities and corporations with products, services and solutions for military defence, commercial aviation Performance and civil security. We work with efficiency and continuous improvements. MARKET POSITION Portfolio Saab’s strongest position is in Europe, with a main focus in We adapt our portfolio of products and companies to areas with Sweden. Meanwhile, expansion is moving forward in markets with strong competitive advantages and stable demand and favourable conditions for growth – including growth opportunities. We also target the U.S., Asia and India. As of 2013, a new market organisation areas with a strong market position or comprised of six market areas has been established to provide a leading technology. stronger local foothold in our international markets. Saab in also investing in maintaining its market-leading position People PERFORMANCE within fighter aircraft, Airborne Early Warning (AEW) systems and We want to be an employer of choice PROFITABLE PORTFOLIO ground combat weapons. Investments are also made to continuin the global market. Our employees GROWTH ously improve and develop the portfolio in the areas of radar, are the backbone of our offering and missiles, command and controlsystems, air and marine traffic our growth. management systems, security systems, electronic warfare systems and underwater systems. PEOPLE SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 1 SAAB’S DNA SMART FROM THE START A complex world that demands new ways Bofors, Ericsson, Microwave Radar and Celsius have been integrated into the operations and contributed to a unique whole. of thinking to achieve much with less – As the world is marked by old and new threat scenarios and this is the environment in which Saab was conflicts, deeper dependencies and new forms of cooperation are evolving. An increasingly integrated society requires technology moulded. with the flexibility, multifunctionality and ability to operate jointly. Demands for efficiency have driven Saab to always secure the Saab was founded in 1937 to manufacture fighter aircraft for the entirety rather than the details. In parallel with this, the tradition of Swedish Armed Forces. The requirement was a high defence making the most of limited resources has been interpreted from capability without too high of a cost. The solutions needed to an operational and lifecycle perspective. This is not only a quesbe intelligent and cost-efficient from the start – beginning on the tion of purchasing costs, but also of owning and operating costs. drawing board. In short: Saab was born smart. It is a question of reliability, availability and sustainability. The changed political situation in Europe in the late 1930s The extraordinary technological challenges throughout the called for stricter defence capability requirements. The Swedyears have driven and developed Saab into a broad-based Swedish Parliament determined that Sweden must equip itself to ish innovation powerhouse and a strong competitor on the intersafeguard its sovereignty and its national interests. Sweden is national defence and security market. World-class, high technola small country, and its financial resources have always been ogy expertise has been developed and the list of ground-breaking limited. Small countries facing major threat scenarios normally ally innovations is long. themselves to ensure a supply of defence materiel and safeguard As an international company, the ability to produce innovative, their independence. Sweden chose instead to invest in an effeceffective solutions tailored to local conditions and with limited tive domestic defence industry. Saab was born from this unique resources – not just financial resources – is a key competitive political context. advantage. Since then, we have been a key development partner to the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) and the Swedish Armed Forces. Close cooperation with customers and rigorous customer requirements have contributed to our formation from the start. Important parts of the Swedish defence industry have been gathered and further developed in our group. Companies such as OUR VALUES Expertise We combine a strong history of knowledge with constant learning. Trust We are global citizens, honest and reliable and we keep our promises. Drive We have a passion for innovation, we are open to change and we are committed to being fast and flexible. 2 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 The first order for the HUD (Head-Up Display) system was placed by U.S. Army Aviation. The customer was impressed with the results of flight evaluations with the system installed on the Blackhawk helicopter. The order was secured in cooperation with BAE Systems Inc., with whom we collaborate in North America with respect to the U.S. Army Night Vision and Electronic Sensor Directorate (NVEDS). The system’s excellent high resolution optical display provides the user with crisp, clear flight information and enhanced situational awareness. Further flight tests are being conducted using the system on the Blackhawk and other helicopter platforms. The goal is to improve safety while flying at low altitudes and during take-off and landing in degraded visual environments. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 3 CHAIRMAN’S STATEMENT A CHALLENGING WORLD In a changing world, expertise and solid effective. This has made us competitive on a global market for 75 years, and has formed an organisation that is well-equipped to market analysis are crucially important. meet the diverse events we now see occurring all around us. Only when these are in place can scope be created to act proactively and take the Complexity continues to increase The past year was marked by continued turbulence in the macro best advantage of trends in the surrounding environment and the continued global economic slowdown. The environment. At Saab, we monitor and anacrisis in Europe became more severe as government cut-backs met rising structural and cyclical unemployment. Comprehensive lyse trends on a continuous basis in order reform of the financial system also characterised the European to understand current needs and anticipate agenda during the year. This affected the total budgetary scope on the national level, future ones. Our strategy is developing and hence defence appropriations. For the defence industry, towards having our own local presence in this means postponed orders and tougher demands for defence capacity relative to price. The latter is a competitive advantage Saab’s key markets. for Saab, which has provided us with support in our export efforts with the Gripen system. Competitiveness on a global market The challenge for countries with fiscal imbalances is to identify 2012 was an eventful year for Saab. It was the year we celebrated solutions that enable economic growth while reducing the overall 75 years as a Swedish defence materiel company and the year debt burden. The BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) significant steps were taken to develop and sell a new generation and other growth economies also downshifted during 2012. For of fighter aircraft, Gripen E, to both Sweden and Switzerland. DurSaab, which has a large part of its operations in Europe and which ing the year, Sweden approached a strong position in the West in views areas of the emerging countries as strategically important terms of its air defence system. This is only possible by virtue of markets, this trend represents both challenges and opportunities. the high-tech expertise that has been part of Saab since its inception in 1937. At that time, Sweden was in many ways a very differShifts in emphasis create new playing ﬁeld ent country than it is today, and the world around us had agendas Defence investments are typically made with a minimum time different from ours. But there are also major similarities that make horizon of ten to twenty years. In a geopolitical perspective, Saab’s original strategy relevant even today. From the start, Saab shifts in emphasis have taken place economically, politically and was ahead of its time in some ways. I am thinking in particular of geographically during the past ten years. The USA has gradually the original goals of building technically advanced systems that shifted its focus from Europe and the Middle East to Asia and the could easily be integrated with others and of identifying smarter Pacific Region. This change will, over time, probably affect the solutions to make production and development more costway Sweden and its neighbouring countries act. The EU and NATO are discussing ways in which the defence industry can cooperate to achieve more efficient solutions. Even today, there is more international exchange in this area than would have been imaginable just a few decades ago. Under the 2010 Ghent Framework, EU defence ministers are working towards a systematic analysis of national military capacity for the purpose “SAAB IS A CLEAR of identifying solutions for interoperability. This represents the explicit ambition at the highest political level within the EU to EXAMPLE OF HOW cooperate on defence issues in order to work smarter. Saab is a clear example of how system solutions can produce SYSTEM SOLUTIONS integration opportunities with other parties and thereby result in more cost-effective products. Gripen alone uses devices and subCAN OFFER INTEGRAsystems from around 350 different companies. But, as the need for an increased level of cooperation becomes more apparent, it TION OPPORTUNITIES is important to remember that this must be done in an effective way and must generate products and solutions that are actually WITH OTHER PARTIES better than their predecessors. Neuron – an unmanned aircraft developed by Saab in collaboration with several European operaAND THEREFORE tors – was test flown during 2012. This is an excellent example of positive forces working together to break new ground. LEAD TO MORE Changing energy map impacts military strategic priorities COST-EFFECTIVE New oil and gas production technology may make the USA, and probably China, energy self-sufficient and will impact both counPRODUCTS.” tries’ strategic agendas. During 2012 we received reports that the USA will be able to export some of its gas production in the not 4 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 traffic. This presents some ambiguities – the melting of polar ice caps is evidence of the increasing unhealthiness of the planet, but also shortens transport routes and thereby reduces future environmental impact. As global trade is gradually rerouted to the Arctic Ocean, the security policy map in our immediate environment will be redrawn. This is reinforced by the fact that an open Arctic Ocean will to a greater extent enable the extraction of raw materials, particularly previously inaccessible fossil resources. This is a development that Saab will have to monitor since it could influence the military strategic priorities in the Nordic markets where we have a strong position, particularly in Sweden. Towards a more market-oriented organisation As mentioned in the introduction, we at Saab believe in increasing our local presence with our own people on the ground. Only when an organisation can see and hear what is happening around the world with its own eyes and ears can it create an environment for producing a customised offering. This is the reason behind Saab’s establishment, as of January 1st 2013, of six market areas on five continents. With people on the ground in these markets, we are taking with us our values and approach for healthy, sustainable business practices with zero tolerance of all forms of corruption. We know that we operate in an industry in which strict regulations are and should be a fact of life – in terms of companies’ own principles, national legislation and international agreements. We therefore actively support the UN’s work to formulate global regulations for our industry. To clarify our position in terms of how we act in society, Saab adopted the UN Global Compact in 2011. Its ten principles are now incorporated into Saab’s framework for sustainability work that is being continuously developed throughout the company. Saab’s Code of Conduct is also based on these ten principles. We are thus ensuring that Saab can develop further as a sustainable, international company that is competitive in the long term. too distant future. This alteration of the energy map impacts security policy the world over and hence military strategic priorities and Stockholm, February 2013 investments. Coupled with the development of new energy technology is the issue of environmental impact. Concrete proof that global warming actually exists was in evidence last year when the North-East Marcus Wallenberg Passage north of Norway and Russia was opened to commercial Chairman 2012 – A jubilee year for Saab along with observers from the Thai Airforce, gathered in RonSaab’s celebrated its 75th anniversary on 2 April 2012 with a neby/Karlskrona, Sweden. The number of Gripen users is large party in Linköping and the participation of Gripen aircraft from and growing, and this generates operational and financial four countries in the Lion Effort military exercise in Sweden. advantages for them. Lion Effort demonstrates how Gripen Aviation has always played a significant role in our business, operators from different countries can cooperate, train and and Saab has to date produced over 4,000 aircraft. Saab’s learn from each other’s experiences. April 2nd anniversary was celebrated by the Swedish Airforce with a unique exhibition of the military aircraft it has produced over the years. The Tunnan (1951-1956), J32 Lansen (19561960), J35 Draken (1959-1977), AJ37 Viggen (1971-1990), SK60 (1966-1972) and JAS 39 Gripen (1993-) aircraft flew in formation during the exhibition. While Saab celebrated its 75th anniversary, the 2012 Lion Effort exercise was in progress. Around 30 Gripen aircraft from the Swedish, Hungarian, Czech and South African Air Forces, SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 5 CEO COMMENT ENTERING 2013 WITH A STRONG FOUNDATION Following an exciting 2012, a year with interest throughout the world. It is thanks to our high-tech expertise and leading edge employees that we can offer an entirely new many positive announcements, Saab is fighter aircraft system, something very few companies can. well-equipped to tackle a global market characterised by tough competition. Focus Stronger local presence, globally Many of you who have heard me speak during 2012 have learned is on achieving profitable growth through that I want global development to be our starting point. This is becontinued cost-efficiency measures and cause things that happen in our market are, to an increasing extent, impacting the way we do business. Saab has for some time close cooperation with our customers. We had the goal of 5 per cent organic growth per year over a busiare investing even more in markets that ness cycle. Achieving this requires more than doing business only at home – we also need to continue to increase our market shares have a clear need for competitive products, beyond Sweden’s borders. We therefore introduced, in early 2013, systems and solutions. a new market organisation with six geographic areas that have favourable conditions for profitable growth. Based on this, we will now run our operations and receive first-hand information on what A step in the right direction is happening in different markets. Being close to our customers is During the year we secured several important orders and in the essential for building better, lasting industrial collaborations. third quarter order bookings reached their highest level in several Local roots also mean that we take an active role in the years. For the full year 2012, order bookings increased to MSEK development of society. This may involve collaborations in the 20,683 and the order backlog at the end of December amounted educational field, research and development and local producto MSEK 34,151. tion. Brazil and India are two concrete examples where we are Sales increased 2 per cent to MSEK 24,010 and gross income currently operating successful research centres. In all of our most increased to MSEK 7,190, corresponding to a gross margin of important markets we apply what we call “The Saab Way”. This 29.9 per cent. Operating income amounted to MSEK 2,032, cormeans that, in everything we do, we deliver high quality at reasonresponding to an operating margin of 8.5 per cent, with excluding able cost, and create and maintain close customer relationships extraordinary items was in line with the 2011 results. and collaborations in research and development. Operating cash flow decreased to MSEK -396 as a result of a higher utilisation of, and reduction in, advances and milestone Continued portfolio development payments as well as a higher net amount spent on acquisitions However, our growth will not be generated solely through expanand divestments. It is normal in our industry that working capital sion in prioritised markets. We must also ensure that we have varies over time depending on the project mix and milestone payan offering that satisfies our customers’ demands. We therefore ments. worked actively with our product portfolio during 2012 – work that Market conditions are challenging, and the situation is likely will continue at the same level of intensity in 2013. A key part of to continue. Our view is that we need to strengthen the portfolio this work is our investments in research and development. and further increase our international presence. Therefore we anEach year, Saab allocates around 20 per cent of sales to R&D nounced during the year three additional market areas and a new commissioned by customers and our own work, and in 2012 we organisational structure, with a total of six market areas, which allocated 25 per cent. This is a significant amount and, as such, came into operation on 1 January 2013, and two major acquisiimposes requirements for results. We believe that the combinations that give us leading positions in areas such as aviation and tion of being close to our customers to capture their needs and maritime traffic control. investing heavily in high-tech development is the recipe for success in building a well-focused portfolio of solutions, products Success for Gripen and services with internal and external synergy opportunities. By Everyone who worked at Saab this past year and everyone who growing smart, and with our unique expertise in system integrafollowed us from the side lines can probably agree that this has tion, Saab can develop competitive advantages that produce been a year of historic events. The first six months were marked concrete results. by the grand celebration of our 75th anniversary, and the second We develop the portfolio through product and systems develhalf of the year by positive announcements about Gripen. We opment and through regular divestments and acquisitions. One received news in late August that the Swedish government had strategically interesting acquisition this year was the acquisition reached an agreement with Switzerland for the procurement of 20 of HITT N.V., a leading supplier of advanced software applications or so Gripen E aircraft, and in mid-February 2013 we announced for aviation and maritime navigation, traffic and logistics maintean agreement with the Swedish Defence Materiel Administranance. Traffic monitoring and control is becoming one of our most tion that includes development and modification of Gripen E for important civil market segments. Sweden during the period 2013-2026 and a possible order to manufacture new Gripen E aircraft from Switzerland. In total the Challenges and bright spots agreement contains potential orders totalling SEK 47.2 billion. The business climate in 2012 continued to be characterised by This is an historic event for Saab and as CEO I am extremely fiscal problems and an economic slowdown. When governments proud of the confidence placed in this unique fighter aircraft allocate fewer and fewer resources to various budget items, system, its development potential and defence capacity. Today, companies like Saab naturally find it more challenging to create Gripen is operational in six countries and we see continued strong growth. Global defence expenditures are expected to grow by 6 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 a total of 10 per cent through 2017, although this trend varies in different parts of the world. Western countries are expected to cut defence spending, while areas such as China, Russia, India and South America are planning to allocate more resources for defence. During 2012 we also witnessed a shift in defence policy priorities in some countries. In January 2012 President Obama announced that the U.S. will modify its defence strategy by increasing focus on Asia and the Pacific Region. Accordingly, the U.S. will reduce its presence in Europe and the Middle East, and this imposes new requirements on the way we work together and take responsibility for shared security within Europe. In combination with tighter economic conditions, this also means that the EU and NATO are now talking increasingly about how we can draw benefit from each other and utilise skills and resources more effectively. This trend presents major opportunities for Saab. We know that our system solutions offer cost-effective defence solutions. Some examples of this are advanced systems such as fighter aircraft, airborne surveillance systems and ground combat weapons like have therefore put great emphasis on developing strict regulations the Carl-Gustaf. on how we do business. These regulations include zero tolerance of bribes. As a member of ASD (Aerospace and Defence Leader in operational excellence Industries of Europe), we are supporting efforts to develop antiSaab has been around for 75 years and is still marked by havcorruption regulations in the form of Common Industry Standards. ing its roots in a small, non-aligned country. From the start, we We also support the Global Principles of Business Ethics for the have operated on a very distinct market and this has forced us Aerospace and Defence Industry and efforts to promote these to think smart and use resources efficiently. This way of thinking principles within the global aviation and defence industry. and working also characterises us today in our focus on efficient We adopted the UN Global Compact in 2011. This is a prooperations. Saab employees work every day to achieve greater gramme based on UN human rights principles but which also incost-efficiency in order to deliver products and services with cludes principles on labour, the environment and anti-corruption. power, performance and value for money. With “The Saab Way” The Global Compact is now integrated into our Code of Conduct. as a control instrument, we have excellent prospects to maintain our advantage here. And ﬁnally … Gripen’s successes during 2012 clearly illustrate Saab’s competiContinuing to attract the most skilled employees tive advantages: cutting-edge technology, cost-efficiency over the We often say that Saab is one of Sweden’s most high-tech comentire lifecycle, high integration and flexibility capacity and close panies, and these are not just empty words. I can, for example, cooperation with customers. The fact that we at Saab have been state as concrete evidence that the share of university-trained working smartly and cost-efficiently since our start 75 years ago employees is approximately 55 per cent (54). And as the father of will be increasingly important during times of dwindling resources. three daughters, I am personally proud that we are one of the best We received concrete evidence of this in the form of increased high-tech companies in terms of gender equality. This is demorder bookings during the year. With this background, we have a onstrated, among other things, by the fact that we have nearly solid platform for profitable growth in 2013. achieved our goal of having at least 30 per cent female senior During times of change within a company, major strain is put executives. Once we have achieved this objective we will raise on its employees. All of us at Saab have worked hard to achieve our ambition further. Our ambition is to carry these key figures and ambitious goals. I want to thank everyone who is involved in imvalues with us as Saab expands abroad, even though circumplementing our strategy, everyone who shares our belief in the fustances vary between markets. ture and everyone who wants to develop Saab into the important, To be able to meet the tougher competition, it is also crucial for successful company it deserves to be. As I mentioned above, we us to be able to attract and retain the market’s best talents and have already put the platform in place. We will now manage this brains. Our goal is that these skilled employees will be able to platform and ensure that it produces the gearing effect that we grow within Saab and become inspirational leaders who can be know it can. part of our journey to become an international and competitive company. To this end, we have developed initiatives such as our management and trainee programmes, which engaged about 250 Stockholm, February 2013 people in 2012. UN Global Compact guides our actions Our efforts on international expansion also imposes high demands on everyone working at Saab to be familiar with and remain updated on our Code of Conduct. Trust in us is an invaluable asset Håkan Buskhe that must not be jeopardised. Business ethics are crucial and we President and CEO SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 7 GRIPEN – THE WORLD’S MOST DEDICATED MULI-ROLE FIGHTER AIRCRAFT Gripen is a multi-role fighter system. This Upgrades to Gripen’s software can be compared to upgrades on a personal computer. category of aircraft is characterised by a Gripen has high field capability. This means it is a fighter single aircraft being capable of the principal designed to be based anywhere from well-equipped air bases to simple forward operating bases on paved roads. Gripen can be tasks of air-to-air, air-to-surface and reconmade operationally ready, i.e. fuelled and loaded with weapons naissance. The system is noted for its flexand ammunition, in a car park. A group of four people can ready ible capacities, and it has strong operational the aircraft in only ten minutes if the sortie is an air-to-air mission, while an air-to-ground mission requires 20 minutes. capabilities. Furthermore, the system is the This rapidity is unique to Gripen. Short turnaround times most cost-effective on the market today. increase response capacity and contribute to the Gripen system’s efficiency. The field capability includes being able to conduct technical Networks provide an information advantage service work outdoors, even at forward operating bases, and the The focus of the pilot in a modern fighter aircraft is on making use engine, for example, can be changed in less than one hour. of its tactical capabilities. In order to complete a mission the pilot must have optimal information superiority to make quick decisions A cost-effective system in lightning-fast situations. For this reason, Gripen is also part of a Gripen is a fighter system that uniquely combines high technology network of other aircraft, ships, radar stations and ground units. and high operational capabilities with cost effectiveness. This costThe information in the Gripen cockpit is retrieved from its radar, effectiveness is true of the development and production, purchase other sensors, and the aircraft’s own database, as well as data reprice, operating costs and maintenance – the entire lifecycle. ceived from other coordinated aircraft. Data can also be transmitOperating and maintenance costs throughout the operational ted to other coordinated aircraft. life make up a large part of the cost of a fighter system. A comBy acting in a network, the various aircraft are able to operate parison between Gripen and its main competitors shows that without unnecessarily disclosing their positions. With its radar Gripen has the lowest cost of operation and maintenance. activated, an aircraft risks quickly reveals its position, so the pilots may elect to use the radar of only one aircraft in the group, which Flexible design allows upgrades at transmits the information to the others. reasonable price and low risk Future Gripen generations benefit from the fundamental design of Designed for easy handling previous versions, which means that implementing new subGripen is designed to be adaptable. A high level of software is systems such as radar, engines, avionics and advanced tactical advantageous since upgrades can be made as the need arises, fighter aircraft systems can be done with significant savings over without requiring major and costly refurbishment of the aircraft. creating a whole new combat aircraft from scratch. With the 8 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 What distinguishes Gripen E/F from Gripen C/D? There can be two versions of the new Gripen E/F are found primarily on generation Gripen: the single-seater E the inside. and the two-seater F. Although the future The aircraft has a more powerful engine, Gripen E/F will be slightly larger than the increased internal fuel capacity, greater current Gripen C/D version, it may be difweapons capacity, an upgraded cockpit ﬁcult to perceive the difference between display system and more advanced them. The innovations enabling the avionics (aviation electronics). signiﬁcant performance improvement for Gripen E Gripen C Length: 15.2 metres 14.1 metres Wingspan: 8.6 metres 8.4 metres Maximum take-off 16.5 tonnes 14 tonnes weight: Thrust: >22,000 lbs. >18,000 lbs. Weapons stations: 10 8 Max speed: Mach 2 (plus Super-Cruise Mach 2 Capability) Turnaround-time: Less than 10 minutes Less than 10 minutes with weapons for air-to-air with weapons for air-to-air (i.e., the time it takes for combat; less than 20 combat; less than 20 an aircraft to land, ﬁll up minutes with weapons for minutes with weapons for fuel, change cargo and air-to-ground combat. air-to-ground combat. take off again) Cost per hour of ﬂight calculations (CPFH) USD, (2012) Difference of USN Projected B/C model cost by 2029 35 000 RAAF-F-35A estimated cost over 30 year operational Gripen 2012 and 2013 service at 200 hours per year per aircraft On 24 August, the Swedish Defence and Security Export 28 000 Jane’s estimated EuroFigheter supplies Agency (FXM) and Armasuisse, the Swiss Federal Departand scheduled maintenance cost ment of Defence, Civil Protection and Sport, signed a 21 000 framework agreement on Switzerland’s procurement of Austrailan CPFH figures 22 Gripen aircraft. The agreement builds further on the aircraft not at full declaration of intent signed by the two countries earlier in 14 000 operational capability the summer, which represented an important step in the subsequent political decision-making process. 7 000 A series of important events for the next-generation Gripen followed during the autumn. After a hearing in the parliament’s Defence Committee on 8 November, Sweden’s 0 elected representatives voted on 12 December in favour of F-35 Euro Rafale F-18 E/F F-16 JAS 39 allowing the Government to take a decision on a new verFighter* sion of JAS 39 Gripen during 2013. This was a historically * The EuroFighter cost given UK Parliament appears to cover fuel usage only per hour important decision for Saab and the future of Gripen, and Source: IHS Jane’s, 2012 provides support for the process in Switzerland. The next-generation Gripen was also demonstrated to replacement of both hardware and software, Gripen E also has a the Swiss public for the first time in 2012, with its participanew and modern system that will be easy to develop in the future. tion in the Swiss Air Force’s Axalp exhibition. The two-seatThis is how Saab has been able to develop Gripen E at lower er demonstrator aircraft was flown by a Swiss pilot in the cost than the C/D and A/B versions. Test flights began in spring front seat, with a Swedish pilot in the rear seat. 2008 of a demonstrator aircraft, called the Gripen Demo, and later FXM submitted an offer to Croatia in October for the purwith the Gripen NG (New Generation). This aircraft has a more chase of eight Gripen C/Ds. The contract with Hungary was powerful engine and AESA* radar based on the latest radar techextended during the year, and Gripen participated in Czech nology, as well as a new positioning of the landing gear. A variety Air Force patrols over the Baltic States under the authority of avionics and communications equipment have also been flightof NATO. tested in the aircraft. During the test period, the aircraft has been In February 2013, Saab announced that an agreement flown in Sweden, India and Switzerland. had been concluded with FMV for Gripen E. The agreement Major technical advancement has been proven over the Gripen covers the development and modification of Gripen E for C/D version during the demonstrator programme. This means that Sweden during the period 2013-2026 and a possible order the path to Gripen E becoming fully operational can be regarded for newly built Gripen E aircraft from Switzerland. FMV also as fully quality assured, on time and within budget. placed an initial development order worth SEK 2.5 billion for operations in 2013-2014. The remaining orders from Sweden are expected in 2013-2014. In total, the agreement * AESA (Active Electronically Scanned Array) radar: This radar technology simultanecovers potential orders totalling SEK 47.2 billion. ously scans in multiple directions. Gripen version C/D currently uses a traditional radar, where an antenna sweeps all or part of a search area. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 9 MEGATRENDS A RAPIDLY CHANGING WORLD As the world changes, so do our defence Also, defence and civil companies will increasingly compete for contracts in each others’ traditional areas as the lines between and security needs. Due to megatrends such the military and civil are blurred and as technology plays a more as globalisation, economic growth, populaimportant role. tion growth, urbanisation and rapid technoNew stakeholders and players logical development, we need to build on the With an expanded security concept, stakeholder groups will also way we traditionally think about security. This grow from the current nation states and government institutions to increasingly include new stakeholders such as leaders of major is true politically, militarily and economically cities; global companies; network, transport, logictics and infraas well as nationally and internationally. structure operators; and health care players. Pressure from a growing global middle class is a strong driver Global rebalancing – urbanisation, ﬂow-related From a political and sociological perspective, economic growth, and maritime issues easily accessible IC technology and the emergence of the conThe ongoing emphasis shift of economic and political power from nected society have created a platform for a growing “global the “Western world” to growth regions, chiefly regions in Asia, middle class”. This trend is closely linked to the urbanisation trend demonstrates the importance of economic factors now being (which is stronger than population growth) in developing countries awarded more or less the same significance as military power – at and regions. least during peacetime. With demands for social welfare, freedom, justice and political New vulnerabilities and threat scenarios become evident as we influence, this is a growing challenge for politicians and their lebecome more closely linked in an increasingly global context. The gitimacy in many countries. The global middle class is generating need to safeguard and protect critical flows and hubs in society forces that seldom recognise geographical limitations. also becomes more obvious. These include crucial infrastructure and functions such as airports, ports, railways, motorways, trade Understanding the military sector flows, mass transportation and energy systems. But the modern In a globalised, more affluent and enlightened world, traditional concept of security is not merely a matter of protecting these war will in all likelihood be a less rational option. Statistics confirm functions against direct threats and disasters, but also of facilitata long-term downward trend for armed conflict, particularly in ing functionality, efficiency, sustainability and commercial aspects. terms of international conflicts. In the long term, this trend will In light of the geographic and economic policy background, the impact military and security doctrines. shift in emphasis towards the Asia-Pacific region makes the mariRunning parallel with this trend is a rising need for modern time dimension increasingly important. Military strategists and posociety to protect itself against a number of non-traditional, litical decision-makers need to think increasingly in terms of seas non-military threats. These new security needs will not replace (territorial seas and sea-based flows) and less in terms of land. traditional military scenarios. However, in many western countries, defence spending is being impacted for government finances. The global governance aspect This is resulting in both restructuring reforms and an adjustment The changes taking place in the world today give rise to plenty of ambitions. of challenges and opportunities, as well as uncertainties. Over time, global governance and regulatory systems can retain their Anticipating the war of tomorrow legitimacy and effectiveness only when they adapt to real-world In a five-year perspective, wars will by and large probably be developments – e.g. regional differences in population and fought as they are today. But in the long term, the way in which economic growth. The strong emergence of new players with military powers plan and wage their conflicts will very likely new ambitions imposes new and different types of demands, and change. As technological advances spread throughout the world, potential conflicts of interest emerge. This also alters the global threat scenarios will also change for most countries. In the not governance situation. Due to these trends – in combination with too distant future, society will need to create the power to resist multiple disputes about and differing views on the rules of the and defend itself against, e.g. advanced, coordinated asymmetrigame, standards and values – the issue of global power structures cal threats from unmanned kinetic weapons in combination with becomes increasingly relevant. Are we now seeing a redistribution cyber attacks. These may also target social functions rather than of the global balance of power? traditional military targets, and may be carried out by hard-toidentify aggressors, planned and coordinated by other countries Trends, threats and opportunities going forward – or other players with considerable financial resources. a new meaning of “security” In order to adapt the concept of security to future conditions and Economics from a strategic security perspective to retain a technological advantage, new aspects, threats, risks, Economic security is no longer only a matter of safeguarding rechallenges and opportunities must be more clearly included. sources such as food, water or other things that enable a country to withstand a war. Economic security today is also a matter of New technologies general economic growth and prosperity, which requires efficient The technology factor is increasingly important for companies like flows of goods, services and information. The economic dimenSaab. Developing and retaining a technological advantage will be sion is given increasing importance in modern security doctrines. crucial in the competition in the defence and civil markets alike. The U.S. Defense Strategy Guidance from 2012 emphasised that 10 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Market trends The concept of security policy has expanded and today includes coming more complex, which is accelerating questions of vulneradimensions other than defence. Military attacks are certainly still bility. Saab has therefore continuously broadened its operations to relevant from a long-term perspective, and localised military inciinclude civil applications to address this expanded threat scenario, dents and operations in the near term cannot be ruled out either. which today also includes impacts on our environment. International crises and conflicts will also continue to call for both civil and military responses. But society’s basic functions are beThreats to the climate and Defend borders and territories International responses Threats and risks to society environment Training Command & Control Maintenance The primary drivers in Saab’s market areas are threat scenarios The three areas of training, command and control, and mainteand security needs. This applies to the defence sector and civil nance are ”links” as well as the lowest common denominator society as well as the grey zone in between. Understanding the between these two security dimensions. For Saab, these areas development of, and overlap between, the two main dimensions originate in a traditional border-protecting military context, but are of security policy is critical to also understanding the opportunijust as relevant and possible to implement in an urban-centred, ties, breadth and potential in Saab’s market. flow-protecting environment. Read more on page 12. prosperity and security are intimately associated with open trade associated climate change. Global warming can accelerate the routes, and the UK’s National Security Strategy of 2010 sets out spread of contagion. This threat is now attracting more attention that prosperity and a strong economy are vital to the nation’s as future risk and threat scenarios are outlined – but, in spite of security. this, the area presents a new challenge for the traditional security industry. Health and environment from a strategic security perspective In a globalised world, there is a great risk for global epidemics Realising potential by being on the thinking edge and increasingly drug-resistant pathogens. The evolvement of the Some high-tech companies have relevant capabilities within data globalised world was made possible by, among other things, the fusion, visualisation, systems integration, situation awareness, successful development and use of vaccines against infectious etc. to meet new security threats – where civil and military security diseases. Against this background the international community merge and leading-edge defence and security companies can and several defence companies have placed health and infectious make a difference. disease control higher on the agenda. The risks of the spread of infectious diseases and other health For sources see page144. threats are also linked to increased environmental impact and SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 11 MARKET AND DRIVING FORCES INCREASED COMPLEXITY – AN ADVANTAGE FOR SAAB Saab operates in a global market with a need for defending borders and territories and maintaining functionality and security in civil society. The market’s driving forces are linked to altered threat scenarios and new security needs, as well as increased demand for costefficiency. Complexity and change are progressively increasing. Flexibility, cost-consciousness and understanding of the need for change give Saab a strong competitive position. Increased competition for global Macro factors have an impact New cooperation and alliances resources – and new geopolitical The global economy has slowed down in with a regional focus conditions recent years. Deficits and public debt in International cooperation, alliances and The economic growth rates in Western major western economies call for stringent missions are crucial to the global comEurope and North America are currently austerity programmes, which are reflected munity’s peacekeeping and economic delower than those in Africa, Latin America in reduced defence budgets. The U.S. velopment efforts. Meanwhile, regional aland Asia, where – despite continuing and Canada, however, still stand for the liances and long-term bilateral agreements challenges – growth is significantly higher. largest share of global defence spending. are becoming increasingly significant. This As the world population grows and the Brazil, China and other Asian countries are is especially true in terms of large defence global community develops, competition seeing the greatest increase in defence orders, which almost always entail major increases for resources while economic spending. It is estimated that defence industrial partnerships – both within and growth is in the best interest of all. spending in the Nordic countries will total outside of the defence industry. Large approximately SEK 790 billion during the development projects are also conducted Impact and our position: 2012–2017 period (Source: IHS Jane’s). through public-private partnerships. At a time when competitive dynamics are changing and new economic relationships Impact and our position: Impact and our position: are emerging, conflict patterns and secuTo a growing extent, defence authorities International cooperation and system partrity needs are altered. Customers demand around the world want access to the best nerships require open systems that can be integrated solutions from companies that the market has to offer at the lowest poscoordinated and integrated operationally. are highly familiar with international relasible price, regardless of country of origin. Defence orders involving industrial parttions as well as the specific conditions in In addition, tested products are evaluated nerships often entail the delivery of part of local markets. To increase the chances of based on both performance and costthe order value through production in the being selected as business partner and to effeciency over product lifecycle. purchasing country, as well as technology have a portion of development financed At the same time, demands are increastransfer to that country. through government appropriations, it is ing for functionality, efficiency and the abilSaab’s systems and solutions are important to be established locally. ity to operate jointly. To a growing degree, distinguished by high levels of interoperBased on a strong presence in priorithere is a demand for open solutions that ability, and system integration is our core tised geographic markets, presence is can be integrated into existing equipment competence. This gives Saab greater further strengthened through the estaband other suppliers’ systems. Customopportunities to address the new cooperalishment of six market areas. Read more ers in both military and civil markets want tion patterns and demands for technology on pages 18 and 26–29. broad-based, integrated solutions that transfer. Read more on pages 14–15 and include more services: training, support 20–21. and maintenance. With successful efficiency improvements and close customer collaboration, Saab holds a strong position in terms of delivering customised, efficient solutions. Read more on pages 10–11 and 19–22. 12 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 WING OF THE FUTURE DEVELOPED IN LINKÖPING A brand new integrated technology to build composite wings can reduce fuel consumption by five to eight per cent. By curing the shell surface together with stringers and ribs, the inner structures of the wing can be secured entirely without rivets on the exterior. This reduces turbulent flow over the wing and provides the desired fuel savings. Weight is also reduced, which also helps to lower fuel consumption. This development is being conducted within the framework of the Smart art Fixed Wing Aircraft project, which is part of the EU’s Clean Sky initiative. The collaboration demonstrates Saab’s design and production capabilities es and reinforces Saab’s role as an important subcontractor. A major challenge is to scale up this technology and deliver a full-scale e wing while meeting the very aggressive schedule. In early 2015, Airbus will test an Airbus A340 with Saab’s 9x3 metre wing component to evaluate the technology. This is one of the main deliverables of the Clean Sky project.. Increased need to safeguard Technology development Sustainable solutions – in several supply chains and make them Increasingly advanced information and dimensions more efﬁcient communication technology (ICT) underAccess to energy is a critical factor in the Society is becoming an increasingly pins essentially all dimensions of society, development of living standards, national integrated network society, with expandwhich have become more vulnerable as competitiveness and the ability to maintain ing cross-border flows of capital, energy, a result. Advanced ICT is also of greater critical societal functions, and is therefore goods and people. The trend towards a importance in more and more weapon central to both military and civil strategies. global flow economy has increased the systems and major investments are being There is a wide-spread aspiration to befunctional and security needs of the civil/ made in cyber security. come less dependent on undesireable, pocommercial sector. It is in the interest of Technology development is also adlitically sensitive sources and to capitalise the international community and the major vancing rapidly in the area of unmanned on the economic benefits of new technoleconomies to maintain critical flows. aerial systems. ogy. Another dimension is the need to reduce global environmental and climate Impact and our position: Impact and our position: risks and provide support when natural As integration between countries, econoICT is an important driver behind the intedisasters occur. Development and security mies and infrastructure systems increases, gration of military and commercial technolgo hand in hand in this area as well. there is greater demand for efficiency and ogy, where there is a growing overlap, security. especially in surveillance and control. Impact and our position: Saab has progressively strengthened System integration is our core compeProviding systems and solutions that our position within surveillance, particutence, which is largely a matter of integratsafeguard important energy sources is larly within traffic management with the ing ICT for applications with many different essential for a safe society and a growing acquisition of Sensis and HITT. There is functions. Read more on pages 8–9 and market. There is also growing interest in also clear development potential in the 14–15. developing solutions with better energy surveillance of other civil functions. Read performance to reduce impact on the more on pages 18 and 20–21. climate and environment. This affects both the focus of Saab’s development projects and the need to run the business in a sustainable manner. Read more about our sustainability work and development projects on pages 32–43. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 13 SAAB’S BUSINESS MODEL OUR TECHNOLOGIES MEET MANY DIFFERENT NEEDS The way in which Saab addresses its cusand cost-effectiveness over the entire lifecycle. Functions – rather than products and systems – are being sold to an increasing tomers and markets has evolved over the extent, and certain functions can be outsourced; i.e., Saab can years, from close collaboration on orders of assume responsibility for operation. One example of this is the long-term contract Saab has with FMV: a turnkey commitment one product by one customer to our current for the SK 60 flight training system under which Saab, as main broad but sharply focused range and cussupplier, is responsible for operation, repair and maintenance of tomers in many countries. all SK 60 aircraft. This involves an additional business model: the operating agreement. Close cooperation with customers and partners are crucial for Our core competence is the key to customer value companies within the defence and security industry, and maintainSaab is prominent in a number of key technologies, including cutting-edge technology requires extensive R&D (Research ing 4CI (Command, Control, Communication, Computers and & Development) efforts. Major defence orders have traditionally Intelligence), important to our reconnaissance and surveillance included scope for some R&D financing via government defence systems. Several of these have broad, flexible and increasing appropriations, which has also generated a number of spin-off applications in both the military and civil markets. Focusing on technologies, new businesses and jobs outside the defence this type of technology is warranted in terms of cultivating a wider industry. Over the past ten years or so, Saab has progressively market and achieving economies of scale in production. increased the share of R&D financed internally via our earnings. Saab provides our greatest customer value through its core This puts pressure on industrial efficiency, which is why continued competence: systems integration – the ability to combine efficiency efforts are one of the cornerstones of the strategy. technologies in advanced functions and more or less customise solutions and customer applications. Some of Saab’s most sucEnhanced service content and lifecycle cessful product concepts – including the Gripen fighter system perspective extend projects and our airborne surveillance systems – are complex “systems of Large defence orders often include training, maintenance, support systems”. These hold high positions in the processing chain, while and service and other service content, focused on functionality also being cost-efficient. Read more about Gripen on pages 8-9. Aeronautics Dynamics Electronic Defence Systems 24% 18% 17% of sales. of sales. of sales. 6,076 MSEK in sales 2012 4,779 MSEK in sales 2012 4,276 MSEK in sales 2012 Operations Operations Operations Offers a product portfolio comprising the Offers a product portfolio with ground Offers a product portfolio comprising Gripen fighter system, unmanned aerial combat weapons, missile systems, torpeairborne, land-based and naval systems in systems (UAS) and components for Saab’s does and signature management systems radar, signals intelligence and self-protecown aircraft and for passenger aircraft for armed forces. Examples of products: tion. Examples of products: Giraffe AMB, manufactured by others. Examples of prodCarl-Gustaf and RBS 70 and RBS15 misErieye and Arthur. ucts: Gripen and Skeldar. sile systems. Driving factors Driving factors Driving factors Multi-national missions and new technoloGrowth within military aviation is driven Complex conflicts, increasingly in urban engies drive the need for open architecture, by nations that want new fighter aircraft vironments, require new materiel systems system integration and interoperability. with better performance, more flexibility and technology. Great demands are placed There is growing interest in long-endurand better overall economic efficiency. on system integration, interoperability and ance solutions in which sensors and Civilian aircraft manufacturing is driven by command and control capabilities. combat management are prioritised. growth within passenger traffic, the need to upgrade existing fleets and the need for new aircraft. Growth within civil aviation fluctuates more with the economy than does defence materiel. Read more on page 46. Read more on page 47. Read more on page 48. 14 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Technology transfer to new home markets several close customer relationships locally and thereby generate During the year we defined a sales organisation with six market greater business flows. Often, this type of transfer is a distinct feaareas, all of which will build platforms for deeper customer relature of the industrial partnerships that are normally part of major tionships. The strategy is a manifestation of our goal to establish defence contracts. Business ﬂow/Business model Element of customerComplexity/duration Contracts extending over a longer time pefinanced R&D riod, strong integration with customer Aeronautics Support and Services Military aviation Electronic Defence Systems Dynamics Security and Combitech Defence Solutions Airborne Early Security and Defence Solutions Warning (EAW) Command and Control Civil Security Security and Defence Solutions Training and Simulation Standardised products/ Stable earnings and cash flows shorter projects generate funds for internally financed R&D Economies of scale/repetition Security and Defence Solutions Support and Services Combitech 23% 13% 5% of sales. of sales. of sales. 5,976 MSEK in sales 2012 3,411 MSEK in sales 2012 1,410 MSEK in sales 2012 Operations Operations Operations Offers a product portfolio comprising Offers mainly support solutions, techniOffers technical and operational consultcommand and control systems, airborne cal maintenance and logistics, as well ing services. early warning systems, training and simuas products, solutions and services for lation, air traffic management, security and military and civil missions in locations with Driving factors monitoring systems and communication limited infrastructure. Many customers are cutting back on the solutions. numbers of consultants they use, and preDriving factors fer to work with larger and more compreDriving factors Increased demand for effective solutions, hensive providers. The market for turnkey Multi-national missions and new technolwith the customer giving the supplier the projects is therefore expected to increase. ogy are driving the need for solutions in task of e.g. maintaining a system. There is intense pressure on the market for which combat management and interopertechnical consultants, especially when it ability are highly prioritised. Investments in comes to hourly-billed assignments. national security are on the rise throughout the world. With new security threats and technological developments, there is also a growing need for training. Read more on page 49. Read more on page 50. Read more on page 51. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 15 STRATEGIC GOALS HOW SAAB DELIVERS ON STRATEGIC GOALS 1. PROFITABLE GROWTH Activities during the year Outcome/Goal Attainment Priorities 2013 Our focus over the year has been to preTotal sales increased 2 per cent in 2012 Ensure that the desired gearing effect is pare for the new market area organisation year-on-year. Excluding acquisitions, sales achieved from the new market organisawhere six market areas were established decreased by 2 per cent. Foreign exchange tion. This includes increasing awareness on 1 January, 2013. effects had no significant impact on sales. of and confidence in Saab as a business Despite challenging market conditions The operating margin was 8.5 per cent partner. throughout 2012, order bookings increased (12.5). Excluding non-recurring items the For long-term financial goals and outlook by 9 per cent in the year, partly as a result operating margin was 7.6 per cent (7.5). for 2013, see page 44. of larger development and support orders from the Swedish Defence Materiel AdSales, billion SEK EBIT, % ministration regarding the Gripen system. 13 Hungary also decided to continue to oper25 24 24 23 ate Gripen until 2026. We also received several large and 9 important orders, among them our manportable weapon system Carl-Gustaf to the U.S. Army, our surface-to-surface missile 6 RBS15 Mk3 to Germany and an upgrade 4 an upgrade of a Combat Management System to Thailand. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2. PERFORMANCE Activities during the year Outcome/Goal Attainment Priorities 2013 Continued focus on standardising the Administrative costs were virtually unEfforts to reduce costs and improve efmost important processes to achieve changed during the year at approximately ficiency at every level – from research and functional synergies. We have also focused 5.1 per cent (5.2). Marketing costs rose development to sales – will continue. This on capturing synergies from acquisitions, due to the set-up of our new market orincludes ensuring that all research and deincluding Sensis which was acquired in ganisation. The gross margin improved to velopment projects are commercially viable 2011. Improving efficiency within all parts 29.9 per cent (28.5). and support the offering. A uniform product of our operation is always on the agenda. development process will be launched in Saab also created a uniform Quality and Administrative Gross margin, % 2013, as will international certification work Environment certificate (ISO 9001 and ISO costs, % of sales in other countries, including the U.S. 14001) for operations in Sweden, South 30 Africa and Australia. 29 5.1 5.2 5.1 4.9 25 23 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 16 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 PERFORMANCE Saab’s four strategic priorities are profitable growth, PROFITABLE PORTFOLIO performance, a focused portfolio and people. In 2012, we continued taking several important steps in our strategic GROWTH priorities to achieve our long-term goals. PEOPLE 3. PORTFOLIO Activities during the year Transactions Priorities 2013 During 2012, a number of strategic acquisiContinued investments in product deFirst half of 2012: tions were made that complement the velopment and renewal and prioritisation portfolio and strengthen market position. r$PNCJUFDIBDRVJSFT4XFEJTIDPNQBOZ and strengthening of Saab’s competitive Sörman Information was acquired by Sörman Information position in a number of selected markets Saab’s independent subsidiary, Combitech, r1VCMJDPGGFSUPBDRVJSF%VUDIDPNQBOZ and technological specialties. Continuduring the first half of the year. This acquiHITT N.V. ous mapping of potential acquisitions that sition is in line with Combitech’s strategy to complement the portfolio and strengthen grow its position in the Nordic region. DurSecond half of 2012: our offering. ing the second half of the year, Combitech acquired 70 per cent of the shares in Bayes r$PNCJUFDIBDRVJSFT/PSXFHJBODPNQBOZ Risk Management AS, Norway, with the Bayes Risk Management AS option of acquiring the remaining 30 per r$PPQFSBUJPOBHSFFNFOUXJUI*OEJBODPNcent within 18 months. pany Pipavav During the year, Saab acquired HITT r DRVJTJUJPOPG(FSNBOZDPNQBOZ N.V., which primarily strengthened the MEDAV GmbH position within air and marine traffic manr+PJOUWFOUVSFXJUI*OEJBODPNQBOZ agement. German company MEDAV GmbH QuEST Global Manufacturing was also acquired, strengthening our position within signals intelligence. In India, two cooperation agreements were entered into to strengthen our local market presence. 4. PEOPLE Activities during the year Results 2012 Priorities 2013 Developed management development Key HR ratios r'VSUIFSTUSFOHUIFOPVSNBOBHFNFOUXJUI programme based on eight leadership a focus on business orientation, comskills that are the foundation for successEmployer of choice – internally munication and employee involvement ful management. A Group-wide trainee index 75 (67) on all levels. programme was introduced and efforts Percentage of female r*NQSPWFMPOHUFSNUBMFOUNBOBHFNFOUCZ targeting future talent were stepped up managers, % 22.1 (20.6) strengthening Saab’s employer offering. through collaborations and meetings with r%FWFMPQBOEIBSNPOJTF)3TVQQPSUGSPN lower secondary students and students a global perspective. at prioritised universities. Many new employees were recruited during the year. The Group-wide introductory programme, “This is Saab”, was highly valuable to these efforts. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 17 PROFITABLE GROWTH NEW BUSINESS AND STRENGTHENED MARKET PRESENCE Saab’s strategy is to focus on markets security solutions. In order to achieve the goal of an average organic growth of 5 per cent over a business cycle, a new market where we can achieve growth by winning organisation with six prioritised market areas has been estabmarket share and gaining a stronger posilished: Nordic & Baltic, Americas, Europe & Greater Middle East, Sub-Saharan Africa, India, and Asia Pacific. The new organisation tion. Strategic acquisitions and increased has been operational since 1 January 2013. local market presence are key elements of The objective is to more effectively capture growth potential in the growth strategy. these key markets. For customers, this means that they have access to more specialised skills and insight into the offering. At the same time, efficiency is improved through reduced duplication of During 2012 success was achieved with the receipt of several work, clearer division of responsibilities and the introduction of a major orders, including the Thai Navy’s order for the upgrade new, more focused business culture. of the combat management system for aircraft carrier H.T.M.S Chakri Naruebet. Saab is now part of the Thai Navy’s three most Priorities 2013-2016 important vessels and, through connection to the Thai Air Force’s Saab continuously evaluates and develops its business model Gripen and Erieye, capacity and resources can be used more and offering in order to improve growth opportunities and profiteffectively. ability. Sweden took the decision during 2012 to acquire 40-60 next In coming years we will ensure that the desired gearing effect is generation Gripen aircraft, Gripen E. In 2011 Switzerland anachieved within the new international market organisation. Growth nounced its interest in acquiring 22 Gripen E aircraft, contingent opportunities through acquisitions in selected geographic markets upon parliamentary decisions. Hungary extended its Gripen are also continuously evaluated. The goal is to further strengthen contract, and FMV placed an order for maintenance and updating Saab’s market position by running own operations in each market. work on Gripen. In this way, new business opportunities will be generated and Several orders for Carl Gustaf, which is in demand in many long-term customer relationships will be built. strategic markets, were received. Saab’s stronger position within Saab’s customers are looking for a long-term, financially stable traffic management also produced results in the form of increased partner that enjoys a high degree of confidence on each market. sales. Saab currently holds a good position based on these criteria, but Strategic acquisitions were made – Dutch traffic management will continue our efforts to increase confidence in and awareness company HITT, Norwegian Bayes Risk Management – and new of Saab and its operations. international cooperations were established, including Pipavav and QuEST in India. Read more about acquisitions and product portfolio development on pages 20-21. Priorities 2012 In an increasingly complex market, local presence and greater business orientation are crucial in terms of winning more strategically important business – this applies to both military and civil Sales trend by market region, billion SEK Sales trend by business area, billion SEK 8.7 8.8 6.4 6.1 6.0 5.7 4.8 4.6 4.3 4.3 5.2 4.9 4.5 4.6 3.4 3.4 2.8 1.9 1.8 1.4 1.3 1.11.2 1.0 0.3 0.4 Sweden EU excl. Other Americas Asia Africa Australia Aeronautics Dynamics EDS SDS S&S Combitech Sweden Europe Pasific 2011 2012 2011 2012 18 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 PERFORMANCE EFFICIENCY AT EVERY LEVEL One of Saab’s most important competitive To achieve the desired level of efficiency in the broad product portfolio, the products need to support each other and be usable advantages is the ability to deliver the most in different systems. Efforts to streamline and complement the cost-efficient solutions to our customers. portfolio continued during 2012 (read more on pages 20-21). Saab invested approximately 25 per cent of sales in research Efficiency improvements are continuously and development in 2012. Several centres of excellence have being made. been established to ensure that each krona invested is used in the right area. Internal efficiency is tested as the company grows in new markets Operations in South Africa were restructured during the year and through acquisitions. Streamlined governance and processes due to changed market conditions. As a result, we streamlined are crucial to the avoidance of built-in inefficiencies within the orand consolidated our on-site operations within Electronic and Deganisation. Over the past years, internal efficiency measures have fence Systems, Support and Services and Saab Systems Grintek, underpinned day-to-day operations. The success of our efforts which is part of Security and Defence Solutions. is indicated in part by the improvement of the gross margin from A uniform Quality and Environment certificate (ISO 9001 and 28.5 per cent in 2011 to 29.9 per cent in 2012. ISO 14001) for operations in Sweden, South Africa and Australia was finalised during the year. Priorities 2012 In addition to the development of a more efficient global market Priorities 2013-2016 organisation work has proceeded with continuous efforts to imTo ensure preparedness to respond quickly when market condiprove efficiency and productivity in other areas of our operations. tions change, we have maintained focus on predicting, quantifying This work has been based on introducing uniform governance and and regularly monitoring our market and risk assessments. The process management to improve coordination, standardisation business support system will be further developed to support the and harmonisation within the Group. Group and its international marketing organisation. The new six market areas will create a more tangible, visible In order to safeguard the position as a cost-efficient player, market presence. The sales process has therefore been develfixed costs must be reduced and the share of variable costs oped to provide effective business support irrespective of the increased.This will improve flexibility and the ability to adapt location or complexity of the business transaction. operations to changed market conditions. The challenge is to develop a model and procedures that We will continue to improve efficiency within purchasing and ensure high implementation efficiency – for long-term contractR&D by establishing uniform, integrated product development based business as well as straightforward orders for in-stock processes. Certification efforts will proceed in other geographic products. Improvements in project efficiency improve our gross markets, including the U.S. In brief, it can safely be said that the margin. Risk minimisation in combination with well-adapted, key words for Saab’s efficiency improvement efforts are standflexible project management is the cornerstone for optimising the ardisation, optimisation and harmonisation – in all parts of the gross margin. operations – today and in the future. Gross margin, % 30 29 25 23 19 The gross margin increased in 2012, partly as a result of a different product and project mix compared to 2011. The sale of aircraft in Saab’s lease fleet of turboprop aircraft contributed positively to the gross margin in 2011 and 2012. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 19 PORTFOLIO CONTINUED FOCUS AND MORE ACQUISITIONS A prerequisite for continued success is Priorities 2012 During the year, the benefits of the product management process having a market-adjusted offering at the developed in 2011 became evident. Product roadmaps (i.e. a technological forefront. Saab’s strategy is plan for the product’s further development) are in place for the products’ entire lifecycle. In addition to greatly improving internal that acquisitions should complement a governance of product development, this also provides opporcontinuously developing portfolio. tunities for better dialogue with customers and thereby makes our development more market-adjusted and cost-efficient. The Saab is an innovative, dynamic company with a competitive prodportfolio management was developed this year. This is a good uct portfolio. The overarching strategy remains in place: to grow comprehensive control tool for making decisions on which investorganically and through complementary acquisitions. Acquisitions ments that should be prioritised, from both a market and profitmade will strengthen the portfolio, produce a better system offerability perspective. ing and strengthen international presence. A leading position was Product development is made more efficient through modulisataken on the global Traffic Management market through, among tion. Two examples of this are the development of modular conother things, the acquisitions of Sensis in 2011 and HITT in 2012. cepts for ammunition for the Carl-Gustaf and AT4 systems and for The strategy within R&D has identical overarching priorities: subcomponents for new radar systems. This reduces duplication focus is on competitive technologies that strengthen and compleof work and improves cost-efficiency for us. It also lowers lead ment existing product platforms. Internally financed research and times between development and sales, thereby reducing tied-up development represents around 5 per cent of sales on an annual capital. basis. Based on a long tradition of building complex systems, one High activity in acquisitions, divestments of Saab’s leading core competencies is integrating different and new partnerships systems. These systems have often been developed with fewer In 2012 we acquired shares in Thai company AVIA SATCOM, resources than our competitors use. The answer to this equation Swedish Sörman Information, Dutch HITT, Norwegian Bayes has been multifunctionality – i.e. systems have been built that Risk Management and German MEDAV. A MoU (Memorandum of solve more than one purpose for the customer. One example of Understanding) was signed regarding a strategic investment in the this is the Gripen system which, in addition to fighter capability, Indian company Pipavav Defence and Offshore Engineering Co also performs attack and reconnaissance functions. Another good Ltd. Also, the South African radio operations were divested and example is the Giraffe radar system, which is used primarily for we entered into a partnership with BR Akaer. air surveillance but can also be used for localisation of artillery The acquisition of HITT which develops and implements technifire. The tradition within the defence materiel industry has been to cal solutions to improve security in airport and marine environconstruct dedicated systems for each individual purpose. Saab ments, is in line with the overarching strategy of strengthening anticipates an increased need for multifunctional systems and Saab’s position in the global traffic management market. believes that we will therefore have a competitive advantage by A MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) was signed for virtue of our experience and track record in constructing these strategic investments in the Indian company Pipavav Defence systems. and Offshore Engineering Co Ltd. In conjunction with this, the companies signed a Technical Partnership Agreement (TPA). Both R&D as share of sales, % Internally ﬁnanced R&D, Capitalised development billion SEK costs, MSEK Total expenditures in research and development amounted to MSEK 5,946 in 2012 compared to 24.8 292 5,116 in 2011. In order to strengthen our technol1.8 ogy leadership and secure future offerings in 21.8 20.5 current challenging market conditions, we see 19.6 a continued need to invest in internally funded 1.4 development going forward. 1.2 1.2 Internally funded research and development amounted to MSEK 1,798 in 2012 (1,355), of which a total of MSEK 292 (15) were capitalised. The increase of capitalised expenditures in 2012 compared to 2011 is mainly related to the devel67 opment of the next generation Gripen, Gripen E. 47 Amortisation and write-down of capitalised de15 velopment costs amounted to MSEK 590 in 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 compared to MSEK 588 in 2011. 20 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 DETECT AND WARN – RELIABLE WORLD-LEADING RADAR TECHNOLOGY WITH MULTIPLE APPLICATIONS Giraffe AMB is essentially an air defence radar, but it can do so much more. With radar technology developed by Saab engineers, it can detect where a rocket, for example, comes from and where it will land – all within a matter of a few seconds and with an extremely high degree of precision. This technology is used in the Arthur weapon locating system. Arthur is designed to monitor a specific sector, has a very large range and can extremely quickly and accurately detect where ballistic trajectory objects (i.e., RAMs – Rocket Artillery Mortars) are fired from and where they will land. Giraffe AMB is a rotating radar that provides 360 degree coverage. The system provides sufficient range and precision to detect and warn of RAM threats. The system is used with great success in, for example, Afghanistan, where is used at bases to protect the troops living there. Many lives have been saved by the system. Sea Giraffe AMB is a naval variant of Giraffe AMB, though without a command and control system. The radar is integrated with the vessel’s CMS (Combat Management System). Arthur, Giraffe AMB and Sea Giraffe AMB share several common subsystems. Giraffe systems are unique, and there is not yet any other product on the market with the same level of functionality and reliability. According to customers who use it, the system achieves 98–99 per cent availability. agreements are part of the strategy to increase our presence in transactions to extensive counter-purchase requirements. One important key markets and offer business opportunities for large new development is that they often want to link up local research parts of the organisation. and development with these requirements. Together with SwedThe acquisition of the German company MEDAV – specialised in ish universities, the Royal Institute of Technology, the University applications for signature management, mapping of communication of Linköping and Chalmers, the Swedish cooperation model is patterns and information technology – strengthens Saab’s product exported (often dubbed “triple helix”: industry, academia and the portfolio in radio surveillance and intelligence fusion systems. public sector in collaboration). One good example of this is the Swedish-Brazilian research and innovation centre established Priorities 2013-2016 in Sao Paulo to foster R&D collaboration betweenindustry and Continue to invest in product development and renewal in academia in both countries. research and development. Sweden will continue to be Saab’s largest market in terms of customer cooperation in R&D, but this Saab Ventures procedure is also highly relevant in other geographic markets. Some of Saab’s development projects result in product ideas that A shared product database will be introduced during 2013. The fall outside the core areas. These projects have been consolidated database contains information on existing and planned products in a corporate portfolio, where Saab Ventures’ role is to initially and their roadmaps. It will also support a more structured packaging drive and develop the businesses together with other co-investors of Saab’s product offering, which will in the long run reduce planning before finding a natural home for each company. Saab Ventures’ costs and improve the quality of offers (thereby reducing the risks other purpose is to find and invest in small, rapidly growing comassociated with project implementation). Gathering everything in panies that could eventually complement Saab’s core portfolio. one system creates internal orderliness and also provides the sales In 2012, virtual training and simulation businesses were acquired organisation with solid support in its dialogue with customers. from ISD Technologies AB through an asset deal. The acquired Continue to work closely with customers to further refine businesses are now part of Saab Training Systems. New investproduct development plans, which will enable us to offer the most ments were made in C-leanship Aps and a few interesting feasibilcost-efficient solutions. With increased local presence, Saab will ity studies. come closer to its customers and be better able to anticipate their future needs. Corporate portfolio Future acquisitions will, as before, strengthen our competitiveness and offering in system integration. Ownership Company Specialisation interest, % Collaboration with academia (Swedish and foreign research institutions and universities) remains important. Participation in C-leanship Aps Hull Cleaning Vehicles 38 research projects are linked to long-term product plans, which Cold Cut Systems AB Cutting Fire Extinguisher 29 also provides access to crucial leading-edge expertise. Minesto AB Tidal Energy Solution 14 A new feature of academic collaboration is “export of the Protaurius AB Mobile Ballistic Protection 5 Swedish innovation system”. When projects worth several bilWrap International AB Spectrum Management 23 lions are marketed, purchasing countries often want to link these SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 21 PEOPLE THE MOST CUTTING-EDGE EXPERTISE – TODAY AND TOMORROW Saab faces tough competition – especially We put extra focus this year on developing the Talent Management process to ensure well-functioning succession planning for in terms of retaining and attracting employour managers. The goal is that, for each management position, ees that can develop the business. The goal we should be able to name a minimum of four people – at least one of whom is a woman and at least one of whom comes from is to be a company where the values experanother part of the Group. Saab’s various management groups tise, trust and drive characterise everything hold seminars on succession planning in order to identify talents that is done. within their respective organisations. Modern leadership in a complex world is a perishable commodity that must be constantly developed in terms of both managing Saab is an international high technology company with a long people and managing business. We therefore launched a new tradition of understanding and anticipating the market’s needs for global Management Development concept for both new and military and civil security solutions. Today, around 14,000 employexperienced managers, based on our eight management skills ees have joined us to develop our offering and our company. which serve as the basis of successful leadership. It is a modular Focus on gender diversity has produced results and attracted system with areas covering strategy, economics and finance, marattention in many ways. The goal of 30 per cent female senior exket, change management, communication and business culture, ecutives is close to being realised. Recognition is also given on a as well as modules on individual leadership. In 2012, a total of regular basis from external players. Veckans Affärer named Saab approximately 230 Saab managers from Sweden, Europe and the the year’s best workplace in terms of gender equality. Deputy U.S. participated in the programme. CEO, Lena Olving, came second in the list of Sweden’s 125 most As part of efforts to attract new talent to Saab, we introduced powerful women. Gunilla Fransson, head of Security and Defence a Group-wide trainee programme in 2012. The programme runs Solutions, and Marie Bredberg, head of Combitech, also made over 12 months and gives 16 trainees a comprehensive, accelerthe list. ated introduction to Saab’s various businesses and organisations. It is part of the day-to-day life of Saab employees to develop The trainee period in Sweden is interspersed with several training close cooperations with customers and other stakeholders. This sessions in business skills and personal development. The proalso applies to efforts to improve gender equality in the workgramme concludes with a two month overseas internship. place. One example of this is Saab’s participation in the Battle of the Numbers, a collaborative project with the Chef magazine and Priorities 2013-2016 the Wiminvest organisation. The goal of this initiative is to move Saab will continue to develop leadership, with the goal of achievfrom words to action in terms of getting more women into operaing a more businessand performance-oriented culture throughtional and decision-making positions. out the entire operation. Talent management remains central, and we have prepared a Priorities 2012 strategy to further strengthen Saab as an employer brand. Goals The goal is that Saab will be the natural choice for existing and include that employees view themselves as ambassadors for the future talent. With a structured, concentrated procedure, we work company and that potential employees have a clear, accurate to identify and develop our talented people and prepare them for picture of Saab as an employer. the challenges and the exciting future ahead of them. Diversity efforts and talent management will continue to receive as much attention as they have done. Our employees have had their say – Saab is an attractive employer with proud employees who believe strongly in the future. Nearly 90 per cent of Saab’s employees took the opportunity to respond to this year’s employee survey. This indicates commitment and the desire to contribute to positive development. The survey results show a strong improvement in areas related to Saab as an employer, belief in the future and satisfaction. The “satisfaction” result was 75, a full 8 point improvement over last year. Employees also feel that they contribute to Saab’s development and working climate. Employees want to see improvement primarily in the form of managers involving employees to a greater extent in the development of the business, as opposed to merely providing information. This will be a prioritised area in Saab’s leadership development. When using their own words to describe the qualities that make Saab a good employer, there is consensus among employees that they are proud of our products, our skilled employees and our long, compelling history. All in all, we have an excellent foundation that we will now expand upon in order to cultivate our valuable human capital. This includes all managers picking up on and following up on each individual employee’s development potential. 22 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Engineer making a career at Saab Jessica Öberg, Deputy Head of Land Division within the Support and Services business area, launched her career at Saab by moving to the U.S. to work as a consultant. She returned home to Sweden three years later, firmly convinced that Saab was where she wanted to pursue her career. – Tomorrow’s employees are looking for employers that have a modern mind-set in terms of professional Speed and ﬂexibility secured key skills development, diversity and gender Combitech’s new development centre in Trollhättan was equality. Thanks to our Talent & Manopened on 12 June 2012. The centre offers complete agement Reviewand our mentorship development projects within Nordic industry, including programme for women at the start of the aviation and automotive sectors, and the goal is that their careers, I am confident that we the centre will employ over 200 employees. will succeed in attracting both women With hand-picked engineers – most of whom come from and men who possess the right skills. Saab Automobile – and expertise in areas including virtual product development in the aviation and automotive industries, the centre can offer development services from idea to industrialisation. Many of the employees have worked together previously, which has facilitated expedited take-off and cost-efficient, high-quality solutions. The development centre is an opportunity to benefit from the outstanding engineering skills available in Trollhättan. Saab is a customer of the centre and parts of Gripen’s structural design are being done on-site. Extensive aviation development skills were transferred to the centre over a period of just a few months during 2012. “Future employees meet opportunity at Saab” – one of many student meetings aimed “Saab has fresh wind beneath its wings” – Lena at forming relationships and increasing Eliasson, new Senior Vice President and Head of awareness. Group Human Resources, also nominated for 2013 To present Saab as an attractive employer to students at Employer Branding person-of-the-year award the Institute of Technology at Linköping University, 150 – From the moment I started at Saab, I felt an extraordinary budding engineers were invited to a “Saab evening” in amount of energy. We all want to move ahead and develop, and Linköping. there is so much positive energy here. Invitees hailed from many different specialisations and We care about our employees. Our philosophy is that every courses of study. During the evening, they attended a individual should have a development plan. Feeling stimulated and presentation of Saab as a company, received detailed having the opportunity to grow are of first and last importance in information on the operations and Saab’s different busiterms of doing a good job. Saab has many training collaborations ness areas and heard several reports on what it’s like to for all levels. The key to reaching young talents, according to Lena, work at Saab. Several of Saab’s products and simulators is to focus on the future. – We have projects in grade schools were also demonstrated – and to simplify things as much aimed at getting kids interested in technology. We have many inias possible for the visitors, they were bussed from the tiatives that target students – everything from trainee programmes university to Saab. to thesis and summer job offers – but we are also very particular – I’m interested in working with product development about getting out and meeting the talent. It’s the face-to-face and am looking forward to learning more about Saab’s meetings where we can show everything that Saab is. To fill our different areas, said Johan Järvenhag as he took a seat future recruitment base, we have to think in the long term. next to the Skeldar model, which attracted many curious glances during the evening. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 23 OLD FAITHFUL AND INNOVATIONS A HIGH-TECH MASTERPIECE WITH MULTIPLE USES Sapphires is Saab’s autonomous underwater vehicle AUV 62, developed by Dynamics. The unmanned vehicle is used for everything from mine reconnaissance to locating accident victims. Sapphires is currently available in two configurations: one for locating mines on the sea bed and one for anti-submarine training operations with the Navy. The vehicle can be launched from submarines, surface vessels and ports, and its unique sonar technology provides highly detailed information on sea bed topography and any objects that may be resting on the ocean floor. Sapphires is also fully autonomous – all data is processed directly in the vehicle, providing information on a search area and directions for operational depth. Sapphires then conducts the search entirely on its own. There are many possible future areas of application for Sapphires: it can be used in all marine patrol contexts, from environmental monitoring to monitoring gas and oil pipelines on the ocean floor. 24 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 WHEN STABILITY IS VITAL Stability is vital for missiles, sights, antennas, radar and cameras so gyros are used to ensure stabilisation even under the toughest conditions. In simple terms, our applications generally measure how fast something is rotating, in order to be able to compensate for movement. Saab has over 40 years of experience in manufacturing gyros. The last ten years have focused on designing and manufacturing gyros based on fibre-optic technology, FOG (Fibre Optic Gyros). In total, Saab has produced over 350,000 gyro products for various applications. The gyro is a central and important part in the many of the products produced by Saab and others, including helicopters, aircraft, robotic systems, tanks and missiles. Saab’s gyro technology is also used in high-performance civilian applications, such as for advanced cleaning robots for swimming pools and waterslides. However, it is not the stabilisation that is most important, but navigation. NEW MILESTONE FOR CARL-GUSTAF IN 2012 For over five decades, Carl-Gustaf has been modernised and It is often considered to be the world’s most modern and effective adapted to continually address new requirements. ground support weapon system and each new model attracts Carl-Gustaf M3 is a multi-role portable weapon system that more customers. Carl-Gustaf M3 has been sold to over 40 can be used with various types of ammunition, depending on the countries. mission and situation. The system offers very high operational The U.S. Army clearly approved of the system’s reliability and reliability in all possible conflict situations. It is handled by two capability when it for the second time ordered the 84 mm recoilpeople, with one firing the recoilless rifle and the other carrying less weapon system in 2012. After having long been used by U.S. ammunition and loading the system. The versatile 84 mm amSpecial Forces, it is not until recently that the weapon system has munition has several applications: pp anti-armour, anti-structure nti armour, anti structure and been used by the U.S. Army in its regular infantry operations. support. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 25 CASE MULTIPLE HOME MARKETS AND INTEGRATED OFFERINGS We strengthened our offering, our portfolio and our local presence during 2012 with several strategic acquisitions and new alliances in key markets. Stronger market position and broader product portfolio within trafﬁc management The acquisition of HITT N.V. is in line with our strategy to become a leading global player within air and maritime traffic management. Our product portfolios complement each other and are based on a shared philosophy: to make traffic flows safer and more efficient, both in the air and at sea. HITT develops and implements technical solutions to improve security in airport and marine environments. Customers include ports and maritime authorities in Europe, North America, Asia and Australia as well as airports and air traffic service suppliers in Europe and Asia. The acquisition strengthens Saab’s position in growth markets such as China and India, and creates a solid platform to develop, sell, deliver and maintain leading products globally. Enhanced cooperation in Brazil Czech solutions for a broader market Brazil is an important market for Saab. We therefore enhanced Our facility in Slavkov in eastern Czech Republic has unique our cooperation with Akaer during 2012. Saab and Akaer have expertise in the field of virtual simulators. The strategy of focusbeen partners since 2007, when Akaer did some design work ing on internal research and development is also based on for Gripen NG. marketing supported by Saab’s entire market organisation to achieve success in global markets. The companies can now generate synergies and meet the aviation market’s need for cost-effective solutions. Through our In addition to 14 Gripen aircraft leased by the Czech Republic cooperation, we are also able to be part of Brazil’s aerospace from Sweden, Saab delivered Live Training Systems, camouand defence programme. flage equipment, communication networks and security solutions to the Czech Army. 26 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 2012 Olympic Games in London The eyes of the world were focused on London during the summer of 2012. Thanks to our Giraffe surveillance system, athletes and spectators could be sure that no unwelcome visitors would be approaching by air. Giraffe, named for its extendable mast, can detect airborne objects within a 100 kilometre radius. Strategic cooperation in India Due to our strategic cooperation with the Indian company Pipavav Offshore and Defence Engineering Ltd (Pipavav), we have a strong partnership and a solid platform for business in the Indian market. Pipavav is one of India’s private players in the naval sector and aims to grow within other defence areas as well. The two companies previously formed the joint Combat System Engineering group, which analyses design and architecture for naval combat systems. We are also exploring next generation command and control systems for the Indian Navy and Coast Guard. Full-service facility in east Africa Important order for In troubled areas, critical infrastructure must be safeguarded and security system in New medical care is vital for society. We have a solid track record in Zealand working with the international community and over the years have In 2012, Secure-Future ordeveloped a unique ability to provide services in complex conditions. dered a security system for a new correctional facility at Wiri As part of maintaining UN peacekeeping efforts, UN missions are in southern Auckland, New mandated to deliver various logistics solutions vital to the execution Zealand. The contract comof the mission. prises the design, construction Since 2010 Saab has been commissioned to set up and maintain a and maintenance of security systems in Wiri. Approximately service centre. This offers preventative and reparative maintenance, one-third of the contract value covers design and construcuser training and technical staff, maintenance planning and docution, which will be performed during the 2012-2015 period. The mentation, as well as inventory management. remaining contract value covers system maintenance work over the subsequent 25 years. This is Saab’s second project in the Australia-New Zealand region for the delivery of security systems for critical infrastructure. Local presence is required to conduct system maintenance on the installed systems. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 27 GEOGRAPHIC AREAS SAAB – AN INTERNATIONAL SECURITY GROUP Saab is an international group with operations on every continent. In recent years, we have sharpened our market focus with an aim to strengthen our local presence while increasing sales and market shares. In 2012, approximately 64 per cent of sales and 57 per cent of order bookings were generated outside of Sweden. SWEDEN REST OF EUROPE AMERICAS Saab’s position Saab’s position Saab’s position Sweden has been our largest market since Saab has operations in all Nordic countries In 2011 Saab strengthened its position Saab was founded. Today we have approxiand in several other countries in Europe. through the acquisition of Sensis. Saab today mately 11,100 employees and the majority of Important markets are the UK, France has about 800 employees in the Americas. our research and development in the country. and Germany. Today we have about 800 Orders increased in 2012 by 69 per cent, and Orders and sales increased slightly year on employees in the rest of Europe. Orders orders received included those for portyear in 2012. increased by 34 per cent year on year in 2012 able weapon system Carl-Gustaf and the and we received orders for tactical training next-generation laser-based training system Market trends systems from the British armed forces. Sales for U.S. Army combat vehicles. Saab also Sweden is expected to increase its defence increased by 4 per cent. signed a memorandum of understanding with budget slightly in the coming years. In 2011 the Inter-American Development Bank for Sweden’s defence spending accounted for Market trends projects that offer financing to Latin American approximately 0.4 per cent of total global Denmark, Finland and Norway are expected cities to promote sustainable development. defence spending. In 2012 Sweden decided to increase their defence budgets in the Sales increased by 46 per cent. to invest in the development of the next gencoming years. In 2011 defence spending in eration Gripen and to procure 40-60 aircraft the area accounted for approximately 1.2 Market trends of this type. per cent of total global defence spending. In 2011 the Americas accounted for apThe rest of Europe, where defence budgets proximately 42 per cent of total global Investments in civil security are expected to declined in light of the financial situation, acdefence spending, equivalent to about continue to rise in this area. counted for about 21 per cent. The UK, GerUSD 690 billion. In Latin America, Brazil, many and France all reduced their defence which is one of the stronger economies, spending year on year in 2011. Together, accounted the largest share of defence these three countries accounted for approxispending. In terms of the world’s total mately 9.9 per cent of total global defence defence spending, Brazil accounts for spending in 2011. Defence appropriations are approximately 2.0 per cent. Defence expected to decrease in the coming years in appropriations declined year on year in the rest of Europe. 2011 throughout the area, and are also expected to decline in coming years. Investments in civil security are expected to continue to rise throughout this area. Investments in civil security are expected to continue to rise throughout this area. Sales, Orders, Sales, Orders, Sales, Orders, SEK billion SEK billion SEK billion SEK billion SEK billion SEK billion 6.0 9.2 4.7 2.8 9.0 9.0 3.1 8.7 8.8 5.1 8.3 5.0 4.8 7.7 3.8 2.2 3.5 1.9 1.9 1.9 1.3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 28 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 AFRICA ASIA, MIDDLE EAST AND AUSTRALIA Saab’s position Saab’s position Market trends Saab has operations mainly in South Africa, India and Thailand are major markets for The entire region is expected to increase its but also has smaller operations in other Saab in this region. For many years, Saab defence budgets in coming years. In 2011 countries on the continent. Today we have has also maintained operations in Australia, defence spending in the area accounted for approximately 800 employees in Africa. Orwith local presence, particularly in control and approximately 27 per cent of total global ders increased by 10 per cent year on year in command systems, and we are expanding in defence spending, with India accounting for 2012. Sales decreased by 25 per cent. traffic management systems and security. In approximately 10 per cent, Australia 5 per total, we currently have approximately cent and Thailand approximately 1 per cent. Market trends 400 employees in Australia. Parts of the After China, SIPRI (Stockholm International In 2011 the African continent accounted for Asian market are not accessible to Saab for Peace Research Institute) estimates that approximately 1.9 per cent of total global political reasons. In 2012 orders decreased Japan is the country that has the largest defence spending. This is slightly more than by 33 per cent year on year. We received an defence expenditure in the region. in 2010. order from Thailand for an upgrade of the Investments in civil security are expected to Spending on both defence and civil security combat management systems in two frigates, continue to rise in this area. are expected to increase in coming years. and an additional contract for Carl-Gustaf from Australia. Sales decreased by approximately 3 per cent. Defence spending, USD Share of Global share, Rank Country billion GDP % Sales, Orders, Sales, Orders, SEK billion SEK billion SEK billion SEK billion 1 USA 711 4.7 41 2 China 143* 2.0* 8.2* 3 Russia 71.9* 3.9* 4.1* 3.5 2.5 4 UK 62.7 2.6 3.6 9.7 5 France 62.5 2.3 3.6 2.8 6 Japan 59.3 1.0 3.4 6.3 6.1 7 India 48.9 2.6 2.8 5.6 5.1 8 Saudi Arabia 48.5 8.7 2.8 9 Germany 46.7* 1.3* 2.7* 1.8 10 Brazil 35.4 0.5 2.0 4.4 1.3 1.0 11 Italy 34.5* 1.6* 2.0* 0.9 12 South Korea 30.8 2.7 1.8 2.9 13 Australia 26.7 1.8 1.5 14 Canada 24.7* 1.4* 1.4* 15 Turkey 17.9* 2.3* 1.0* Others 313 18 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Total 1,738 2.5 100 Source: SIPRI yearbook 2012. * Esimates by SIPRI. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 29 MARKET SEGMENTS A CHANGING SECURITY MARKET DRIVERS AIR Annual sales in the market segment for unmanned LAND Land combat is a broad segment and one of the aerial vehicles are expected to grow from approxifastest growing areas of the military market in mately SEK 315 billion to over SEK 450 billion in recent years. Following adjustments to priorities in the next ten years. The UAV market is expected to defence appropriations in the West in recent years, grow from approximately SEK 50 billion per year growth is expected to be slower in the coming to almost SEK 90 billion over the same period. years. Growth is driven by nations that want new, more Complex conflicts, often in urban environments, modern fighter aircraft with better performance. require new strategies, materiel systems and technology. Reduced operational needs and tight Alliances and political factors affect the market. budgets are expected to result in lower market Global economic turbulence has delayed a numgrowth in the next five years. Many countries are ber of procurements. investing in upgrades and further development of existing materiel, rather than major system changDemands to reduce defence spending are making es. That means the accumulation of a substantial performance and life cycle costs more important. need for materiel replacement beyond 2015. Military aircraft are increasingly used in multinaThe increase in multinational missions requires cotional operations on extended flights over long operation between different countries’ forces and distances. different types of forces. Higher demands are beNew types of military operations and technology ing placed on system integration, interoperability, are driving demand for training and education, and command and control capabilities. As security often as part of multi-year turnkey commitments. threats grow, so does the need for training. OUR POSITION We offer fighter systems, air C4I solutions, unmanned aerial vehicles, countermeasures and We have leading positions in many segments of this market and offer, among other things, tactielectronic warfare, avionics solutions, weapon cal weapon systems and highly sophisticated systems, sensors, training solutions and aftermarsurveillance and command and control systems ket services. Gripen is a competitive single-engine (C4I) as well as solutions for troop protection. Our fighter currently in service in five countries. During offering includes sensors, signature management the year, Sweden took the decision to procure the and countermeasures, reconnaissance and air next generation Gripen, and a cooperation agreedefence systems, training and logistics solutions ment was concluded between Sweden and Switand support weapons. Our sales totalled MSEK zerland. Our sales totalled MSEK 9,283 (10,611). 7,997 (7,201). Sales, SEK billion 10.9 39% Sales, SEK billion 7.2 7.6 7.2 8.0 33% 10.4 10.6 Share of total sales. Share of total sales. 9.3 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 30 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 NAVAL CIVIL SECURITY COMMERCIAL AERONAUTICS The naval market is stable with growing demand The civil security system market currently generThe total market is growing by an estimated 5 per for expeditionary and coastal capabilities. ates slightly over SEK 450 billion a year and is cent per year. For new commercial aircraft, the anticipating annual growth of 7 per cent, divided market is estimated at SEK 600 billion annually. More than 90 per cent of global trade is transbetween protection for borders, ports, energy ported by sea, which has made the protection of Growth fluctuates greatly with the economy, with systems, airports and different management and trade flows increasingly important. commercial carriers currently in a recovery phase. communication systems for rescue services and For navies and coast guards, the trend is toward police. The market is exposed to the U.S. dollar and broader-based industrial commitments with greatexchange rates. Growth is being driven both by new laws and er demand for integration and lifecycle solutions. by the realisation of how costly disruptions to The industry is capital-intensive with long developInternational alliances make the ability to act far society’s various functions can be. ment cycles and has consolidated into oligopolisfrom home more important. tic structures. Investments in national security to protect people, There is growing interest in long-endurance ships critical facilities and economically important flows New players, especially from China, are challengwith smaller crews, where sensors and combat of goods, information, financial transactions and ing Boeing of the U.S. and Europe’s Airbus in the management are the highest priority. people are increasing around the world. market for large aircraft. Public-private partnerships are becoming more The continued growth and increased complexHigh fuel prices and new environmental requirecommon. ity of large cities is placing tougher demands on ments are strengthening demand for fuel-efficient sustainability, flow efficiency and interoperability. aircraft models. An extensive naval build-up is under way in the Middle East and Southeast Asia (mainly China). Subcontractors continue to face price pressure. Delivery volumes are increasing significantly as new aircraft such as the B787 and A350 are introduced on the market. New aircraft models contain larger modules than before, with systems content integrated into the structure. We have a strong position in radar and early warnOur civil security offering is focused on monitorSaab is a supplier to leading international aircraft ing, command, control and communication sysing and situational control as well as ensuring manufacturers, including Boeing and Airbus. We tems (C4ISR), tactical weapons and underwater efficient flows, with an emphasis on airports and supply mainly lightweight high-strength aerostrucsystems. Our sales totalled MSEK 2,569 (2,065). air travel, ports and shipping, and emergency tures, avionics and operating systems, structural response planning. Saab also has a good offering and system integration, and support solutions. in monitoring systems for prisons and remand Saab has experience of more than 4,000 aircraft centres. Our position is good in Sweden, Central builds. Moreover, there are still approximately 400 Europe, the U.S. and Australia. During the year, Saab 340/2000 aircraft in operation around the our position within ATM was strengthened world, for which we provide maintenance. Our through the acquisition of HITT. Our sales totalled sales amounted to MSEK 1,477 (1 309). MSEK 1,837 (1,479). Sales, SEK billion 11% Sales, SEK billion 1.8 8% Sales, SEK billion 1.4 1.3 1.5 6% 2.6 1.7 1.3 Share of total sales. Share of total sales. Share of total sales. 2.3 2.2 1.4 1.5 2.1 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 31 SUSTAINABILITY AT SAAB RESPONSIBILITIES IN A COMPLEX WORLD Saab has ambitious goals to be an active, (MPCBMSFHVMBUJPOTGPSUSBEF Saab believes that it is important to develop clear, global regulapresent and responsible partner in society. tions for trade with defence materiel. Since 2006, work has been underway at the UN to create a global treaty, the Arms Trade We have worked for many years with priority issues within ethics, the Treaty (ATT), to achieve this objective. The ATT is intended to neenvironment, society and responsible employership. We also have gotiate regulations for the producing and exporting countries, as ambitious goals for diversity and reducing our environmental impact, well as the importing countries. All 193 member states participate and business ethics high on our agenda. Our work with priority isin these negotiations. sues supports our overall strategy and our long-term goals. In the years since the UN resolution from 2006, the process has In 2011, Saab adopted the UN Global Compact, a strategic progressed with the objective of an agreement being in place durinitiative and practical framework with ten principles in the areas ing 2012. At its 67th session in October of 2012, the UN General of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. We Assembly discussed a globally binding agreement for regulation have included the framework in our own ethical rules, and we of legitimate trade with conventional weapons. At this session, it work continuously to comply with these principles at all times. was decided by a clear majority that the process would continue with a new round of negotiations in March of 2013. Saab is very 3FDPHOJUJPOT favourable to the UN process and is actively participating in this Our efforts received some recognition in 2012. Swedish magawork. zine Veckans Affärer named Saab Sweden’s best workplace of the year from a gender equality perspective. Three women in 4UBLFIPMEFSEJBMPHVF management positions were also ranked among the 125 most A close and comprehensive stakeholder dialogue is an essential powerful women in Sweden. For the sixth consecutive year, Saab factor in creating favourable conditions for responsible business was one of the top companies in the Carbon Disclosure Project activities. This entails anticipating stakeholder needs and expec(CDP) Leadership Index. We were also highly ranked on Transpartations in order to generate long-term, successful development ency International’s Defence Companies Anti-Corruption Index for our business. Saab’s primary stakeholders are customers and with a score of 77.9 per cent, which demonstrates that we actively partners, employees, shareholders and the communities in which work to combat corruption. we are active. Customers and partners expect Saab to offer cost-effective 4USJDU4XFEJTIFYQPSUSFHVMBUJPOT solutions designed according to their specific needs. They are Saab only exports defence materiel to customer-countries that looking for business relationships that can evolve over time and are approved by the Swedish Agency for Non-Proliferation and that are based on mutual trust. And it goes without saying that we Export Controls (ISP). Each individual business transaction always shall have the same views in terms of complying with prevailing includes a clear end-use commitment. This bilateral agreement regulations, international agreements and good business ethics. between the Swedish government and the recipient country’s Our employees expect Saab to be an employer that makes good government prohibits resale in the absence of express permission use of their skills while also offering advancement opportunities. by the Swedish government, through ISP. In the event defence Our shareholders expect consistently high returns. They also materiel is resold in contravention of the end-use commitment enexpect Saab to be transparent in its communication with the tered into by the parties, the matter is handled in accordance with capital market. prevailing practices between the countries. The end-use comSociety at large expects the business to be run responsibly. mitment process is the generally accepted international practice. This includes responsibility for the environment and the contribuFor Saab, it is of utmost importance that end-use commitments tion of Saab’s operations to positive community development on entered into are always complied with and that our products are the local and global levels. not resold on the black market or to unauthorised recipients. 4UBLFIPMEFST t0XOFST t#VTJOFTTQBSUOFSTBOEQPUFOUJBM t&NQMPZFFT QBSUOFST TVQQMJFST t1PUFOUJBMFNQMPZFFT t/(0QPUFOUJBMQBSUOFST  t4XFEJTIQPMJUJDJBOTBOESFHVMBUPST QBSUJDVMBSMZ6/ t&6MFWFMQPMJUJDJBOTBOESFHVMBUPST t*OWFTUPSTBOEBOBMZTUT t8PSMEXJEFDVTUPNFSTBOEQPMJUJDJBOT t5SBEFBTTPDJBUJPOT t4XFEJTIBTXFMMBTXPSMEXJEFQVCMJD BOENFEJB 32 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 8FBSFTUSFOHUIFOJOH4BBCTDPNNJUNFOU We formed the Corporate Responsibility unit in 2012, an initiative aimed at further strengthening and impacting the level of responsibility taken by the company in a complex world. Our Corporate Responsibility strategy initially includes a framework of commitments for achieving business success in a responsible way. We will deliver sustainable value to our customers and business partners, employees, shareholders and society at large. Our commitment is founded on four cornerstones: Ethics, Society, Environment and Our People. Ethical issues are governed with great respect and we strive to set an example within the industry. We want to take an active role in the communities we serve through financial and social investments. Young people and technology are our primary focus, and we collaborate with about 50 schools and universities. A permanent task force, capable of making proactive humanitarian efforts on short notice in the event of disasters, was established during the autumn of 2012. In the environmental area, we are continuously working to reduce our environmental impact in everything we do related to products, services and production. Our employees are our most important asset and, as a responsible company, we ensure that we can retain and attract new employees. 5IFXBZGPSXBSE It is essential that our sustainability work is clearly integrated with our operating activities. We have initiated an internal and external dialogue to further integrate priority issues with our operations and create a uniform, comprehensive view of our commitment. The results of these dialogues will form the basis for a clear, overarching target and key ratios for each commitment area. These will be monitored on a regular basis to ensure that our actions are in accord with the expectations placed on us in a complex world. Marie Trogstam Vice President Head of Corporate Responsibility 4BBCTDPNNJUNFOU ETHICS Saab strives to be an industry leader by setting an example and We have defined our responfollowing the highest ethical standards. sibilities in a complex world within four areas: Ethics, Society, Environment and Our People. SOCIETY Saab makes a positive contribution to society by making financial and social investments that help young people fulfil their potential and by meet emergency needs caused by disasters. 4 #4 3&410/4*#*-*5*&4 IN A COMPLEX WORLD ENVIRONMENT Saab works to reduce the environmental impact of its products, services and operations and, to an even greater extent, identify solutions to environmental issues through innovation. OUR PEOPLE Saab brings together people with a variety of skills, experiences and ideas to create an inspiring and welcoming workplace and become the most attractive employer. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 33 SUSTAINABILITY AT SAAB CLEAR RESPONSIBILITY AND CONTINUAL FOLLOW-UP Overall responsibility for sustainability work rests with the board of directors, which via the CEO and other members of the management group, ensures that the strategy and work for achieving the company’s strategic objectives is in place and integrated into everyday operations. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY BUSINESS ETHICS SOCIETY The General Counsel has overarching responsibility for our Code Our efforts are guided by our overall vision, business concept and of Conduct and for raising business ethics issues in the organisavalues. Certain specific measures are governed by our sponsortion. In the course of day-to-day operations, every employee has ship policy, which stipulates that sponsorship activities generally an individual and shared responsibility to comply with the Code focus on education and technology. of Conduct. If any confusion arises, it is the duty of the employee to bring this to the attention of his or her immediate supervisor. Saab has also established a whistle-blower function as well as an ethics and compliance unit within the legal department, which is responsible for the Group’s rules and ethical standards. #0 3%0'%*3&$5034 . / (&.&/5 ENVIRONMENT EMPLOYEES Responsibility for Saab’s strategic development and oversight Saab’s Senior Vice President and Head of Group Human Reof environmental work rests with Group Quality & Environment. sources has overarching responsibility for HR work within the Operating issues are handled by the business areas, whose Group. Coordination and development of the Group’s HR work managers bear ultimate responsibility for compliance with enviis handled by the HR units within each business area under the ronmental requirements. The goals that are set at the Group level leadership of the HR staff. are broken down by business area and work groups. The Group Environmental Council coordinates and follows up environmental work within Saab. 0VS7BMVFT EXPERTISE TRUST DRIVE We combine a strong history of knowledge We are global citizens, honest and reliable We have a passion for innovation, we are with constant learning. and we keep our promises. open to change and we are committed to being fast and flexible. 34 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 4BBCBGmMJBUFEXJUIUIF6/}T human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Since (MPCBM$PNQBDU its introduction in 2000, more than 7,000 businesses and 3,000 The UN’s Global Compact is an initiative non-commercial participants around the world have joined the with a strategic and practical framework network. for companies that have undertaken to Saab has been affiliated since 2011 and has included the apply sustainable business methods in framework in our Code of Conduct. The following is a brief sumtheir operations through ten generally mary and some examples of practises. accepted principles within the areas of The Code of Conduct in its entirety is at www.saabgroup.com. UN Global Compact Saab Code of Conduct and some examples HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the proSaab has taken a clear position and global responsibility against tection of internationally proclaimed human rights; violations of basic human rights such as child labour and other and abuse of people and the environment. We contribute by promoting social development and consequently human rights by promotPrinciple 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human ing the right to education for children, youths and adults. Disaster rights abuses. assistance and systems in the product portfolio for civil security are additional examples. LABOUR Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of associaSaab defends the right to organise and participate in trade unions. tion and the effective recognition of the right to We respect the freedom of association and all employees’ right collective bargaining; to organise or join employee organisations, as well as the right of employee organisations to collectively negotiate. Diversity is a Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulprerequisite for success and all discrimination is prohibited. We do sory labour; not tolerate bullying or other physical or verbal acts of an abusive character. Decisions that concern employment, promotions, develPrinciple 5 the effective abolishment of child labour; and opment and compensation shall be based on the employees’ job knowledge and competence. Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary apSaab works actively with minimising environmental impact. Protectproach to environmental challenges; ing the environment is a natural aspect of Saab’s everyday operations, both in community and through technology and our products. Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Knowledge is an important factor and all employees are expected to contribute to a sustainable environment. Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Read more about this on pages 38–39. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all Saab has zero tolerance with regard to all forms of bribes and corits forms, including extortion and bribery. ruption. We neither offer nor accept gifts and hospitality that are improper. Our undertaking is to conduct ourselves in an ethically correct manner in everything we do, in compliance with applicable legislation, our values and ethical rules, as well as branch-wide codes of conduct. Read more about this on page 36. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 35 ETHICS AIMING TO SET AN EXAMPLE Saab’s Code of Conduct sets forth guideBusiness ethics at every level In a global society, companies fill an important function by creatlines that define how we are expected to act ing sustainable growth and doing business ethically. Trust and with each other as colleagues, in contacts transparency are critical to future success. All employees have been provided information on Saab’s Code of Conduct and are with our customers and in our communities. expected to familiarise themselves with its contents and follow its We have a zero tolerance policy with regard guidelines. to violations of any kind. Risk-based approach to corruption Saab has implemented a risk-based approach to corruption: each Saab will be a trustworthy and reliable partner that promotes an transaction and market activity shall be preceded by a corruption open and transparent market. We are committed to acting ethirisk analysis. A special tool (the Corruption Risk Assessment Tool) cally in everything we do on the basis of current laws, our values has been developed to make it easier for all employees to conduct and Code of Conduct, and industry codes of conduct. Our Code the analyses. The tool helps single out factors that typically tend of Conduct was developed based on OECD guidelines for multo impact the risk of corruption. tinationals and the UN Global Compact. In 2011, we introduced All employees within the marketing and sales organisation an updated version of our Code of Conduct and joined the Global receive training on the implications of the requirements imposed Compact. on business managers to conduct a corruption risk assessment in conjunction with each transaction. Saab continued training efforts Industry cooperation to ﬁght corruption in this area during 2012 – including information on current legislaThe Aerospace and Defence Industry Association (ASD) is a tion, regulations and Saab’s procedures for hiring consultants coordinating agency for the European defence industry and has – for the marketing and sales organisation. 570 people have been drafted Common Industry Standards to fight corruption. Saab trained to date, and all employees will complete the programme. participates actively in ASD meetings and has implemented ASD When Saab makes use of market consultants, and other advisrequirements and procedures in its own operations. The basic rors, all such collaborations are analysed and evaluated centrally. rules also served as the starting point for a more extensive coopSpecific rules of procedure must be followed, and every decision eration between European and U.S. defence contractors as part must be preceded by a thorough analysis. The marketing and of the International Forum on Business Ethical Conduct (IFBEC). sales organisation training programme includes a specific module IFBEC’s mission is to develop and in various ways promote ethical on our regulations for using marketing consultants. Saab has also standards within the global aerospace and defence sector. Saab introduced training for the marketing consultants we retain. As a is a member of IFBEC and participates in its Steering Committee. condition for signing new contracts with Saab, they must comThrough this international collaboration, the industry has clearly plete this training and sign a document stating that they agree to expressed its commitment to fighting every form of corruption work pursuant to Saab’s guidelines. through the use of best practices and uniform rules. On an annual The existing training programme will be supplemented in 2013 basis, members evaluate their anti-corruption efforts and procewith web-based anti-corruption training. All employees who are dures for complying with established ethical regulations. Results exposed to any form of corruption risk will complete this training. are compiled in a report and the 2012 report is available at http:// ifbec.info/. New anti-corruptionindex for the defence industry Transparency International published its Defence Companies Anti-Corruption Index in October 2012. The index ranks defence companies’ systems and processes for preventing corruption. We achieved 77.9 per cent, giving us a “B” on an A-F grading scale. The index is based on a range of topics covering everything from the systems and processes that have been developed in this area to how these are communicated and monitored within the company. Our code and internal policies and our risk management received particularly high marks in the survey – this is especially gratifying considering that these were prioritised areas in our creation of a robust compliance programme. 36 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SOCIETY A POSITIVE FORCE IN SOCIETY Through our operations, Saab plays an Collabora ation for sustainable cities important role in social development. During 2012 2, a project was started for attractive cities in La atin America and d the Caribbean. It is a long g-term initiative with Saab has a broad product and service portfolio for military dethe goal of developing a project portfollio with en nvironmmenta ally fence and civil security. We develop, adapt and continuously imsustainable e solutions, that based on ex xisting exp pertise e and prove new technologies to meet our customers’ needs – technolotechnical prroducts, contributes to effic cient, safe and suustainngies that contribute to secure, sustainable social development. able urban environments. Thinking smart is part of our DNA and our foremost competitive advantage. Many of our planet’s resources are finite, which means During the past decade, the region hass been am mong th he fasstestt that we must economise with these resources prudently and growing in the world. With more than 500 cities with a popu ulation of betw ween 100,000 and two millio on people, it is im mporttant create a sustainable society. Saab will create value by continuing that they arre developed in a way that iss economically, socia ally to establish itself as a responsible company with highly ethical and environ nmentally sustainable. Togetther with the Inte er-Ammerstandards – a company committed to actively developing society ican Develo opment Bank, we are investiigating the e oppo ortuniitiess and its employees and promoting a sustainable environment. to collabora ate within the framework of the bank’ss initiaative to This is the very essence of the responsibility we have towards our support the e development of sustainablle cities an nd safee envviron nstakeholders. ments in the e region. In the markets and locations where Saab is active, we want to take an active role in social development. The initiatives are This is in lin ne with our ambition to creatte global collabo orativve always closely linked to our business. Both basic education where programme es and networks for sustaina able devellopme ent. the needs exist, and higher education with technological orientation, are thus highly prioritised. Saab collaborates with about 50 schools, technical institutes and universities in places such as Sweden, Brazil and India. Communities, countries and continents can unfortunately be subjected to disasters of various kinds. On several occasions, Saab has been quick to respond. During the autumn of 2012, a permanent response team was established within the framework of Project Relief, which on short notice is prepared to deploy for humanitarian missions in the event of disasters. Operation Atalanta Operation Atalanta is a civilmilitary EU cooperation that has been underway for several years. The operation’s objective is to prevent acts of piracy against food shipments belonging to the UN’s World Food Programmes and to stop acts of piracy in the Gulf of Aden and the Indian Ocean off the east coast of Somalia. The Swedish Coast Guard, participating in the civilian part of the operation with a sea surveillance aircraft, is tasked with detecting, documenting and reporting suspected pirate activities occurring outside of the major risk areas. Saab participated through the business area Support and Services under a project that ran from October 2012 through February 2013. The project entailed ensuring that the Coast Guard’s aircraft, which were in the air six hours per day and six days per week, could carry out their duties without any problem. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 37 ENVIRONMENT REDUCED IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE Saab is working actively to reduce our imemployees. Several measures were implemented during the year under this project. The adjoining fact box provides an example of pact on the environment and climate. A key measures implemented in 2012 and those planned for 2013. component of this work is collaboration with For the sixth consecutive year, Saab was ranked in the international Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) Leadership Index. The the industry to create sustainable solutions index is an important component of CDP’s annual Nordic 260 for the future. Climate Change Report, which highlights the companies on the Nordic stock exchanges that have worked most professionally Objective with climate reporting issues. Saab ranked 7th for ‘disclosure’ and The most important environmental aspects for us are the climate is also one of the 22 companies sharing third place for ‘perforimpacts of our products and our operations, the use of hazardous mance’. Information on CDP and our complete accounting can be chemicals and the management of environmental risks (read more found at www.cdproject.net. on page 54). Saab’s climate objective is to reduce our relative CO2 emissions by 20 per cent during the period 2007-2020. A review of Hazardous substances our climate change efforts, aimed at identifying additional measThe use of certain hazardous chemicals is still necessary to meet ures to reduce Saab’s impact on the climate, was initiated in 2012 security and technical performance requirements in the aerospace and will be completed in 2013. In the area of chemicals, we work and defence industry. Over the past ten years, Saab has greatly with needs analyses, information and communication internally reduced its use of hazardous substances such as volatile organic within Saab and externally with our suppliers. We will identify and solvents (VOCs), trichloroethylene, chrome and cadmium. Saab phase out the use of hazardous chemicals that pose unacceptable is exempted by the Swedish National Chemicals Inspectorate for risks and substances that may be subject to regulation. use of trichloroethylene at production facilities in Linköping and Järfälla, Sweden. 2012 priorities and results The business areas developed new action plans in 2012 for the Climate change phase-out of hazardous substances. Decisions were also taken During the period 2007-2020, our relative CO2 emissions dein several development projects to avoid hazardous substances creased from 2.7 to 2.4 tonnes per MSEK. Vehicles, aircraft, wherever possible. Hazardous substances will be phased out over business travel and goods transports account for 56 per cent of a five to ten year period. This long time period is required due to emissions, while the remaining is attributable to electricity and the extensive tests and qualifications that need to be performed heating for our facilities, machinery and processes. to ensure that alternative substances meet the stringent requireBy far the majority of our energy consumption is in Sweden. An ments for safety and technical performance. This work is monienergy saving project was launched in 2009 to cut energy contored by Group Quality & Environment and Group Environmental sumption at Saab AB’s properties in Sweden in half by 2015. So Council. far, a 15 per cent reduction has been achieved through measures Saab’s products are not governed by the EU’s RoHS directive including a decrease in premises size, more efficient operations, (Restriction of the use of certain Hazardous Substances in electritechnological investments and increased awareness among cal and electronic equipment). But even so, we work to reduce our Examples of measures in 2012: Examples of planned measures in 2013: r Implementation of studies on energy saving r Change windows in some areas of the buildings r Reduction and adjustment of equipment up-time r Change ventilation in production facility r Installation of motion sensors in light fittings, premises, corr Change to plate heat exchanger ridors, etc. r Expand communication activities to increase awareness of r Change to low-energy bulbs climate change issues r Low-consumption units and eco-friendly solutions when acquirr Improve internal car-pooling portal and adapt travel portal ing new ventilation units r Improve follow-up of use of electronic aids r Change from oil boilers to district heating r Continuous replacement of refrigerating machinery with district cooling r Arrangement of energy efficient data centres r Internal communication to increase awareness of climate change issues r Improve options for using electronic aids to reduce need for business travel r Review and adaptation of our internal Travel Directive 38 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 use of the substances regulated by the directive. Our work with 2012 this work was given higher priority, especially since Saab is hazardous substances corresponds well with the requirements of currently introducing uniform procurement and supplier processes. the EU’s chemicals law – Registration, Evaluation and Authorisation of Chemicals (REACH). External environmental collaborations In 2011-2012, Saab acquired and tested an IS/IT tool to manSaab is one of the main suppliers to Clean Sky, a Joint Technolage information on the chemicals contained in its products. Imogy Initiative financed equally by the EU and the industry. Clean plementation will begin in 2013. The tool will also be used be used Sky aims to bring the European aviation industry together to meet to verify that the products meet current chemical requirements the 2020 environmental goals set by the Advisory Council for imposed by legislation and customers. Environmental issues covAeronautic Research in Europe (ACARE). This includes reducing ered by legislation are disclosed in Note 48. CO2 emissions per passenger km flown in European airspace by 50 per cent, oxides of nitrogen by 80 per cent and noise levels Demands on suppliers around airports by half. The project is now halfway complete and Saab has many suppliers around the world. Because a large the results are beginning to be released. The project includes the share of the components and subsystems used in our products development of a future wing that will utilise innovative design are manufactured by other companies, our suppliers have a great and construction technology to reduce wind resistance, thereby impact on our environmental work. We therefore require that our cutting fuel consumption by up to eight per cent. Initial producsuppliers act responsibly and follow our requirements as well as tion testing was conducted in 2011 and 2012 and a full-scale test those of the EU and our customers. The general environmental is being prepared. The wing will be tested on an Airbus aircraft in requirements imposed on our suppliers are available on our sup2015. In 2012, along with other main suppliers to Clean Sky, we plier portal. Developing environmental requirements for suppliers initiated a dialogue with the EU on a Clean Sky 2, to commence and monitoring compliance is a continuous process. In 2011 and in 2014. CO2 emissions within the Saab Group Energy consumption in Saab’s operations, GWh 60,000 186 3.6 172 169 166 165 50,000 3.0 141 129 130 132 122 40,000 2.4 30,000 1.8 20,000 1.2 10,000 0.6 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 0 0 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 Electricity Heating Total emissions (tonnes CO2) Saab is working actively to improve efficiency in the use of electricity and Relative target for greenhouse gas emissions, 20% reduction between 2007 thermal energy. However, savings are not visible in the total consumption and 2020 figures due to the Group continuously expanding with new operations. New Relative emissions (tonnes CO2/MSEK sales) activities have been added in recent years, including those in the U.S. and the Czech Republic. Emissions of volatile organic Consumption of trichloroethylene, CO2 emissions by source within Saab, % solvents (VOCs), tonnes tonnes 50 47 14 Purchased goods freight, 5 Leased premises, 1 41 38 37 Owned heating/processes and 11 accidents, 4 Owned vehicles and aircraft, 15 Purchased electricity, 22 Purchased district heating, 17 Purchased personal travel, 36 2 2 1 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 The increase in the emission of VOCs Trichloroethylene is used in Aeronautics The graph shows that personal travel and purchased electricity represent during 2012 is due to increased producand Electronic Defence System. The more than 50 per cent of Saab’s total carbon dioxide emissions. tion. Saab Barracuda, Aeronautics and decrease in consumption is due to the Support & Services have the largest installation of new tri-degreasing equipemissions. ment. The increase in 2012 is due to a temporary increase in the consumption at one plant. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 39 EMPLOYEES A CLEAR ADVANTAGE: 14,000 EMPLOYEES WORKING TOGETHER In order to implement its strategy, remain Group. Approximately 30 per cent of the new employees joined us at the leading edge and achieve our goals, through strategic acquisitions. This has imposed high demands on a well-functioning, harmonised HR process that provides strong Saab needs to have the right skills within support to managers in both recruitments and departures. the company. Our overarching goal is to be A new web-based introductory training programme, “This is Saab”, was launched and will be completed by all new and existing an attractive employer to both current and employees. Response to the training, which can be completed future employees. individually or in groups, has been very positive. The programme includes several modules and provides an excellent overall picture of Saab’s operations, values and applicable rules for all employees. $PNQFUFODFMFBEFSTIJQ Saab’s focus on Performance Management also means that we Saab’s new Management Development training programme, set clear development goals from the outset, goals that can be follaunched in March 2012, will strengthen business leadership lowed up in the annual employee review that managers hold with within Saab. The Management Development concept targets both each employee. new and experienced managers and has a flexible, needs-based structure. The training is comprised of eight modules with varying 'VUVSFUBMFOUNBOBHFNFOU orientations: Professionalism, Strategic Leadership, CommuniSaab has developed a strategy to strengthen the company as an cative Leadership, Personal Leadership, International Business employer brand. The goal is to create ideal conditions for attractCulture and Leading in Change. ing potential employees and developing and retaining existing emWe also offer internal management development programmes, ployees. The right expectations are generated by clarifying what is including the ACMN programme (Advanced Corporate Manageoffered and the demands that are placed on our employees, and ment Network), which has brought together participants from Saab reaches talented people who want to develop and perform Sweden, South Africa, England and Australia. The purpose of with us. A basic requirement is that people who want to work with the programme is to learn more about Saab’s entire operations us support Saab’s values. The activities that will be implemented in order to develop as a leader in an increasingly international under this strategy focus on lower and upper secondary schools environment. and students to foster interest in technology and generate interest in Saab as a future employer, and on the working population /FXFNQMPZFFT to generate immediate interest in working at Saab. We work in Strong focus this year was placed on skills exchange and recruitthe short and long term to spread awareness and knowledge of ing. In 2012 alone, Saab welcomed over 1,800 new employees, Saab’s operations. and close to 200 employees moved to new positions within the (VJEJOHWBMVFTBOEDMFBSSVMFT Saab’s Code of Conduct establishes a number of important principles and stipulates that trust is the foundation of our operations. Unique collaboration secures The Code includes descriptions of the regulations that apply to the future technology skills business in general, proper workplace behaviour, business ethics as the key to winning trust, and our internal and external commuAs an engineering company, Saab is dependent on the availnication methods. ability of skilled employees with a desire to innovate, employees with an interest in and curiosity about technology. Stimulating SFBTPGGPDVTJO and encouraging young people’s interest in technology at an r Further strengthen Saab’s management with a focus on business early age is one way to secure our own future activities. orientation, communication and involvement of employees at all Three years ago, after careful preparation, we started a national levels. college preparatory technology programme in cooperation with r Secure and develop future talent pipeline by strengthening the Vasa secondary school in Arboga. The aim is to get more Saab’s employer offering. young people interested in technology and mathematics and to r Continue to strengthen and harmonise HR support from a global generate interest in our varied high-tech business. During the perspective. training period, theory was interspersed with practical training and placement blocks at Saab. The programme also included international study, paid internships, private tutors and offers of summer work. The first class graduated on 7 June 2012. 40 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 $PNNFOUTPOSFTVMUT We have refined our leadership development programme, which is operations and our work climate. It is highly gratifying that we based on eight leadership skills, and which we know is the founachieved our goal as attractive employer this year, which is the dation of successful leadership. Furthermore, we have introduced weighted result of our employee survey and a major improvement a Group-wide trainee programme and increased our investments over last year’s results. A major reason behind this year’s results in future talents in the form of collaborations and meetings with is that employees have a stronger belief in the future. Another both elementary school students and students in prioritised colreason is that people are proud to work within the Group. leges. We have also recruited many new employees in 2012 and The share of wage-setting female managers increased to 22.1 have thus placed great focus on induction, with our Group-wide per cent. We remain focused on achieving our goal of 30 per cent induction programme “This is Saab” proving to be of great value. by 2015. We had a high response rate to our annual employee survey. This demonstrates a commitment to be a part of developing our Personnel data 3FTVMUT Results Results Goal 2012 2011 2010 HR-related goals 2012 2011 2015 Total number of employees 13,968 13,068 12,536 Employer of choice – internally of whom in – Sweden 11,125 10,321 10,396 index 75 67 75 – South Africa 761 1,064 1,086 Share of female managers, % 22.1 20.6 30 – USA 705 652 191 – Australia 329 324 348 – UK 184 147 117 – Holland 139 4 4 – Czech Republic 139 143 21 – Norway 102 55 50 – Germany 85 26 34 – Denmark 67 68 72 &EVDBUJPOBMCBDLHSPVOE  &NQMPZFFTPVUTJEF4XFEFO  – Finland 57 74 74 – Canada 54 14 13 Other, 11 – Switzerland 51 46 50 Sweden, 80 Natural sciences, 7 – Kenya 42 34 31 Other, 20 Social sciences 10 – India 37 44 7 Percentage of women, total 22 22 22 Technology 72 Number of consultants 1,665 1,368 1,109 – of which external 1,145 1,044 826 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 41 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS C-LEANSHIP – SAFER, FASTER AND LOWER ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Fuel consumption and environmental impact are two of the most energy consumption and environmental impact while the work is central issues for the shipping industry. For certain types of carried out in a safe and environmentally friendly manner. In advessel, the cost of fuel is the largest operating cost. Vessel fuel dition to reduced fuel consumption, this solution helps to reduce consumption increases by 5 to 10 per cent as a result of fouling the spread of micro-organisms between different marine habitats on the hull. This means increased costs in the millions of dollars and, eventually, will offer an for larger vessels. Together with a Danish entrepreneur, Saab is alternative to toxic antifouldeveloping an underwater robot which is based on Dynamics’ ing hull paints through world-leading ROV (Remotely Operated Vehicle) technology. The regular washing. company created will enable ship owners to wash their vessels during normal port stops and will thus offer a service that reduces A NEW SURVEILLANCE AIRCRAFT IS LAUNCHED In 2011, Saab decided to invest in the conversion of a civil Saab 340 aircraft into a 340 Maritime Security Aircraft (MSA) in order to address increased demand for marine surveillance aircraft. Aerial monitoring of coastal areas is a fast-growing market segment worldwide. 340 MSA will allow Saab to offer a cost effective solution with high capacity. Due to its ability to respond quickly to emerging maritime threats, Saab 340 MSA can monitor territorial waters. The aircraft has a long range and can easily take off from short runways. The on-board monitoring system with data links, a SATCOM system (satellite communication system) and radar give the aircraft a high mission capacity. Saab 340 MSA is a reliable surveillance aircraft that offers a number of abilities such as: surveillance, search and rescue, transportation and MEDEVAC (Medical Evacuation). The aircraft was displayed for the first time at the 2012 Aerospace Forum in Linköping. It has also been demonstrated in London, at the Farnborough International Air Show, and at African Aerospace & Defence in South Africa in September 2012. 42 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS MOBILE SYSTEM TRACES DANGEROUS SUBSTANCES Saab has extensive experience of CBRN (chemical, biological, radiological and nuclear) substance detection products. AWR (Automatic Warning and Reporting System) is a mobile system that both warns of dangerous substances and identifies the substance. The system makes it possible to quickly identify the source and make correct decisions, which is critical when dealing with CBRN. AWR consists of a number of mobile sensors that are connected to a common command and control system. If any of the sensors detect a dangerous substance, a warning signal is immediately sent to everyone who is connected to the system and to headquarters. The number of sensors allows you to quickly see which geographical areas are affected and which are safe. AWR has been developed on behalf of the Swedish Armed Forces, which are currently using three units in the field. Simplicity and flexibility have been the guiding principles in the development, and the system can be easily updated in line with technological developments. Negotiations are ongoing with several other markets, and ultimately there are many civil applications. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 43 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > FINANCIAL REVIEW FINANCIAL REVIEW 2012 Saab AB (publ.), corporate identity number 556036-0793, with Long-Term Financial Goal Performance In 2012 its registered address in Linköping, Sweden. The address of the Growth company’s head office is Gustavlundsvägen 42, Stockholm, with Goal: Our organic sales growth will average 5 per cent per year the mailing address Box 12062, SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden, over a business cycle. and the telephone number +46 8 463 00 00. Saab has been listed on the NASDAQ OMX Stockholm since Result 2012: In 2012, organic sales growth was -2 per cent (-4). 1998 and on the Large Cap List since October 2006. The largest shareholder is Investor AB, with 30 per cent of the shares, corSales increased 2 per cent in the year compared to 2011 as a responding to 40.6 per cent of the votes. The share of the votes result of acquisitions. Exchange rates had no significant impact has been calculated based on the number of shares, excluding on sales. Sales in markets outside Sweden amounted to MSEK Treasury shares at year-end. The total number of shares in the 15,245 (14,829), or 64 per cent (63) of total sales. Of sales, 82 per company is 109,150,344, distributed between 1,907,123 Series A cent (84) was related to the defence market. shares with ten votes each and 107,243,221 Series B shares with one vote each. At year-end, a total of 3,219,515 Series B shares Operating margin (EBIT) had been repurchased to guarantee the Group’s various share Goal: We have a goal for the EBIT-margin formulated as an avermatching plans. The repurchased shares are held as treasury age over a business cycle. The EBIT-margin shall be at least shares. 10 per cent In accordance with the Swedish Annual Account Act, Saab has prepared a corporate governance report separate from the annual Result 2012: The operating margin after depreciation and amortisareport. It can be found in this document on pages 124-133. The tion (EBIT) in 2012 amounted to 8.5 per cent (12.5). corporate governance report contains the Board of Directors’ report on internal control of financial reporting, which includes inThis included a non-recurring item of MSEK 207 from a reducformation for both the Parent Company and the Group. See pages tion of a potential earn-out liability. 2011 included capital gains of 128-130 in this document. MSEK 1,169. Adjusted for non-recurring items the EBIT-margin was 7.6 per cent (7.5). Operations As one of the world’s leading high technology companies, Saab Equity/Assets ratio offers products, solutions and services for military defence and Goal: Our goal is an equity/assets ratio exceeding 30 per cent. civil security. In 2012, we had customers in over 100 countries while research and development are principally carried out in Result 2012: At year-end 2012, the equity/assets ratio was Sweden. We are primarily have operations in Sweden, South 47.5 per cent (41.1). Africa, Australia and the U.S. Saab is organised in six business areas: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems, Dividend And Dividend Policy Security and Defence Solutions, Support and Services, and Proposal for 2012 dividend and dividend policy Combitech. Combitech, which provides consulting services, is an Saab’s long-term dividend objective is to distribute 20–40 per independent, wholly owned subsidiary of Saab and is reported as cent of net income over a business cycle to shareholders. a business segment. For 2012, the Board of Directors proposes a dividend of In addition to the business areas, Corporate comprises Group SEK 4.50 per share (4.50). This would represent 30 per cent staff and departments and secondary operations. It also includes of net income in 2012 (21). the leasing fleet of Saab 340 and Saab 2000 aircraft. Outlook 2013 Long-term ﬁnancial objectives In 2013, we estimate that sales will increase slightly compared The long-term financial goals as of 2011 consist of goals for to 2012. organic sales growth, operating margin after depreciation and The operating margin in 2013, excluding material net capital amortisation (EBIT) and the equity/asset ratio. gains and other non recurring items, is expected to be in line with the operating margin in 2012, excluding material non-recurring items, of 7.6 per cent. 44 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > FINANCIAL REVIEW Important events in 2012 Agreement (TPA). The MoU covers an investment by Saab of approxit Saab announced that the subsidiary Combitech had acquired Sörman mately MSEK 250. In November, Saab announced it had signed a deal Information AB. The acquisition is part of Combitech’s strategy to grow with Pipavav that the investment will be made in shares which will be in the Nordic consultancy market. issued through a directed share issue. After the investment, Saab will hold approximately 3.5 per cent of the capital and votes in Pipavav. t Saab held its Annual General Meeting in Stockholm on 19 April. All members of the Saab Board of Directors were re-elected. The Saab t In September, Saab announced that an agreement had been made beBoard of Directors therefore consists of Håkan Buskhe, Johan Forssell, tween the ofﬁcial receiver for Saab Automobile, Saab AB, Scania and Sten Jakobsson, Per-Arne Sandström, Cecilia Stegö Chilò, Åke SvenNEVS regarding the Saab brand. NEVS has signed a licence agreesson, Lena Treschow Torell, Marcus Wallenberg and Joakim Westh. ment with Saab AB regarding the use of the name SAAB as the brand Marcus Wallenberg was re-elected by the Annual General Meeting as for NEVS’ future electric cars. Rights and responsibilities about how to Chairman of the Board of Saab AB. At the statutory Board meeting foluse the name and the brand SAAB are, as is customary, regulated in lowing the Annual General Meeting, Sten Jakobsson was elected Vice the licence agreement. The purpose is to diversify the two companies’ Chairman of the Board. activities from one another, i.e. distinguish the cars from the defence and security products. t Saab announced that Magnus Örnberg had been appointed new Chief Financial Ofﬁcer (CFO). He took up his position on 1 November, and is t In October, Saab announced it had acquired 100 per cent of the part of the Group Management Team. German company MEDAV GmbH, specialised in the application of signal processing, pattern recognition and information technology, t In June, Saab announced it would set up a Saab Americas Market for approximately MEUR 27 on a cash and debt free basis (about Area. Further, in September Saab announced that two additional MarMSEK 233). In addition, the parties agreed on a potential earn out ket Areas – Europe & Greater Middle East as well as Nordic & Baltic payment of maximum MEUR 7 (about MSEK 60.5). Saab used existing – would be set up and both starting 1 January, 2013. funds to ﬁnance the acquisition. t Complete List of Saab Market Areas as of 1 January, 2013: t Saab announced the shareholder representatives who, together with the Chairman of the Board, constitute the Nomination Committee for AMERICAS – Washington D.C., USA the Annual General Meeting 2013. ASIA PACIFIC – Bangkok, Thailand Marcus Wallenberg, Chairman of the Board of Saab, Petra Hedengran, EUROPE & GREATER MIDDLE EAST – London, UK Investor AB, Peter Wallenberg Jr, Knut och Alice Wallenbergs FoundaINDIA – New Delhi, India tion, Jan Andersson, Swedbank Robur Funds Anders Algotsson, NORDIC & BALTI C – Stockholm, Sweden AFA Insurance. The Nomination Committee represents approximately SUB -SAHARAN AFRICA – Centurion, South Africa 53 per cent of the total voting rights of Saab AB based on the ownert In July, Saab announced that the subsidiary Combitech had acquired ship strucutre as of 31 August, 2012. The Annual General Meeting of 70 per cent of the shares in Bayes Risk Management AS, Norway, with Saab AB will be held on Wednesday, 17 April, 2013. an option to acquire the additional 30 per cent of the shares within t Saab announced that Görgen Johansson had been appointed Head 18 months. of the business area Dynamics. He took up his position on 1 January t On 6 August, a recommended public cash offer by Saab for all issued 2013 and is part of the Group Management Team. and outstanding shares in HITT N.V. was launched. HITT develops t In November, Saab announced it had established a joint venture, in technology and implements projects to improve safety and security at which Saab holds 26 per cent ownership, with the Indian partner comairports and in maritime environments. On 27 August, Saab announced pany QuEST Global Manufacturing. The joint venture will manufacture it had agreed to acquire 53 per cent of the shares in HITT from the and supply assemblies for the commercial aerostructures market. majority shareholder Hitt Holding. Saab’s offer thereby became an unconditional mandatory offer. As of 31 December, Saab had acquired 98.9 per cent of the issued and outstanding shares in HITT. t In August, Saab announced it had signed a MoU (Memorandum of Understanding) regarding a strategic investment in the Indian company Pipavav Defence and Offshore Engineering Co Ltd (Pipavav). In conjunction to this, the companies have signed a Technical Partnership SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 45 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS AERONAUTICS Aeronautics offers a product portfolio that includes the Gripen fighter and Unmanned Aerial Systems (UAS). Aeronautics also manufactures aircraft components for Saab’s own aircraft as well as passenger aircraft produced by others. Products include Gripen, Skeldar and Neuron. 24% Order bookings Sales Adjusted operating Key ﬁgures SEK billion SEK billion margin, % share of sales. 7.6 5.9 MSEK 2012 2011 6.9 6.7 5.2 Order bookings 4,289 3,807 6.4 6.1 Order backlog 11,305 13,091 Sales 6,076 6,351 4.3 EBITDA 592 579 3.8 3.4 EBITDA-margin, % 9.7 9.1 2.8 Operating income 359 332 Adjusted operating margin, % 5.9 5.2 Operating cash ﬂow -425 223 0.1 No. of employees 2,997 2,748 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Services and solutions Sales r5IF(SJQFOàHIUFS XIJDIPGGFSTDPOUJOVPVTVQHSBEFT IJHI Sales decreased compared to 2011, mainly as 2011 included procost efficiencies and a level of performance that meets the high duction and deliveries of Gripen aircraft for South Africa as well as demands of armed forces. a higher activity level related to Thailand. r5IFVONBOOFEIFMJDPQUFSTZTUFNXJUINPEVMBSEFTJHOJTBMTP Markets outside Sweden accounted for 39 per cent (43) of sales. part of the product portfolio. r FSPOBVUJDTJTBMTPTVCDPOUSBDUPSUPDPNNFSDJBMBJSDSBGUQSPEVDIncome and margin ers and our knowledge within handling composites is key, since In 2011, the divestment of the ownership in Denel Saab Aerostrucwe mainly deliver parts in this material. tures (Pty) Ltd. generated a capital gain before tax of MSEK 58. Orders received Cash ﬂow Orders received in 2012 included an order received from FMV for Operating cash flow was negative in 2012 due to utilisation of and continued support and maintenance and updates for the Gripen reduction in advances and milestone payments. C/D. Saab also received four orders from FMV for Gripen development, support and maintenance through 2016. The sum of total Employees orders for Aeronautics related to these four orders amounted to The number of employees was higher compared to year-end 2011 MSEK 1,883. as a result of a higher activity level in the development of Gripen. Orders received also included new order bookings of about MSEK 1,130 for deliveries to the Boeing 787 programme, the Airbus A380 programme and the Airbus A320 programme. Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, represented 77 per cent (84) of total order bookings. 46 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS DYNAMICS Dynamics offers a product portfolio with ground combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles and signature management systems for armed forces as well as military and civil niche products from spin-offs such as unmanned underwater vehicles for the offshore industry and 3D mapping solutions for the defence market. Products include Carl-Gustaf, RBS 70 and Rapid 3D Mapping. 18% Order bookings, Sales, Adjusted operating Key ﬁgures SEK billion SEK billion margin, % share of sales. 4.7 4.8 MSEK 2012 2011 4.6 4.2 4.3 Order bookings 4,095 4,246 4.1 13.0 Order backlog 4,769 5,460 3.3 11.2 Sales 4,779 4,335 3.1 EBITDA 794 652 EBITDA-margin, % 16.6 15.0 Operating income 621 484 6.8 Adjusted operating 5.9 margin, % 13.0 11.2 Operating cash ﬂow 498 588 No. of employees 1,529 1,475 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Services and solutions Sales r5IFJOTUBMMFECBTFJONPSFUIBODPVOUSJFTBSPVOEUIFXPSME Sales increased compared to 2011 as a result of a continued high includes support weapons, camouflage, 3D mapping, missiles, activity level in large projects. torpedoes and unmanned underwater vehicles. Markets outside Sweden accounted for 88 per cent (82) of sales. r(SPVOEDPNCBUXFBQPOTTVDIBT/8  5 $BSM(VTUBGBOE Bill 2. Income and margin r-BOECBTFEBJSEFGFODFTZTUFNT FH 3#4 #BNTFBOE The operating margin in 2012 increased due to a more favourable ASRAD-R. product mix in combination with increased sales. r.JTTJMFQSPHSBNTTVDIBT.FUFPS 5BVSVTBOE*3*45 Cash ﬂow Orders received Operating cash flow was lower in 2012 compared to 2011, due to Orders received in 2012 were lower compared to 2011, partly as a timing differences in advance payments related to large orders. result of a challenging market situation and delays in customers’ investment decision processes. Employees Large orders received included several contracts related to the The number of employees increased due to a higher activity level. man-portable weapon system Carl-Gustaf. The U.S. Army for In the fourth quarter, it was announced that Görgen Johansson the second time placed an order to equip its forces, a contract had been appointed Head of the business area Dynamics. He was signed with the U.S. Special Operations Command to suptook up his position on 1 January 2013 and is part of the Group ply additional Carl-Gustaf man-portable weapon systems and Management Team. ammunition. An order for the Surface-to-Surface Missile RBS15 Mk3 was received as well as an order from FMV for an upgrade of the heavyweight torpedo Torpedo 62 and support for underwater weapon systems. Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, represented 54 per cent (59) of total order bookings. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 47 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS ELECTRONIC DEFENCE SYSTEMS &MFDUSPOJD%FGFODF4ZTUFNTPGGFSTBQSPEVDUQPSUGPMJPDPNQSJTJOHBJSCPSOF MBOECBTFEBOE OBWBMTZTUFNTJOSBEBS TJHOBMTJOUFMMJHFODFBOETFMGQSPUFDUJPO5IFCVTJOFTTBSFBBMTPTVQQMJFTDJWJMBOENJMJUBSZDVTUPNFSTXJUIBWJPOJDTUIBUJODSFBTFáJHIUNJTTJPOFGàDJFODZBOE áJHIUTBGFUZ1SPEVDUTJODMVEF(JSBGGF .# &SJFZF  SUIVS #0-BOE*% 4 17% Order bookings, Sales, Adjusted operating Key ﬁgures SEK billion SEK billion margin, % TIBSFPGTBMFT 4.7 MSEK 2012 2011 5.5 4.6 4.4 4.3 Order bookings 2,739 3,229 6.5 Order backlog 5,442 6,855 Sales 4,276 4,561 3.2 EBITDA 538 785 2.6 2.7 EBITDA-margin, % 12.6 17.2 Operating income 117 297 2.7 2.3 Adjusted operating margin, % 2.7 6.5 Operating cash ﬂow -238 413 0.5 No. of employees 2,620 2,557 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Services and solutions Sales r5IFPQFSBUJPOTNFFUDVTUPNFSEFNBOEGPSTPMVUJPOTGPSTVSWFJM.BSLFUTPVUTJEF4XFEFOBDDPVOUFEGPSQFSDFOU  PGTBMFT MBODFBOEGPSEFUFDUJPO MPDBMJTBUJPOBOEQSPUFDUJPOBHBJOTUUIF WBSJPVTUZQFTPGUISFBUT5IFQSPEVDUQPSUGPMJPJODMVEFTBJSCPSOF  Income and margin MBOECBTFEBOEOBWBMTZTUFNTJOSBEBS TJHOBMTJOUFMMJHFODF 5IFPQFSBUJOHJODPNFXBTMPXFSDPNQBSFEUPBTB BOETFMGQSPUFDUJPO5IFPQFSBUJPOTBMTPDPNQSJTFBWJPOJDTUIBU SFTVMUPGMPXFSTBMFTWPMVNF BEJGGFSFOUQSPKFDUNJYBOEJODSFBTFE JODSFBTFáJHIUNJTTJPOFGàDJFODZBOEáJHIUTBGFUZ JOWFTUNFOUTJOQSPEVDUEFWFMPQNFOUQSPKFDUT r5IFTFOTPSTZTUFNT&SJFZF $BSBCBT  SUIVSBOE(JSBGGF .# %VSJOHUIFTFDPOERVBSUFS BQPTJUJWFOPOSFDVSSJOHJUFN r&MFDUSPOJDXBSGBSFTZTUFNT JODMVEJOH*% 4 $BNQT #0-BOE GSPNBSFEVDUJPOJOUIFQPUFOUJBMFBSOPVUMJBCJMJUZSFMBUFEUPUIF -&%4 BDRVJTJUJPOPG4FOTJTDPOUSJCVUFEXJUI.4&,UPUIFPQFSBUJOH r WJPOJDT JODMVEJOHTVSWFJMMBODF EJTQMBZBOEEJHJUBMSFDPSEJOH JODPNF TZTUFNT 5IFPQFSBUJOHJODPNFJOJODMVEFEBDBQJUBMHBJOCFGPSF r4BBC4FOTJTFYQFSUJTFJOWBSJPVTUZQFTPGSBEBSVQHSBEFT UBYPG.4&,GSPNUIFEJWFTUNFOUPGUIFPXOFSTIJQTIBSFPG QFSDFOUJOUIF4PVUI GSJDBOTZTUFNFOHJOFFSJOHDPNQBOZ Orders received (SJOUFL&XBUJPO 0SEFSTSFDFJWFEEFDSFBTFEJODPNQBSFEUP NBJOMZBT 5IFJOUFHSBUJPOPG4BBC4FOTJTXBTàOBMJTFEJOUIFTFDPOEIBMG BSFTVMUPGBDPOUJOVFEDIBMMFOHJOHNBSLFUTJUVBUJPOBOEEFMBZTJO PG DVTUPNFSTJOWFTUNFOUEFDJTJPOQSPDFTTFT *O4BBCSFDFJWFEGPVSPSEFSTGSPN'.7GPS(SJQFOEFWFMCash ﬂow PQNFOU TVQQPSUBOENBJOUFOBODFUISPVHI5IFTVNPGUPUBM 5IFBDRVJTJUJPOPG.&% 7XBTNBEFJOUIFGPVSUIRVBSUFSGPS PSEFSTGPS&MFDUSPOJD%FGFODF4ZTUFNTSFMBUFEUPUIFTFGPVSPSEFST BQQSPYJNBUFMZ.4&,5IFBDRVJTJUJPOXBTàOBODFEUISPVHI BNPVOUFEUP.4&, FYJTUJOHGVOET '.7BMTPQMBDFEBOPSEFSGPSNBJOUFOBODFPGUIF&SJFZFBJS5JNJOHEJGGFSFODFTJONJMFTUPOFQBZNFOUTIBEBOFHBUJWFJNCPSOFSBEBSTZTUFN QBDUPOPQFSBUJOHDBTIáPXJO *OBEEJUJPO BMBSHFPSEFSGPSEBUBMJOLTXBTSFDFJWFEGSPNBO VOEJTDMPTFEDVTUPNFSBOEGSPN VHVTUB8FTUMBOE-UEBOPSEFSGPS Employees IFMJDPQUFSTFMGQSPUFDUJPOBOEFMFDUSPOJDJOUFMMJHFODFTZTUFNTXBT %VSJOHUIFTFDPOERVBSUFS4BBCBOOPVODFEJUXPVMEJOWFTUJHBUF SFDFJWFE IPXJUDPVMESFPSHBOJTFUIFCVTJOFTTJO4PVUI GSJDBUPNFFUMPDBM 4NBMMFSPSEFSTSFDFJWFEJOJODMVEFEGPSFYBNQMFBOPSEFS BOEHMPCBMàOBODJBMDIBMMFOHFT5IFOFXPSHBOJTBUJPOBMTUSVDUVSF GPSUIF4FB(JSBGGFSBEBSUP(FOFSBM%ZOBNJDTGPSUIF-JUUPSBM XBTEFàOFEEVSJOHUIFUIJSERVBSUFSBOEXBTJNQMFNFOUFEJOUIF $PNCBU4IJQTJOUIF64 GPVSUIRVBSUFS 0SEFSTSFDFJWFE XIFSFUIFPSEFSTVNFYDFFEFE.4&,  SFQSFTFOUFEQFSDFOU  PGUPUBMPSEFSCPPLJOHT 48 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS SECURITY AND DEFENCE SOLUTIONS Security and Defence Solutions offers a product portfolio comprising defence reconnaissance systems, airborne early warning systems, training and simulation, air traffic management, maritime security, security and monitoring systems, and solutions for safe, robust communications. Products include 9LV combat management and fire control systems, the Remote Tower air traffic management system and the Tacticall communication integration system. 23% Order bookings, Sales, Adjusted operating Key ﬁgures SEK billion SEK billion margin, % share of sales. 5.8 MSEK 2012 2011 5.7 6.2 6.0 6.6 Order bookings 5,307 4,582 6.9 7.0 6.0 Order backlog 7,150 7,712 5.3 Sales 5,976 5,704 4.6 EBITDA 555 502 EBITDA-margin, % 9.3 8.8 4.8 Operating income 417 394 Adjusted operating margin, % 7.0 6.9 Operating cash ﬂow -191 584 2.2 No. of employees 3,079 2,994 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Services and solutions Sales r0QFSBUJPOTBSFDPODFOUSBUFEPO$*43 DPNQVUFSJTFEDPNSales increased in 2012 as a result of the acquisition of Sensis in mand, control, communications and intelligence) systems, 2011 and HITT during the autumn of 2012. Market conditions in WISR solutions and security solutions, as well as training and South Africa remained challenging throughout the year. simulation. Markets outside Sweden accounted for 76 per cent (77) of sales. r3FNPUFBJSUSBGàDDPOUSPMVTFTDBNFSBTBOETFOTPSTJOTUBMMFE around airports. All the information they record is linked in real Income and margin time to the air traffic control centre and projected onto a 360-deDuring the second quarter 2012, a posititve non-recurring item gree view. This cost-effective solution allows several airports to from a reduction in the potential earn-out liability related to the be monitored from a single location. acquisition of Sensis contributed with MSEK 53 to the operating r JSCPSOFTVSWFJMMBODFTZTUFNT FH  &8$ JSCPSOF&BSMZ income. Warning & Control). The integration of Saab Sensis was finalised in the second half of 2012. Orders received Orders received increased in 2012 due to several large orders Cash ﬂow received in the year and the acquisition of Sensis in 2011. Operating cash flow was negative in 2012. The decrease comSaab signed a five year contract with the U.S. Federal Aviation pared to 2011 is due to timing differences of milestone payments Administration (FAA) for the Airport Surface Surveillance Capabilas well as the acquisition of HITT. Approximately MSEK 240 had ity (ASSC) programme in the beginning of 2012. Orders from the been paid for HITT at the end of December 2012. The acquisition programme in 2012 amounted to about MSEK 228. was financed through existing funds. In addition, Saab signed a two year extension for the Deployable Tactical Engagement Simulation training system (DTES) managed Employees service from the UK Ministry of Defence. A multi-year contract During the second quarter Saab announced it would investigate for the next generation laser-based training systems for the U.S. how to reorganise the business in South Africa to meet local and Army’s armored combat vehicles was also secured. BAE Systems, global financial challenges. The new organisational structure Sweden, placed an order for the sight and fire control system was defined during the third quarter and was implemented in the UTAAS (Universal Tank and Anti-Aircraft Sight) on combat vehicle fourth quarter 2012. A part of Security and Defence Solution’s CV9030N, for the Norwegian Army, and an order was also received business in South Africa, regarding radio communications with from the Royal Thai Navy for the upgrading of the command and about 100 employees, was sold as part of the reorganisation in control system on the aircraft carrier H.T.M.S. Chakri Naruebet. the third quarter 2012. FMV also ordered further development of systems for air traffic The number of employees increased as a result of the acquisimanagement and airbases for the Swedish Armed Forces. tion of HITT that had 188 employees. In New Zealand, Saab received an order from SecureFuture to provide the security management system for a new prison at Wiri, South Auckland. Orders received, where the order sum exceeded MSEK 100, represented 44 per cent (40) of total order bookings. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 49 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS SUPPORT AND SERVICES 4VQQPSUBOE4FSWJDFTPGGFSTTVQQPSUTPMVUJPOTUPDVTUPNFSTXJUIJOEFGFODF DJWJMTFDVSJUZ BOEDJWJMBJSDSBGUPQFSBUPST5IFTPMVUJPOTJODMVEFUFDIOJDBMNBJOUFOBODF -JGF$ZDMF-PHJTUJDT TQBSFQBSUTBOEQSPEVDUTBOETFSWJDFTUIBUNBLFJUFBTJFSGPSDVTUPNFSTUPPQFSBUFJO MPDBUJPOTXJUIMJNJUFEJOGSBTUSVDUVSF&YBNQMFTPGQSPEVDUTBOETPMVUJPOTJODMVEF.4  3FDPOOBJTTBODFBJSDSBGU $#3/XBSOJOHTZTUFNBOENPCJMFDBNQTBOEàFMEIPTQJUBMT 13% Order bookings, Sales, Adjusted operating Key ﬁgures SEK billion SEK billion margin, % 3.6 TIBSFPGTBMFT 3.4 3.4 3.4 MSEK 2012 2011 4.5 Order bookings 4,540 3,174 4.1 4.1 12.4 Order backlog 5,678 4,455 12.0 3.2 Sales 3,411 3,428 11.5 EBITDA 429 444 EBITDA-margin, % 12.6 13.0 Operating income 410 426 10.3 Adjusted operating margin, % 12.0 12.4 Operating cash ﬂow 387 420 No. of employees 1,791 1,742 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Services and solutions NBOEBOETFOTPSJOGPSNBUJPO OPSEFSXBTBMTPSFDFJWFEGPSUIF r*OUFHSBUFETFSWJDFTPMVUJPOTGPSPQFSBUJPOTJOUIFBJS POMBOEBOE JOUFHSBUJPOPGTVSWFJMMBODFTZTUFNTJO1JBHHJP FSPTOFXTVSWFJMBUTFB BTXFMMBTDJWJMTFDVSJUZ MBODFBJSDSBGUBOEBTJHOJàDBOUTVQQPSUBHSFFNFOUXJUI4JLPSTLZ r0GGFSBQBDLBHFTPMVUJPOGPSFRVJQNFOUNBJOUFOBODFBOETFSXBTBMTPTJHOFESFHBSEJOHUFDIOJDBMNBJOUFOBODFBOETVQQPSUGPS WJDF UFDIOJDBMUSBJOJOH TQBSFQBSUT MPHJTUJDBMTPMVUJPOTBOEàFME UIF4XFEJTI SNFE'PSDFT#MBDL)BXLIFMJDPQUFST*OBEEJUJPO  TVQQPSU BOESPVOEUIFDMPDLTFSWJDFDFOUSFT TFWFSBMOFXTVQQPSUBHSFFNFOUTXJUI4BBCBOE4BBC r'MFYJCMF TDBMBCMF BEBQUBCMFBOEVQHSBEBCMFTPMVUJPOT PQFSBUPSTXFSFTJHOFEJO r0QFSBUJPOTBSFHMPCBMBOEDPNQSJTF4BBCBTXFMMBTPUIFS0&. 0SEFSTSFDFJWFE XIFSFUIFPSEFSTVNFYDFFEFE.4&,  TZTUFNTBOEFRVJQNFOU SFQSFTFOUFEQFSDFOU  PGUPUBMPSEFSCPPLJOHT r4VQQPSUBOETFSWJDFPGBMBSHFQBSUPGUIF4BBCBOE4BBC PQFSBUJOHHMPCBMMZUPEBZXJUIBJSDSBGUCZPQFSBUPST Sales JODPVOUSJFT5PUBMPGBSPVOE áJHIUTBEBZ .BSLFUTPVUTJEF4XFEFOBDDPVOUFEGPSQFSDFOU  PGTBMFT Orders received Cash ﬂow 0SEFSTSFDFJWFEJOJODSFBTFEDPNQBSFEUP NBJOMZBT 5IFPQFSBUJOHDBTIáPXJOXBTBUBTMJHIUMZMPXFSMFWFMUIBO BSFTVMUPGGPVSPSEFSTGSPN'.7GPS(SJQFOEFWFMPQNFOU TVQQPSU JO NBJOMZBTBSFTVMUPGBUFNQPSBSZCVJMEVQPGXPSLJOH BOENBJOUFOBODFUISPVHI5IFTVNPGUPUBMPSEFSTGPS4VQDBQJUBMJOTPNFQSPKFDUT QPSUBOE4FSWJDFTSFMBUFEUPUIFTFGPVSPSEFSTBNPVOUFEUP.4&,   Employees MPOHUFSNDPOUSBDUXJUIUIF4XFEJTI.FUFPSPMPHJDBMBOE *O4VQQPSUBOE4FSWJDFTJNQMFNFOUFEBOFXPSHBOJTBUJPOBM )ZESPMPHJDBM*OTUJUVUF 4.)* BOE'.7XBTBMTPTJHOFEGPSUIF TUSVDUVSFDFOUFSFEBSPVOELFZDBQBCJMJUFT XJUIBOBMJHOFEDVTUPNFS NPEFSOJTBUJPOBOETZTUFNTVQHSBEFPGBMMUXFMWFXFBUIFSSBEBS GPDVTBDSPTTUIFPSHBOJTBUJPO5IFOFXTUSVDUVSFQSPWJEFTB TUBUJPOTJO4XFEFO TUSPOHFSQMBUGPSNUPDBQUVSFFOWJTJPOFEGVUVSFHSPXUIPQQPSUVOJUJFT OPSEFSXBTSFDFJWFEGSPN# &4ZTUFNT 4XFEFO GPSUIF TVQQMZPGBVUPNPUJWFFMFDUSPOJDTGPSEJTQMBZJOHWFIJDMF DPN50 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > BUSINESS AREAS COMBITECH Combitech, an independent business area within the Saab Group, is one of Sweden’s largest technology consulting firms. By combining technology with cutting-edge expertise in the environment and security, we create solutions for our clients’ specific needs. 5% Order bookings, Sales, Adjusted operating Key ﬁgures SEK billion SEK billion margin, % share of sales. 1.4 1.4 MSEK 2012 2011 Order bookings 1,436 1,118 1.1 Order backlog 446 344 1.0 1.0 Sales 1,410 1,000 0.9 0.9 0.9 9.2 EBITDA 130 94 8.9 EBITDA-margin, % 9.2 9.4 8.9 Operating income 122 92 8.7 Adjusted operating margin, % 8.7 9.2 Operating cash ﬂow -43 87 No. of employees 1,287 923 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 Services and solutions Income and margin r$PNCJUFDIJTBDUJWFJOUIFBWJBUJPO EFGFODFJOEVTUSZ EFGFODF  The operating income increased in 2012 compared to 2011, as a telecom and other industries as well as the public sector. In result of acquisitions made during the year and a strong organic 2012, sales grew fastest among aviation and other industrial growth. The operating margin decreased due to integration costs clients. related to acquisitions made in 2012. r$PNCJUFDIPGGFSTTFSWJDFTJOTZTUFNTEFWFMPQNFOU TZTUFNT integration, information security, systems security, communicaCash ﬂow tions, mechanics, technical product information and logistics. The operating cash flow was negative in 2012 as a result of the acquisitions of Sörman Information and Bayes Risk Management. Sales Sales increased in 2012, compared to 2011, mainly as a result of Employees the acquisition of Sörman Information in January 2012, the estabThe number of employees increased by 364 persons in 2012 lishment of a development centre in Trollhättan, Sweden and the (FTEs increased by 389). The acquisitions, together with the start investment in Bayes Risk Management, Norway, in August 2012. of the development centre in Trollhättan, accounted for the main Sales to customers other than Saab increased as well as sales part of the increase in number of employees. During the year, 115 within the Saab Group. Business activities with customers other employees were hired to the development centre in Trollhättan. than Saab accounted for 58 per cent (62). In addition, the acquisition of Sörman Information increased the Markets outside Sweden accounted for 3 per cent (2) of sales. number of employees by 168 and the investment in Bayes Risk Management by 28 persons. RISK AS A NEW POSSIBILITY FOR COMBITECH Every business is subject to many risks. If the risk occurs and becomes a reality, it can be costly and harm the reputation of an organisation. As the new majority owner of Norweigan company Bayes Risk Management, Combitech can now offer its customers a qualiﬁed risk analysis. Bayes is specialised in risk analysis and has through its own research developed methods to identify and quantify risks and manage them to minimise damage. The customers are mainly in the Norwegian oil and gas industry that have high security requirements, and the banking and ﬁnancial sector that has an increased focus on risk management. These methods, however, ﬁt all industries. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 51 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT RISKS AND RISK MANAGEMENT Saab’s business generally entails significant Political and market risks Saab supplies, among other things, systems and equipment that investments, long periods of time and prodare classified as strategic products, the sale of which is regulated uct development or refinement. In addition by national laws and ordinances that also include international agreements. Access to vital components and systems may be to customer and supplier relations, internasubject to export restrictions and various types of regulations, tional operations involve joint ventures and which are exposed to political risks . Regulations are amended on an ongoing basis, and this imother collaborations as well as the estabpacts Saab’s business opportunities. The ability to establish and lishment of operations abroad. maintain long-term customer relationships is a key issue for Saab, as some projects extend over decades. Because the Swedish All businesses entail risk. A risk can be specific to the company or state – through the Armed Forces and FMV – has traditionally related to a certain industry or market. Certain risks can be fully accounted for a large proportion of Saab’s product renewal, our managed by the company, while others are out of its control. business is particularly affected by Sweden’s defence policy. Saab’s operations primarily involve the development, proAnother type of risk are market risks that can affect customduction and supply of technologically advanced hardware and ers’ inability to fulfil current contracts due to economic, political software to customers around the world. The international part of or other circumstances such as natural disasters, an economic the business is growing. crisis, a shift in power or an embargo. Operations entail significant risk-taking in various respects. The key risk areas are political, financial and operational risks. See Managing political and market risks this spread for information on the political and financial risks. See Saab manages political and market risks through various types of pages 53–55 for more information on the operating risks. export guarantees, insurance solutions and other instruments. It is impossible, however, to avoid losing business opportunities or Managing risks incurring damage if political and market risks are realised. Significant risks that are identified are managed continuously at all levels of the organisation and in strategic planning. Various poliFinancial risks cies and instruments govern the management of significant risks. In its operations, Saab is exposed to various financial risks. ManIn addition, Saab has an independent audit unit that serves as a agement of financial risks is governed by the Group Treasury Poldedicated resource to independently audit the effectiveness of icy established by the Board of Directors. Moreover, Saab has an internal control processes. Risks are also managed by procuring extensive pension obligation managed by Saab’s Pension Fund. insurance. Saab has a Group-wide programme where insurance In addition, detailed directives and processes are in place for the is obtained on the market or through the Group’s own insurer, operational management of each area. Overarching responsibility Lansen Försäkrings AB. for managing financial risks lies with Group Treasury. Risk analysis and activities 2012 Pension obligations In 2012, we worked on training and following up the introduction The Group’s pension obligations are substantial, as indicated in of the harmonised risk evaluation process implemented in 2011. Note 37. In the calculation of pension obligations, future pension Focus has been on the operating processes and project execuobligations are discounted to present value. The size of the liability tion. In 2013, risk management will be expanded to other areas is dependent on the choice of discount rate: a low interest rate within line operations and support processes. The process is produces a high liability, and vice versa. designed based on a 2010 analysis of various aspects of the risk processes used by the business areas and divisions. Management of pension liability For additional information, see the corporate governance report, To manage the pension liability, the Saab Pension Fund was estabpages 124–133. lished in 2006 and capitalised with the corresponding PRI liability. FOCUS FOR RISK MANAGEMENT 2011–2013 2011 2012 2013 Design and implementation of a Training, follow-up and completed inUnderstand the complexity and the harmonised risk management protroduction of the harmonised risk mandemands on our local markets and cess throughout the company. agement process. Making the product provide education and follow-up on development process more efficient. contacts and relations. 52 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT The Group’s obligations are calculated on an actuarial basis each decisions on which investments to prioritise, both in a market and year, after which a comparison is drawn with the fund’s assets. profit perspective. Deficits according to such calculations may require Saab to conCertain development costs are capitalised in accordance with tribute additional funds. The Saab Pension Fund’s objective is a real established accounting principles. Amortisation of capitalised annual return of at least 4 per cent on invested capital. The fund development costs is scheduled over the estimated production invests in interest-bearing securities, equities and hedge funds. volume or an estimated period of use, though not more ten years. Accounting principles regarding pension liabilities changes as If the estimated period of use is shorter than five years, the costs of 2013, meaning that the value of pension liabilities will be more are amortised over the shorter period. Future business opportunivolatile compared to previously applied accounting principles up ties are periodically reassessed, which can lead to impairment until 2012. See Note 1 for additional information. losses. Capitalised development costs are shown in Note 16. Operating risks Long-term customer projects A number of significant areas have been identified with respect Management of long-term customer projects involves risks. to operating risks, which are important in assessing the Group’s Saab’s operations entail complex development projects on the results and financial position. leading edge of technology where the competitive situation is complex. Success depends on the ability to offer cost-effective Develop and introduce new systems and products high technology solutions, though also in some cases on parThe Group invests heavily in the research and development of its ticipation in the customer-country’s economy through various own products and systems as well as acquisitions of technology. forms of industrial cooperation. The risk in managing long-term Its own products are mainly the export version of Gripen, radar customer projects is that Saab will be unsuccessful in meeting systems, command and control systems, missile systems, UAV customer requirements, as a result of which the commitment is systems and electronic warfare systems. One example of acnot fulfilled and costs being significantlly higher. quired technology is the world-leading radar technology obtained through the acquisition of Ericsson Microwave Systems AB in Management of long-term customer projects 2006. Investments in new systems and products are made after A majority of all long-term customer projects contains significant a strategic and financial analysis and assessment of future busidevelopment work, which is associated with risks. Every contract ness opportunities. Risks applied to develop and introduce new with a customer to supply a product, solution or service is always systems and products involve that the self-developed products preceded by a thorough analysis of the conditions and risks assodoes not fulfil high customer requirements, and thus not give the ciated with the delivery, based on an internal process established previously estimated return when the decision was made. within Saab for customer contracts. Adaptation of the processes have been made to support the new market area organisation as Management of development and introduction of 1 January, 2013. of new systems and products Regular project reviews are subsequently conducted during During 2012, implementation continued of the various measures the implementation stage using the same process. An important launched in 2011 to further improve efficiencies in development aspect is to identify risks and assess them along with measures processes, including the continued establishment of Centres taken in order to mitigate the risks with the help of our uniform of Excellence within Saab for different aspects of development risk assessment process. work. This means that we coordinate and sometimes consoliThe Group applies the percentage of completion method to date critical technology needed for different product areas in one recognise revenue from long-term customer projects. An estimalocation. Product roadmaps (i.e. a plan for further development of tion of total costs is critical to revenue recognition and provisions the product) is now being established for the full life-cycle of the for loss contracts as well as the valuation of inventories. The product. This gives a better possibility to internally govern product outcome of technical and commercial risks may affect income. development. In 2012, a portfolio management process was also A review of the project management process was conducted in developed. It is a management tool on an overall level to make 2010, and we are working continuously to improve this process FINANCIAL RISKS Foreign currency risk Interest rate risk Refinancing risk Credit and counterparty risks RISK Commodity risk Pension obligations Management of financial risks is governed by the Group Treasury Policy MANAGEMENT established by the Board of Directors. Learn more about financial risks in Note 41. See above SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 53 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT and ensure its implementation. In 2012 we worked continuously to Environmental risks and liabilities secure the implementation of the process through supportive eduThe most important environmental risks are improper managecation and continuous improvements. This will continue in 2013. ment of hazardous chemicals, fires in buildings and plants, and soil contamination. For more information on environmental risks Compliance risks and liabilities, see Note 48. Saab has clear guidelines on how to act in contact with customers and society. We do business all over the world and have relaManagement of environmental risks and liabilities tions with customers and other stakeholders on all continents. The operations in Linköping and Karlskoga are subject to Europe’s Our commitment is to act ethically correct in all that we do based Seveso law, which is designed to reduce risks in connection with on current legislation, our own Code of Conduct and common the large-scale use of chemicals. Against this backdrop, we have industry standards. We shall be a long-term and reliable business introduced strict routines for risk assessment, supervision and partner that promotes an open and transparent market. The risk control of chemicals. Strict routines are also applied to purchases involed when doing business is when we break our commitment. of chemical products. Health and environmental information on chemical products is available in the Group’s chemical data system. Management of compliance risks Saab works actively to assess and minimise fire risks in its Our Code of Conduct has been based on OECD’s guidelines and operations. Since a fire in a production facility can cause extensive the UN Global Compact. In 2011 we joined Global Compact and environmental damage to the local area, effective fire prevention is have thus commited ourselves to externally report according to an important part of the efforts to reduce environmental risks. these ten principles. All employees have been provided informaWe analyse our operations and properties around the world to tion on the new code and are expected to familiarise themselves assess Saab’s risk exposure resulting from soil contamination. with its contents and follow its guidelines. If a contaminated area is identified, liability is determined and Saab has implemented a risk-based approach to corruption an overall risk assessment is conducted. Information on contamimeaning that every business transaction and market activity shall nated areas is documented as it is received. An insurance solution be preceded by a corruption analysis. To facilitate the analysis to manage soil contamination cases has been in place since 2009. Saab has developed a special tool (“Corruption Risk Assessment Overall risk assessments are made to determine how operationTool”). It helps to point out factors that typically are designed to sare affected by climate change. These risks are reported within influence corruption. All employees within the marketing and sales the framework of reporting for the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP). organisation are trained in the significance of the requirements for business managers to perform a corruption assessement in relation to every business transaction. During the year Saab continued training efforts within this area, that also includes knowledge of existing legislation, rules and regulations and Saab’s processes for hiring consultants and other advisors. The use of market consultants and other advisors are normal in a complex world. At Saab every such cooperation shall be tested, evaluated and motivated centrally. There is a clear decision-making process to be followed, and every decision shall be preceded by a thorough analysis. Saab has also introduced training for market consultants that are hired. To have undergone the training and signed a commitment stating that they are following Saab’s guidelines are prerequisite for further cooperation. In 2013, the existing training program will be complemented by a web-based anti-corruption training. All employees exposed to any form of corruption risk shall undergo the training. 54 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT OPERATING RISKS Develop and introduce new systems and prodManagement of longEnvironmental risks and RISK ucts term customer projects liabilities Compliance risks In its operations, Saab handles a wide variety of chemical products that are classified as harmful to humans and That we break our comThe risk is that Saab the environment. The mitment is to act ethically will be unsuccessful in most important envicorrect in all that we do The risk is that Saab does meeting customer reronmental risks involve based on current legislanot achieve the levels of quirements, as a result hazardous chemicals, tion, our own Code of business required for its of which the commitbuilding and plant fires, Conduct and common SIGNIFICANCE products to be profitable. ment is not fulfilled. and soil contamination. industry standards. Our Code of Conduct is complemented by detailed directives and policies within relevant areas. Included in our compliance Every contract with a program are also extensive customer to supply a internal training efforts and product, solution or serclear management strucvice is always preceded tures with special compliThe Group takes an acby a thorough analysis ance functions designated tive approach to product of the conditions and to manage operating risks management. A high risks associated with as well as further developdegree of modularisation the delivery, based on Saab has introduced ment and improvement of in project management an internal process strict routines for asexisting regulations and allows Saab to reuse established within Saab sessment, supervision processes. Saab has also product solutions in its for the management of and control of various established a whistleblow3&410/4*#*-*5: offerings. customer contracts. environmental risks. ing system. In 2012 the implementation of different measures started in 2011 to further enhance our development processes continued, for example new Centers of In 2012, we worked on Excellence within Saab follow-up and ensure to improve development. the implementation of A portfolio management the risk management system, an overall mansystem defined in 2010. agement tool to make In addition, we also cardecisions regarding which ried out preparations to investments to prioritise adapt these processes In 2012, Sensis and In 2012, further training of in a market and profit to the new market area E-COM were integrated employees within corrupperspective, was also organisation, effective in Saab’s environmental tion risk assessment were 2012 developed in 2012. from 1 January 2013. risk work. carried out. We will complement the Our focus is on imexisting training program proving and making with a web-based antiIn 2013 we will introduce transportation, heating corruption training. We will a uniform product data and ventilation in propalso launch further tools base that will support our erties and production used as support in the efforts to create a better facilities more efficient. corruption risk assessment structured packaging of Efforts on communicatool that is mandatory in Saab’s product offering, In 2013 we will continue tion to increase climate every business initiative which aims at lowering to work with continuawareness and improve and also in other ways project costs and inous improvements and possibilities to utilise continue the work to decrease quality in tenders. secure the implemenelectronic communicavelop processes and work The aim is to lower risk in tation of our project tion, for example video ways that limits our risk 2013 project execution. management process. conferencing. exposure in this area. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 55 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > OTHER INFORMATION OTHER INFORMATION Corporate or retention purposes only, or as compensation for extraordinary Corporate reported operating income of MSEK -14 (916). efforts beyond the individual’s ordinary assignment. Such remu2011 included capital gains of MSEK 989 from divestments. neration shall never exceed the amount of the fixed annual salary The sale of aircraft in Saab’s lease fleet of turboprop aircraft and shall not be paid more than once a year per individual. Resocontributed positively to the operating income in 2011 and 2012. lutions on such cash remuneration shall be made by the Board In 1997 Saab discontinued the manufacturing of turboprop based on a proposal from the Remuneration Committee. aircraft. Today Saab still has a lease fleet that as of 31 December Variable cash remuneration shall not be paid in other cases 2012 consisted of 61 (82) turboprop Saab 340 and Saab 2000 besides the above mentioned. aircraft. Of the fleet, 42 (42) are financed through U.S. leverage leases. Rents from these leases are insured through The SwedOther beneﬁts ish Export Credits Guarantee Board (EKN). 19 (40) aircraft are All members of the Group Management may be entitled to other financed internally and recognised as assets in the balance sheet. benefits in accordance with local practice. The benefits shall Provisions in the balance sheet related to the leasing portfolio are contribute to facilitating the executive’s discharge of his or her deemed sufficient for the remaining risks. duties. These benefits shall not constitute a material part of the We estimate that the leasing portfolio will be phased out in 2015. total compensation and shall be equivalent to what is considered reasonable in relation to market practice. Other benefits may for Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of example be a company car, travels, overnight accommodation employment for senior executives 2012 and medical insurance. According to the Swedish Companies Act, the Board of Directors shall to the Annual General Meeting propose guidelines for Pension remuneration for senior executives in the company. The Annual For pension agreements entered into after 1 January 2005, the General Meeting 2012 adopted the Board of Director’s proposed pension age is 62. In addition to the ITP agreement, the pension guidelines for such remuneration as described below. is part of a defined premium based contribution plan where proviThe senior executives comprise the President and CEO and sions are made annually. For the President and CEO, the provision other members of the Group Management. The members of this is equivalent to maximum 35 per cent of the fixed salary. For other group are presented on the company’s website (www.saabgroup. senior executives the percentage is based on a set of regulations com). In some special cases, these guidelines may also comprise in the so-called Saab plan. According to this plan, the percentage Board Members of Saab AB, as described below. is dependent on the number of years remaining until the age of Saab shall offer market terms, enabling the company to recruit retirement upon joining the plan. The aggregate insurance balance and retain senior executives. To the greatest extent possible, reshould cover a targeted pension from 65 years of age of approximuneration structures shall be characterised by predictability with mately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between 20 and 30 basic respect to both the cost for the company and the benefit for the income amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments employee. They shall be based on factors such as position, comabove 30 basic income amounts. petence, experience and performance. Benchmarking shall be All senior executives may also be entitled to strengthened dispracticed regularly relative to comparable industries and markets. ability pension and survivors’ pension. The Board’s proposal is based mainly on agreements in effect between Saab AB and individual executives. No board fees are Miscellaneous terms paid to members of the Group Management for participation on All executives in the Group Management, including the President the boards of the business areas or Saab subsidiaries. and CEO, may terminate their employment with six months’ The Remuneration Committee is responsible for developing notice. If the employment is terminated by Saab, the notice period and reviewing remuneration and other employment terms for the is six months, and after the notice period, severance equal to one Group Management. year’s salary is paid. An additional year’s salary is payable if no The Board shall be entitled to divert from the guidelines, if there new employment has been obtained in the first 18 months from are reasonable grounds to do so in an individual case. the time the notice of termination was served. These guidelines apply from the Annual General Meeting 2012. With respect to employment agreements made after 1 January 2005, and in cases where Saab terminates the employment, a Fixed remuneration maximum severance pay of 18 months is payable in addition to Cash remuneration shall consist of fixed salary. The fixed salary the six-month notice period. In both cases, any income from tershall be reviewed annually as per 1 January for all members of the mination pay and severance pay will be deducted against income Group Management. The fixed salary shall be at market terms and from other employment during the corresponding time. based on factors such as position, competence, experience and performance. Consultant fees to Board Members Saab Board Members, elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting, may Variable remuneration in special cases receive a fee for services performed within their It is important that senior executives have a long-term view and a respective areas of expertise, separately from their Board duties long-term commitment in the company’s operations and profits. and for a limited period of time. Compensation for these services Therefore long-term incentive is especially well suited to Saab and shall be paid at market terms its shareholders. The President and CEO and senior executives are entitled to Incentive programs proposed to participate in the long-term incentive programs resolved by the the Annual General Meeting 2012 Shareholders’ Meeting. The Board of Directors proposed that the Annual General Meeting In extraordinary cases, agreements of a one-time nature for resolved on the implementation of a Share Matching Plan 2012 variable cash remuneration may be made, provided that such and a Performance Share Plan 2012. The Annual General Meeting agreements are made solely on an individual basis for recruitment resolved in accordance with the Board’s proposal. 56 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ADMINISTRATION REPORT > OTHER INFORMATION Note 37 of the Annual Report includes a description of existing and key persons, entitles participants to 1–4 matching shares, remunerations for senior executives, including fixed and variable depending on the category the employee belongs to. compensation, long-term incentive programs and other benefits. In 2007, Saab repurchased 1 million shares, in 2008 and 2009 it repurchased 1,340,000 shares per year, and in 2010 it repurThe board of directors’ proposal for guidelines for chased 838,131 shares to hedge the plans. In 2011 and 2012 no remuneration and other terms of employment of shares were purchased. senior executives to apply as of the next annual The Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2012 renewed the general meeting Board of Directors’ mandate to repurchase up to 10 per cent of The Remuneration Committee has evaluated the application of the Company’s shares, of which 1,340,000 shares to hedge the the guidelines for remuneration for senior executives of Saab that Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. were resolved at the Annual General Meeting in 2012 and the The purpose of the authorisation was to provide the Board with current remuneration structures and remuneration levels in the greater scope in working with the company’s capital structure and company. The Remuneration Committee is of the opinion that the enable acquisitions when considered appropriate, as well as to guidelines that were resolved in 2012 achieve their purposes to secure the Group’s Share Matching Plan and Performance Share facilitate the recruitment and retention of senior executives. Plan. The mandate applied until the Annual General Meeting 2013. The Remuneration Committee has recommended the Board Repurchases may be effected over the stock exchange or through of Directors to propose to the Annual General Meeting to adopt offerings to shareholders. During 2012, the Board has not decided principles of remuneration whose terms and conditions in essence to utilise its authorisation for repurchases and thus no shares were are the same as those that were resolved at the Annual General repurchased in 2012. Meeting in 2012. In light of the above background, the Board of Directors Share repurchase therefore proposes to the Annual General Meeting 2013 to adopt Saab held 3,219,515 treasury shares as of 31 December 2012 principles of remuneration and other terms of employment for compared to 3,818,386 at year-end 2011. senior executives whose terms and conditions in essence are the Saab Pension Fund had no holding of Saab shares as of 31 same as those that were resolved at the Annual General Meeting December 2012. in 2012, please see above. Dividend Incentive programs proposed to the Annual General Meeting 2013 The Board of Directors proposes that shareholders receive a The Board of Directors proposes that the Annual General Meeting dividend of SEK 4.50 per share (4.50), or a total of MSEK 477 resolves on a Share Matching Plan 2013 and a Performance Share (474). 22 April 2013 has been proposed as the record day for the Plan 2013. dividend, which is expected to be paid on 25 April 2013. The terms and estimated costs for the Share Matching Plan 2013 and the Performance Share Plan 2013 are presented in the Important events after the conclusion of the year Board’s complete proposal to the Annual General Meeting. r4BBCBOOPVODFEJUIBESFDFJWFEBOPSEFSGPSEFMJWFSZ NBJOtenance and support of the autonomous underwater vehicles Saab’s Share Matching Plan systems, AUV62, the latest version of the advanced training In April 2007, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer target for Anti Submarine Warfare (ASW) training. employees the opportunity to participate in a voluntary share r4BBCBOOPVODFEJUIBTQBSUOFSFEXJUI5BXB[VO BTUSBUFHJD matching plan where they can purchase Series B shares in Saab investment company focusing on defence and strategic manuduring a 12-month period. Purchases are made through deducfacturing, to create a new UAE-based radar company. It is a joint tions of between 1 and 5 per cent of the employee’s monthly salventure where 51 per cent is owned by Tawazun and 49 per cent ary. If the employee retains the purchased shares for three years by Saab after the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, r4BBCBOOPVODFEUIFTJHOJOHPGBOBHSFFNFOUXJUIUIF4XFEthe employee will be allotted a corresponding number of Series B ish Defence Materiel Administration (FMV) for Gripen E. The shares. agreement includes development and modification of Gripen E The plan was introduced in autumn 2007 in Sweden and Norfor Sweden during the period 2013-2026 and a possible order way. In 2008 it was expanded to include employees in Denmark, for new production of Gripen E from Switzerland. FMV placed an Germany, the UK, the U.S., Switzerland and Australia. South initial development order of SEK 2.5 billion for operations during Africa was included in 2009, Finland in 2010 and thereafter Czech 2013-2014. Remaining orders from Sweden is expected in 2013Republic in 2011. India will be included in the Share Matching Plan 2014. The total value of possible orders under the agreement 2012 starting in January 2013. amounts to a total of SEK 47.2 billion. In April 2008, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to introduce a performance-based plan for senior executives and key employees entitling them to 2–5 matching shares depending on the category the employee belongs to. In addition to the requirement that the employee remain employed by Saab after three years, there is a requirement that earnings per share grow in the range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period. The Annual General Meetings in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 resolved to renew the share matching plan and performance share plan. The 2011 share matching plan comprises all employees, including senior executives and key persons. The performance share plan for 2011 and 2012, which is directed to senior executives SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 57 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND NOTES Income Statement, Consolidated 59 Statement of Comprehensive Income, Consolidated 60 Statement of Financial position, Consolidated 61–62 Statement of Changes in Equity, Consolidated 63 Statement of Cash Flows, Consolidated 64-65 Income Statement, Parent Company 66 Comprehensive Income, Parent Company 66 Balance Sheet, Parent Company 67–68 Statement of Changes in Equity, Parent Company 69 Statement of Cash Flows, Parent Company 70 NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1 Accounting principles 71 26 Other long-term securities holdings 97 2 Assumptions in the application of the accounting principles 79 27 Long-term receivables and other receivables 97 3 Revenue distribution 79 28 Inventories 98 4 Segment reporting 80 29 Accounts receivable 98 5 Other operating income 82 30 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 98 6 Other operating expenses 82 31 Liquid assets 98 7 Government grants 82 32 Assets held for sale 98 8 Business combinations 82 33 Shareholders’ equity 99 9 Employees and staff costs 84 34 Earnings per share 100 10 Auditors’ fees and compensation 85 35 Interest-bearing liabilities 100 11 Operating expenses 85 36 Liabilities to credit institutions 100 12 Depreciation/amortisation and impairments 86 37 Employee beneﬁts 100 13 Financial income and expenses 86 38 Provisions 107 14 Appropriations 87 39 Other liabilities 107 15 Taxes 87 40 Accrued expenses and deferred income 108 16 Intangible ﬁxed assets 90 41 Financial risk management and 17 Tangible ﬁxed assets 91 ﬁnancial instruments 108 18 Lease assets and lease agreements 93 42 Assets pledged and contingent liabilities 115 19 Biological assets 94 43 Transactions with related parties 116 20 Investment properties 94 44 Group companies 116 21 Shares in associated companies consolidated 45 Untaxed reserves 117 according to the equity method 95 46 Statement of cash ﬂows, 22 Shares in joint ventures consolidated according to the prosupplemental information 117 portional method 96 47 Information on Parent Company 119 23 Parent Company’s shares in associated 48 Environmental report 119 companies and joint ventures 96 49 Exchange rates 24 Receivables from Group companies, associated companies used in ﬁnancial statements 120 and joint ventures 96 50 Deﬁnitions of key ratios 120 25 Financial investments 96 58 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED INCOME STATEMENT 1 January – 31 December ORDERS Order bookings increased in the year compared to 2011, partly MSEK Note 2012 2011 as a result of signiﬁcant orders received in 2012 from FMV related to Gripen. Sales 3, 4 24,010 23,498 In all, 76 per cent (85) of order bookings were attributable to deCost of goods sold -16,820 -16,791 fence-related operations and 57 per cent (56) were attributable to customers outside Sweden. Gross income 7,190 6,707 During 2012, index and price changes had a positive effect on Other operating income 5 338 1,351 order bookings of MSEK 148 (308). Marketing expenses -2,191 -1,879 Orders received where the order sum was larger than MSEK 100 Administrative expenses -1,215 -1,217 represented 52 per cent (48) of total order bookings. Research and development costs -2,096 -1,928 The order backlog at the end of the year amounted to Other operating expenses 6 -19 -77 MSEK 34,151, compared to MSEK 37,172 at the beginning of the year. Share in income of associated companies 21 25 -16 Order backlog duration : Operating income 10, 11 ,12 2,032 2,941 2013: SEK 16.1billion Share in income of associated companies 21 2 4 2014: SEK 7.9 billion Financial income 153 162 2015: SEK 4.6 billion Financial expenses -281 -324 2016: SEK 2.7 billion Net ﬁnancial items 13 -126 -158 After 2016: SEK 2.9 billion Income before taxes 1,906 2,783 Taxes 15 -367 -566 Net income for the year 1,539 2,217 Attributable to: Parent Company’s shareholders 1,564 2,225 Non-controlling interest -25 -8 Earnings per share before dilution (SEK) 34 14.81 21.19 Earnings per share after dilution (SEK) 34 14.33 20.38 SALES BY REGION SALES BY MARKET SEGMENTS SALES Sales increased 2 per cent in the year compared to 2011 as a Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec Jan-Dec result of acquisitions. Excluding acquisitions sales decreased MSEK 2012 2011 MSEK 2012 2011 2 per cent in the year. Sweden 8,765 8,679 Air 9,283 10,611 Exchange rates had no signiﬁcant impact on sales. EU excluding Land 7,997 7,201 Sales in markets outside Sweden amounted to MSEK 15,245 Sweden 4,640 4,514 Naval 2,569 2,065 (14,819), or 64 per cent (63) of total sales. Rest of Europe 390 320 Civil Security 1,837 1,479 Americas 2,780 1,899 Of sales, 82 per cent (84) was related to the defence market. Commercial Asia 4,886 5,176 Aeronautics 1,477 1,309 Africa 1,345 1,789 Other 847 833 Australia, etc. 1,204 1,121 Total 24,010 23,498 Total 24,010 23,498 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 59 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 January – 31 December MSEK 2012 2011 Net income for the year 1,539 2,217 Other comprehensive income: Translation differences -181 -60 Net gain/loss on cash ﬂow hedges Change in value 45 22 Reversed through proﬁt and/or loss 15 -278 Tax attributable to net gain/loss on cash ﬂow hedges 14 69 Share of other comprehensive income in associated companies -26 Other comprehensive income -107 -273 Net comprehensive income for the year 1,432 1,944 of which Parent Company’s shareholders’ interest 1,463 1,995 of which non-controlling interest -31 -51 INCOME, MARGIN AND PROFITABILITY FINANCIAL NET The gross margin improved in 2012 partly as a result of a different product and project mix compared to 2011. MSEK Jan–Dec 2012 Jan–Dec 2011 The sale of aircraft in Saab’s lease ﬂeet of turboprop aircraft contributed Project interest from unutilised -15 -30 positively to the gross margin in 2011 and 2012. advance payment Marketing expenses increased in 2012 as a result of an increased level of Net interest items 71 33 marketing activities across the Group as well as activities related to the build-up of a stronger local presence in selected markets. Currency gains/losses 15 -32 Total depreciation, amortisation and writedowns amounted to MSEK 1,189 Financial net related to pensions -152 -60 (1,261). Depreciation and write-down of tangible ﬁxed assets amounted to Other net ﬁnancial items -45 -69 MSEK 403 (352), while depreciation of the leasing ﬂeet amounted to Total -126 -158 MSEK 53 (114). Total expenditures in research and development amounted to MSEK 5,946 Project interest is the return received on unutilised advance payments from (5,116). Of this MSEK 1,798 (1,355) were internally funded and a total of customers that are received in connection with some orders. The return MSEK 292 (15) of that were capitalised. The increase of capitalised expendigenerated from this advance ﬁnancing is recognised in gross income and tures is mainly related to the development of the next generation Gripen, reduces ﬁnancial net. Gripen E. In order to strengthen our technology leadership and secure future Net interest items refer to return on liquid assets and short-term investments offerings in current challenging market conditions, we see a continued need and interest expenses on short and long-term interestbearing liabilities. Durto invest in internally funded development going forward. ing 2012 lower interest rates in combination with an on average higher Amortisation and write-down of intangible ﬁxed assets amounted to yearly cash position compared to 2011 led to a higher result. MSEK 733 (795), of which amortisation and write-down of capitalised develThe currency gains/losses reported above are related to the tender portfolio opment costs amounted to MSEK 590 (588). where the hedges were valued at fair value. The operating income was positively impacted by a reduced potential earnThe ﬁnancial net related to pensions decreased as a result of an increased out liability related to the acquisition of Sensis of MSEK 207. We estimate it unreported actuarial loss during 2011, which led to an increased amortisato be unlikely that we will pay the level previously provided for the agreed adtion of actuarial losses. ditional consideration related to the Sensis acquisition in 2011. This is based on the current published information regarding the Federal Aviation AdminisOther net ﬁnancial items consisted of income from shares in associated tration’s acquisition strategy and schedules, including funding proﬁles for companies and other exchange rate effects, for example exchange rate speciﬁc programmes where Saab Sensis is involved. Therefore, the potenchanges related to liquid assets in currencies other than SEK. tial earn-out liability has been reduced by MSEK 207. Current and deferred taxes amounted to MSEK -367 (-566), equivalent to an The operating income in 2011 included capital gains of MSEK 1,169. effective tax rate of 19 per cent (20). Current and deferred taxes decreased compared to 2011 as a result of a changed corporate tax in Sweden. As of The share of income in associated companies was MSEK 25 (-16). 2013 the tax rate changes from 26.3 per cent previously to 22 per cent. The net impact from this change was MSEK 140 in the fourth quarter 2012. The pre-tax return on capital employed was 14.2 per cent (22.2) and the after-tax return on equity was 11.3 per cent (18.1), both measured over a roll60 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 ing 12-month period. FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as of 31 December STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION Since the start of 2012, the net liquidity has decreased by MSEK Note 2012 2011 MSEK 928 and amounted to MSEK 4,405 at the end of December 2012. During the year Saab has acquired Sörman InAssets formation, Bayes Risk Management AS, HITT N.V., and MEDAV GmbH as well as paid out dividend to shareholders. Intangible ﬁxed assets 16 6,849 6,699 In 2009, Saab changed its view on the application of the acTangible ﬁxed assets 17 3,162 3,272 counting principles for development costs. As a result of this Lease assets 18 304 771 more conservative view, development costs are capitalised at Biological assets 19 306 305 a later stage in all projects and all capitalised development costs are amortised over maximum ten years. As a result of Investment properties 20 33 224 this, the capitalised development costs have been reduced Shares in associated companies 21 300 288 from MSEK 3,628 at the end of 2008 to MSEK 1,751 at the end of 2012. Financial investments 25 193 197 Inventories are recognised after deducting utilised advances. Long-term receivables 27 879 1,046 Tangible ﬁxed assets decreased as a result of divestments of Deferred tax assets 15 213 86 lease assets and investment properties. Total ﬁxed assets 12,239 12,888 Other receivables decreased as a result of lower accrued reveInventories 28 4,420 4,334 nues. Derivatives 41 514 520 Provisions for pensions amounted to MSEK 11 (12). During the Tax assets 39 23 year, the Saab Pension Fund was capitalised with a total of MSEK 0 (102). Accounts receivable 29 3,454 3,153 For more information about Saab’s deﬁned-beneﬁt plans, see Other receivables 27 2,548 3,579 Note 37. Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 886 829 Short-term investments 25 3,963 4,555 Liquid assets 31 1,616 1,918 Total current assets 17,440 18,911 Assets held for sale 32 TOTAL ASSETS 29,679 31,799 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 61 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as of 31 December MSEK Note 2012 2011 Equity 33 Capital stock 1,746 1,746 Other capital contributions 543 543 Other reserves 316 457 Retained earnings 11,380 10,204 Equity attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 13,985 12,950 Non-controlling interest 112 119 Total equity 14,097 13,069 Liabilities Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 105 1,218 Other liabilities 39 305 439 Provisions for pensions 37 11 12 Other provisions 38 1,286 1,728 Deferred tax liabilities 15 981 1,012 Total long-term liabilities 2,688 4,409 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 1,637 520 Advance payments from customers 553 1,022 Accounts payable 1,904 1,785 Derivatives 41 254 628 Tax liabilities 228 244 Other liabilities 39 760 747 Accrued expenses and deferred income 40 6,993 8,629 Provisions 38 565 746 Total current liabilities 12,894 14,321 Liabilities attributable to assets held for sale 32 Total liabilities 15,582 18,730 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 29,679 31,799 For information on the Group’s assets pledged and contingent liabilities, see Note 42. 62 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY Other reserves Total equity Net result attributable of cash to Parent NonCapital Other capital ﬂow Translation Revaluation Retained Company’s controlling Total MSEK stock contributions hedges reserve reserve earnings shareholders interest equity Opening balance, 1 January 2011 1,746 543 648 -12 51 8,298 11,274 170 11,444 Net comprehensive income for the year -191 -39 2,225 1,995 -51 1,944 Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 47 47 47 Dividend -367 -367 -367 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest 1 1 1 Closing balance, 31 December 2011 1,746 543 457 -51 51 10,204 12,950 119 13,069 Opening balance, 1 January 2012 1,746 543 457 -51 51 10,204 12,950 119 13,069 Net comprehensive income for the year 74 -175 1,564 1,463 -31 1,432 Reallocation of revaluation reserve -40 40 Transactions with shareholders: Share matching plan 46 46 46 Dividend -474 -474 -474 Acquisition and sale of non-controlling interest 24 24 Closing balance, 31 December 2012 1,746 543 531 -226 11 11,380 13,985 112 14,097 For a deﬁnition of other reserves, see Note 33. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 63 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 1 January – 31 December CAPITAL EXPENDITURES Gross capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment, MSEK Note 2012 2011 excluding lease assets, amounted to MSEK 328 (325). Investments in intangible assets amounted to MSEK 343 (41) Operating activities of which MSEK 292 (15) related to capitalised product develIncome after ﬁnancial items 1,906 2,783 opment and MSEK 51 (26) to other intangible assets. The capitalised product development increased as a result of the deTransferred to pension fund -132 velopment of the next generation of Gripen, Gripen E. Adjustments for items not affecting cash ﬂow 46 1,179 141 Income tax paid -574 -450 CASH FLOW Cash ﬂow from operating activities before changes Operating cash ﬂow amounted to MSEK -396 (2,477). The in working capital 2,511 2,342 lower level of operating cash ﬂow in 2012 compared to 2011 is mainly a result of the net amount spent on acquisitions and diCash ﬂow from changes in working capital vestments as well as utilisation of and reduction in advances Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in inventories -199 -243 and milestone payments. Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in current receivables 707 -96 The operating cash ﬂow was distributed between cash ﬂow from operating activities of MSEK 350 (2,392) and cash ﬂow Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in advance payments from investing activities excluding change in short-term investfrom customers -459 409 ments and other interest-bearing ﬁnancial assets of Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in other current liabilities -1,701 610 MSEK -746 (85), of which acquisitions and divestments Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in provisions -509 -630 amounted to MSEK -394 (129). Cash ﬂow from operating activities 350 2,392 Saab has an established programme to sell accounts receivable to strengthen its ﬁnancial position and increase ﬁnancial Investing activities ﬂexibility. As of 31 December 2012, net receivables of Investments in intangible ﬁxed assets -51 -26 MSEK 852 were sold, compared to MSEK 872 at 31 DecemCapitalised development costs -292 -15 ber 2011. Hence, it had a negative impact of MSEK 20 on operating cash ﬂow for the the year. Investments in tangible ﬁxed assets -328 -325 For more detailed information on operating cash ﬂow, see Investments in lease assets -1 -1 Note 46. Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets 10 23 Sale of lease assets 312 301 Sale of and investments in short-term investments 585 -2,967 Sale of and investments in other ﬁnancial assets 26 306 Investments in operations and associated companies, net effect on liquidity 8, 46 -568 -1,135 Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies, net effect on liquidity 46 174 1,264 Cash ﬂow from investing activities -133 -2,575 Financing activities Repayment of loans -19 -50 Dividend paid to Parent Company’s shareholders -474 -367 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -493 -417 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 46 -276 -600 Liquid assets at beginning of year 1,918 2,544 Exchange rate difference in liquid assets -26 -26 Liquid assets at year-end 46 1,616 1,918 For Saab’s operating cash ﬂow, see Note 46 and page 65. 64 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Speciﬁcation of operating cash ﬂow Saab excl Total Total acquisitions and Acquisitions and Group Group MSEK divestments divestments 2012 2011 Cash ﬂow from operating activities before changes in working capital 2,511 2,511 2,342 CASH FLOW FROM CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL Inventories -199 -199 -243 Current receivables 707 707 -96 Advance payments from customers -459 -459 409 Other current liabilities -1,701 -1,701 610 Provisions -509 -509 -630 Change in working capital -2,161 -2,161 50 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 350 350 2,392 INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in intangible ﬁxed assets -343 -343 -41 Investments in tangible ﬁxed assets -328 -328 -325 Investments in lease assets -1 -1 -1 Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets 10 10 23 Sale of lease assets 312 312 301 Investments in and sale of ﬁnancial assets -2 -2 -1 Investments in operations and associated companies, net effect on liquidity -568 -568 -1,135 Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies, net effect on liquidity 174 174 1,264 Cash ﬂow from investing activities excluding change in short-term investments and other interest-bearing ﬁnancial assets -352 -394 -746 85 OPERATING CASH FLOW1) -2 -394 -396 2,477 1) For a reconciliation of operating cash ﬂow to cash ﬂow for the year, see Note 46. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 65 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY INCOME STATEMENT 1 January – 31 December MSEK Note 2012 2011 Sales 3, 4 15,338 15,415 Cost of goods sold -10,723 -11,785 Gross income 4,615 3,630 Marketing expenses -1,385 -1,220 Administrative expenses -716 -664 Research and development costs -1,549 -1,143 Other operating income 5 77 219 Other operating expenses 6 -11 -3 Operating income 1,031 819 Result from ﬁnancial items: 13 Result from shares in Group companies 835 1,410 Result from shares in associated companies and joint ventures 12 59 Result from other securities and receivables held as ﬁxed assets -29 81 Other interest income and similar items 281 182 Interest expenses and similar items -185 -207 Income after ﬁnancial items 1,945 2,344 Appropriations 14 -481 -293 Income before taxes 1,464 2,051 Taxes 15 -499 -462 Net income for the year 965 1,589 SALES AND INCOME The Parent Company includes units within the business areas Aeronautics, The operating income in 2011 included expenses of approximately MSEK 330 Electronic Defence Systems, Security and Defence Solutions and Support regarding increased pension obligations according to the FPG/PRI system and Services. Group staff and Group support are included as well. due to changed mortality assumptions. The Parent Company’s sales in 2012 amounted to MSEK 15,338 (15,415). Net ﬁnancial income and expenses was MSEK 914 (1,525). After appropriaOperating income was MSEK 1,031 (819). tions of MSEK -481 (-293) and taxes of MSEK -499 (-462), net income for the year amounted to MSEK 965 (1,589). PARENT COMPANY COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 1 January – 31 December MSEK Note 2012 2011 Net income for the year 965 1,589 Other comprehensive income Net comprehensive income for the year 965 1,589 66 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET as of 31 December MSEK Note 2012 2011 ASSETS Fixed assets Intangible ﬁxed assets 16 1,661 1,938 Tangible ﬁxed assets 17 2,126 2,137 Financial ﬁxed assets Shares in Group companies 44 6,482 6,407 Receivables from Group companies 24 861 911 Shares in associated companies and joint ventures 23 565 552 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 24 17 Other long-term securities holdings 26 21 24 Other long-term receivables 27 49 34 Deferred tax assets 15 168 233 Total ﬁnancial ﬁxed assets 8,146 8,178 Total ﬁxed assets 11,933 12,253 Current assets Inventories, etc. 28 3,385 3,152 Current receivables Accounts receivable 29 1,598 1,424 Receivables from Group companies 2,090 2,280 Receivables from associated companies and joint ventures 63 6 Tax assets Other receivables 27 1,294 2,045 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 733 640 Total current receivables 5,778 6,395 Short-term investments 3,926 4,511 Cash and bank balances 949 1,237 Total current assets 14,038 15,295 TOTAL ASSETS 25,971 27,548 LIQUIDITY, FINANCING, CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES The Parent Company’s net debt amounted to MSEK 38 at 31 December Investments in intangible assets amounted to MSEK 48 (22). 2012 compared to a net liquidity of MSEK 516 at 31 December 2011. At the end of December 2012, the Parent Company had 8,737 employees, Gross capital expenditures in property, plant and equipment amounted to compared to 7,873 at the beginning of the year. MSEK 185 (168). SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 67 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY BALANCE SHEET as of 31 December MSEK Note 2012 2011 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity 33 Restricted equity Capital stock 1,746 1,746 Revaluation reserve 707 713 Statutory reserve 543 543 Unrestricted equity Retained earnings 3,566 2,399 Net income for the year 965 1,589 Total equity 7,527 6,990 Untaxed reserves 45 1,276 795 Provisions Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 37 334 469 Other provisions 38 835 1,034 Total provisions 1,169 1,503 Liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 36 1,100 1,100 Liabilities to Group companies 6,834 7,697 Advance payments from customers 291 471 Accounts payable 1,437 1,247 Liabilities to associated companies and joint ventures 47 51 Tax liabilities 88 101 Other liabilities 39 629 487 Accrued expenses and deferred income 40 5,573 7,106 Total liabilities 15,999 18,260 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 25,971 27,548 Assets pledged 42 10 10 Contingent liabilities 42 4,244 5,528 68 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR THE PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Unrestricted equity Net comprehensive Revaluation Statutory Retained income for MSEK Capital stock reserve reserve earnings the year Total equity Opening balance, 1 January 2011 1,746 718 543 2,714 5,721 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -5 5 Net comprehensive income for the year 1,589 1,589 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -367 -367 Share matching plan 47 47 Closing balance, 31 December 2011 1,746 713 543 2,399 1,589 6,990 Opening balance, 1 January 2012 1,746 713 543 3,988 6,990 Items reported directly in equity: Change in revaluation reserve -6 6 Net comprehensive income for the year 965 965 Transactions with shareholders: Dividend to shareholders -474 -474 Share matching plan 46 46 Closing balance, 31 December 2012 1,746 707 543 3,566 965 7,527 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 69 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > FINANCIAL STATEMENTS PARENT COMPANY STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS 1 January – 31 December MSEK Note 2012 2011 Operating activities Income after ﬁnancial items 1,945 2,344 Adjustments for items not affecting cash ﬂow 46 -397 -642 Income tax paid -463 -328 Cash ﬂow from operating activities before changes in working capital 1,085 1,374 Cash ﬂow from changes in working capital Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in inventories -21 -329 Increase(–)/Decrease(+) in current receivables 576 -296 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in advance payments from customers -185 373 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in other current liabilities -1,429 1,045 Increase(+)/Decrease(–) in provisions -249 -559 Cash ﬂow from operating activities -223 1,608 Investing activities Shareholders’ contributions paid -32 -718 Investments in intangible ﬁxed assets -48 -22 Investments in tangible ﬁxed assets -188 -168 Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets 17 Sale of and investments in short-term investments 585 -2,967 Sale of and investments in ﬁnancial assets 50 1,176 Investments in operations -41 Investments in subsidiaries -482 -215 Sale of subsidiaries 191 2 Cash ﬂow from investing activities 76 -2,936 Financing activities Change in receivables/liabilities, Group companies -495 128 Repayment of loans -412 -396 Dividend paid to shareholders -474 -367 Group contributions and dividends received 1,378 1,297 Group contributions paid -138 -32 Cash ﬂow from ﬁnancing activities -141 630 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR -288 -698 Liquid assets at beginning of year 1,237 1,935 Liquid assets at year-end 46 949 1,237 70 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 1 Accounting Principles Application of new and revised accounting rules iasb and ifric have issued and the eu has adopted the following new and Operations revised standards, which apply as of the financial year 2012: Saab ab is a Swedish limited company with its registered address in t ifrs 7 Financial instruments: Disclosures. Changes relate to the transLinköping. The company’s shares are listed on the nasdaq omx Stockholm’s fer of financial assets from the balance sheet. large cap list. The operations of Saab ab with its subsidiaries, joint ventures t ias 12 Income taxes. Changes relate to deferred tax. and associated companies (jointly referred to as Saab or the Group) are divided into six business areas: Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic Defence These new and amended standards and interpretations have not had any Systems, Security and Defence Solutions, Support and Services, and effect on the Group’s financial reports for 2012. Combitech. The operations in each business area are described in Note 4. Saab has a strong position in Sweden and the large part of its sales are New and amended standards and interpretations that have not yet generated in Europe, in addition to which Saab has a local presence in South entered into force Africa, Australia, the U.S. and other selected countries. iasb has issued the following new and amended standards that have not yet On 15 February 2013, the Board of Directors and the President approved entered into force and ifric has published the following new and amended this annual report and consolidated accounts for publication, and they will be interpretations that have not yet entered into force: presented to the Annual General Meeting on 17 April 2013 for adoption. Will apply to ﬁnancial Conformity to standards and laws Standards years beginning: The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (ifrs) issued by the International Accountias 1 Presentation of financial statements 1 July 2012 ing Standards Board (iasb) and the interpretations of the International Financial (adopted by eu) Reporting Interpretations Committee (ifric) as approved by the eu. The consolias 19 Employee benefits 1 January 2013 idated accounts have also been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Finan(adopted by eu) cial Reporting Board’s recommendation rfr 1 Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups, which contains certain additional disclosure requirements for Swedifrs 7 Financial Investments; Disclosures 1 January 2013 ish consolidated accounts prepared in accordance with ifrs. (adopted by eu) The annual report for Saab ab has been prepared according to the Annual ifrs 10 Consolidated Financial Statements 1 January 2014* Accounts Act, the Swedish Financial Reporting Board’s recommendation rfr 2 (adopted by eu) Reporting by Legal Entities and the pronouncements of the Swedish Financial Reporting Board. Differences between the accounting principles applied ifrs 11 Joint arrangements 1 January 2014* by Saab ab and the Group are the result of limitations on opportunities to (adopted by eu) apply ifrs by the Parent Company owing to the Annual Accounts Act, the ifrs 12 Disclosures of interests in other entities 1 January 2014* Act on Safeguarding Pension Commitments and in certain cases current tax (adopted by eu) rules. Significant differences are described below under “Significant differifrs 13 Fair value measurement 1 January 2013 ences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s accounting principles.” (adopted by eu) Assumptions in the preparation of the ﬁnancial reports ias 28 Investments in Associates and 1 January 2014* The Parent Company’s functional currency is Swedish kronor (sek), which is Joint Ventures (adopted by eu) also the reporting currency for the Parent Company and for the Group. The ias 32 Financial instruments: Presentation 1 January 2014 financial reports are presented in sek. All amounts, unless indicated other(not adopted by eu) wise, are rounded off to the nearest million. Assets and liabilities are carried at historical cost, with the exception of ifrs 9 Financial instrument 1 January 2015 certain financial assets and liabilities, investment properties and biological (not adopted by eu) assets, which are carried at fair value or amortised cost. Derivatives are car* Earlier application permitted ried at fair value. Non-current assets and disposal groups held for sale are carried at the The effect on Saab of the application of ifrs 9 and ifrs 11 has not yet been lower of their carrying amount and fair value less selling expenses at the time determined. they were classified as held for sale. The preparation of the financial reports in accordance with ifrs requires Effects of amendments to IAS 19 Employee Benefits the Board of Directors and Management to make estimates and assumptions Saab applies the current standard’s option to apply the so-called corridor that affect the application of the accounting principles and the carrying approach. This means that the effects of changes in so-called actuarial amounts of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. Estimates and assumpassumptions about pension liabilities and assets under management are not tions are based on historical experience and knowledge of the industry that recognised directly but rather over the remaining period of employment (see Saab operates in, and under current circumstances seem reasonable. The also Note 1 and Note 37). The updated standard eliminates this option. This result of these estimates and assumptions is then used to determine the carrymeans that changes in actuary of assumptions, e.g. discount rates, are recoging amounts of assets and liabilities that otherwise are not clearly indicated nised directly in other comprehensive income. The updated standard also by other sources. Actual outcomes may deviate from these estimates and requires the company to use the same interest rate to discount pension liabiliassumptions. ties as in the calculation of the projected return on assets under management. Estimates and assumptions are reviewed regularly, and the effect of The updated standard will be applied retroactively as of the first quarter of changed estimates is recognised in profit or loss. 2013. For Saab, this means an immediate increase in its net pension liability Estimates made by the Board of Directors and Management in applying (classified as a financial liability) and a corresponding decrease in retained the accounting principles in compliance with ifrs that may have a significant earnings after taking into account the tax effects. If the standard had been impact on the financial reports as well as estimates that may necessitate applied as of 31 December 2012, the net pension obligation would have been significant adjustments in financial reports in subsequent years are described msek 2,863 higher (including special employer’s contribution of msek 454), in more detail in Note 2. financial assets msek 741 lower and retained earnings msek 2,817 lower than The accounting principles described below for the Group have been reported in 2012. The effect on operating and net results for 2012 would not applied consistently for all periods presented in the Group’s financial reports, have changed significantly. The updated standard also contains rules on the unless otherwise indicated below. reporting of the special employer’s contribution and tax on returns from pension funds. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 71 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES Other standards and interpretations are not expected to have a material effect sis. Goodwill is recognised according to the section on intangible fixed assets. on the consolidated financial statements. Non-controlling interests are recognised on the acquisition date either at fair value or their proportionate share of the carrying amount of the acquired Operating segments company’s identified assets and liabilities. Acquisitions of non-controlling Segment information is presented based on management’s view, and operatinterests are recognised as transactions affecting the owners’ equity. ing segments are identified based on internal reporting to the company’s The financial reports of Group companies are included in the consolichief operating decision maker. Saab has identified the Chief Executive dated accounts from the point in time when a decisive influence arises Officer as its chief operating decision maker, while the internal reports used (acquisition date) until this influence ceases. When decisive influence over by the ceo to oversee operations and make decisions on allocating resources the Group company ceases but the Group retains an interest in the company, serve as the basis of the information presented. The segments are monitored the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain or loss that at the operating income level. The accounting principles for reportable segarises is recognised in profit or loss. ments conform to the principles applied by the Group as a whole. Associated companies The Group had six reportable segments in the year: Associated companies are companies over which the Group has a significant t FSPOBVUJDT (but not decisive) influence over operating and financial controls, usually t%ZOBNJDT through a shareholding of between 20 and 50 per cent of the votes. From the t&MFDUSPOJD%FGFODF4ZTUFNT point in time when the significant influence arises, the shares in the associt4FDVSJUZBOE%FGFODF4PMVUJPOT ated company are recognised according to the equity method in the consolit4VQQPSUBOE4FSWJDFT dated accounts. The equity method is applied until the point in time when the t$PNCJUFDI significant influence ceases. The equity method means that the carrying amount of the shares in the associated company corresponds to the Group’s Complementing the six segments is Corporate, which comprises Group staffs share of the company’s equity based on an application of the Group’s accountand departments as well as other non-core operations. ing principles as well as Group goodwill and any remaining Group surplus or Sales of goods and services between segments are made on market terms. deficit values. “Share in income of associated companies” in the income stateA detailed description of the segments, together with the factors used to ment comprises the Group’s share of the net income after tax and the nonidentify segments, can be found in Note 4 and on pages 46–51. controlling interest in associated companies adjusted for any depreciation, impairment loss or dissolution of acquired surplus and deficit values deterClassiﬁcation of assets and liabilities mined in the same way as for operating acquisitions. Dividends received Current assets and current liabilities generally consist of amounts that can be from the associated company reduce the carrying amount of the investment. recovered or paid within twelve months of the closing day. Other assets and If the Group’s share of the accumulated deficit in an associated company liabilities are recognised as fixed assets or long-term liabilities. exceeds the carrying amount of the shares in the Group, the value of the shares is reduced to nil. Losses are also offset against long-term uncollateralised finanConsolidation principles cial balances that in their economic significance represent part of the ownerGroup companies company’s net investment in the associated company. Subsequent losses are not Group companies are companies in which Saab ab has a decisive influence recognised as a liability in the consolidated accounts as long as the Group has through a direct or indirect shareholding amounting to more than 50 per not issued any guarantees to cover losses arising in the associated company. cent of the votes, other than in exceptional circumstances where it can be When decisive influence over the associated company ceases but the Group clearly demonstrated that such ownership does not constitute a decisive retains an interest in the company, the remaining shares are initially recoginfluence. Decisive influence also exists when the parent owns not more than nised at fair value. The gain or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. half of the voting power of an entity but otherwise has a decisive influence over more than half the voting rights or the power to govern the company’s Joint ventures financial and operating policies under a statute or agreement. When deterCompanies in which the Group, through a cooperative agreement with one mining whether a decisive influence exists, potential voting shares that can be of more parties, shares a decisive influence over operating and financial conexercised or converted without delay are taken into account. trols are recognised in the consolidated accounts according to the proporSubsidiaries and acquired operations (business combinations) are recogtional method. For joint ventures, this means that the Group’s share of the nised according to the purchase accounting method. This means that a busicompanies’ revenue and expenses and their assets and liabilities is recognised ness combination is treated as a transaction whereby the Group indirectly in the consolidated income statement and statement of financial position acquires the business’s assets and takes over its liabilities and contingent liabilbased on application of the Group’s accounting principles. This is done by ities. The Group’s cost is determined through an acquisition analysis with combining Saab’s share of revenue and expenses and assets and liabilities in regard to the acquisition of operating entities. Cost is comprised of the sum of the joint venture with the corresponding items in the consolidated accounts. the fair value of what of is paid in cash on the acquisition date through the When a joint venture is terminated but the Group retains an interest in the assumption of liabilities or shares issued. Contingent consideration is company, the remaining shares are initially recognised at fair value. The gain included in cost and recognised at its fair value on the acquisition date. The or loss that arises is recognised in profit or loss. subsequent effects of revaluations of contingent consideration are recognised in profit or loss. Acquired identifiable assets and assumed liabilities are iniEliminated transactions tially recognised at their acquisition-date fair value. The exceptions to this Intra-Group receivables and liabilities, revenue or expenses, and gains or principle are acquired tax assets/liabilities, employee benefits, share-based losses that arise from transactions between Group companies are eliminated payment and assets held for sale, which are valued in accordance with the in their entirety in the preparation of the consolidated accounts. principles described in the sections below for each item. Exceptions are also Gains that arise from transactions with associated companies and joint made for indemnification assets and repurchased rights. Indemnification ventures are eliminated to an extent corresponding to the Group’s ownership assets are valued according to the same principle as the indemnified item. interest in the company. Losses are eliminated in the same way as gains, but Repurchased rights are valued based on the remaining contractual period only to the extent there that is no impairment loss. regardless of whether other market players might consider opportunities for contract extensions in connection with valuations. Recognised goodwill conForeign currency sists of the difference between, on the one hand, the cost of Group company’s Functional currencies are the currencies in each primary economic environinterests, the value of non-controlling interests in the acquired company and ment where units of the Group conduct their operations. the fair value of the previously owned interest and, on the other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities in the acquisition analy72 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES Transactions and assets and liabilities in foreign currency sales organisation as well as external marketing and selling expenses. Transactions in foreign currency are recognised in the functional currency at t Research and development costs are recognised separately and comthe exchange rate on the transaction day. Monetary assets and liabilities are prise the cost of self-financed new and continued product development translated to the functional currency on the closing day at the exchange rate as well as amortisation of capitalised development costs; see below. then in effect. Exchange rate differences that arise through these translations t Other operating revenue and expenses relate to secondary activities, exare recognised in profit and loss. Non-monetary assets and liabilities recogchange rate differences on items of an operating nature, changes in the nised at fair value are translated to the functional currency at the rate in effect value of derivatives of an operating nature and capital gains/losses on at the time of valuation at fair value. Changes in exchange rates are then recthe sale of tangible fixed assets. Also included at the Group level are capognised in the same way as other changes in value of the asset or liability. ital gains/losses on the sale of subsidiaries and associated companies. Translation of financial reports of foreign operations to sek Government grants Assets and liabilities in operations with a functional currency other than sek Government grants are recognised in the statement of financial position as are translated to sek at the closing day exchange rate. Revenue and expenses prepaid or accrued income when there is reasonable certainty that the grant in foreign operations are translated to sek at the average rate. Translation difwill be received and that the Group will meet the conditions associated with ferences that arise through currency translations are recognised directly in the grant. Grants are systematically recognised in the income statement in other comprehensive income. The amount is recognised separately as a transthe same way and over the same periods as the expenses for which the grants lation reserve in equity. are intended to compensate. Government grants related to assets are recognised in the statement of financial position as a reduction in the asset’s carryRevenue ing amount. Revenue is measured at the fair value of what is received or will be received after deducting sales tax, returns, discounts or other similar deductions. Financial revenue and expenses Financial revenue and expenses consist of interest income on bank balances, Sales of goods receivables and marketable securities, interest expenses on loans, dividends, Revenue from the sale of goods is recognised in profit or loss when the signifiexchange rate differences, unrealised and realised gains on financial investcant risks and benefits associated with ownership have transferred to the buyer, ments, amortisation of actuarial gains and losses on pensions, and derivatives when it is considered likely that payment will be received and the revenue and used in financial operations. related expenses can be calculated reliably. Intangible ﬁxed assets Service assignments Goodwill Revenue from service assignments is recognised when the services are renGoodwill is distributed among cash-generating units and tested annually for dered. Revenue from services rendered as part of fixed-price contracts is recimpairment in the fourth quarter. Goodwill arising through the acquisition of ognised in accordance with the principles that apply to long-term customer associated companies is included in the carrying amount of the shares in the contracts; see below. Revenue is recognised only if it is likely that the ecoassociated company. nomic benefits will accrue to the Group. In acquisitions where the cost is less than, on the one hand, the net of the cost of the Group company’s shares, the value of non-controlling interests in Long-term customer contracts the acquired company and the fair value of the previously owned interest and, A large part of the Group’s operations comprises long-term customer conon the other, the carrying amount of the acquired assets and assumed liabilities tracts. Long-term customer contracts relate to the development and manuin the acquisition analysis, the difference is recognised directly through profit facture of complex systems that stretch over several reporting periods. When or loss. such contracts concern development and hardware that can be reliably calculated, revenue and expenditures attributable to the assignment are recognised Research and development in the consolidated income statement in relation to the assignment’s stage of Expenditures for research undertaken in an effort to gain new scientific or completion, i.e., according to the percentage of completion method. technological knowledge are expensed when incurred. The stage of completion is based on a determination of the relationship Expenditures for development, where the research results or other knowlbetween expenditures incurred for services rendered as of the closing day edge is applied to new or improved products or processes, are recognised as and estimated total expenditures. Of the estimated total revenue for an an asset in the statement of financial position from the time when the prodassignment, the portion corresponding to the stage of completion is recoguct or process in the future is expected to be technically and commercially nised in each period. The stage of completion can also be determined in cerusable, the company has sufficient resources to complete development and tain cases based on milestones or deliveries. With regard to orders that are subsequently use or sell the intangible asset, and the product or process is financed to a significant extent with advance payment from customers, the likely to generate future economic benefits. The carrying amount includes effect on interest of advance financing is recognised in gross income. The expenditures for material, direct expenditures for salaries and, if applicable, interest amount that affected gross income is indicated in Note 13. other expenditures that are considered directly attributable to the asset. An anticipated loss is recognised in profit or loss as soon as it is identified. Other expenditures for development are recognised in profit for loss as an Recognised subcontracting revenue for which the customer has not yet expense when they arise. Development expenditures are recognised in the been invoiced is recognised as a receivable from that customer. All projects in statement of financial position at cost less accumulated amortisation and any progress from customers for whom invoiced amounts exceed project impairment losses. Customer-financed research and development is recogexpenses and reported profits are recognised as liabilities to those customers. nised in cost of goods sold rather than capitalised. Operating expenses Other intangible fixed assets The income statement is classified according to function as follows: Other acquired intangible fixed assets, which include acquired assets such as t Cost of goods sold comprises costs for material handling and manufactrademarks and customer relations, are recognised at cost less accumulated turing costs, including salary and material costs, purchased services, amortisation and any impairment losses. premises, and the depreciation/amortisation and impairment of intangible and tangible fixed assets. Customer-financed research and develAmortisation opment is recognised in cost of goods sold. Amortisation is recognised in profit or loss over the intangible fixed assets’ t Administrative expenses relate to expenses for the Board of Directors, estimated periods of use, provided such periods can be determined. IntangiGroup Management and staff functions. ble fixed assets, excluding goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with t Marketing expenses comprise expenses for the in-house marketing and indeterminate periods of use, are amortised from the day they are available SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 73 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES for use. Estimated periods of use and amortisation methods are as follows: Estimated periods of use: t Patents, trademarks, customer relations and other technical rights: t Operating properties: 20–90 years 5-10 years on a straight line basis t Plant and machinery: 5–10 years t Capitalised development costs: Self-financed capitalised development t Equipment, tools, installations and computers: 3–10 years costs are amortised based on estimated production volume, but over a t Aircraft: 20–25 years maximum period of 5 years. Production volume is set using future sales projections according to a business plan based on identified Each asset’s residual value and period of use are estimated annually. Periods business opportunities. Acquired development costs are amortised on of use are unchanged compared with the previous year. a straight line basis over a maximum of 10 years. t Goodwill: In the Parent Company, goodwill is amortised over a maxiLease assets mum 20 years. Goodwill is not amortised in the Group. Lease assets mainly refer to 19 aircraft owned by legal entities within Saab Aircraft Leasing and leased out via operating leases. Saab Aircraft Leasing’s Periods of use are tested annually and unfinished development work is tested fleet consists of 61 Saab 340 and Saab 2000, of which 42 aircraft are leased in for impairment at least once a year regardless of any indications of diminthrough operating leases and leased out through operating leases. ished value. Leasing is classified in the consolidated accounts as either finance or operating leasing. Finance leasing exists when the economic risks and beneTangible ﬁxed assets fits tied to ownership are essentially transferred to the lessee; otherwise it is Tangible fixed assets are recognised as an asset in the statement of financial operating leasing. position if it is likely that the future economic benefits will accrue to the For anticipated or established deficits according to current leases with Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably estimated. respect to aircraft financing in Saab Aircraft Leasing, provisions are allocated Tangible fixed assets are recognised at cost after deducting accumulated at an amount corresponding to the obligation. See also Note 18. depreciation and any impairment. Cost includes the purchase price and costs directly attributable to putting the asset into place and condition to be utiSaab as lessor lised in accordance with the purpose of the purchase. Examples of directly At the end of the year, Saab only had operating leases. Leasing revenue is recattributable expenditures included in cost are delivery and handling, installaognised on a straight-line basis over the leasing period. Direct expenditures tion, title and consulting services. that arise by entering into an operating lease are expensed on a straight-line The cost of fixed assets produced by Saab includes expenditures for matebasis over the leasing period. rial, expenditures for employee benefits and, where applicable, other production costs considered directly attributable to the fixed asset. Biological assets The cost of tangible fixed assets includes estimated costs for disassembly Biological assets in the form of forests are carried at fair value after deducting and removal of the assets as well as restoration of the location or area where estimated selling expenses. Fair value is based on the valuation of an indethese assets are found. pendent appraiser. The carrying amount of a tangible fixed asset is excluded from the statement of financial position when the asset is sold or disposed of or when no Investment properties future economic benefits are expected from its use. The gain or loss that arises Investment properties are properties held to earn rental income, for capital on the sale or disposal is comprised of the difference between the sales price appreciation or a combination of both. Investment properties are carried in and the asset’s carrying amount less direct selling expenses. Such gains and the statement of financial position at fair value. Fair value has been deterlosses are recognised as other operating income/expenses. mined by calculating net rental income, which then serves as the basis of a valuation of fair value. Incremental expenditures Incremental expenditures are added to cost only if it is likely that the future Assets held for sale economic benefits tied to the incremental expenditures will accrue to the When an asset is classified as held for sale, it means that its carrying amount Group and the expenditures can be reliably estimated. All other incremental will be recovered primarily through a sale rather than through use. In order expenditures are recognised as costs in the period they arise. to classify a fixed asset as an asset held for sale, the asset must be available for The determining factor whether an incremental expenditure is added to immediate sale and it has to be highly likely that a sale will take place. cost is whether it relates to the replacement of identifiable components, or Immediately before classification as held for sale, the recognised value of parts thereof. If so, the cost is capitalised. Even in cases where a new comthe assets is determined according to the Group’s accounting principles. ponent is created, the expenditure is added to cost. Any undepreciated carUpon initial classification as held for sale, assets are recognised at the lower of rying amount of replaced components, or parts of components, is disposed their carrying amount and fair value less selling expenses. of and expensed in connection with the replacement. Repairs are expensed Assets are not depreciated/amortised after they are classified as held for sale. as incurred. Impairment The carrying amount of fixed assets, with the exception of assets stated at fair Borrowing costs value, is tested on each closing day for any indication of impairment. If an Borrowing costs that are directly attributable to the acquisition, construcindication exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is calculated. A description of tion or production of an asset and takes a substantial period of time to preimpairment principles for available-for-sale financial assets is provided below. pare for its intended use or sale is capitalised as part of the asset’s cost when For goodwill and other intangible fixed assets with an indeterminate it is likely that they will lead to future economic benefits for the Group and period of use and intangible fixed assets not yet ready for use, recoverable valthe expenditures can be measured reliably. Other borrowing costs are ues are calculated annually in the fourth quarter. expensed in the period in which they arise. The recoverable amount of an asset is the higher of its fair value less selling expenses and value in use. Value in use is measured by discounting future Depreciation cash flows using a discounting factor that takes into account the risk-free rate Depreciation is booked on a straight-line basis based on the asset’s cost less of interest plus supplemental interest corresponding to the risk associated estimated residual value at the end of the period of use, over the asset’s estiwith the specific asset. mated period of use. Land is not depreciated. Component depreciation is If essentially independent cash flows cannot be isolated for individual applied, which means that fixed assets consisting of various components or assets, the assets are grouped at the lowest levels where essentially independwhere significant parts have different periods of use are depreciated as sepaent cash flows can be identified (cash-generating units). An impairment loss rate assets based on their periods of use. is recognised when the carrying amount of an asset or cash-generating unit 74 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES exceeds its recoverable value. Impairment losses are charged against the t Loans receivable and accounts receivable: income statement. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are non-derivative financial Impairment losses attributable to a cash-generating unit (pool of units) assets with fixed payments which are not listed on an active market. are mainly allocated to goodwill, after which they are divided proportionately Receivables arise when the company provides money, goods or seramong other assets in the unit (pool of units). vices directly to the debtor without the intent to trade its claim. The Impairment of goodwill is not reversed. Impairment losses from other category also includes acquired receivables. Assets in this category are assets are reversed if a change has occurred in the assumptions that served as recognised after acquisition at amortised cost. the basis for determining recoverable value. Impairment is reversed only to Accounts receivable are recognised at the amount expected to be rethe extent the carrying amount of the assets following the reversal does not ceived based on an individual valuation. Accounts receivable have a exceed the carrying amount that the asset would have had if the impairment short maturity, due to which they are recognised at their nominal had not been recognised, taking into account the depreciation or amortisaamount without discounting. Impairment losses on accounts receivation that would have been recognised. ble are recognised in operating expenses. Saab has an accounts receivable sales programme with an independent party. When a receivable Financial assets and liabilities and other ﬁnancial instruments is sold, the entire credit risk is transferred to the counterparty, because Financial instruments recognised in the statement of financial position of which the proceeds received are recognised as liquid assets. include, on the asset side, liquid assets, accounts receivable, shares, loans Other receivables are receivables that arise when the company proreceivable, bonds receivable, derivatives and part of accrued income and vides money without the intent to trade its claim. other receivables. Liabilities include trade accounts payable, loans payable, t Other financial liabilities: derivatives and certain accrued expenses and other liabilities. Financial assets Liabilities classified as other financial liabilities are initially recogare recognised as of their settlement date. nised at the amount received after deducting transaction expenses. Financial instruments are initially recognised at cost, corresponding to After acquisition, the loans are carried at amortised cost, according to the instrument’s fair value plus transaction expenses for all financial instruthe effective rate method. ments with the exception of those in the category financial assets at fair value Trade accounts payable are classified in the category other financial lithrough profit or loss. The instruments are subsequently recognised at fair abilities. Trade accounts payable have a short expected maturity and value or amortised cost, depending on how they have been classified as folare carried without discounting at their nominal amount. lows. The fair value of listed financial assets and liabilities is determined using market prices. Saab also applies various valuation methods to determine the Calculation of recoverable value fair value of financial assets and liabilities traded on an inactive market or The recoverable value of financial assets in the categories held-to-maturity unlisted holdings. These valuation methods are based on the valuation of investments, loans receivable and accounts receivable measured at amortised similar instruments, discounted cash flows or accepted valuation models cost is calculated using the present value of future cash flows discounted by such as Black-Scholes. Amortised cost is determined based on the effective the effective interest rate in effect when the asset was initially recognised. interest rate calculated on the acquisition date. Assets with a maturity of less than one year are not discounted. A financial asset or financial liability is recognised in the statement of Impairment of held-to-maturity investments and loans receivable and financial position when the company becomes party to the instrument’s conaccounts receivable recognised at amortised cost is reversed if a subsequent tractual terms. Accounts receivable are recognised in the statement of finanincrease in recoverable value can objectively be attributed to an event occurcial position when an invoice has been sent. Liabilities are recognised when ring after the impairment. the counterparty has performed and there is a contractual obligation to pay, even if an invoice has not yet been received. Accounts payable are recognised Liquid assets when an invoice is received. Liquid assets consist of cash and cash equivalents, immediately accessible A financial asset is removed from the statement of financial position balances with banks and similar institutions, and short-term liquid investwhen the rights in the agreement are realised, expire or the company loses ments with a maturity from acquisition date of less than three months, which control over them. The same applies to part of a financial asset. A financial are exposed to no more than an insignificant risk of fluctuation in value. liability is removed from the statement of financial position when the obligation in the agreement has been discharged or otherwise extinguished. The Financial investments same applies to part of a financial liability. Financial investments comprise either financial fixed assets or short-term On each reporting date, Saab evaluates whether there are objective indiinvestments, depending on the intent of the holding. If the maturity or the cations that a financial asset or pool of financial assets is in need of impairanticipated holding period is longer than one year, they are considered finanment. Financial assets and liabilities are offset and recognised as a net amount cial fixed assets, and if it is shorter than one year they are short-term investin the statement of financial position when the there is a legal right to a set-off ments. and when the intent is to settle the items with a net amount or to realise the With recognition at fair value through profit or loss, changes in value are asset and settle the liability at the same time. stated in financial revenue and expenses. Financial assets and liabilities are classified in one of the following categories: Valuation principles t Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss: The fair value of listed financial assets is determined using market prices. Assets and liabilities in this category are carried at fair value with Furthermore, Saab applies various valuation methods to determine the fair changes in value recognised in profit or loss. This category consists of value of financial assets that are traded on an inactive market or unlisted two subgroups: financial assets and liabilities held for trading and holdings. These methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, other financial assets and liabilities that the company initially chose to discounted cash flows or customary valuation methods such as Blackrecognise at fair value through profit or loss. A financial asset is classiScholes. See Note 41. fied as held for trading if it is acquired for the purpose of selling in the near term. Derivatives are always recognised at fair value through Derivatives and hedge accounting profit or loss, unless hedge accounting is applied. Derivatives include forward exchange contracts, options and swaps utilised t Held-to-maturity investments: to cover risks associated with changes in exchange rates and exposure to Financial assets in this category relate to non-derivative assets with preinterest rate risks. Derivatives are recognised on their acquisition date at cost determined or determinable payments and scheduled maturities that and subsequently at fair value. the company intends and has the ability to hold to maturity. They are valDerivatives with positive values are recognised as assets and derivatives ued at amortised cost. with negative values are recognised as liabilities under the heading derivaSAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 75 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES tives in the statement of financial position. Gains and losses on a derivative location and condition. For finished and semifinished goods, cost consists of arising due to a change in fair value are recognised in profit or loss if the direct manufacturing expenses and a reasonable share of indirect manufacderivative is classified among financial assets and liabilities at fair value turing expenses as well as expenses to customise products for individual custhrough profit or loss. tomers. Calculations take into account normal capacity utilisation. In hedge accounting, derivatives are classified as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. The recognition of these hedging transactions is described below. Dividends The dividend proposed by the Board of Directors reduces earnings available Cash flow hedges for distribution and is recognised as a liability when the Annual General Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) Meeting has approved the dividend. entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements against currency risks are accounted for according to the rules for cash flow hedging. DerivaEmployee beneﬁts tives that protect future receipts and disbursements are recognised in the The Group has two types of pension plans: defined-contribution and definedstatement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised benefit pension plans. in other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in equity until the hedged cash flow meets the operating profit or loss, Defined-contribution plans at which point the cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are In defined-contribution plans, pensions are based on the premiums paid. transferred to profit or loss to meet and match the effects on earnings of the Obligations with regard to defined-contribution plans are expensed in the hedged transaction. income statement. Interest rate exposure from future variable-rate liabilities is hedged with interest rate swaps. In its reporting, Saab applies cash flow hedging, which Defined-benefit plans means that the change in value of the interest rate swap is recognised in other In defined-benefit plans, pensions are based on a percentage of the recipient’s comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge reserve in salary. Saab has around ten different types of defined-benefit plans. The preequity. The change in value is recognised in financial revenue and expenses dominant plan is the itp plan, which accounts for approximately 80 per cent when transferred to profit or loss. of the total obligation. The second largest plan refers to the state-funded When the hedged future cash flow refers to a transaction that will be capiretirement pension and vested pensions in Affärsverket ffv when it was talised in the statement of financial position, the net gain or loss on cash flow incorporated on 1 January 1991. hedges in equity is dissolved when the hedged item is recognised in the stateThe Group’s net obligation for defined-benefit plans is calculated sepament of financial position. If the hedged item is a non-financial asset or a nonrately for each plan by estimating the future compensation that employees financial liability, the reversal from the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges in have earned through employment in present and previous periods. This comequity is included in the original cost of the asset or liability. If the hedged item pensation is discounted to present value. Saab has secured main part of the is a financial asset or financial liability, the net gain or loss on cash flow hedges obligation through provisions to a pension fund, and the fair value of the in equity is gradually reversed through profit or loss at the same rate that the fund’s assets is offset against the provision for the pension obligation at prehedged item affects earnings. sent value in the statement of financial position. The discount rate to calculate When a hedging instrument expires, is sold or is exercised, or the comthe commitment at present value has been determined based on the interest pany revokes the designation as a hedging relationship before the hedged rate on the closing day for a first-class mortgage bond with a maturity corretransaction occurs and the projected transaction is still expected to occur, the sponding to the pension obligation. The calculation is made by a qualified recognised cumulative gain or loss remains in the net gain or loss on cash actuary using the projected unit credit method. flow hedges in equity and is recognised in the same way as above when the When the compensation terms in a plan improve, the portion of the transaction occurs. increased compensation attributable to the employees’ services in previous If the hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the hedging periods is expensed through the income statement on a straight-line basis instrument’s cumulative gains and losses are immediately recognised in profit over the average period until the compensation is fully vested. If the compenor loss in accordance with principles described above for derivatives. sation is fully vested, an expense is recognised directly through profit or loss. The obligation is estimated on the closing day, and if the calculated Fair value hedges amount deviates from the estimated commitment an actuarial gain or loss Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) arises. All actuarial gains and losses as of 1 January 2004, the date of transientered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements for currency and tion to ifrs, are recognised in equity and other items in the statement of interest rate risk are accounted for according to the rules for fair value hedgfinancial position. For actuarial gains and losses that arise from the calculaing. These hedges are recognised at fair value in the statement of financial tion of the Group’s obligation for different plans after 1 January 2004, the soposition with regard both to the derivative itself and the future receipt or discalled corridor method is applied. This means that the portion of the cumulabursement (hedge item) for the risk being hedged. The change in fair value of tive actuarial gains and losses exceeding 10 per cent of the higher of the the derivative is recognised in the profit and loss together with the change in commitments’ present value and the fair value of assets under management is value of the hedged item. recognised over the expected average remaining period of employment of the employees covered by the plan. Actuarial gains and losses otherwise are not Hedge of currency exposure in assets and liabilities taken into account. Currency exposure from an asset or liability is hedged with forward exchange If pension obligations are lower than assets under management and actucontracts. No hedge accounting is applied, due to which both the hedged arial losses, this amount is recognised as an asset. item and hedging instrument are recognised with respect to currency risk at When there is a difference in how the pension cost is determined for a fair value with changes in value through profit or loss. Changes in the value of legal entity and the Group, a liability or receivable for the special employer’s operations-related receivables and liabilities are recognised in operating contribution arises based on this difference. income, while changes in the value of financial receivables and liabilities are recognised in financial revenue and expenses. Severance A provision is recognised in connection with termination of personnel only if Inventories the company is obligated to terminate an employment before the customary Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable value. Net realistime, e.g. when compensation is paid in connection with a voluntary termiable value is the estimated selling price in continuing operations after deductnation offer. In cases where the company terminates personnel, a detailed ing estimated expenses for completion and expenses incurred in selling. plan is drafted containing at the minimum the workplaces, positions and Cost is calculated by applying the first-in first-out method (fifo) and approximate number of individuals affected as well as compensation for each includes expenses to acquire inventory assets and bring them to their present personnel category or position and a schedule for the plan’s implementation. 76 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES Share-based payment Contingent liabilities Share-based payment refers solely to remuneration to employees, including A contingent liability exists if there is a possible commitment stemming from senior executives. Share-based payment settled with the company’s shares or events whose occurrence is dependent on one or more uncertain future other equity instruments is comprised of the difference between the fair value events and there is a commitment that is not recognised as a liability or proviat the time these plans were issued and the consideration received. This sion because it is unlikely that an outflow of resources will be required or the remuneration is recognised as staff costs during the vesting period. To the size of the obligation cannot be estimated with sufficient reliability. Informaextent the vesting conditions in the plan are tied to market factors (such as tion is provided as long as the likelihood of an outflow of resources is not the price of the company’s shares), they are taken into consideration in deterextremely small. mining the fair value of the plan. Other conditions (such as earnings per share) affect staff costs during the vesting period by changing the number of Taxes shares or share-related instruments that are expected to be paid. Income taxes consist of current tax and deferred tax. Income taxes are recognised in profit or loss unless the underlying transaction is recognised in other Share matching plan for employees comprehensive income, whereby the related tax effect is also recognised in Saab has a Global Share Matching Plan where all employees are entitled to other comprehensive income. participate. The payroll expenses for matching shares in the plan are recogCurrent tax is the tax paid or received for the current year, applying the nised during the vesting period based on the fair value of the shares. The tax rates that have been set or essentially set as of the closing day to taxable employees pay a price for the share that corresponds to the share price on the income and adjusting for current tax attributable to previous periods. investment date. Three years after the investment date, employees are allotted Deferred tax is calculated according to the balance sheet method based on as many shares as they purchased three years earlier provided that they are temporary differences that constitute the difference between the carrying still employees of the Saab Group and that the shares have not been sold. In amount of assets and liabilities and their value for tax purposes. Deductible certain countries, social security expenses are paid on the value of the temporary differences are not taken into account in the initial reporting of employee’s benefit when matching takes place. During the vesting period, assets and liabilities in a transaction other than a business combination and provisions are allocated for these estimated social security expenses. Share which, at the time of the transaction, do not affect either the recognised or taxrepurchases to fulfil the commitments of Saab’s share matching plans are recable result. Moreover, temporary differences are not taken into account if they ognised in equity. are attributable to shares in subsidiaries and associated companies that are not In addition, a plan was introduced for senior executives entitling them to expected to be reversed within the foreseeable future. The valuation of 2–5 matching shares depending on the category the employee belongs to. In deferred tax is based on how the carrying amounts of assets or liabilities are addition to the requirement that the employee remain employed by Saab after expected to be realised or settled. Deferred tax is calculated by applying the tax three years, there is also a requirement that earnings per share grow in the rates and tax rules that have been set or essentially are set as of the closing day. range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period. See Deferred tax assets from deductible temporary differences and tax loss also Note 37. carry forwards are only recognised to the extent it is likely that they will be utilised. The value of deferred tax assets is reduced when it is no longer conProvisions sidered likely that they can be utilised. Deferred tax assets are set off against A provision is recognised in the statement of financial position when the deferred tax liabilities when the receivable and liability refer to the same tax Group has a legal or informal obligation owing to an event that has occurred authority. and it is likely that an outflow of economic resources will be required to settle the obligation and a reliable estimate of the amount can be made. Where it is Signiﬁcant differences between the Group’s and the Parent Company’s important when in time payment will be made, provisions are estimated by accounting principles discounting projected cash flow at a pre-tax interest rate that reflects current The Parent Company follows the same accounting principles as the Group market estimates of the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks with the following exceptions. associated with the liability. Business combinations Regional aircraft Transaction costs are included in the cost of business combinations. A provision for an aircraft lease is recognised when future lease receipts are less than unavoidable lease disbursements. Associated companies and joint ventures Shares in associated companies and joint ventures are recognised by the ParRestructuring ent Company according to the acquisition value method. Revenue includes A provision for restructuring is recognised when a detailed, formal restrucdividends received. turing plan has been established and the restructuring has either begun or been publicly announced. No provision is made for future operating losses. Intangible fixed assets All development costs are recognised in profit or loss. Loss contracts A provision for a loss contract is recognised when anticipated benefits are less Tangible fixed assets than the unavoidable costs to fulfil the obligations as set out in the contract. Tangible fixed assets are recognised after revaluation, if necessary. All leases are recognised according to the rules for operating leasing. Guarantees A provision for guarantees is normally recognised when the underlying Borrowing costs products or services are sold if a reliable calculation of the provision can be The Parent Company recognises borrowing costs as an expense in the period made. The provision is based on historical data on guarantees for the prodin which they arise. ucts or similar products and an overall appraisal of possible outcomes in relation to the likelihood associated with these outcomes. Investment properties Investment properties are recognised according to acquisition cost method. Soil remediation In accordance with the Group’s publicly announced environmental policy and applicable legal requirements, periodic estimates are made of Saab’s obligations to restore contaminated soil. Anticipated future payments are discounted to present value and recognised as an operating expense and a provision. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 77 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES Financial assets and liabilities and other financial instruments The Parent Company carries financial fixed assets at cost less impairment and financial current assets according to the lowest value principle. If the reason for impairment has ceased, it is reversed. The Parent Company does not apply the rules for setting off financial assets and liabilities. Derivatives and hedge accounting Derivatives that are not used for hedging are carried by the Parent Company according to the lowest value principle. For derivatives used for hedging, recognition is determined by the hedged item. This means that the derivative is treated as an off balance sheet item as long as the hedged item is recognised at cost or is not included on the balance sheet. Receivables and liabilities in foreign currency hedged with forward contracts are valued at the forward rate. Employee benefits The Parent Company complies with the provisions of the Law on Safeguarding of Pension Commitments and the regulations of the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority, since this is a condition for tax deductibility. Untaxed reserves The amounts allocated to untaxed reserves constitute taxable temporary differences. Due to the connection between reporting and taxation, the deferred tax liability is recognised in the Parent Company as part of untaxed reserves. Group contributions and shareholders’ contributions Shareholders’ contributions are recognised directly in the equity of the recipient and capitalised in the shares and participating interests of the contributor, to the extent impairment is not required. Group contributions received and paid are recognised through profit or loss in financial income and expenses. 78 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 2 Assumptions in the Application of the NOTE 3 Revenue Distribution Accounting Principles Revenue by signiﬁcant source The Board of Directors and Group Management together have identified the following areas where estimates and assumptions in the application of the Group Parent Company accounting principles may have a siginificant impact on the accounting of the MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Group’s results of operations and financial position and may result in signifiSale of goods 4,147 3,999 2,412 1,669 cant adjustments in subsequent financial reports. Developments in these areas are monitored continuously by Group Management and the Board of Long-term customer contracts 13,965 13,811 8,764 9,653 Directors’ audit committee. Service assignments 5,893 5,684 4,162 4,090 UNCERTAINTIES IN ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS Royalties 5 4 3 Long-term customer contracts Total 24,010 23,498 15,338 15,415 A majority of all long-term customer contracts contain significant development aspects, which are associated with risks. Before a contract is signed Sale of goods with a customer on delivery of a product, solution or service, a thorough The sale of goods includes sales of goods manufactured by Saab and goods analysis is always made of the prerequisites and risks of the delivery through purchased for resale, e.g. spare parts and other equipment which is sold a project management process established within Saab. In the execution separately. stage, continuous reviews are then made of the work in the project according to the same process. An important aspect is to identify risks and assess Long-term customer contracts them and the measures that are taken to mitigate the risks with the help of a Long-term customer contracts relate to the development and manufacture of risk assessment method. complex systems that stretch across several accounting periods. The Group applies the percentage of completion method to recognise For long-term customer contracts on development and hardware that revenue from long-term customer contracts. An estimation of total costs is can be calculated reliably, income and expenditures attributable to the assigncritical in revenue recognition and provisions for loss contracts as well as ment are recognised as revenue and expenses in the consolidated income inventory valuations, and the outcome of technical and commercial risks statement in relation to the assignment’s stage of completion, i.e. according to may affect income. the percentage of completion method. Recovery of value of development costs The Group has invested significant amounts in research and development. The Service assignments reported amounts in the statement of financial position are primarily due to Service assignments refer to the performance of a service on behalf of a cusdevelopment projects relating to Gripen, electronic warfare systems, Air Traftomer during a contractual period, e.g. consulting and support services. fic Management (atm), radar and sensors. Capitalised development costs amount to msek 1,751 (1,950). The recognition of development expenditures as Royalties an asset on the statement of financial position requires an assumption that the Royalties include revenue from outside parties for the use of Saab’s assets product is expected to be technically and comercially usable in the future and such as patents, trademarks and software. that future economic benefits are likely. Capitalised development costs are amortised over the estimated production volume or period of use, up to a maximum of 5 years, with the exception of acquired development costs, where the maximum period of use is 10 years. Projected production volumes and periods of use may later be reassessed, which could necessitate impairment. Impairment testing of goodwill In the calculation of cash-generating units to determine whether there is a need for impairment of goodwill, assumptions have been made with regard to the calculation of value in use, based on discounted cash flow projections. A significant deviation in the conditions could necessitate impairment of goodwill. The carrying amount for goodwill amounts to msek 4,581 (4,223). Pensions Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribution. In defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a percentage of the recipient’s salary. The present value of defined-benefit obligations amounts to msek 7,165 (6,541). The value of the pension obligation is determined through a number of actuarial assumptions, because of which the obligation can significantly increase or decrease if the actuarial assumptions change. Due to the revisions to the reporting standard ias 19, which enter into force in 2013, the so-called corridor approach will disappear. This means that changes in actuarial gains and losses directly affect the pension obligation and hence the Group’s financial position. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 79 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 4 Segment Reporting Saab is one of the world’s leading high technology companies, operating Security and Defence Solutions principally in the areas of defence, aeronautics and civil security. Operations The operations comprise products and solutions in the areas of military comprimarily comprise well-defined areas in defence electronics and missile sysmand and control, airborne early warning, training and simulation, air traffic tems as well as military and civil aeronautics. Saab is also active in technical management, maritime security, security and surveillance, and secure, robust services and maintenance. Saab has a strong position in Sweden and the main communication. part of sales is generated in Europe. In addition, Saab has local presence in South Africa, Australia, the u.s. and other selected countries. As a result of a Support and Services reorganisation as of 1 January 2010, Saab is divided into five business areas, Support and Services offer reliable, cost-effective service and support for all which also represent operating segments, Aeronautics, Dynamics, Electronic of Saab’s markets. This primarily includes integrated support solutions, techDefence Systems, Security and Defence Solutions, and Support and Services. nical maintenance and logistics, and products, solutions and services for milAs of 2011 Combitech is also reported as a business area and an operating segitary and civil missions in locations with limited infrastructure. ment. The business areas are described below. Complementing them is CorCombitech porate, which comprises Group staffs and departments as well as other noncore operations. Combitech, an independent subsidiary of the Saab Group, is one of Sweden’s largest technology consulting firms. They create solutions for our customers’ Aeronautics specific needs through a combination of high technology and expertise on Aeronautics engages in advanced development of military and civil aviation the environment and security. technology. The product portfolio includes the Gripen fighter and Signiﬁcant items not affecting cash ﬂow Unmanned Aerial Systems (uas). Aeronautics also manufactures aircraft Significant items not affecting cash flow in 2012 are a non-recurring item of components for Saab’s own aircraft as well as passenger aircraft produced by msek 207, pertaining to a reduced liability for a contingent consideration others. related to the acquisition of Sensis in 2011. This is divided by operating segDynamics ment as follows: Electronic Defence Systems msek 154 (0) and Security and Dynamics offers a highly competitive product range comprising ground Defence Solutions msek 53 (0). No significant items not affecting cash flow combat weapons, missile systems, torpedoes, unmanned underwater vehicles were reported for 2011. and signature management systems for armed forces as well as spin-off niche products for the civil and the defence market, such as unmanned underwater Information on major customers vehicles for the off-shore industry and 3D-mapping for the defence market. Saab has one customer, the Swedish Defence Materiel Administration (fmv), which accounts for 10 per cent or more of the Group’s revenue. fmv is a cusElectronic Defence Systems tomer of every business area, generating total revenue of msek 6,524 (6,555) The operations are based on Saab’s close interaction with customers requiring efin 2012. ficient solutions for surveillance and for threat detection, location and protection. This has created a unique competence in the area of radar and electronic Information on geographical areas warfare, and a product portfolio covering airborne, land-based and naval radar, External sales are distributed to the market where the customer is domiciled, electronic support measures and self-protection systems. For increased flight while fixed assets are distributed to the market where the asset is geographimission efficiency and flight safety we supply mission avionics and safety critical cally located. avionics computers for both civil and military customers. 80 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 4, CONT. Electronic Security and Defence Defence Support and Group Aeronautics Dynamics Systems Solutions Services Combitech Corporate Eliminations Group MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 External revenue 5,876 6,168 4,667 4,219 3,652 3,928 5,852 5,507 3,172 3,143 819 618 -28 -85 24,010 23,498 Internal revenue 200 183 112 116 624 633 124 197 239 285 591 382 1 -1,890 -1,797 Total revenue 6,076 6,351 4,779 4,335 4,276 4,561 5,976 5,704 3,411 3,428 1,410 1,000 -28 -84 -1,890 -1,797 24,010 23,498 Operating income before share in income of associated companies 359 332 614 482 118 297 417 394 410 426 122 92 -33 934 2,007 2,957 Share in income of associated companies 7 2 -1 19 -18 25 -16 Operating income 359 332 621 484 117 297 417 394 410 426 122 92 -14 916 2,032 2,941 Share in income of associated companies 2 6 -2 2 4 Financial income 49 52 9 16 2 15 39 34 3 3 1 208 234 -157 -193 153 162 Financial expenses -83 -88 -23 -20 -45 -36 -56 -80 -22 -29 -3 -2 -206 -262 157 193 -281 -324 Income before taxes 325 296 609 486 74 276 400 348 391 400 119 91 -12 886 1,906 2,783 Taxes -22 -96 -164 -135 122 92 -41 -54 -21 -26 -33 -25 -208 -322 -367 -566 Net income for the year 303 200 445 351 196 368 359 294 370 374 86 66 -220 564 1,539 2,217 Assets 5,587 6,104 3,865 4,104 7,445 8,698 6,812 6,503 2,468 2,403 762 567 17,579 19,170 -14,839 -15,750 29,679 31,799 Of which shares in associated companies 62 55 10 11 228 222 300 288 Liabilities 5,269 5,945 2,321 2,535 3,519 4,400 4,205 4,088 1,710 1,638 431 274 5,607 8,659 -7,480 -8,809 15,582 18,730 Operating cash ﬂow -425 223 498 588 -238 413 -191 584 387 420 -43 87 -384 162 -396 2,477 Capital employed 2,285 2,103 2,284 2,359 4,690 5,037 3,879 3,309 1,301 1,243 493 381 8,276 7,328 -7,358 -6,941 15,850 14,819 Investments 330 35 61 102 93 92 56 27 5 2 10 3 117 106 672 367 Depreciation and amortisation 233 247 173 168 404 488 138 108 19 18 8 2 197 209 1,172 1,240 Impairments 17 21 17 21 Geographical areas Group Sweden Rest of EU Rest of Europe North America Latin America MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 External revenue 1) 8,765 8,679 4,640 4,514 390 320 2,609 1,803 171 96 as % of revenue 36 37 19 19 2 1 11 8 1 Fixed assets 9,138 9,530 540 115 43 29 1,794 2,377 5 5 Group Asia Africa Australia, etc. Total MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 1) External revenue 4,886 5,176 1,345 1,789 1,204 1,121 24,010 23,498 as % of revenue 20 22 6 8 5 5 100 100 Fixed assets 31 19 449 550 239 263 12,239 12,888 1) External sales are distributed according to the market where the customer is domiciled. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 81 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 4, CONT. Revenue by operating segment NOTE 6 Other Operating Expenses Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 Group Parent Company Aeronautics 5,896 6,178 MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Electronic Defense Systems 3,361 3,631 Loss from other operating activities -4 -33 Security and Defence Solutions 3,045 2,538 Loss on sale of tangible Support and Services 3,036 3,068 ﬁxed assets -3 -3 -3 -3 Total 15,338 15,415 Revaluation of investment properties -1 -12 Revenue by geographical market Exchange rate losses on operating receivables/ Parent Company liabilities and change in MSEK 2012 2011 value of derivatives -2 -3 -8 Sweden 7,494 7,380 Loss on sale of Group companies -2 Rest of EU 2,324 1,857 Other -7 -26 Rest of Europe 142 51 Subtotal -19 -77 -11 -3 North America 1,175 916 Change in fair value of Latin America 101 33 derivatives 6 Asia 3,150 3,793 Change in value of contracted ﬂows -6 Africa 570 851 Subtotal Australia, etc. 382 534 Total 15,338 15,415 Total -19 -77 -11 -3 NOTE 5 Other Operating Income Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outside core operations. Group Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 NOTE 7 Government Grants Gain from reduction in earn out liability 207 Saab receives government grants, mainly various grants from eu related to Gain from other operating research and development projects. For 2012, msek 85 (78) has been received. activities 34 47 16 msek 87 (85) has been recognised through profit or loss by reducing research and development expenditures and as other operating income. In the statement Trading result 31 32 31 32 of financial position at year-end, msek 42 is recognised as prepaid income. Government grants 21 23 20 21 Saab and the Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications have Gain on sale of associated reached an agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s parcompanies 11 193 ticipation in the Airbus a380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royExchange rate gains alty loan maximised at msek 350. Repayment will take the form of a royalty on operating receivables/ on each delivery to Airbus. Through 2012, the National Debt Office has paid liabilities and change in out a net of msek 263 (263), which reduces inventory in the financial statevalue of derivatives 9 52 16 ments. Gain on sale of intangible No contingent liabilities or contingent assets are reported. and tangible ﬁxed assets 4 4 3 148 Change in fair value of biological assets 1 6 NOTE 8 Business Combinations Gain on sale of Group companies 1 976 HITT Other 19 18 7 2 On 6 August, Saab announced that it had made a public cash offer of eur 6.60 per share for all issued and outstanding ordinary shares of the Dutch comTotal 338 1,351 77 219 pany hitt n.v. hitt is a leading player in the worldwide markets for traffic management and navigation systems. It had 188 employees mainly based in Trading result refers to the result in Saab Treasury from trading in currency the Netherlands, North America and Hong Kong. and money market instruments according to the risk mandate approved by On 27 August, Saab announced that it had entered into a purchase agreethe Board of Directors; see Note 41. ment with hitt‘s majority shareholder, which held 53 per cent of the issued Other operating activities consist of results from subsidiaries that fall outand outstanding shares, for the purchase price of eur 7.00 per share. As a side core operations and net rental income from property rentals. result of the transaction, Saab gained control over hitt and the offer thereby Gain on sale of Group companies 2011 primarily refers to C3 Technolocontinued as an unconditional mandatory offer for the offer price of eur 7.00 gies ab. per share. The offer period ended on 2 October. As of 31 December, Saab had acquired 98.9 per cent of the issued and outstanding shares in hitt. The acquisition of hitt is in line with Saab’s overall strategy to become a leading player in the market for traffic management. The combination of hitt and Saab will strengthen Saab’s market presence and provide a strong portfolio of products, combining innovative software systems with state of the art sensor systems. 82 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 8, CONT. Purchase price analysis for HITT Preliminary purchase price analysis for MEDAV MEUR MSEK MEUR MSEK Purchase consideration Purchase consideration Purchase price paid as of 31 December 32 259 Purchase price paid 28 November 22 194 Debt for remaining shares 3 Contingent consideration 5 40 Total consideration 32 262 Total consideration 27 234 Effect on liquid assets Effect on liquid assets Purchase price paid as of 31 December 32 259 Purchase price paid 28 November 22 194 Less: Liquid assets in the acquired company -2 -19 Less: Liquid assets in the acquired company -1 Effect on liquid assets 30 240 Effect on liquid assets 22 193 The fair value of the identiﬁable assets and The fair value of the identiﬁable assets and liabilities of HITT as at the date of the liabilities of MEDAV as at the date of the acquisition were: acquisition were: Intangible ﬁxed assets: Intangible ﬁxed assets: Order backlog 1 9 Technology 9 77 Development costs 3 26 Patents 3 22 Tangible ﬁxed assets 1 4 Order backlog 5 42 Financial ﬁxed assets 3 Tangible ﬁxed assets 3 Other current assets 18 144 Financial ﬁxed assets 1 Liquid assets 2 19 Other current assets 13 111 Total assets 25 205 Liquid assets 1 Total assets 30 257 Total liabilities 12 104 Total liabilities 15 130 Total identiﬁable net assets at fair value 13 101 Goodwill 19 161 Total identiﬁable net assets at fair value 15 127 Purchase consideration 32 262 Goodwill 12 107 Purchase consideration 27 234 The goodwill of msek 161 comprises the value of expected synergies through the consolidation of the operations of Saab and hitt arising from the acquisiThe goodwill of msek 107 comprises the value of expected synergies through tion. None of the acquired goodwill is expected to be deductible for income the consolidation of the operations of Saab and medav arising from the tax purposes. acquisition. None of the acquired goodwill is expected to be deductible for The fair value of intangible fixed assets amounted to msek 35. income tax purposes. From the date of acquisition, hitt has contributed msek 119 to sales and The fair value of intangible fixed assets amounted to msek 141. msek 4 to income before taxes. If the acquisition had taken place at the beginThe seller and the buyer have agreed on a two-year earn out period ning of the year, sales would have increased by msek 309 and income before between 1 January 2013 and 31 December 2014. The contingent consideration taxes would have decreased by approximately msek 2. of meur 7 is split into two parts: one if determined ebit targets are achieved The transaction costs of msek 12 have been expensed and are included in and one if determined ebit targets are exceeded. administrative expenses (included in cash flows from operating activities). Of the purchase price, meur 3 is deposited in an escrow account to cover warranties and representations. MEDAV From the date of the acquisition, medav has contributed msek 5 to sales On October 26, Saab announced an agreement to acquire 100 per cent of the and msek -4 to income before taxes. If the acquisition had taken place at the German company medav gmbh, specialised in the application of signal probeginning of the year, sales would have increased by msek 153 and income cessing, pattern recognition and information technology. medav had 75 before taxes would have decreased by approximately msek 1. employees. The acquisition was completed on 28 November for approxiThe transaction costs of msek 2 have been expensed and are included in mately meur 22, about msek 193 (effect on liquid assets). In addition, the paradministrative expenses (included in cash flows from operating activities). ties agreed on a maximum potential earn out payment of meur 7. Saab has estimated the earn out payment at meur 5. Other acquisitions The acquisition advances Saab’s position in radio monitoring and intelliIn January, Saab announced that the independent subsidiary Combitech had gence fusion systems and strengthens the market presence globally as well as acquired the consulting firm Sörman Intressenter ab, parent company of Sörin Europe. The acquisition provides a growth platform from which Saab can man Information ab (Sörman). Sörman had 168 employees. build on the combined installed base and skills in systems engineering, In June, Saab announced that it had acquired 100 per cent of the shares in design and integration. medav‘s customers and partners will benefit from Täby Displayteknik ab, a subsidiary of isd Technologies ab. Täby DisplaySaab’s overall product portfolio and global support operations. teknik ab, which develops simulator solutions, had twelve employees. It has, for example, developed the Joint Fires Synthetic Training (jfist®) for virtual joint exercises with the various weapons system used by air, naval and ground forces. In July, Saab announced that the subsidiary Combitech had signed an agreement to acquire 70 per cent of the Norwegian consulting firm Bayes Risk Management as. The company, which had approximately 30 employees, delivers services in field of risk analysis for the oil and gas industry as well as for the financial market. Combitech has an option to acquire the remaining 30 per cent of the shares within 18 months. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 83 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 8, CONT. Total consideration for these acquisitions amounted to msek 176, of which of whom of whom msek 134 was paid up-front in cash and msek 42 is estimated additional con2012 men 2011 men sideration that may be paid out based on future earnings. The additional conGroup companies sideration is capped at msek 105. Acquired assets consist of capitalised develSweden 2,892 78% 2,435 79% opment costs, customer relationships, equipment, working capital items and deferred tax liability and amount to a total net of msek 43. Goodwill arising South Africa 858 72% 1,081 71% from the acquisitions amount to msek 153, and is mainly explained by future USA 677 73% 698 74% synergies and assembled workforce. Sales from the acquired entities amount Australia 327 78% 320 80% to approximately msek 170. UK 170 82% 135 80% Czech Republic 140 80% 137 76% NOTE 9 Employees and Staff Costs Netherlands 119 91% 4 100% Norway 88 76% 51 86% Average number of employees Germany 88 82% 22 91% of whom of whom 2012 men 2011 men Denmark 68 85% 71 86% Parent Company Finland 54 74% 73 75% Sweden 8,063 80% 7,566 80% Canada 53 85% 12 92% United Arab Emirates 16 100% 15 93% Switzerland 48 100% 48 100% South Africa 11 82% 12 92% India 33 70% 37 78% Brazil 9 67% 6 83% Kenya 32 100% 33 100% USA 9 100% 4 100% Hongkong 14 71% Pakistan 9 100% South Korea 5 80% 4 75% Thailand 7 86% 6 83% Chile 1 100% 2 50% Poland 5 80% 1 100% Japan 1 100% 1 100% India 4 75% 4 50% Singapore 1 1 Saudi Arabia 3 100% 3 100% Greece 1 100% 1 100% France 3 100% 3 100% Nigeria 4 75% Norway 3 100% Hungary 2 50% Czech Republic 3 100% 2 100% Slovenia 2 100% Belgium 3 67% 1 100% United Arab Emirates 1 Turkey 3 67% Group companies, total 5,670 77% 5,175 76% Malaysia 3 67% Joint ventures Canada 2 100% 3 100% Sweden 8 88% Kenya 2 100% Joint ventures, total 8 88% Croatia 2 50% Switzerland 1 100% Group total 13,834 79% 12,814 79% Australia 1 100% 1 100% Germany 1 100% 1 100% The average number of employees has been calculated as the average of the number of full-time equivalents. The term full-time equivalents excludes UK 1 100% 1 100% long-term absentees and consultants. Fixed term employees and probationSouth Korea 1 100% ers are however included in the calculation. Chile 1 100% Parent Company, total 8,164 80% 7,631 80% Gender distribution of corporate management Share of women, per cent 2012 2011 Parent Company Board of Directors 22 22 Other senior executives 36 29 84 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 9, CONT. Salaries, other remuneration and social security expenses NOTE 10 Auditors’ Fees and Compensation 2012 2011 Salaries and Social Salaries and Social Parent other remusecurity other remusecurity Group Company MSEK neration expenses neration expenses MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Parent Company 4,223 1,480 3,960 2,043 PwC 1) of which pension costs 442 1,066 Audit assignments 15 15 9 7 Group companies 2,867 1,080 2,443 225 Audit work in excess of the audit assignment 1 5 1 5 of which pension costs3) 610 -174 Tax advice 2 1 Joint ventures 5 2 Other services 3 1 4 1 of which pension costs 1 Group, total 7,090 2,560 6,408 2,270 Other of which pension costs 1,052 893 2) Audit assignments 2 1 Total 23 23 14 13 1) Of the Parent Company’s pension costs, MSEK 18 (8) refers to the Board and President, including deputies and Executive Vice Presidents. The company’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals amount to MSEK 62 (45), of which MSEK 62 (45) refers to former Board members and Presidents, including deputies and Audit assignments refer to expenses for the statutory audit, i.e. the work that Executive Vice Presidents. was necessary to issue the audit report as well as advice in connection with 2) Of the Group’s pension costs, MSEK 29 (18) refers to the Group’s boards and Presidents, including Group companies. The Group’s outstanding pension obligations for these individuals amount to MSEK 68 (48), of which the audit assignment. MSEK 62 (45) refers to former board members and Presidents. Audit work in excess of the audit assignment relates to expenses for opin3) Adjustment according to different accounting principles regarding deﬁned-beneﬁt plans between Parent Company and Group. See also Note 1. ions and other assignments associated to a fairly high degree with audits and which are normally performed by the external auditor, including consultaSalaries and other remuneration distributed between Board members, tions on advisory and reporting requirements, internal control and the President and Vice Presidents and other employees review of interim reports. 2012 2011 Other services relate to expenses that are not classified as audit assignments, audit work in excess of the audit assignment and tax advice. Board, Board, President President and Vice Other and Vice Other MSEK Presidents employees Presidents employees NOTE 11 Operating Expenses Parent Company 19 4,204 20 3,940 of which variable remuneration Group MSEK 2012 2011 Group companies 57 2,810 68 2,375 Raw materials, materials and consumables 5,059 5,135 of which variable remuneration 4 6 Subsystems and equipment 961 1,567 Joint ventures 5 Purchased services 1,990 2,091 Change in inventory of ﬁnished goods and work Group total 76 7,014 88 6,320 in progress, excluding write down 119 267 of which variable remuneration 4 6 Personnel costs 9,650 8,678 Of the salaries and remuneration paid to other employees in the Group, Depreciation and amortisation 1,119 1,126 msek 40 (44) refers to senior executives other than Board members and the Impairments 29 -73 President. For information on post-employment compensation and share-related Other expenses 3,395 3,024 compensation, see Note 37. Total 22,322 21,815 Operating expenses refer to cost of goods sold, marketing expenses, administrative expenses and research and development costs. Depreciation and amortisation in the leasing operations (Saab Aircraft Leasing) are not included in depreciation and amortisation above. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 85 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 12 Depreciation/Amortisation and Impairments Group MSEK 2012 2011 Group Financial expenses related to pensions -152 -60 MSEK 2012 2011 Other ﬁnancial expenses -16 -14 Depreciation/amortisation Financial expenses -281 -324 Capitalised development costs -590 -588 Other intangible ﬁxed assets -143 -186 Share in income of associated companies 2 4 Operating properties -95 -80 Net ﬁnancial income and expenses -126 -158 Plant and machinery -193 -172 Equipment, tools and installations -96 -99 Result from shares in Leasing aircraft -53 -114 Result from shares in associated compaParent Company Group companies nies/joint ventures Other lease assets -2 -1 MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Total -1,172 -1,240 Dividends 55 543 2 Group contributions Impairments received 915 1,087 Goodwill -21 Group contributions paid -68 -144 Capitalised development costs Capital gain on sale of Operating properties shares 38 68 -3 43 Plant and machinery -17 Impairments -47 -128 Equipment, tools and installations Other -58 -16 15 14 Total -17 -21 Total 835 1,410 12 59 In 2012, impairments of msek 17 were recognised on plant and machinery Result from other with regard to a demonstrator system within Electronic Defence Systems. In securities and Other interest income 2011, goodwill impairment of msek 21 was recognised for companies in the receivables held as and similar proﬁt/loss Parent Company ﬁxed assets items venture portfolio. MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Parent Company Interest income, Group companies 127 66 MSEK 2012 2011 Other interest income 169 146 Depreciation/amortisation Capital gain on sale of Capitalised development costs -200 -200 shares 112 Goodwill -39 -39 Impairment -2 -4 Other intangible ﬁxed assets -86 -146 Dividends 26 Buildings -65 -58 Translation differences 33 43 Plant and machinery -105 -108 Net change in value from Equipment, tools and installations revaluation of ﬁnancial -53 -50 assets/liabilities -39 -77 Total -548 -601 Less project interest applied to gross income -15 -30 Other -21 -19 NOTE 13 Financial Income and Expenses Total -29 81 281 182 Group Interest expenses and Parent Company similar proﬁt/loss items MSEK 2012 2011 MSEK 2012 2011 Interest income on loans receivable 162 186 Interest expenses, Group companies -110 -120 Financial income from revaluation of ﬁnancial assets and Other interest expenses -75 -87 liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss 6 Total -185 -207 Dividends 5 Other ﬁnancial income 1 Less project interest applied to gross income -15 -30 Financial income 153 162 Interest expenses on loans and ﬁnancial liabilities -100 -140 Financial expenses from revaluation and disposal of ﬁnancial assets and liabilities measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss -13 -110 86 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 14 Appropriations Reconciliation of effective tax Group Parent Company MSEK 2012 (%) 2012 2011 (%) 2011 MSEK 2012 2011 Income before taxes 1,906 2,783 Buildings and land 16 17 Tax according to current tax rate for the Parent Company -26.3 -501 -26.3 -732 Plant and machinery as well as equipment, tools and installations 17 40 Effect of other tax rates for foreign operations -0.1 -2 0.6 15 Total difference between tax depreciation and depreciation according to plan 33 57 Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden 7.3 140 Tax allocation reserve -514 -350 Non-deductible expenses -5.6 -106 -4.9 -135 Total -481 -293 Tax-exempt income 6.5 124 10.1 280 Tax on additional, uncapitalNOTE 15 Taxes ised tax loss carry forwards -0.3 -7 -0.4 -12 Tax related to previous years -0.7 -14 0.6 18 Other -0.1 -1 Tax recognised through proﬁt or loss Reported effective tax -19.3 -367 -20.3 -566 Group MSEK 2012 2011 The reduction in a liability for a conditional consideration and operations Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) divested during the year generated tax-exempt gains totalling msek 233 (952). In connection with dividends from Group companies in certain non-EuroTaxes for the year -557 -442 pean countries, taxation may exceed normal company tax. The dividend paid Adjustment for taxes related to previous years -14 18 to shareholders has no tax consequences. Total -571 -424 Parent Company Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) MSEK 2012 (%) 2012 2011 (%) 2011 Deferred tax related to temporary differences 159 -186 Income before taxes 1,464 2,051 Deferred tax related to value of tax loss Tax according to current tax carry forwards capitalised during the year 39 48 rate for the Parent Company -26.3 -385 -26.3 -539 Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously Tax allocated to permanent capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards -17 -2 establishment offshore -0.2 -3 Deferred tax related to previous years 23 -2 Non-deductible expenses -7.3 -107 -6.8 -140 Total 204 -142 Tax-exempt income 2.0 29 10.6 217 Effect of changed tax rate in Sweden -2.3 -33 Total recognised tax in the Group -367 -566 Reported effective tax -34.1 -499 -22.5 -462 The Group’s overall deferred tax amounts to msek 204 (-142) and current tax expense for the year amounts to msek -571 (-424), producing a total recognised tax of msek -367 (-566) in the consolidated income statement. The table “Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards” for the Group, on page 89, specifies how deferred tax affects income. Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 Current tax expense (-)/tax income (+) Taxes for the year -411 -278 Adjustment for taxes related to previous years -23 Total -434 -278 Deferred tax expense (-)/tax income (+) Deferred tax related to temporary differences -88 -184 Deferred tax expense due to utilisation of previously capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards Deferred tax related to previous years 23 Total -65 -184 Total recognised tax in the Parent Company -499 -462 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 87 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 15, CONT. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred Deferred tax Deferred Deferred tax Parent Company tax assets liabilities Net Group tax assets liabilities Net MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2012 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2012 Tangible ﬁxed assets -197 -197 Intangible ﬁxed assets 6 -527 -521 Inventories 84 84 Tangible ﬁxed assets 21 -392 -371 Accounts receivable 3 3 Lease assets -62 -62 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 1 1 Biological assets -44 -44 Provisions for pensions 80 80 Long-term receivables -14 -14 Other provisions 155 155 Inventories 205 -2 203 Accrued expenses and deferred income 42 42 Accounts receivable 6 6 Tax assets/liabilities, total 365 -197 168 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 26 -2 24 Set-off -197 197 Long-term liabilities 51 -1 50 Tax assets/liabilities, net 168 168 Provisions for pensions 137 -292 -155 Other provisions 450 -24 426 Deferred Deferred tax Tax allocation reserves -193 -193 Parent Company tax assets liabilities Net Contingency reserve attributable to MSEK 31-12-2011 31-12-2011 Lansen Försäkrings AB -299 -299 Tangible ﬁxed assets -240 -240 Accrued expenses and deferred income 122 122 Inventories 87 87 Other 56 -158 -102 Accounts receivable 1 1 Tax loss carry forwards 162 162 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 3 3 Tax assets/liabilities, total 1,242 -2,010 -768 Provisions for pensions 107 107 Set-off -1,029 1,029 Other provisions 238 238 Tax assets /liabilities, net 213 -981 -768 Accrued expenses and deferred income 37 37 Deferred Deferred tax Tax assets/liabilities, total 473 -240 233 Group tax assets liabilities Net Set-off -240 240 MSEK 31-12-2011 31-12-2011 Tax assets/liabilities, net 233 233 Intangible ﬁxed assets 1 -646 -645 Tangible ﬁxed assets 20 -504 -484 The change in deferred tax assets and liabilities in the Parent Company, Lease assets 5 -105 -100 Saab ab, has been recognised in profit or loss. Biological assets -52 -52 Long-term receivables -38 -38 Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax assets Inventories 243 -2 241 MSEK Group Parent Company Accounts receivable 6 6 Deferred tax assets expected to be recovered within one year 129 10 Prepaid expenses and accrued income 30 -3 27 Deferred tax assets expected to be Long-term liabilities 91 -2 89 recovered after one year 1,113 355 Provisions for pensions 167 -458 -291 Other provisions 617 -14 603 Estimated utilisation dates of recognised deferred tax liabilities Tax allocation reserves -94 -94 MSEK Group Parent Company Contingency reserve attributable to Deferred tax liabilities due for payment within Lansen Försäkrings AB -357 -357 one year 84 10 Accrued expenses and deferred income 169 169 Deferred tax liabilities due for payment after one year 1,926 187 Other 55 -197 -142 Tax loss carry forwards 142 142 Tax assets/liabilities, total 1,546 -2,472 -926 Set-off -1,460 1,460 Tax assets /liabilities, net 86 -1,012 -926 In the company’s view, the tax value of future taxable surpluses will exceed reported deferred tax assets. In the u.s., there is approximately msek 300 in tax loss carry forwards, of which approximately msek 250 is expected to be offset against future taxable earnings. The tax loss carry forwards attributable to the u.s. operations can be utilised through 2031, but expire in part as of 2021. 88 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 15, CONT. Change in deferred tax in temporary differences and tax loss carry forwards RecogRecognised in Acquisinised in AcquisiOpening Recogthe comtion/diClosing Opening Recogthe comtion/diClosing balance nised in prehenvestment Translabalance balance nised in prehenvestment Translabalance Group 1 Jan proﬁt or sive of operation dif31 Dec Group 1 Jan proﬁt or sive of operation dif31 Dec MSEK 2012 loss income tions ference 2012 MSEK 2011 loss income tions ference 2011 Intangible ﬁxed Intangible ﬁxed asassets -645 188 -57 -7 -521 sets -734 195 -98 -8 -645 Tangible ﬁxed assets -484 88 25 -371 Tangible ﬁxed assets -442 -2 -37 -3 -484 Lease assets -100 58 -20 -62 Lease assets -170 78 -8 -100 Biological assets -52 8 -44 Biological assets -51 -1 -52 Long-term Long-term receivables -38 24 -14 receivables -30 -8 -38 Inventories 241 -38 203 Inventories 177 64 241 Accounts receivable 6 6 Accounts receivable 5 15 -13 -1 6 Prepaid expenses Prepaid expenses and accrued income 27 -3 24 and accrued income 13 14 27 Long-term liabilities 89 -39 50 Long-term liabilities 60 27 2 89 Provisions for Provisions for pensions -291 135 1 -155 pensions -127 -164 -291 Other provisions 603 -177 426 Other provisions 781 -186 7 1 603 Tax allocation Tax allocation rereserves -94 -99 -193 serves -2 -92 -94 Contingency reserve Contingency reserve attributable to attributable to Lansen Lansen Försäkrings AB -357 58 -299 Försäkrings AB -357 -357 Accrued expenses Accrued expenses and deferred income 169 -47 122 and deferred income 217 -60 12 169 Other -142 26 14 -102 Other -176 -41 69 6 -142 Tax loss carry Tax loss carry forforwards 142 22 4 -6 162 wards 33 46 58 5 142 Total -926 204 14 -27 -33 -768 Total -803 -142 69 -38 -12 -926 The Group’s total deferred tax expense/income in the 2012 income statement The Group’s total deferred tax expense in the 2011 income statement amounted to msek 204. The Group’s total deferred tax income/expense in the amounted to msek -142. The Group’s total deferred tax income in the statestatement of comprehensive income amounted to msek 14. The closing balment of comprehensive income amounted to msek 69. The closing balance ance on 31 December 2012, msek -768, consisted of deferred tax assets of on 31 December 2011, msek -926, consisted of deferred tax assets of msek 86 msek 213 and tax liabilities of msek -981, see table on page 88. and tax liabilities of msek 1,012, see table on page 88. The net change in the year’s tax loss carry forwards, excluding acquisition/ Tax items recognised directly against other comprehensive income divestment of operations, totals msek 22, which is the amount of deferred tax Group on capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, msek 39, and deferred tax MSEK 2012 2011 expense due to utilisation of previously capitalised tax value in tax loss carry forwards, msek -17. Cash ﬂow hedges 14 69 Other numbers in the ”Recognised in profit or loss” column in the table Total 14 69 above total msek 182, which is the amount of deferred tax related to temporary differences and deferred tax attributable to previous years. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 89 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 16 Intangible Fixed Assets Other intangible assets Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Acquisition value Goodwill 4,581 4,223 532 571 Opening balance, 1 January 1,749 1,551 1,426 1,376 Capitalised development Acquired through business acquisitions 96 160 24 costs 1,751 1,950 856 1,056 Investments 51 26 48 22 Other intangible assets 517 526 273 311 Disposals and reclassiﬁcations -2 3 -1 4 Total 6,849 6,699 1,661 1,938 Translation differences -15 9 Closing balance, 31 December 1,879 1,749 1,473 1,426 Goodwill Group Parent Company Amortisation and impairments MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Opening balance, 1 January -1,223 -1,036 -1,115 -969 Acquisition value Amortisation for the year -143 -186 -86 -146 Opening balance, 1 January 4,920 4,146 784 784 Acquired through business acquisitions -3 Acquired through business acquisitions 421 738 Disposals and reclassiﬁcations 2 1 Divestments -9 Translation differences 5 -1 Translation differences -54 36 Closing balance, 31 December -1,362 -1,223 -1,200 -1,115 Closing balance, 31 December 5,278 4,920 784 784 Amortisation and impairments Carrying amount, 31 December 517 526 273 311 Opening balance, 1 January -697 -676 -213 -174 Amortisation for the year -39 -39 Acquired through business acquisitions 2012 relates primarily to hitt n.v., medav gmbh and Bayes Risk Management as and comprises order backlog, Impairments for the year -21 patents and customer relations. Acquired through business acquisitions 2011 Closing balance, 31 December -697 -697 -252 -213 largely relates to Sensis and comprises customer relations and trademarks. Carrying amount, 31 December 4,581 4,223 532 571 Amortisation is included in the following lines in income statement Group Parent Company Acquired through business acquisitions 2012 relates to hitt n.v., medav gmbh MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Täby Displayteknik ab, Sörman Intressenter ab and Bayes Risk Management as. Acquired through business acquisitions 2011 relates to Sensis. In 2011, goodwill Cost of goods sold 141 185 125 185 impairment of msek 21 was recognised for companies in the venture portfolio. Marketing expenses 2 1 Research and Capitalised development costs development costs 590 588 200 200 Group Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Impairments are included in the following lines in income statement Acquisition value Group Parent Company Opening balance, 1 January 5,551 5,457 2,000 2,000 MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Acquired through business acquisitions 144 110 Other operating expenses 21 Internally developed assets 292 15 Development costs Disposals and reclassiﬁcations -66 The significant items in total capitalisation are development costs for radar Translation differences -26 -31 and sensors, electronic warfare systems, air traffic management (atm), and Closing balance, 31 December 5,895 5,551 2,000 2,000 Gripen. Development costs are capitalised only in the consolidated accounts. In Amortisation and impairments legal units, all costs for development work are expensed. Capitalised development costs in the Parent Company relate to acquired development costs. Opening balance, 1 January -3,601 -3,029 -944 -744 Amortisation for the year -590 -588 -200 -200 Other intangible ﬁxed assets Acquired through business acquisitions -27 Significant items in the carrying amount are attributable to the acquisitions of Ericsson Microwave Systems, Sensis and medav and relate to expenses inDisposals and reclassiﬁcations 59 curred for customer relations, trademarks, patents and values in the order Translation differences 15 16 backlog. Of the carrying amount, msek 517, msek 401 is attributable to acClosing balance, 31 December -4,144 -3,601 -1,144 -944 quired values and msek 116 to licenses for operating systems etc. Impairment tests for goodwill Carrying amount, 31 December 1,751 1,950 856 1,056 In connection with business combinations, goodwill is allocated to the cashgenerating units that are expected to obtain future economic benefits in the Acquired through business acquisitions relates to hitt n.v., medav gmbh, Täby form, for example, of synergies from the acquisition. Saab’s business areas Displayteknik ab och Sörman Intressenter ab for 2012 and to Sensis for 2011. have been identified as separate cash-generating units. The following cashgenerating units have significant recognised goodwill values in relation to the Group’s total recognised goodwill value. Goodwill in every cash-generating unit has been tested for impairment. 90 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 16, CONT. Goodwill in the Parent Company relates to goodwill arising from the purNOTE 17 Tangible Fixed Assets chase of the net assets of Saab Microwave Systems. Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Dynamics 570 572 Operating properties/ Electronic Defence Systems 2,335 2,253 buildings and land1) 1,981 2,050 1,357 1,410 Security and Defence Solutions 1,172 999 Plant and machinery 730 799 481 460 Support and Services 240 240 Equipment, tools and installations 312 292 173 149 Combitech 264 159 Construction in progress 139 131 115 118 Total goodwill 4,581 4,223 Total 3,162 3,272 2,126 2,137 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported Impairment testing for cash-generating units is based on the calculation of amount refers to buildings and land. value in use. This value is based on discounted cash flow forecasts according to the units’ business plans. Operating properties/buildings and land 1) Group Parent Company VARIABLES USED TO CALCULATE VALUE IN USE MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Volume/growth Acquisition value Growth in the cash-generating units’ business plans is based on Saab’s expectations with regard to development in each market area and previous experiOpening balance, ence. The first five years are based on the five-year business plan formulated 1 January 4,899 4,822 1,872 1,881 by Group Management and approved by the Board. For cash flows after five Acquired through business years, the annual growth rate has been assumed to be 0 (0) per cent. acquisitions 112 Investments 15 38 9 14 Operating margin Reclassiﬁcations 30 -34 4 The operating margin is comprised of the units’ operating income after depreciation and amortisation. The units’ operating margin is calculated Divestments -1 -27 -27 against the backdrop of historical results and Saab’s expectations with regard Translation differences -26 -12 to the future development of markets where the units are active. The busiClosing balance, ness areas Dynamics, Electronic Defence Systems and Security and Defence 31 December 4,917 4,899 1,881 1,872 Solutions have a substantial order backlog of projects that stretches over a number of years. The risks and opportunities affecting the operating margin are managed through continuous cost forecasts for all significant projects. Depreciation and impairments Capitalised development costs Opening balance, In the five-year business plans, consideration is given to additional invest1 January -2,849 -2,789 -1,359 -1,314 ments in development considered necessary for certain units to reach the Depreciation for the year -95 -80 -65 -58 growth targets in their respective markets. Impairments for the year Discount rate Acquired through business Discount rates are based on the weighted average cost of capital (wacc). The acquisitions -32 wacc rate that is used is based on a risk-free rate of interest in ten years Reclassiﬁcations 42 adjusted for, among other things, market risks. The discount rate is in line Divestments 3 13 3 13 with the external requirements placed on Saab and similar companies in the market. Translation differences 5 -3 All units have sales of defence materiel, unique systems, products and supClosing balance, port solutions in the international market as their primary activity, and their 31 December -2,936 -2,849 -1,421 -1,359 business risk in this respect is considered equivalent. However, units with a significant share of the business plan’s invoicing in the order backlog have Revaluations been discounted at an interest rate that is slightly lower units with a short order backlog. Opening balance, 1 January 897 897 Closing balance, The following discount rates have been used (pre-tax): 31 December 897 897 Pretax discount rate (WACC) Per cent 2012 2011 Carrying amount, 31 December 1,981 2,050 1,357 1,410 Dynamics 11 11 1) In the Group, the reported amount refers to operating properties. In the Parent Company, the reported amount Electronic Defence Systems 11 11 refers to buildings and land. Security and Defence Solutions 11 11 Acquired through business acquisitions in 2011 largely relates to Sensis. Support and Services 13 13 Operating properties include a property leased by Saab Sensis in the u.s. Combitech 13 13 through a financial lease. The financial lease extends through 2025. The carrying amount is msek 97. The property is depreciated on a straight-line basis over its period of use through 2025. Sensitivity analysis Total future minimum lease fees amount to msek 122, of which msek 9 is Group Management believes that reasonable possible changes in the above due within one year, msek 37 after one year but within five years, and msek 76 variables would not have such a large impact that any individually would after five years. The present value of future minimum lease fees is msek 99. reduce the recoverable amount to less than the carrying amount. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 91 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 17, CONT. Plant and machinery Equipment, tools and installations Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Acquisition value Acquisition value Opening balance, Opening balance, 1 January 2,081 2,134 1,271 1,290 1 January 2,962 2,504 1,893 1,909 Acquired through business Acquired through business acquisitions 1 12 acquisitions 26 400 3 Acquisitions from Acquisitions from companies within the Group 48 companies within the Group 104 Investments 133 83 79 40 Investments 100 118 39 35 Reclassiﬁcations -242 4 -237 4 Reclassiﬁcations 281 -7 296 2 Sales -163 -132 -68 -63 Divestments -63 -61 -24 -56 Translation differences -13 -20 Translation differences -42 8 Closing balance, Closing balance, 31 December 1,797 2,081 1,093 1,271 31 December 3,264 2,962 2,308 1,893 Depreciation and impairments Depreciation and Opening balance, 1 January -1,789 -1,819 -1,122 -1,132 impairments Depreciation for the year -96 -99 -53 -50 Opening balance, 1 January -2,163 -1,868 -1,433 -1,378 Impairments for the year Depreciation for the year -193 -172 -105 -108 Acquired through business acquisitions -5 Impairments for the year -17 Acquisitions from Acquired through business companies within the Group -39 acquisitions -20 -197 Reclassiﬁcations 233 226 -1 Acquisitions from companies within the Group -86 Sales 157 116 68 61 Reclassiﬁcations -229 15 -224 Translation differences 10 18 Divestments 57 58 21 53 Closing balance, 31 December -1,485 -1,789 -920 -1,122 Translation differences 31 1 Closing balance, 31 December -2,534 -2,163 -1,827 -1,433 Carrying amount, 31 December 312 292 173 149 Carrying amount, 31 December 730 799 481 460 Acquired through business acquisitions relates to Täby Displayteknik ab for 2012 and largely to Sensis for 2011. In 2012, impairments of msek 17 were recognised with regard to a demonstraConstruction in progress tor system within Electronic Defence Systems. Acquired through business Group Parent Company acquisitions relates to hitt n.v. and medav gmbh for 2012 and largely to Sensis for 2011. MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 131 68 118 52 Investments 80 86 58 79 Reclassiﬁcations -72 -23 -61 -13 Carrying amount, 31 December 139 131 115 118 Collateral On 31 December 2012 property with a carrying amount of msek 0 (0) was pledged as collateral for bank loans. 92 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 18 Lease Assets and Lease Agreements Leasing fees for aircraft obtained/leased via operating leases Payments Payments As the former manufacturer of the regional aircraft Saab 340 and Saab 2000, Payments from from MSEK to lessors airlines1) airlines2) Saab has a great interest in ensuring that these aircraft maintain high capacity utilisation. Over 500 aircraft have been delivered and 61 are included in Saab’s Outcome leasing fleet, of which 19 aircraft are owned by Saab. Leasing operations are 2011 238 66 126 carried out in the global market. Operating lease terms conform to customary terms in the international aircraft leasing market, which may entail the right to 2012 248 72 20 early termination, purchases and extensions, as well as security, geographical and tax-related limitations on the allocation of the aircraft in question. No airContracted craft are held via finance leases, nor is Saab the lessor in any finance leases. The 2013 244 83 8 operations are carried out in usd. Owned aircraft are depreciated on a straight-line basis over 20–25 years. 2014 98 37 8 The leasing fleet is expected to be divested around 2015. 2015 8 2016 6 Leasing aircraft obtained for leasing purposes 2017 5 MSEK 2012 2011 2018 and forward Acquisition value Total contracted 342 120 35 Opening balance, 1 January 2,336 3,792 1) Receipts from airlines for aircraft held via operating leases and leased out via operating leases. 2) Receipts from airlines for owned aircraft leased out via operating leases. Sales -1,342 -1,514 Translation differences -52 58 The leasing fleet is periodically valuated in terms of the present value of the future payments it is expected to generate. The inflow is represented by proClosing balance, 31 December 942 2,336 jected receipts from customers and the Export Credits Guarantee Board (ekn) in Sweden. Disbursements consist of fees to the lessee and for technical, Depreciation legal and administrative activities directly related to management of the fleet. Insurance protection limits Saab’s risk. However, the internal distribution Opening balance, 1 January -1,373 -2,238 between expected receipts from customers and those from ekn will be Sales 841 991 affected in each instance by current projections. Depreciation for the year -53 -114 Leasing fees for other assets obtained via operating leases1) Translation differences 42 -12 Closing balance, 31 December -543 -1,373 Other leasing fees refer to premises, computers and cars. Impairments Group Premises Machinery and and equipOpening balance, 1 January -195 -404 MSEK buildings ment Sales and revaluations 97 208 Outcome Translation differences 1 1 2011 281 104 Closing balance, 31 December -97 -195 2012 232 146 Total 302 768 Contracted 2013 253 135 Other lease assets 2014 226 93 Opening balance, 1 January 3 4 2015 215 52 Acquisitions 1 1 2016 196 16 Depreciation for the year -2 -1 2017 184 1 Translation differences -1 2018 and forward 716 Closing balance, 31 December 2 3 Total contracted 1,790 297 Carrying amount, 31 December 304 771 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 93 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 18, CONT. Parent Company Premises Machinery for an initial period of 2–6 years. Prior to expiration, renegotiations are held and and equipwith the tenant on the rent level and other terms of the agreement, provided MSEK buildings ment the lease has not been terminated. Outcome Fair values have been determined by analysing rental income and expenses for each property, thereby producing a net rental income figure. Net rental 2011 195 78 income has then served as the basis for a valuation of fair value with a yield of 2012 170 114 8 per cent. The yield requirements correspond to the risk in net rental income. Fair value is not based on the valuation of an independent appraiser. Contracted Group 2013 177 117 MSEK 2012 2011 2014 172 84 Effect on net income/net rental income 2015 167 49 Rental income 4 26 2016 160 15 Direct costs for investment properties that 2017 152 generated rental income during the year -2 -10 2018 and forward 710 Effect on net income /net rental income 2 16 Total contracted 1,538 265 1) The Group has a ﬁnance lease on a building; see Note 17. Information on fair value of investment properties in the Parent Company In the Parent Company, investment properties are recognised as buildings according to the acquisition cost method. Investment properties in the Parent NOTE 19 Biological Assets Company are leased out to other companies in the Group and are therefore classified as operating properties in the Group. Group MSEK 2012 2011 Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 Living forest Fair value Carrying amount, 1 January 305 299 Opening fair value, 1 January 165 150 Change in fair value 10 15 Revaluation -1 15 Less fair value logging -9 -9 Closing fair value, 31 December 164 165 Carrying amount, 31 December 306 305 Of which ﬁxed assets 306 305 Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 On 31 December 2012, biological assets consisted of approximately 403,000 m³ of spruce, 647,000 m³ of pine and 72,000 m³ of hardwood. Forest Effect on net income/net rental income growth is estimated at 43,000 m³ timber per year. During the year, approxiRental income 24 27 mately 26,500 m³ of timber was felled, which had a fair value in the Group, Direct costs for investment properties that after deducting selling expenses, of msek 9 on the felling date. generated rental income during the year -8 -9 The valuation of forests has been done with the help of independent appraisers. The forestry property has been valued according to the market Effect on net income /net rental income 16 18 comparison method. In the valuation according to the market comparison method, the environmental impact on the firing range has not been taken Information on carrying amount of investment properties in the Parent into account. An adjustment for the environmental impact has therefore Company been made by reducing fair value by an amount corresponding to the market Parent Company value of the size of the firing range (4,459 hectares) less the value of the timber. MSEK 2012 2011 Accumulated acquisition value NOTE 20 Investment Properties Opening balance, 1 January 127 127 Acquisitions 1 Information on fair value of investment properties in the Group Closing balance, 31 December 128 127 In the Group, investment properties are reported according to the fair value method. Accumulated depreciation according to plan Group Opening balance, 1 January -91 -87 MSEK 2012 2011 Depreciation according to plan for the year -3 -4 Carrying amount, 1 January 224 236 Closing balance, 31 December -94 -91 Divestment -190 Revaluation -1 -12 Accumulated revaluations Carrying amount, 31 December 33 224 Opening balance, 1 January 66 66 Closing balance, 31 December 66 66 Investment properties are recognised in the statement of financial position at fair value, while changes in the value of these properties are recognised in Carrying amount, 31 December 100 102 the income statement; see also Note 1. Investment properties comprise a number of rental properties leased to outside tenants. Leases on offices and production space are normally signed 94 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 21 Shares in Associated Companies Consolidated Share in According to the Equity Method associated 2011 companies’ MSEK Country Sales income Group Associated companies MSEK 2012 2011 Hawker Paciﬁc Airservices Ltd Hong Kong 540 -17 Carrying amount, 1 January 288 251 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 16 4 Acquisition of associated companies 104 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 50 2 Sale of associated companies -7 -4 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 15 Share in associated companies’ income 1) 27 -12 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB Sweden 46 Reclassiﬁcations 3 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd South Africa 26 1 Translation differences and internal gains -9 -1 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB Sweden 21 1 Dividends -2 -50 Sörman Intressenter AB Sweden 40 3 Carrying amount, 31 December 300 288 FFV Services Private Limited India 1) Share in associated companies’ net income and non-controlling interests. AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 21 Results from Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd. are recognised as financial income and Other associated companies in expenses through profit or loss. Other associated companies are held for the venture portfolio 11 -6 operating purposes; i.e. they are related to operations of the business areas or Total 786 -12 in the venture portfolio and are therefore recognised in operating income. During 2012 Saab’s independent business area Combitech acquired all shares in Sörman Intressenter ab. Accordingly, Sörman Intressenter is no longer an Booked associated company of Saab. value, shares in Saab did not make any other significant acquisitions or sales of shares in 31-12-2012 associated Ownership associated companies during 2012. MSEK Assets Liabilities companies interest, % Shares in associated companies as of 31 December 2012 include goodwill of Associated companies msek 58 (61). The Group’s share of sales, income, assets, liabilities and the carrying amount Hawker Paciﬁc Airservices Ltd 299 191 108 32.3 of shares in associated companies is as follows. Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd 33 8 25 27.2 Share in Taurus Systems GmbH 37 28 9 33.0 associated 2012 companies’ S.N. Technologies SA 13 4 9 50.0 MSEK Country Sales income Industrikompetens i Associated companies Östergötland AB 18 8 10 33.0 Hawker Paciﬁc Airservices Ltd Hong Kong 694 4 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd 13 7 6 40.0 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd Pakistan 19 2 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB 125 119 6 50.0 Taurus Systems GmbH Germany 26 8 FFV Services Private Limited 14 1 13 49.0 S.N. Technologies SA Switzerland 18 -1 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd 115 21 94 36.6 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB Sweden 35 -1 Other associated companies Omnigo (Pty) Ltd South Africa 24 -1 in the venture portfolio 25 5 20 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB Sweden 21 1 Total 692 392 300 FFV Services Private Limited India 11 Booked AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd Thailand 72 19 value, Other associated companies in the shares in venture portfolio 15 -4 31-12-2011 associated Ownership MSEK Assets Liabilities companies interest, % Total 935 27 Associated companies Hawker Paciﬁc Airservices Ltd 291 181 110 32.3 Wah Nobel (Pvt) Ltd 31 7 24 27.2 Taurus Systems GmbH 58 55 3 33.0 S.N. Technologies SA 21 10 11 50.0 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB 18 7 11 33.0 Omnigo (Pty) Ltd 16 8 8 40.0 Kontorsbolaget i Karlskoga AB 126 121 5 50.0 Sörman Intressenter AB 18 14 4 25.3 FFV Services Private Limited 25 12 13 49.0 AVIA SATCOM Co., Ltd 106 28 78 36.6 Other associated companies in the venture portfolio 26 5 21 Total 736 448 288 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 95 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 22 Shares in Joint Ventures Consolidated According to 2011 % of votes Carrying the Proportional Method MSEK and capital amount Associated companies The Group has a 50 per cent holding in the joint venture Gripen International Hawker Paciﬁc Airservices Ltd, Hong Kong 32.3 22 kb, whose principal activity is to offer, market and provide services for airIndustrikompetens i Östergötland AB, craft, military materiel and related equipment. The Group’s remaining hold556060-5478, Linköping 33.0 2 ings in joint ventures are of an insignificant amount. Sörman Intressenter AB, 556741-2233, Stockholm 25.3 3 The Group’s financial reports include the following items that constitute the Group’s ownership interest in the joint venture’s sales, income, assets and AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 liabilities. Joint ventures Gripen International KB Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 434 MSEK 2012 2011 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 4 Avia Tech Systems Co. Ltd., Thailand 40.0 9 Sales 28 42 Total 552 Net income 25 70 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 NOTE 24 Receivables from Group Companies, Associated Companies and Joint Ventures Fixed assets 2 Current assets 689 821 Receivables from Total assets 691 821 Receivables from associated companies Parent Company Group companies and joint ventures MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Current liabilities 232 387 Accumulated acquisition value Total liabilities 232 387 Opening balance, 1 January 911 557 17 32 Acquisitions 642 1 Net assets 459 434 Divestments -1 -262 -17 -16 Exchange rate differences -49 -26 NOTE 23 Parent Company’s Shares in Associated Companies Closing balance, 31 December 861 911 17 and Joint Ventures Parent Company NOTE 25 Financial Investments MSEK 2012 2011 Accumulated acquisition value Group Opening balance, 1 January 552 491 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Acquisitions 78 Financial investments held as ﬁxed assets Divestments -3 -68 Financial assets measured at fair value through proﬁt or loss: Reclassiﬁcations -9 -19 Shares and participations 49 54 Share of net income for the year in joint ventures 25 70 Investments held to maturity: Closing balance, 31 December 565 552 Interest-bearing securities 144 143 Total 193 197 Carrying amount, 31 December 565 552 Speciﬁcation of Parent Company’s (co-owner’s) directly owned holdings Short-term investments classiﬁed as current assets of shares in associated companies and joint ventures Financial assets measured at fair value through 2012 % of votes Carrying proﬁt or loss: MSEK and capital amount Interest-bearing securities 3,963 4,555 Associated companies Total 3,963 4,555 Hawker Paciﬁc Airservices Ltd, Hong Kong 32.3 22 Industrikompetens i Östergötland AB, Investments in interest-bearing securities consist of mortgage and govern556060-5478, Linköping 33.0 2 ment bonds, corporate and bank commercial paper as well as Floating Rate AVIA SATCOM Co Ltd, Thailand 36.6 78 Notes. The fair value of interest-bearing securities held to maturity amounts to msek 143 (145). Joint ventures Gripen International KB, 969679-8231, Linköping 50.0 459 Industrigruppen JAS AB, 556147-5921, Stockholm 80.0 4 Total 565 96 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 26 Other Long-Term Securities Holdings Assignment revenue refer to assignment costs incurred and reported gross income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Unutilised advance payments amount to msek 553 (1,022). Parent Company Costs attributable to assignment revenue amounted to msek 1,873 (2,481). MSEK 2012 2011 Reported gross income amounted to msek 382 (957). Accumulated acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 38 1,468 Parent Company Acquisitions 1 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Divestments -1,431 Other long-term receivables Closing balance, 31 December 38 38 Interest-bearing receivables 42 25 Non interest-bearing receivables 7 9 Accumulated impairments Total 49 34 Opening balance, 1 January -14 -11 Impairments for the year -3 -3 Parent Company Divestments MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Closing balance, 31 December -17 -14 Other receivables held as current assets Non interest-bearing receivables 195 286 Carrying amount, 31 December 21 24 Subtotal 195 286 Receivables from customers Divestments in 2011 relate to the holding in Aker Holding as. Assignment revenue 1,631 2,194 Less utilised advance payments -532 -435 NOTE 27 Long-Term Receivables and Other Receivables Subtotal 1,099 1,759 Group Total 1,294 2,045 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Assignment revenue refer to assignment costs incurred and reported gross Long-term receivables held as ﬁxed assets income less any losses attributable to the work performed. Unutilised Receivables from associated companies, interest-bearing 62 70 advance payments amount to msek 291 (471). Receivables from associated companies, Costs attributable to assignment revenue amounted to msek 1,370 (1,583). non interest-bearing 2 2 Reported gross income amounted to msek 261 (611). Other interest-bearing receivables 47 29 Other non interest-bearing receivables 768 945 Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 Total 879 1,046 Long-term receivables Other non interest-bearing receivables include net receivables attributable to Accumulated acquisition value pensions according to ias 19 of msek 741 (921). When applying the new Opening balance, 1 January 34 10 standard, ias 19r, the amount will be reclassified and from 2013 not reported Incremental receivables 17 25 as receivable. See Note 37. As for the rest Saab does not consider there to be a significant difference between book and fair value. Deductible receivables -2 -1 Closing balance, 31 December 49 34 Group MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Other receivables held as current assets Receivables from associated companies, non interest-bearing 79 22 Receivables from joint ventures, non interest-bearing 14 37 Advance payments to suppliers 84 58 Other interest-bearing receivables 326 368 Other non interest-bearing receivables 321 451 Subtotal 824 936 Receivables from customers Assignment revenue 2,255 3,438 Less utilised advance payments -531 -795 Subtotal 1,724 2,643 Total 2,548 3,579 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 97 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 28 Inventories NOTE 30 Prepaid Expenses and Accrued Income Group Group Parent Company MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Raw materials and consumables 2,314 2,109 Prepaid expenses 426 367 377 275 Work in progress 1,489 1,470 Accrued service income 145 143 59 73 Finished goods and goods for resale 617 755 Other accrued income 315 319 297 292 Total 4,420 4,334 Total 886 829 733 640 Saab and the Swedish Ministry of Enterprise, Energy and Communications Prepaid expenses relate to pension premiums, rents, licenses and insurance. have reached agreement with the National Debt Office to co-finance Saab’s participation in the Airbus A380 project. The co-financing is in the form of a royalty loan maximised at msek 350. Repayment will take the form of a royNOTE 31 Liquid Assets alty on each delivery to Airbus. Through 2012, the National Debt Office has paid out a net of msek 263 (263), which reduces inventory in the financial Group statements. MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 The Group’s cost of goods sold includes inventory impairments of msek 31 (16). The reversal of previous impairments amounts to msek 19 (89). Cash and bank balances 622 681 The value of inventories measured at fair value less selling expenses amounts Bank deposits 862 1,083 to msek 93 (100). Of inventories, msek 439 is expected to be realised more Funds in escrow accounts 131 139 than twelve months after the closing day. Deposits held on behalf of customers 1 15 Parent Company Total according to statement of ﬁnancial position 1,616 1,918 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Raw materials and consumables 1,633 1,518 Total according to statement of cash ﬂows 1,616 1,918 Work in progress 1,190 1,059 Finished goods and goods for resale 520 519 Bank deposits relate to short-term investments, the large part of which has a maturity of less than one month. Funds in escrow accounts relate to cash Advance payments to suppliers 42 56 deposited with independent third parties until contractual terms are met. Total 3,385 3,152 The Group’s unutilised account overdraft facility amounted to msek 107 (118) at year-end. With regard to the Group’s other loan facilities, refer to Notes 36 and 41. Cost of goods sold for the Parent Company includes inventory impairments of msek 27 (11) after the reversal of previous impairments of msek 11 (86). The value of inventories measured at fair value less selling expenses amounts to NOTE 32 Assets held for Sale msek 93 (100). Of the Parent Company’s inventories, msek 289 is expected to be realised more than twelve months after the closing day. The Group holds no assets or liabilities for sale. NOTE 29 Accounts Receivable Accounts receivable in the Group amount to msek 3,454 (3,153). In 2012, Saab sold receivables as part of the sales programme arranged in 2009 to strengthen its financial position and increase financial flexibility. Customers in most cases are nations with high credit worthiness. The receivables were sold in their entirety at a favourable funding level. This reduced accounts receivable at year-end by msek 852 (872) and also had a negative effect on cash flow of msek -20 (-537). During the year, accounts receivable were written down by msek 5 (5). Reversals of previous writedowns amounted to msek 1 (3). Accounts receivable in the Parent Company amount to msek 1,598 (1,424). During the year, receivables were written down by msek 5 (4). Reversals of previous write-downs amounted to msek 0 (2). See also Note 41. 98 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 33 Shareholders’ Equity PARENT COMPANY Restricted reserves The shares in the Parent Company are divided into two series, a and b. Both Restricted reserves may not be reduced through profit distributions. classes of shares carry equal rights, with the exception that each Series a share is entitled to ten votes and each Series b share one vote. The shares have a Revaluation reserve quota value of sek 16. When a tangible or financial fixed asset is revaluated, the revaluation amount is allocated to a revaluation reserve. Outstanding shares at Number of Per cent of Per cent of 31 December 2012 shares shares votes Legal reserve Provisions to the legal reserve have previously amounted to at least 10 per Series A 1,907,123 1.8 15.5 cent of net income for the year, until the legal reserve corresponded to 20 per Series B 104,023,706 98.2 84.5 cent of the Parent Company’s capital stock. As of 2006 provisions are volunTotal 105,930,829 100.0 100.0 tary and the Parent Company makes no provisions to the statutory reserve. Unrestricted equity Retained earnings Outstanding shares at Number of Per cent of Per cent of Consists of previous year’s unrestricted equity after profit distribution and 31 December 2011 shares shares votes Group contributions paid. Retained earnings together with net income for the year comprise unrestricted equity, i.e., the amount available for distribuSeries A 1,907,123 1.8 15.6 tion to the shareholders. Series B 103,424,835 98.2 84.4 Total 105,331,958 100.0 100.0 Change in number of outstanding shares 2012 Series A Series B Total Number of outstanding shares at 1 January 1,907,123 103,424,835 105,331,958 Early share matching 23,445 23,445 Share matching plan 575,426 575,426 Number of outstanding shares at 31 December 1,907,123 104,023,706 105,930,829 In 2012 no Series b shares were repurchased on the market to secure Saab’s Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan. During the year, 598,871 shares were matched in Saab’s Share Matching Plan. A total of 3,219,515 shares are held in treasury. The dividend to shareholders amounted to msek 474 (367), or sek 4.50 (3.50) per share. Management of the Group’s capital The Group’s capital under management consists of equity. The Group’s capital management goal is to facilitate continued operating growth and to remain prepared to capitalise on business opportunities. The long-term equity/asset goal is at least 30 per cent. Net result of cash ﬂow hedges The net result of cash flow hedges comprises the effective share of the cumulative net change in fair value of a cash flow hedging instrument attributable to hedge transactions that have not yet taken place. Translation reserve The translation reserve comprises exchange rate differences that arise from the translation of financial reports from operations that have prepared their reports in a currency other than the currency that the Group’s financial reports are presented in. The Parent Company and the Group present their financial reports in sek. The translation reserve at year-end amounts to msek -226 (-51). Of the translation reserve msek 0 (-4) has been reclassified to gains/losses. Revaluation reserve The revaluation reserve comprises the difference between the fair value and carrying amount of operating properties reclassified as investment properties. Of the revaluation reserve, msek 40 has been transferred to retained earnings upon the sale of investment properties. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 99 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 34 Earnings per Share NOTE 36 Liabilities to Credit Institutions 2012 2011 Parent Company Net income for the year attributable to MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Parent Company’s shareholders (MSEK) 1,564 2,225 Current liabilities Weighted average number of common shares outstanding: Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 107 118 before dilution (thousands) 105,633 104,982 Short-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -107 -118 after dilution (thousands) 109,150 109,150 Utilised credit amount Earnings per share, before dilution (SEK) 14.81 21.19 Short-term borrowing from credit institutions 1,100 Earnings per share, after dilution (SEK) 14.33 20.38 Total 1,100 The weighted average number of shares outstanding before dilution refers to Long-term liabilities the total number of shares in issue less the average number of repurchased Overdraft facilities: Available credit/limit 4,000 4,000 treasury shares. The weighted average number of shares outstanding after Long-term portion of bank loans: Unutilised portion -4,000 -4,000 dilution refers to the total number of shares in issue. Utilised credit amount Long-term borrowing from credit institutions 1,100 NOTE 35 Interest-bearing Liabilities Total 1,100 Group Total liabilities to credit institutions 1,100 1,100 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Long-term liabilities In December 2009, Saab established a mtn programme of sek 3 billion in Liabilities to credit institutions 4 1,103 order to enable the issuance of long-term loans on the capital market. Under Other interest-bearing liabilities 101 115 the terms of this programme, Saab has issued bonds and Floating Rate Notes (frn) for msek 1,100. Total 105 1,218 Current liabilities NOTE 37 Employee Benefits Liabilities to credit institutions 1,100 46 Saab has two types of pension plans: defined-benefit and defined-contribuLiabilities to joint ventures 378 449 tion. In defined-benefit plans, post-employment compensation is based on a Other interest-bearing liabilities 159 25 percentage of the recipient’s salary. Saab has around ten types of defined-benTotal 1,637 520 efit plans. The predominant plan is the itp plan, and the second largest plan refers to state-funded retirement pension. Saab’s defined-benefit plans are secured in three ways: as a liability in the balance sheet, in pension funds or Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,742 1,738 funded through insurance with mainly Alecta. The Saab Pension Fund, that secured part of the itp plan, had assets of msek 4,346 (4,050) as of 31 DecemTerms and repayment schedules ber 2012, compared to an obligation of msek 6,492 (5,866) according to ias 19, Collateral for bank loans amounts to msek 3 (0). Of the long-term liabilities, or a solvency margin of 67 per cent (69). msek 24 (1,128) falls due between one and five years of the closing day and The portion secured through insurance with Alecta refers to a definedmsek 81 (90) later than five years of the closing day. benefit plan that comprises several employers and is reported according to a Liabilities to credit institutions mainly consist of Medium Term Notes pronouncement by the Swedish Financial Reporting Board, ufr 3. For fiscal (mtn). For more information on financial risk management, see Note 41. year 2012, the Group did not have access to the information that would make The fair value of mtns exceeds book value by msek 16 (13). Saab otherwise it possible to report this plan as a defined-benefit plan. The itp pension plan, does not consider there to be a significant difference between book and fair which is secured through insurance with Alecta, is therefore reported as a value. defined-contribution plan. Alecta’s surplus can be distributed to policyholders and/or insureds. At year-end 2012, Alecta’s surplus in the form of the collective funding ratio amounted to 129 per cent (113). The collective funding ratio is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a percentage of the insurance obligations calculated according to Alecta’s actuarial assumptions, which does not conform to ias 19. In defined-contribution plans, pensions are based on the premiums paid and return on assets. 100 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 37, CONT. Group Changes in net obligation for deﬁned-beneﬁt plans reported in the statement of ﬁnancial position MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Group Wholly or partially funded obligations MSEK 2012 2011 Present value of deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations 6,972 6,319 Net obligation for deﬁned-beneﬁt plans, 1 January -583 -469 Fair value of assets under management -4,744 -4,446 Compensation paid -224 -208 Net wholly or partially funded obligations 2,228 1,873 Deposits to pension fund and other funding -12 -132 Cost reported in the income statement 318 216 Present value of unfunded deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations 193 222 Liability transfer 4 Present value of net obligation 2,421 2,095 Settlement/Translation difference 4 -9 Withdrawals from pension funds 15 19 Unreported actuarial losses -2,899 -2,678 Net obligation for deﬁned-beneﬁt plans, 31 December -478 -583 Net obligation employee beneﬁts -478 -583 Change in pension obligation The net amount is reported in the following items in the Group statement of ﬁnancial position MSEK 2012 2011 Provisions for pensions 11 12 Fair value, 1 January 6,541 5,233 Long-term receivables 489 595 173 156 Beneﬁts vested during the year Beneﬁts vested previous years -3 The net amount is divided among plans in the 229 249 Interest expense following countries Pension disbursements -224 -208 Sweden -441 -523 Settlement -12 56 USA -48 -72 Actuarial gain/loss 472 1,048 Germany 6 5 Translation differences -11 7 Switzerland 5 7 Fair value, 31 December 7,165 6,541 Net amount in the statement of ﬁnancial position -478 -583 Change in assets under management Unreported actuarial losses amount to msek 2,899 (2,678). Actuarial losses Group are calculated as the difference between pension obligations and the liability according to the statement of financial position. MSEK 2012 2011 Fair value, 1 January 4,446 4,298 Unreported actuarial losses Assumed return 260 259 Group 31 December Withdrawals -13 -19 MSEK 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Compensation paid for transferred operations -2 Present value of deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations -7,165 -6,541 -5,233 -5,577 -5,004 Settlement -9 60 Fair value of assets under Contributions 12 132 management 4,744 4,446 4,298 3,907 3,356 Actuarial gain/loss 65 -290 Net obligation in the statement Translation differences -15 6 of ﬁnancial position -478 -583 -469 -475 -424 Fair value, 31 December 4,744 4,446 Losses -2,899 -2,678 -1,404 -2,145 -2,072 Cost reported in the income statement The actuarial loss amounted to msek 404 in 2012, primarily due to two factors. The return on assets under management was higher than expected at 7.3 Group per cent, compared to an anticipated 6 per cent, which produced an actuarial MSEK 2012 2011 gain of msek 65. The actuarial loss on pension obligations amounted to msek Costs for employment during the current year 170 156 472, which was due to a 50 bp lower discount rate. The actuarial loss was Costs for employment during previous years -4 amortised by msek 183 during the year. The net loss increased by msek 221. Interest expense for the obligation 229 249 Assumed return on assets under management -260 -259 Amortised actuarial losses 183 70 Cost of deﬁned-beneﬁt plans in the income statement 318 216 Cost of deﬁned-contribution plans 545 531 Payroll tax 189 146 Total cost of post-employment compensation 1,052 893 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 101 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 37, CONT. The cost is reported on the following lines in the income statement: Effects of amendments to IAS 19 Employee Beneﬁts Group Year-end 2012 MSEK 2012 2011 Statement of ﬁnancial position 31-12-2012 Adjustment 31-12-2012 Cost of goods sold 687 630 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated Marketing expenses 81 76 Fixed assets 12,026 -741 11,285 Administrative expenses 53 48 Deferred tax assets 213 515 728 Research and development costs 79 79 Financial expenses 152 60 Current assets 17,440 17,440 Total cost of post-employment compensation 1,052 893 Total assets 29,679 -226 29,453 Interest expense and amortisation of actuarial losses less the assumed return Equity 14,097 -2,817 11,280 on assets under management is classified as financial expense. Other pension costs are divided by function in the income statement in relation to how payroll expenses are charged to the various functions. Provision for pension 11 2,863 2,874 Deferred tax liabilities 981 -282 699 Return on assets under management Other long-term liabilities 1,696 10 1,706 Group Current liabilities 12,894 12,894 MSEK 2012 2011 Total liabilities 15,582 2,591 18,173 Actual return on assets under management 325 -31 Assumed return on assets under management -260 -259 Actuarial result from assets under management Total equity and liabilities 29,679 -226 29,453 during the year 65 -290 Equity/assets ratio 47.5% 38.3% Assumptions for deﬁned-beneﬁt obligations Group Per cent 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 Income statement 2012 Adjustment 2012 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated Signiﬁcant actuarial assumptions as of closing day (expressed as EBIT 2,032 18 2,050 weighted averages)1) Financial net -126 79 -47 Discount rate, 31 December 3.00 3.50 4.80 4.00 4.25 Taxes -367 -76 -443 Assumed return on assets under management, 31 December 3.00 6.00 6.00 5.00 5.00 Net income 1,539 21 1,560 Future salary increase 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 EPS, SEK 14.33 0.19 14.52 Future increase in pensions 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 Other comprehensive income after tax -107 -300 -407 Employee turnover 3.00 3.00 3.00 5.00 5.00 Net comprehensive income 1,432 -279 1,153 Anticipated remaining years in service 12.9 12.9 13.0 11.2 11.2 1) Refers to Sweden since essentially all deﬁned-beneﬁt plans are in Sweden. End of third quarter 2012 Statement of ﬁnancial position 30-09-2012 Adjustment 30-09-2012 The following assumptions serve as the basis of the valuation of Saab’s MSEK actual IAS 19R restated pension liability: Fixed assets 11,875 -784 11,091 Discount rate: The valuation is based on covered Swedish mortgage bonds Deferred tax assets 120 596 716 (aaa). Each assumed cash flow is discounted using an interest rate for the Current assets 17,063 17,063 corresponding maturity. Total assets 29,058 -188 28,870 Assumed return on assets under management: Of the assets managed by the Saab Pension Fund, 50 per cent is invested in interest-bearing bonds and 50 per cent in equities and hedge funds. According to the new updated standEquity 13,569 -2,679 10,890 ard (ias 19r) assumed return on assets under management may not exceed the discount rate. Saab’s pension fund does not own any Saab shares. Long-term salary increase assumption: Assumed to be as high as the increase Provision for pension 12 2,864 2,876 in the basic income amount. This means that Saab expects the same salary Deferred tax liabilities 933 -373 560 increases as the national average. Other long-term liabilities 2,897 2,897 Long-term increase in basic income: Data from Statistics Sweden on current wage increases in the private sector provide an historical average during the Current liabilities 11,647 11,647 period 1974–2000 of approximately 1 per cent above inflation. Total liabilities 15,489 2,491 17,980 Long-term rate of inﬂation: Based on the Riksbank’s inflation target of 2 per cent. Mortality: Mortality is the same assumption recommended by the Financial Total equity and liabilities 29,058 -188 28,870 Supervisory Authority (fffs 2007:31), based on Makeham formulas for men and women. Equity/assets ratio 46.7% 37.7% Marriage: Marriage is the same assumption recommended by the Financial Supervisory Authority (fffs 2001:13). Employee turnover: The likelihood that an individual ends his/her employment is assumed to be 3 per cent per year. 102 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 37, CONT. End of ﬁrst quarter 2012 Income statement jan-sep 2012 Adjustment jan-sep 2012 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated Statement of ﬁnancial position 31-03-2012 Adjustment 31-03-2012 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated EBIT 1,382 13 1,395 Fixed assets 12,403 -809 11,594 Financial net -82 59 -23 Deferred tax assets 81 404 485 Taxes -346 -16 -362 Current assets 18,383 18,383 Net income 954 56 1,010 Total assets 30,867 -405 30,462 EPS, SEK 8.98 0.51 9.49 Other comprehensive income after tax -32 -301 -333 Equity 13,381 -2,143 11,238 Net comprehensive income 922 -245 677 End of second quarter 2012 Provision for pension 12 2,122 2,134 Statement of ﬁnancial position 30-06-2012 Adjustment 30-06-2012 Deferred tax liabilities 913 -384 529 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated Other long-term liabilities 3,370 3,370 Fixed assets 12,111 -829 11,282 Current liabilities 13,191 13,191 Deferred tax assets 86 458 544 Total liabilities 17,486 1,738 19,224 Current assets 17,995 17,995 Total assets 30,192 -371 29,821 Total equity and liabilities 30,867 -405 30,462 Equity 13,417 -2,356 11,061 Equity/assets ratio 43.4% 36.9% Provision for pension 12 2,398 2,410 Income statement jan-mar 2012 Adjustment jan-mar 2012 Deferred tax liabilities 877 -413 464 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated Other long-term liabilities 3,043 3,043 EBIT 398 5 403 Current liabilities 12,843 12,843 Financial net -30 20 -10 Total liabilities 16,775 1,985 18,760 Taxes -103 -7 -110 Net income 265 18 283 Total equity and liabilities 30,192 -371 29,821 EPS, SEK 2.56 0.16 2.72 Other comprehensive income after tax 37 273 310 Equity/assets ratio 44.4% 37.1% Net comprehensive income 302 291 593 Opening balance 2012 Income statement jan-jun 2012 Adjustment jan-jun 2012 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated Statement of ﬁnancial position 01-01-2012 Adjustment 01-01-2012 MSEK actual IAS 19R restated EBIT 1,124 9 1,133 Fixed assets 12,802 -921 11,881 Financial net -47 39 -8 Deferred tax assets 86 457 543 Taxes -274 -10 -284 Current assets 18,911 18,911 Net income 803 38 841 Total assets 31,799 -464 31,335 EPS, SEK 7.61 0.35 7.96 Other comprehensive income after tax 1 40 41 Equity 13,069 -2,434 10,635 Net comprehensive income 804 78 882 Provision for pension 12 2,415 2,427 Deferred tax liabilities 1,012 -445 567 Other long-term liabilities 3,385 3,385 Current liabilities 14,321 14,321 Total liabilities 18,730 1,970 20,700 Total equity and liabilities 31,799 -464 31,335 Equity/assets ratio 41.1% 33.9% SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 103 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 37, CONT. Parent Company’s pension obligations 2008 Performance Share Plan Funds allocated for pensions according to the balance sheet correspond to Approximately 280 senior executives and key employees were invited to parthe net present value of existing pension obligations less funds that are ticipate in the first Performance Share Plan. The number of participants from secured by Saab’s pension fund. the outset was 193. Participants in the plan purchased 123,590 shares. It was determined after the close of the measurement period, 30 September 2011, MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 that the growth requirement earnings per share of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three year period had not been reached; accordingly, no ITP and the book reserve method 197 309 matching has been issued in 2012. Other pensions 50 88 Other provisions for pensions 87 72 2009 Performance Share Plan Total 334 469 In the second Performance Share Plan, the 138 participating employees purOf which credit guarantees in PRI Pensionsgaranti 268 389 chased 62,633 shares in 2010. It was determined after the close of the measurement period, 31 December 2012, that the growth requirement earnings per share of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the three-year period had been reached and totalled about 35 per cent. The participants will thus receive MSEK 2012 2011 a maximum matching award. Matching will take place on three occasions Amount of provision expected to be settled after more during 2013 and on occasion in January 2014. than 12 months 182 333 2010 Performance Share Plan Share Matching Plan In April 2007, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved In the third Performance Share Plan, the 115 participating employees purto offer employees the opportunity to participate in a Global Share Matching chased 46,972 shares in 2011. Plan. The Board considers it important that Saab’s employees share a longterm interest in the appreciation of the company’s shares. Employees who 2011 Performance Share Plan participate in the plan can have up to 5 per cent of their gross base salary In the fourth Performance Share Plan, the 176 articipating employees purwithheld to purchase shares on the nasdaq omx Stockholm during a twelvechased 82,007 shares in 2012. month period. If the employee retains the purchased shares for three years after the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the 2012 Share Matching Plan and Performance Share Plan employee will be allotted a corresponding number of Series b shares. In April 2012, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer employees a In April 2008, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to introduce a new Share Matching Plan and a new Performance Share Plan. The Share Performance-Based Plan for senior executives and key employees entitling Matching Plan for 2012 covers all employees. The Performance Share Plan them to 2–5 matching shares depending on the category the employee which covers senior executives and key employees, entitles participants to 1-4 belongs to. In addition to the requirement that the employee remain matching shares, depending on the category to which the employee belongs. employed by Saab after three years, there is a requirement that earnings per The plans start in January 2013 and continue through calendar year 2013. The share grow in the range of 5 to 15 per cent on average per year during the maximum number of matching shares in these two plans is 1,040,000. three-year period. The Annual General Meeting 2011 amended the terms of 2008 2009 2010 2011 the Performance Share Plan 2011, compared to previous years’ programmes, Share Matching Plan plan plan plan plan Total so that those who are eligible may also participate in Saab’s Share Matching Plan 2011 and so that the Performance Share Plan 2011 entitles participants to Number of matching shares 1-4 matching shares, depending on the category to which the employee at beginning of the year 588,796 431,696 299,272 1,319,764 belongs. Allotted during the year (treasury shares) 413,863 413,863 2008 Share Matching Plan Early matching -8,080 -8,009 -6,069 -1,287 -23,445 In April 2008, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer employees a Ordinary matching -575,426 -575,426 new Share Matching Plan with terms comparable to the 2007 plan. In 2009, employees purchased 680,267 Series b shares, corresponding to the maxiForfeited matching shares -5,290 -6,665 -3,946 -3,594 -19,495 mum number of matching shares. The number of participants from the outNumber of matching shares set was 3,194. Matching took place on four occasions during 2012. A total of eligible at year-end 417,022 289,257 408,982 1,115,261 631,434 shares were matched under the programme, corresponding to 93 per Number of participants, cent of the purchased shares. 31 Dec. 2012 2,558 2,181 2,765 % of total number of 2009 Share Matching Plan employees 18 16 20 In April 2009, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer a third Share Average remaining maturity, Matching Plan with terms comparable to the previous years’ plans. In 2010, years 0.7 1.7 2.7 participants purchased 462,877 Series b shares, corresponding to the total number of matching shares. The number of participants from the outset was 2009 2010 2011 2,841. Matching will take place on three occasions during 2013 and one occaPerformance Share Plan plan plan plan Total sion in January 2014. Number of matching shares at beginning of the year 55,269 46,650 101,919 2010 Share Matching Plan In April 2010, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer a fourth Share Allotted during the year (treasury shares) 82,007 82,007 Matching Plan with terms comparable to the previous years’ plans. In 2011, Forfeited matching shares -2,829 -1,631 -10,383 -14,843 participants purchased 303,033 Series b shares, corresponding to the total Number of matching shares number of matching shares. The number of participants from the outset eligible at year-end 52,440 45,019 71,624 169,083 was 2,315. Number of participants, 31 Dec. 2012 119 107 175 2011 Share Matching Plan Average remaining maturity, years 0.7 1.7 2.7 In April 2011, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer a fifth Share Matching Plan with terms comparable to the previous years’ plans. In 2012, participants purchased 413,863 Series b shares, corresponding to the total number of matching shares. The number of participants from the outset was 2,794. 104 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 37 CONT. For 2012, the cost of Håkan Buskhe’s pension, including itp, was Recognised expense for above-mentioned plan, sek 3,420,807 (3,187,551). including social security expenses 2012 2011 Share Matching Plan 2007 22 Severance terms Share Matching Plan 2008 13 25 If terminated by the company, the President will receive a salary and pension Share Matching Plan 2009 20 20 benefits for a period of six months (period of notice). Thereafter he will receive Share Matching Plan 2010 15 4 severance pay equivalent to one year of salary, based on his current fixed salShare Matching Plan 2011 8 ary. If the President does not obtain new employment, he will receive an additional six months of severance pay. The salary during the period of notice and Performance Share Plan 2009 5 5 severance will be deducted from income received from other employment durPerformance Share Plan 2010 5 1 ing the same period. If the President resigns voluntarily, there is a six-month Performance Share Plan 2011 3 period of notice with salary and pension benefits, but no severance pay. The Total 69 77 President’s agreement includes a non-compete clause. Remuneration to other senior executives The fair value of the services rendered is based on the share price of the matching shares that are expected to be allotted. The share price is deterThe group of other senior executives included 13 individuals (13) in 2012, conmined at the time of the participants’ investment adjusted by the dividend sisting of the Executive Vice President, heads of the business areas and Heads that does not accrue to the employee during the vesting period. of Group Staffs. During 2012, the following senior executives left their posiThe expense for the share plans is included in operating income and is tions at the company: General Counsel Anne Gynnerstedt (8 January) and recognised in the balance sheet as equity and accrued expenses (social secuSenior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Lars Granlöf (29 February). rity fees). Administrative expenses for the share matching plans amounted to Senior Vice President and Head of Group Human Resources Mikael Grodzmsek 6 (5) in 2012. insky left the Group Management on 31 January, the date on which Lena Eliasson assumed that post. The following two senior executives took up posts: SENIOR EXECUTIVES’ BENEFITS General Counsel Annika Bäremo (1 February) and Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Magnus Örnberg (1 November). From 1 March Remuneration to Board members through 31 October, Görgen Johansson served as Acting Senior Vice PresiIn accordance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting, the fees dent and Chief Financial Officer. At the turn of 2012/2013, Group Managepaid to members of the Board amount to sek 4,345,000 (4,075,000), consisting ment was therefore comprised of 14 persons, including the ceo. of sek 1,165,000 (1,100,000) to the Chairman, sek 480,000 (425,000) to the The salaries paid to other senior executives consist of a fixed salary. The Deputy Chairman and sek 450,000 (425,000) to each of the other members previous short-term variable portion was discontinued as of 2011 in accordelected by the Annual General Meeting, with the exception of the President. ance with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. Compensation issues For audit committee work, committee chairman Per-Arne Sandström regarding the other senior executives are prepared by the Head of Group also received a fee of sek 150,000 (150,000) and committee members Johan Human Resources and presented to the President, who makes a decision Forssell and Joakim Westh each received a fee of sek 100,000 (100,000). pending the approval of the Compensation Committee and the Board. For remuneration committee work, committee chairman Lena Treschow Since November 2008, all eligible executives have participated in the Saab Torell also received a fee of sek 135,000 (135,000) and committee members Global Performance Share Plans approved by the Annual General Meetings in Marcus Wallenberg and Sten Jakobsson each received a fee of sek 80,000 2009, 2010 and 2011. The Saab Global Performance Share Plan 2008 was con(80,000). cluded in January 2013. Outstanding matching rights in the Saab Global PerRemuneration to the President formance Share Plan 2009 amount to sek 3,032,384 (2,373,575) as of 31 DecemThe salary paid to the President and ceo consists of a fixed salary. The previber 2012 at estimated outcomes, while corresponding figures for the Saab ous short-term variable portion was discontinued as of 2011 in accordance Global Performance Share Plans 2010 and 2011 amount to sek 2,037,447 with the resolution of the Annual General Meeting. The preparation process (668,333) and sek 681,877, respectively, at estimated outcomes. for compensation issues regarding the President is handled by the Board’s In 2012, the other senior executives received salaries and other benefits Remuneration Committee according to the principles laid down by the totalling sek 45,334,496 (48,405,129), of which other benefits, including PerAnnual General Meeting and then voted on by the Board. formance Share Plans, accounted for sek 6,021,072 (4,112,686). Håkan Buskhe has participated since 1 September 2010 in the Saab Global Performance Share Plans approved by the 2009, 2010 and 2011 Annual GenPension terms eral Meetings. As of 1 January 2005, a pension age of 62 years applies to new executives. Outstanding matching rights in the Saab Global Performance Share Plan 2009 Among other senior executives, two individuals have a pension age of 60 years. amount to sek 510,265 (260,329) as of 31 December 2012 at estimated outcomes. In addition to itp, 13 members of the group (13) are affiliated with the Saab Corresponding figures for the Saab Global Performance Share Plans 2010 and plan, which is defined-contribution and vested. The Saab plan provides pen2011 are sek 1,191,681 (275,318) and 347,060, respectively, at estimated outcomes. sions benefits over and above itp or its equivalent on salary levels between 20 During the period 1 January through 31 December 2012, Håkan Buskhe and 30 basic amounts as well as on salary segments over 30 basic amounts. The received salary and other benefits totaling sek 10,749,306 (10,341,508), of individuals themselves can decide on the payment term, though this must fall which other benefits, including Performance Share Plans, amounted to within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. Moreover, an insurance polsek 1,539,935 (1,678,261). icy finances the period between the ages of 60 or 62 years and 65 years. The pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums, which are based Pension terms on a percentage of qualifying salaries. The percentage rate is determined by The retirement age for the President is 62 years. The President has a definedeach executive’s time remaining until the pension age, 60 or 62 years, when contribution pension plan. He may decide himself on the payment term, joining the plan. The aggregate insurance balance should cover a targeted though this must fall within the provisions of Swedish income tax law. The pension from 65 years of approximately 32.5 per cent of salary levels between pension cost for Saab consists of pension premiums amounting to 30 per cent 20 and 30 basic amounts and approximately 50 per cent of segments over 30 of the fixed salary until the President turns 50, after which the pension prebasic amounts of qualifying salaries. Premium payments continue as long as mium will amount to 35 per cent of the fixed salary. Pension premiums are the individuals remain in their positions or as employees of the company. paid as long as the President remains an employee of the company, but not Of the other senior executives, two individuals received cash settlements beyond the age of 62. During his first five years of employment, the President of a non-recurring nature upon recruitment. An amount totalling also receives an extra pension contribution of sek 440,000, payment of which sek 1,990,000 will be paid during a period of 36 months from the start of is made annually and is conditional on Håkan Buskhe remaining an employee. employment. The payments are made monthly in the form of pension premiTo this is added the cost of pension premiums according to the itp plan. ums and are conditional upon the recipients not giving notice of termination The pension commitment is vested. of employment. sek 358,056 has been paid during 2012. Pension obligations SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 105 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 37, CONT. are vested. In 2012, pension costs for other senior executives, including itp falls after the contractual pension age. Employees hired before 1 January 2005 and its equivalent, amounted to sek 16,677,569 (16,127,093). Other senior who have reached the age of 55 are entitled to another six months of severance. executives are entitled, or obliged if the company so requests, to retire on The salary during the period of notice and severance will be deducted pension as of the age of 60 or 62 years. from income received from other employment during the same period. If they resign voluntarily, there is a six-month period of notice with salary and penSeverance terms sion benefits, but no severance pay. If terminated by the company, the group of other senior executives will receive a salary and pension benefits for six months (period of notice). Thereafter Other benefits they will receive severance pay equivalent to 18 months of salary, based on All senior executives have a company car and medical insurance. Several sentheir fixed salary. Severance is paid monthly with the first payment in the ior executives also have benefits in the form of overnight housing and travel. month after employment has ended. Severance is not paid for the period that Summary of compensation and other beneﬁts during 2012 Provisions 2012 for Base salary/ long-term variable Board and Variable Performance compensation at SEK Committee fee compensation Share Plan Other beneﬁts 3) Pension cost Total estimated outcome Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,245,000 1,245,000 Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 560,000 560,000 Other Board members Åke Svensson 450,000 450,000 Johan Forssell 550,000 550,000 Per-Arne Sandström 600,000 600,000 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 450,000 450,000 2) Lena Treschow Torell 585,000 585,000 Joakim Westh 550,000 550,000 President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 9,209,371 1,513,359 26,576 3,420,807 14,170,113 2,049,006 1) Other senior executives 39,313,424 358,056 3,535,145 2,485,927 16,319,513 62,012,065 5,751,708 Total 53,512,795 358,056 5,048,504 2,512,503 19,740,320 81,172,178 7,800,714 1) Relates to remuneration to two senior executives, which, according to their contracts, was paid in the form of pension premiums. 2) Social security costs must be added since parts of the fees are invoiced through a limited company. Board members who invoice the amount for board and committee fees through a limited company may on their invoices add an amount for social security contributions. The social security contributions included in the invoiced amount do not exceed the employer’s contribution the company otherwise would have paid. 3) Including compensation for the additional costs the beneﬁts lead to. Guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior executives are described in the administration report. Summary of compensation and other beneﬁts during 2011 Provisions 2011 for Base salary/ long-term variable Board and Variable Performance compensation at SEK Committee fee compensation Share Plan Other beneﬁts 6) Pension cost Total estimated outcome Chairman of the Board Marcus Wallenberg 1,180,000 1,180,000 Deputy Chairman Sten Jakobsson 505,000 505,000 Other Board members 1) Åke Svensson 425,000 425,000 Johan Forssell 525,000 525,000 Per-Arne Sandström 575,000 575,000 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 425,000 425,000 Lena Treschow Torell 560,000 560,000 Joakim Westh 525,000 525,000 Michael O’Callaghan 7) President and CEO Håkan Buskhe 4) 8,663,247 520,042 1,158,219 2) 3,187,551 13,529,059 535,647 4) 5) 3) 5) Other senior executives 41,898,577 2,393,866 2,365,683 1,747,003 16,127,093 64,532,222 3,041,908 Total 55,281,824 2,393,866 2,885,725 2,905,222 19,314,644 82,781,281 3,577,555 1) Excluding consultant’s fee payed to member of the Board. 2) Including beneﬁts for air travel. 3) Including remuneration to two senior executives, which, according to their contracts, was paid in the form of pension premiums. 4) In addition, cash payments related to bonuses for 2010 were made in the amount of SEK 3,665,530. 5) Including estimated remuneration allocated for seniors executives who leave Group Management in 2012. 6) Including compensation for the additional costs the beneﬁts lead to. 7) Employed by BAE Systems. Resigned on June 16 2011, as a result of BAE System’s sale of its shareholding in Saab. 106 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 38 Provisions Other provisions MSEK Group Parent Company Group Opening balance, 1 January 2012 735 278 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Provisions allocated during the year 69 44 Provisions that are long-term liabilities Amount utilised during the year -115 -74 Obligations related to regional aircraft 684 1,119 Reversal of unutilised amount -38 -11 Expenditures for restructuring measures 66 89 Reclassiﬁcation -5 Loss contracts 229 245 Translation differences and other -14 Other 307 275 Closing balance, 31 December 2012 632 237 Total 1,286 1,728 Total provisions Provisions that are current liabilities MSEK Group Parent Company Obligations related to regional aircraft 10 12 Opening balance, 1 January 2012 2,474 1,034 Expenditures for restructuring measures 52 115 Provisions allocated during the year 405 246 Loss contracts 178 160 Amount utilised during the year -939 -419 Other 325 459 Reversal of unutilised amount -45 -18 Total 565 746 Reclassiﬁcation -8 Translation differences and other -44 Parent Company Closing balance, 31 December 2012 1,851 835 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Regional aircraft Obligations related to regional aircraft 278 320 Commitments regarding regional aircraft refer to anticipated deficits and Expenditures for restructuring measures 54 78 other obligations related to the termination of the leasing portfolio. Saab Loss contracts 266 358 expects the leasing portfolio to be divested around 2015. Other 237 278 Restructuring Total 835 1,034 Structural costs primarily relate to the costs to adapt resources and changeover costs. The expenditure is expected to fall in 2013-2015. Obligations related to regional aircraft Project losses MSEK Group Parent Company Provisions for project losses on the closing day primarily relate to HelicopOpening balance, 1 January 2012 1,131 320 ter 14, command and control projects and certain other military projects. Amount utilised during the year -408 -42 The provisions are utilised in pace with the project’s completion. Translation differences and other -29 Other provisions Closing balance, 31 December 2012 694 278 Other provisions primarily relate to provisions for guarantees and remaining costs in projects as well as for environmental commitments. Expenditures for restructuring measures No provision has been made for liability risks associated with the production MSEK Group Parent Company of civil aircraft or the production of sub-components for civil aircraft. Opening balance, 1 January 2012 204 78 Provisions allocated during the year 35 33 NOTE 39 Other Liabilities Amount utilised during the year -114 -52 Reversal of unutilised amount -1 -1 Group Reclassiﬁcation -6 -4 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Closing balance, 31 December 2012 118 54 Other long-term liabilities Long-term prepaid revenue 20 49 Loss contracts Other 285 390 MSEK Group Parent Company Total 305 439 Opening balance, 1 January 2012 404 358 Provisions allocated during the year 301 169 Other current liabilities Amount utilised during the year -302 -251 Liabilities to associated companies 5 6 Reversal of unutilised amount -6 -6 Value-added tax 136 240 Reclassiﬁcation 11 -4 Preliminary tax 177 129 Translation differences and other -1 Deposits in leasing operations 17 31 Closing balance, 31 December 2012 407 266 Other 425 341 Total 760 747 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 107 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 39, CONT. Group NOTE 41 Financial Risk Management and Financial Instruments MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Liabilities due for payment more than ﬁve years Saab’s financial assets and liabilities and contractual obligations give rise to after closing day 32 32 financial risks. These risks are managed to a large extent with various financial instruments. Parent Company Financial risk management MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 The Board of Directors of Saab has approved a Group Treasury Policy, which Value-added tax 81 163 provides an overall description of the management of financial risks and Preliminary tax 116 73 treasury operations. The goal is to identify and actively manage financial risks in order to reduce the negative impact on the Group’s results, competitive Other 432 251 strength and financial flexibility. Total 629 487 The financial risks are defined as follows: t Foreign currency risk Liabilities due for payment more than ﬁve years t Interest rate risk after closing day 12 12 t Liquidity and financing risk t Commodity risk Other liabilities in the Parent Company include both interest-bearing and t Credit and counterparty risk non-interest-bearing liabilities. For a comparison with the Group, see also Note 35. Saab uses derivatives primarily to: Saab does not consider there to be a significant difference between book t convert anticipated commercial cash flows in foreign currency to sek and fair value. t convert borrowings in sek, or surpluses in sek, to the currencies in which assets are denominated (primarily relates to aircraft that Saab owns in its leasing fleet) NOTE 40 Accrued Expenses and Deferred Income t convert the fixed interest periods in leases to coincide with leasing revenue and the desired fixed interest rates for other assets and liabilities Group Parent Company Responsibility for managing the Group’s financial risks and developing methMSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 ods and principles to manage financial risks is centralised in Group Treasury. Accrued expenses The operating business areas have directives and processes that describe how Accrued project costs 1,061 1,620 513 1,134 financial risks shall be managed. Furthermore, Group Management has issued detailed directives and guidelines for Group Treasury’s operations. Vacation pay liability 877 787 672 584 Management of insurance is centralised in the Group’s insurance company, Expected invoices 333 467 262 419 Lansen Försäkrings ab, where external transactions are handled as well. CusSocial security expenses 463 444 348 321 tomer finance, guaranty and finance issues are also managed by Group Treasury. The Group’s internal bank, Saab Treasury, is responsible for the Group’s Personnel liabilities 204 238 131 171 cash management, financing, management of interest rate and currency risks Accrued leasing costs 79 103 and also electricity risks. Saab has an agreement with an external party to manCost of customer commitage the Group’s electricity risks through discretionary management. Other ments in regional aircraft 166 95 166 95 commodity risk is managed primarily through contractual clauses. Claims reserve 78 57 29 2 To a limited extent, the Group Treasury Policy allows proprietary trading in currency and fixed income derivatives. The main purpose of this trading is Royalties and commissions 121 35 107 22 to gain access to qualitative market information and maintain a high level of Accrued interest 16 23 16 23 market expertise. Saab Treasury has a risk mandate expressed as var (Value at Other 277 223 231 50 Risk) of msek 50 (50), which is divided between management of economic risks in the Tender to Contract portfolio, trading and electricity derivatives. Total accrued expenses 3,675 4,092 2,475 2,821 During the year, approximately msek 15 was allocated to the trading portfolio and approximately msek 35 to the Tender to Contract portfolio. VaR is a probaDeferred income bility-based method based on historical price fluctuations and correlations and is considered a standard in the financial industry. The method provides a Liabilities to customers 3,039 4,038 2,711 3,628 measure of the probability of the maximum loss over a specific number of Prepaid insurance days. Saab uses three days and a 99-per cent probability. The Treasury Risk compensation 244 417 Analysis unit reports each portfolio’s risk defined according to established risk Retained project interest 8 12 8 12 measures to Group Management on a daily basis. Capitalised changes in value related to forward contract Financial instruments rollovers 362 578 Financial assets in the Group mainly comprise accounts receivable, accrued Other 27 70 17 67 income, interest-bearing receivables, liquid assets, fixed income investments and derivatives with positive market values. Saab’s financial liabilities mainly Total deferred income 3,318 4,537 3,098 4,285 comprise interest-bearing liabilities, accounts payable, accrued expenses and derivatives with negative market values. The following tables show a subdiTotal 6,993 8,629 5,573 7,106 vided statement of financial position categorised and classified according to ias 39. A more detailed description of the categories can be found in Note 1, Saab does not consider there to be a significant difference between book and Accounting principles. fair value. 108 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 41, CONT. Fair value Designated Loans Derivatives Derivatives through as at fair Held-toreceivable identiﬁed identiﬁed proﬁt and value through maturity and as cash as fair Total ﬁnancial Classiﬁcation and categorisation of loss for proﬁt and investaccounts Financial ﬂow value assets Measured at ﬁnancial assets and liabilities trading loss ments receivable liabilities hedges hedges and liabilities fair value 2012 Financial assets Financial investments 49 144 193 192 Long-term receivables 879 879 879 Derivatives Forward exchange contracts 30 440 16 486 486 Currency options 24 24 24 Interest rate swaps 1 1 1 Electricity derivatives 3 3 3 Total derivatives 55 443 16 514 514 Accounts receivable and other receivables 6,361 6,361 6,361 Short-term investments 3,963 3,963 3,963 Liquid assets 1,616 1,616 1,616 Total ﬁnancial assets 55 4,012 144 8,856 443 16 13,526 13,525 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 1,742 1,742 1,758 Derivatives Forward exchange contracts 4 191 3 198 198 Currency options 15 15 15 Interest rate swaps 24 24 24 Electricity derivatives 17 17 17 Total derivatives 43 208 3 254 254 Other liabilities 5,848 5,848 5,848 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 43 7,590 208 3 7,844 7,860 2011 Financial assets Financial investments 54 143 197 199 Long-term receivables 1,046 1,046 1,046 Derivatives Forward exchange contracts 15 430 21 466 466 Currency options 29 29 29 Interest rate swaps 1 1 1 Electricity derivatives 23 1 24 24 Total derivatives 68 431 21 520 520 Accounts receivable and other receivables 7,136 7,136 7,136 Short-term investments 4,555 4,555 4,555 Liquid assets 1,918 1,918 1,918 Total ﬁnancial assets 68 4,609 143 10,100 431 21 15,372 15,374 Financial liabilities Interest-bearing liabilities 1,738 1,738 1,751 Derivatives Forward exchange contracts 15 492 8 515 515 Currency options 43 43 43 Interest rate swaps 31 31 31 Electricity derivatives 22 17 39 39 Total derivatives 111 509 8 628 628 Other liabilities 6,201 6,201 6,201 Total ﬁnancial liabilities 111 7,939 509 8 8,567 8,580 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 109 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 41, CONT. The Group’s outstanding derivatives Currency derivatives Fair value 2012 Fair value 2011 Nominal Liability Nominal Liability Million Currency currency Asset SEK SEK Net currency Asset SEK SEK Net Maturity up to one year EUR -264 122 53 69 -299 160 46 114 USD -511 111 41 70 -342 57 160 -103 Other 46 43 3 67 79 -12 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities up to one year, total 279 137 142 284 285 -1 Maturity one to three years EUR -80 66 40 26 -119 78 39 39 USD -217 63 12 51 -186 46 115 -69 Other 5 5 12 17 -5 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities of one to three years, total 134 57 77 136 171 -35 Maturity three to ﬁve years EUR -66 27 6 21 -32 22 11 11 USD -125 51 3 48 -172 27 49 -22 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities of three to ﬁve years, total 78 9 69 49 60 -11 Maturity over ﬁve years EUR -26 16 16 -30 20 20 USD -21 2 1 1 -59 7 15 -8 Outstanding currency derivatives with maturities over ﬁve years, total 18 1 17 27 15 12 Currency derivatives, total1) 509 204 305 496 531 -35 1) Retained premiums on open currency option contracts amount to MSEK 9 (28). Interest derivatives Fair value 2012 Fair value 2011 Nominal Liability Nominal Liability Million Currency currency Asset SEK SEK Net currency Asset SEK SEK Net Maturity up to one year SEK 668 1 9 -8 600 4 -4 USD 2 -2 Outstanding interest derivatives with maturities up to one year, total 1 9 -8 6 -6 Maturity one to three years SEK 453 21 -21 1,021 1 22 -21 USD 16 7 -7 Outstanding interest derivatives with maturities of one to three years, total 28 -28 1 22 -21 Maturity three to ﬁve years SEK 100 6 -6 USD 20 16 -16 Outstanding interest derivatives with maturities of three to ﬁve years, total 22 -22 Maturity over ﬁve years SEK Outstanding interest derivatives with maturities over ﬁve years, total Interest derivatives, total2) 1 37 -36 1 50 -49 2) Market value includes accrued interest of MSEK -13 (-19) and retained premiums on open contracts of MSEK 0 (0). Electricity derivatives Fair value 2012 Fair value 2011 Liability Liability Million Megawatt Asset SEK SEK Net Megawatt Asset SEK SEK Net Maturity up to one year 14 4 13 -9 15 24 34 -10 Outstanding electricity derivatives with maturities up to one year, total 4 13 -9 24 34 -10 Maturity one to three years 17 4 -4 14 5 -5 Outstanding electricity derivatives with maturities of one to three years, total 4 -4 5 -5 Electricity derivatives, total 4 17 -13 24 39 -15 DERIVATIVES, TOTAL 514 258 256 521 620 -99 (of which derivatives used for cash ﬂow hedges) 235 -78 Accrued interest and retained premiums, see Notes 1 and 2 above -4 -4 -9 -9 Netting accrued interest and premiums 8 8 DERIVATIVES ACCORDING TO GROUP’S FINANCIAL POSITION 514 254 260 520 628 -108 110 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 41, CONT. Foreign currency risk on Group Treasury policy. If the external hedges for the portfolio’s tender The Group hedges the entire order backlog with the help of currency derivahedges correspond with the portfolio’s pre-defined benchmark hedges, the tives. As a result, changes in exchange rates do not affect the Group’s future tender insurance portfolio will by definition be risk-neutral – i.e., its var results with respect to the current order backlog. Future order bookings are measure will be nil. exposed to fluctuations in exchange rates in terms of competitive strength. The var for tender hedge portfolio amounted to msek 7 (24) at year-end. This is managed partly by Group Treasury, which hedges the economic expoHedge accounting is not applied to the portfolio’s hedges, due to which the sure in fixed price tenders. Group’s results are affected by the outcome of the tenders and the exchange rate for the underlying currency pair. The portfolio’s effect on the Group’s Definitions result in 2012 was msek 15 (-32). Foreign currency risk refers to the risk that fluctuations in exchange rates will negatively affect income. Exchange rate fluctuations affect Saab’s income and Transaction exposure equity in various ways: Future cash flows in foreign currency from the order backlog and framework t Income is affected when sales and the cost of goods and services sold agreements are hedged to safeguard gross margins. In 2012, countries outside are in currencies other than the functional currency (economic and Sweden accounted for 64 per cent (63) of Saab’s sales. Since a large part of transaction exposure) production takes place in Sweden with expenses denominated in sek, Saab t Income is affected when the income of foreign Group companies is has large net flows in foreign currency. translated to sek (translation exposure) The order backlog contains contracted flows and therefore constitutes t Income or equity is affected when the assets and liabilities of foreign a transaction exposure. The predominant contract currencies in the order Group companies are translated to sek (translation exposure) backlog of sek 34.2 billion (37.2) are sek, usd, eur and gbp. Of the total t Income can be affected by impairment tests of non-hedged future order backlog, 68 per cent (63) is in fixed prices with or without indexing, cash flows in foreign currency in unprofitable contracts (impairment while the remaining 32 per cent (37) contains variable prices with index testing) and/or currency clauses. Netting is applied at the Group level to minimise the transaction exposure Saab manages the above-mentioned types of exposure. Policy descriptions in foreign currencies; i.e., incoming currency is utilised to pay for purchases are provided under each exposure. in the same currency. Currency clauses or transactions in the currency marFramework agreements, which contain both transaction and economic ket with forward exchange contracts as hedging instruments are used as well. exposures, are in place mainly for various civil aeronautics programmes. Hedges are normally arranged for each specific contract. The average forward rate is then used as the contract’s rate of revenue recognition. Economic exposure An analysis has been made of the currency sensitivity of the market Fixed-price tenders in foreign currency entail a foreign currency risk that value of outstanding external hedges for the order backlog and framework constitutes an economic exposure. This risk is limited primarily through agreements. The effect of a change in exchange rates in the net result of cash contract formulations (foreign currency clauses) or by bidding in the same flow hedges in equity (pre-tax) where the sek depreciates (making foreign currency as the Group unit’s expenses. currency more expensive) or appreciates is shown in the following table. In cases where fixed-price tenders are issued in foreign currency, the net exposure is hedged with financial instruments. The foreign currency risk that Market value SEK depreciation SEK appreciation arises for tenders is managed by Saab Treasury within the framework of the 31-12-2012 of 10% of 10% Tender to Contract portfolio. The purpose of the portfolio is to minimise the Market value in MSEK 273 -488 1,034 Group’s foreign currency risk during the tender period and reduce hedging costs. The following table shows outstanding nominal net hedges by currency Change -761 761 as of year-end. The currency sensitivity in the order backlog i shown in the table below, i.e., 1) 2) the effects of a change in exchange raters when the sek depriciates or appreciForward contracts Options Total hedge ates in value. In the table, the order backlog for foreign subsidiaries has been Net hedges restated to msek. (million) 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 USD -189 6 -162 -177 -351 -171 Order backlog SEK depreciation SEK appreciation 31-12-2012 of 10% of 10% EUR -31 -31 -43 -88 -74 -119 GBP -16 -6 -3 -11 -19 -17 Order backlog, MSEK 34,151 34,561 33,741 AUD 4 4 Change 410 -410 CAD -37 -37 Hedge accounting according to ias 39 is applied to derivatives intended to CZK 35 35 hedge the transaction exposure. The inefficiency in the cash flow hedges that THB -1,382 -1,382 affected net income for the year amount to msek 0 (1). 1) Also contains sold call and put options. 2) Refers to the net of purchased call and put options. The tender insurance portfolio is governed by a risk measure based on a probability-weighted VaR measure consisting of two parts. One part is the cumulative VaR measure of the external hedge for each tender hedge. The other part is the cumulative VaR measure of the benchmark hedge for each tender hedge. The benchmark hedge is the hedge to be used externally based SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 111 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 41, CONT. The table below shows the cash flows corresponding to the derivatives recognised as cash flow hedges in 2012 and 2011 expressed in millions in local currency. Cash ﬂow hedges by currency CZK EUR GBP NOK THB USD ZAR Million Outﬂow Inﬂow Net Outﬂow Inﬂow Net Outﬂow Inﬂow Net Outﬂow Inﬂow Net Outﬂow Inﬂow Net Outﬂow Inﬂow Net Outﬂow Inﬂow Net < 90 days -31 27 -4 -31 123 92 -25 50 25 9 9 -135 1,139 1,004 -93 183 90 -13 1 -12 91-180 days -10 20 10 -8 33 25 -6 38 32 -1 1 -101 421 320 -32 67 35 -18 15 -3 181-210 days -19 4 -15 -13 37 24 -2 13 11 -29 568 539 -22 51 29 211-360 days -11 19 8 -14 51 37 -5 5 1 1 -10 50 40 -38 60 22 -11 -11 2014 -6 17 11 -30 70 40 -2 10 8 -84 1,251 1,167 -32 121 89 -1 -1 2015 3 3 -13 35 22 -2 -2 -38 555 517 -22 111 89 2016 -5 51 46 -11 -11 -5 86 81 2017 -2 11 9 39 39 2018 and forward -1 21 20 22 22 Total ﬂows 2012 -77 90 13 -117 432 315 -42 116 74 -1 11 10 -408 3,984 3,576 -244 740 496 -43 16 -27 Total ﬂows 2011 -34 148 114 -153 501 348 -51 158 107 -9 8 -1 -46 2,350 2,304 -245 912 667 -129 41 -88 Translation exposure become confirmed orders. In connection with impairment tests of loss conThe translation exposure in the Group relates to the operations of foreign tracts, income is affected by the revaluation of future cash flows at spot rates. subsidiaries. Saab Aircraft Leasing’s operations in Sweden have their ecoLarger changes in exchange rates, primarily in usd against sek, have a signifinomic environments in usd (functional currency) and are translated from cant impact on income. This exposure is not hedged. the functional currency to sek. The translation exposure comprises net assets in foreign currency and arises in connection with acquisitions and divestInterest rate risks ments. The value of equity subject to translation exposure amounted to Interest rate risk refers to the risk that Saab will be negatively affected by msek 3,443 (2,704) at year-end; see the table below. changes in interest rate levels. Net assets translated to SEK Interest rate risk has been identified in the following areas: MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 t Saab is exposed to interest rate risk when the market value of certain items in the statement of financial position is affected by changes in USD 1,581 1,861 underlying interest rates. Large items of this type refer to pension obEUR 533 33 ligations and leasing operations. AUD 434 470 t Saab’s net financial items are affected by changes in market rates. Interest rate effects on advance financing affect gross income. ZAR 440 573 Other currencies 455 433 Interest rate risks in the Group’s financial investments are managed based on Total 3,443 3,370 high liquidity and a duration of 12 months, with the option of deviating by +/– 12 months. As of year-end, the duration for investments was 17 months (18). Interest rate risks in the Group’s funding are managed based on a benchThe effect on net assets of a change in exchange rates where the sek deprecimark with an 18-month duration, with the option of deviating by ates or appreciates is shown in the table below. +/–18 months. As of year-end, the duration for financing was 8 months (14). Sensitivity analysis of net assets Interest rate futures and swaps are used for interest risk management to achieve the desired duration in the financing. For a sensitivity analysis, see Net assets SEK appreciation SEK depreciation MSEK 31-12-2012 of 10% of 10% also the section on liquidity and financing risk in this note. Lending to subsidiaries in foreign currency is normally financed in sek, which is converted USD 1,581 1,423 1,740 to the subsidiary’s currency through swaps. Interest rate swaps in usd are EUR 533 480 587 used mainly for interest risk management in the leasing portfolio, where the AUD 434 390 477 interest rate risk is fully matched. The pension liability, the present value of future pension obligations, is ZAR 440 396 484 the largest interest rate risk due to the liability’s long duration; see also the Other currencies 455 410 499 Saab Pension Fund section of this note. Total 3,443 3,099 3,787 Liquidity and ﬁnancing risks Liquidity and financing risk refers to the risk that the company will not be The foreign currency risk to the Group’s income and equity from translation able to meet its payment obligations due to insufficient liquidity or difficulty effects (the translation exposure ) is not hedged, pursuant to the Group raising external loans on acceptable terms. Treasury Policy. According to the Group Treasury Policy, Saab must always maintain unutilised credit facilities or liquid assets corresponding to the higher of (but not Impairment tests less than msek 3,000, adjusted for loans with maturity date within 12 months): Long-term contracts in commercial aircraft programmes consist of a hedged t 10 per cent of sales (total sales) order backlog and estimated future orders (business case) with cash flows t 50 per cent of outstanding on-demand guarantees for the three primarily in usd. Cash flows from the latter are normally hedged when they largest commitments 112 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 41, CONT. Liquidity and financing risks are minimised by diversifying financing investments of msek 5,579 (6,473), msek 10 (10) was pledged as trading secusources and maturities. rity to omx. The sensitivity analysis below shows the effect on income of an Saab’s policy is to insure on-demand guarantees for major projects against increase in market interest rates and the credit margin of 1 basis point for unauthorised use. This applies to contracts where the counterparty is classiSaab’s investments. fied as a developing country according to the definition of the Export Credits Guarantee Board (ekn). Insurance can be obtained from state guarantee Placements in interest-bearing securities and bank deposits institutions or the private insurance market. Sensitivity analysis of ﬁnancial risk Effect of Effect of Saab has access to the following credit facilities: market incredit Effect on MSEK Fixed terest rate, Tied-up spread, ﬁnancial Loan facilities Maturities interest 1% capital 1% costs MSEK Facility Utilised Available 1 year 2,788 28 2,485 25 53 Club loan (matures 2016) 4,000 4,000 2 years -203 -2 100 1 -1 Total conﬁrmed credit facilities 4,000 4,000 3 years 880 9 880 9 18 Commercial paper 5,000 5,000 4 years 1,170 11 1,170 11 22 Medium Term Notes (MTN) 3,000 1,100 1,900 5 years and Receivables ﬁnancing 1,515 852 663 forward Total loan programmes 9,515 1,952 7,563 Total 4,635 46 4,635 46 92 Adjustment 1) 190 Total loan facilities 13,515 1,952 11,563 Total 4,825 1) Adjustment of nominal value compared to book value due to market valuation at a premium or discount. The club loan is a credit facility with an equivalent value of msek 4,000 evenly divided between eight banks and expiring in 2016. No financial covenants are Current interest-bearing liabilities mainly consist of mtns in issue of attached to the club loan or the other credit facilities. msek 1,100 that was reported as a long-term interest-bearing liability in 2011 A commercial paper programme with a limit of msek 5,000 is available as and liabilities to joint ventures of msek 378 (449). Long-term interest-bearing well. Neither the commercial paper programme nor the club loan was used in liabilities amount to msek 105 (1,218). Of the long-term interest-bearing lia2012. bilities, msek 24 (1,128) matures within 1-5 years and msek 81 (90) in more In 2009, Saab established a Medium Term Note (mtn) programme with a than 5 years. limit of msek 3,000 or an equivalent value in eur. The mtn programme proThe maturity structure of liabilities to credit institutions is indicated in vides access to financing for up to 15 years, which is an element in diversifying the tied-up capital column of the “Sensitivity analysis of financial risk” table. loan maturities. The volume of tied-up capital includes interest rate swaps. The interest rate risk in the loans given a 1 basis point parallel shift in the yield curve was Net liquidity msek 20 (21) as of 31 December 2012. The sensitivity analysis below shows the Net liquidity excluding interest-bearing receivables and provisions for penimpact on results of an increase in market interest rates and an equally large sions amounted to msek 3,837 (4,735) on 31 December 2012. Liquidity varied increase in the credit margin of 1 basis point for Saab’s refinancing of credits. during the year, and surplus liquidity was placed as per the Group Treasury Policy. At year-end, placements in interest-bearing securities and bank Financing (refers to utilised credit facilities) deposits amounted to msek 4,825 (5,638). Sensitivity analysis of ﬁnancial risk Effect of Effect of Net liquidity market incredit Effect on MSEK Note 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 MSEK Fixed terest rate, Tied-up spread, ﬁnancial Maturities interest 1% capital 1% costs Assets 1 year 1,702 17 1,952 20 37 Liquid assets 31 1,616 1,918 2 years 150 2 2 Short-term investments 25 3,963 4,555 3 years 100 1 1 Total liquid investments 5,579 6,473 4 years Short-term interest-bearing receivables 27 326 368 5 years and forward Long-term interest-bearing receivables 27 109 99 Total 1,952 20 1,952 20 40 Long-term interest-bearing ﬁnancial investments 25 144 143 Total interest-bearing assets 6,158 7,083 Commodity risks Price risks are divided into two parts: Liabilities t Commodity price risk refers to the risk that purchasing costs for maShort-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 1,637 520 terial will rise. t Electricity price risk refers to the risk that Saab could be negatively afLong-term interest-bearing liabilities 35 105 1,218 fected by changes in electricity prices. Provisions for pensions 37 11 12 Total interest-bearing liabilities 1,753 1,750 According to the Group’s policy, commodity risk is minimised and managed primarily through contract clauses with customers/suppliers. To minimise the risk to Saab’s operating margin, future electricity consumption is hedged. Net liquidity 4,405 5,333 This is done by hedging projected consumption according to a model where 100 per cent of the next quarter’s consumption is hedged. The hedging level As of 31 December 2012, net liquidity amounted to msek 4,405 (5,333) with an then drops on a straight-line basis to 0 per cent in quarter 13. Swedish units average during the year of msek 4,844 (4,560). The net of interest income consume around 142 (156) gwh per year with a spot price risk of msek 1.4 received and interest expenses paid amounted to msek 117 (-70). Of the liquid (1.6) per every time the price of electricity changes by sek 0.01. Electricity SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 113 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 41, CONT. directives are managed through a discretionary management mandate, under Advances paid to suppliers which the manager has the mandate to accept risks in relation to benchmarks Advances paid to suppliers constitute a credit risk, since the counterparty’s (hedging strategy) at the equivalent of msek 1 (1) expressed in var. The marservices have not been fully rendered. As of 31 December 2012, the Group had ket value of electricity derivatives as of year-end was msek -13 (-15). After the paid its suppliers advances of msek 89 (139). As the Group’s policy is to mainintroduction of additional price areas in Sweden on 1 November 2011, sto was tain bank-guaranteed security for any advances it pays, the commercial supre-named se3. Since 1 January 2010, electricity derivatives are used as cash plier credit risk is considered low. flow hedges for the Stockholm price area (se3). Inefficiency affecting net income for the year amounted to msek -3 (1). Financial credit risks Financial credit risk consists of exposures to banks through deposits, securiCredit and counterparty risks ties investments and/or the market value of outstanding derivatives. Credit risk is the risk that the counterparty in a transaction will not be able to fulfil the financial obligations of a contract. In the course of its day-to-day The Group’s policy for managing financial credit risks is to: operations, Saab is exposed to credit risks as a result of transactions with t Ensure that all financial counterparties have a long-term credit rating counterparties in the form of customers, suppliers and financial players. The of no lower than a from Standard and Poor’s or a 3 from Moody’s Group’s aggregate credit risks consist of commercial credit risks and financial t Assign each financial counterparty a credit limit based on its longcredit risks. term credit rating t Enter into isda master agreements with financial counterparties to Commercial credit risks net the positive and negative market values of outstanding derivatives According to the Group’s policy, commercial credit risks are identified and actively managed on a case-by-case basis. Credit risks that arise in customer Credit risk is calculated on established and anticipated risks pursuant to the contracts are managed by utilising available banking, insurance or export recommendations of the Bank of International Settlements (bis I). On credit institutions. According to the policy, credit risks that arise through 31 December 2012, counterparty risks amounted to msek 5,356 (5,859), of advances paid to suppliers are managed by always maintaining bank-guaranwhich deposits with banks, mortgage institutions, companies and the Swedteed security for any advances. Commercial credit risks consist of outstandish state totalled msek 4,916 (5,651). ing accounts receivable and advances paid to suppliers. Trading Accounts receivable The Board has given Saab Treasury a risk mandate for trading in currency On 31 December 2012, the Group’s outstanding accounts receivable amounted and money market instruments. During the year, msek 15 was allocated to to msek 3,454 (3,153). The Receivables Financing Programme reduced trading expressed according to var. If the cumulative result for the year is accounts receivable at year-end by 852 (872). Defence-related sales accounted negative, the mandate is reduced correspondingly. In 2012, trading income for 82 per cent (84) of total sales, where the counterparties in most accounts was msek 31 (32), which is reported as other operating income. The average receivable are nations with high creditworthiness. The Group’s receivables are utilised risk mandate (var) during the year was msek 3 (3). mainly in the eu, which accounted for 56 per cent (48) of the total. Where counterparties’ creditworthiness is deemed unsatisfactory, bank or insurance Hedge accounting guarantees or guarantees from ekn are secured. Hedge accounting to fair value is applied to foreign exchange contracts and In connection with cash transactions, Saab generally requires that a letter currency swaps. The market value of currency derivatives accounted for as of credit is opened in its name to ensure that payment is received. fair value hedges and the market value of hedged items are indicated in the Write-downs of accounts receivable amounted to msek 13 (19), corretable below. For information on the impact on net income for the year of sponding to 0.3 per cent (0.5) of total accounts receivable. Write-downs of gains and losses on derivatives accounted for as fair value hedges, see Note 6, accounts receivable have changed as follows. Other operating expenses. MSEK 2012 2011 Hedge accouting to fair value, MSEK 2012 2011 Write-downs, 1 January -19 -22 Foreign currency risk in order backlog (hedged item) -13 -13 Write-downs for calculated losses -5 -5 Currency derivatives (hedging instrument) 13 13 Reversal of previous write-downs 1 3 Actual credit losses 10 5 Certain forward exchange contracts and currency swaps (hedge instruments) entered into to hedge future receipts and disbursements against currency Write-downs, 31 December -13 -19 risks are accounted for according to the rules for cash flow hedging. These cash flow hedges relate principally to contractual sales volumes. The following table shows an age analysis of the Group’s overdue receivables: : Derivatives that protect future receipts and disbursements are recognised MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 in the statement of financial position at fair value. Changes in value are recognised in other comprehensive income and separately recognised in the hedge <30 days 412 221 reserve in equity until the hedged cash flow meets the operating profit or loss, 30 to 90 days 169 393 at which point the cumulative changes in value of the hedging instrument are 91 to 180 days 196 303 transferred to profit or loss to meet and match the effects on earnings of the hedge transaction. The hedge reserve before tax amounted to msek 681 (621), >181 days 124 125 of which the unrealised value of derivatives was msek 235 (-78) and the realAccounts receivable overdue 901 1,042 ised effects arising from rollovers of derivatives was msek 446 (699). Accounts receivable not overdue 2,553 2,111 The change in the hedge reserve in 2012 of msek 60 consists of a reversal to profit or loss of msek 15, the change in the value of existing derivatives of Total accounts receivable 3,454 3,153 msek 241, the market value of hedges obtained during the year of msek 61, and the change that arose due to the extension of derivatives of msek -257. For Since accounts receivable are largely secured via bank or insurance guaraninformation on the amount recognised in other comprehensive income, see tees or are attributable to states, the commercial credit risk is low despite consolidated net comprehensive income. overdue receivables. The inefficiency in cash flow hedges that affected net income for the year amounted to msek -3 (2). 114 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 41, CONT. Valuation methods for ﬁnancial assets and liabilities Pension fund The fair value of listed financial assets is determined using market prices. The Saab Pension Fund was established in 2006 to secure the main part of the Saab also applies various valuation methods to determine the fair value of Group’s pension obligation and is not consolidated in the Group. financial assets that are traded on an inactive market or are unlisted holdings. The fund has a long-term real yield requirement of 3 per cent per year. These valuation methods are based on the valuation of similar instruments, The investment policy requires an asset distribution of a maximum of 50 per discounted cash flows or customary valuation methods such as Black Scholes. cent equities/alternative investments (hedge funds) and 50-100 per cent interest-bearing instruments. Investments are made in interest-bearing secuThe following instruments were valued at fair value according to listed rities from issuers with a credit rating of no lower than bbb according to (unadjusted) prices on an active market on the closing date (Level 1): Standard & Poor’s and baa according to Moody’s. Of the fund’s capital at yeart Bonds end, 50 per cent (53) was invested in interest-bearing assets and the remaint Electricity derivatives ing 50 per cent (47) in equities and alternative investments. The market value t Interest derivatives of the fund’s assets as of 31 December 2012 was msek 4,346 (4,050) and the annual return was 8 per cent (0). In 2012, the fund was capitalised by msek 0 The following instruments were valued at fair value according to accepted (105) and msek 2 (3) in refunds were paid. The table below shows the solvency valuation models based on observable market data (Level 2): margin for the pension fund. t Forward exchange contracts: Future payment flows in each currency are discounted by current market rates to the valuation day and MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 31-12-2010 31-12-2009 valued to SEK at year-end exchange rates Fair value of assets under t Options: The Black-Scholes option pricing model is used in the marmanagement 4,346 4,050 3,969 3,609 ket valuation of all options t Interest swaps: Future variable interest rates are calculated with the Present value of deﬁnedbeneﬁt obligations1) 6,485 5,866 4,675 5,002 help of current forward rates. These implicit interest payments are discounted on the valuation date using current market rates. The market Solvency margin 67% 69% 85% 72% value of interest rate swaps is obtained by contrasting the discounted Pension obligation variable interest payments with the discounted present value of fixed according to PRI 4,615 4,489 4,042 3,844 interest payments Solvency margin 94% 90% 98% 94% 1) Refers to the pension obligation that the assets under management are designed to cover. Unlisted shares and participations: Valued according to accepted principles; e.g. for venture capital firms (Level 3). As of 31 December 2012, the Group had the following financial assets and liabilities at fair value: NOTE 42 Assets Pledged and Contingent Liabilities Assets at fair value Group Parent Company MSEK 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Bonds and interest-bearing Assets pledged for own securities 3,963 3,963 liabilities and provisions Forward exchange contracts 486 486 Chattel mortgages Currency options 24 24 Bonds and other securities 10 10 10 10 Interest rate swaps 1 1 Other assets 110 Electricity derivatives 3 3 Total 120 10 10 10 Shares and participations 49 49 Contingent liabilities Total 4,526 3,966 511 49 Guarantees to insurance company, FPG/PRI 92 90 92 90 Liabilities at fair value Guarantees for Group MSEK 2012 Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 companies’ commitments Forward exchange contracts 198 198 to customers 4,067 5,336 Currency options 15 15 Sureties for joint ventures 6 6 Interest rate swaps 24 24 Sureties for associated companies 8 8 85 102 Electricity derivatives 17 17 Total 106 104 4,244 5,528 Total 254 17 237 Saab has an ongoing legal dispute with the Danish Defence Acquisition and Logistics Organization, Forsvarets Materialtjeneste (fmt). The Maritime and Commercial Court in Copenhagen issued a judgment dismissing the fmt’s action against Saab. fmt has appealed the court’s decision. fmt’s counterclaim amounts to mdkk 250. Judgement in the Danish Supreme Court (Højesteret) is expected by the end of April 2013. Saab has received a claim for alleged patent infringement in the United States. The process is at a very early stage and the claim is currently being evaluated. It cannot be ruled out that the claim could be substantial. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 115 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 42, CONT. The table below shows the total sum of guarantees that do not represent conNOTE 44 Group Companies tingent liabilities and a distribution by category and issuer. Signiﬁcant Group company holdings per cent of per cent of Ownership MSEK 31-12-2012 total 31-12-2011 total Group company’s share, per cent Parent Company guarantees 1,339 22 1,540 21 Group company registered ofﬁce, country 2012 2011 Bank guarantees 4,668 78 5,674 79 Combitech AB Växjö, Sweden 100 100 Total guarantees 6,007 100 7,214 100 HITT N.V. The Netherlands 98.9 MEDAV GmbH Germany 100 Bank guarantees: Saab Barracuda AB Västervik, Sweden 100 100 On demand 3,974 85 5,014 88 Saab Barracuda LLC USA 100 100 Proprietary 694 15 660 12 Saab Czech s.r.o. Czech Republic 100 100 Total bank guarantees 4,668 100 5,674 100 Saab Dynamics AB Karlskoga, Sweden 100 100 Type of guarantee: Saab Danmark A/S Denmark 100 100 Advances 2,146 36 3,177 44 Saab Grintek Defence (Pty) Ltd South Africa 71 71 Completion 3,080 51 3,365 47 Saab Seaeye Ltd UK 100 100 Milestone payments Saab Sensis Corporation USA 100 100 Tenders, credits and other 781 13 672 9 Saab Systems Oy Finland 100 100 Total guarantees 6,007 100 7,214 100 Saab Systems Pty Ltd Australia 100 100 With regard to the Group’s so-called fulfilment guarantees for commitments to customers, the likelihood of an outflow of resources is extremely small Parent Company and, as a result, no value is recognised in the table of assets pledged and conMSEK 2012 2011 tingent liabilities. Accumulated acquisition value Opening balance, 1 January 17,086 16,321 NOTE 43 Transactions with Related Parties New issues/shareholders’ contributions 27 566 The Group’s financial agreements conform to market principles. In January Acquisitions 540 203 2012, Combitech ab, a wholly owned subsidiary of Saab ab, acquired Sörman Sales and liquidations -454 -23 Information ab. The largest shareholder in Sörman was Investor ab. In Saab’s Reclassiﬁcations 9 19 view, the purchase price corresponds to market value. Saab otherwise did not have any material transactions with Investor. Neither does Saab have any sigClosing balance, 31 December 17,208 17,086 nificant transactions with Board members or members of Group Management. For information on remuneration, see Note 37. Accumulated impairments Of the Parent Company’s sales, 4 per cent referred to sales to Group companies, while 16 per cent of the Parent Company’s purchases were from Opening balance, 1 January -10,679 -10,551 Group companies. Impairments for the year -47 -128 Sales to and purchases from the Group’s associated companies amounted Closing balance, 31 December -10,726 -10,679 to approximately msek 42 (26) and msek 72 (120), respectively. Carrying amount, 31 December 6,482 6,407 Impairment reversals and impairments for the year are reported in the income statement on the line “Result from shares in Group companies.” 116 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 44, CONT. Speciﬁcation of Parent Company’s holdings of shares NOTE 45 Untaxed Reserves in Group companies 31-12-2012 Parent Company Carrying MSEK 2012 2011 No. of Share, amount, Group company/Corp. ID no./Reg. ofﬁce shares per cent MSEK Tax allocation reserve: Celsius AB, 556194-4652, Linköping 5,000 100.0% 144 Opening balance, 1 January 350 Celsius Invest AB, 556164-6588, Stockholm 1,720,000 100.0% 155 Provision for the year 514 350 Combitech AB, 556218-6790, Växjö 100,000 100.0% 1,014 Closing balance, 31 December 864 350 EMC Services Elmiljöteknik AB, 556315-6636, Mölndal 2,000 100.0% 3 Accumulated accelerated depreciation Fastighets AB Linköping Malmen 27, 556354-6349, Linköping 20,000 100.0% 4 Buildings and land: Fastighets AB Odengatan Jönköping, 556378-6226, Opening balance, 1 January 48 65 Järfälla 2,000 100.0% Under depreciation for the year -16 -17 FFV Ordnance AB, 556414-8194, Karlskoga 100,000 100.0% 10 Closing balance, 31 December 32 48 HITT N.V., The Netherlands 98.9% 274 Kockums Holdings AB, 556036-4100, Linköping 48,000 100.0% 5 Machinery and equipment: Lansen Försäkrings AB, 516401-8656, Linköping 500,000 100.0% 51 Opening balance, 1 January 397 437 Linköping City Airport AB, 556366-8333, Linköping 5,000 100.0% 3 Under depreciation for the year -17 -40 MEDAV GmbH, Germany 100.0% 236 Closing balance, 31 December 380 397 Saab d.o.o., Slovenia 100.0% Saab Aerospace Overseas AB, 556628-6448, Total untaxed reserves, 31 December 1,276 795 Linköping 1,000 100.0% Saab Aircraft Leasing Holdings AB, 556124-3170, Linköping 30,000 100.0% 1,500 NOTE 46 Statement of Cash Flows, Supplemental Information Saab Barracuda AB, 556045-7391, Västervik 200,000 100.0% 91 Saab Czech s.r.o, Czech Republic 100.0% 24 The Group’s operating cash flow and a reconciliation between operating cash Saab Danmark A/S, Denmark 100.0% 103 flow and cash flow for the year are shown below. Operating cash flow differs in the following respect from the statement of cash flows on page 64: Saab Dynamics AB, 556264-6074, Karlskoga 500,000 100.0% 357 Saab India Technologies Private Limited, India 100.0% t Investments in or sales of short-term investments and other interestSaab International AB, 556267-8994, Stockholm 50,000 100.0% 11 bearing financial investments as well as interest-bearing receivables Saab Kenya Ltd, Kenya 100.0% are not included in investing activities Saab Microwave Systems AB, 556028-1627, OPERATING CASH FLOW Mölndal 300,000 100.0% 49 Saab North America, Inc., USA 100.0% 1,141 Group Saab Precision Components AB, 556627-5003, MSEK 2012 2011 Jönköping 2,000 100.0% 8 Operating activities Saab Seaeye Holdings Ltd, UK 100.0% 194 Income after ﬁnancial items 1,906 2,783 Saab South Africa (Pty) Ltd, South Africa 95.0% 443 Transferred to pension fund -132 Saab South East Asia Co., Ltd, Thailand 100.0% 12 Adjustments for items not affecting cash ﬂow 1,179 141 Saab Surveillance Solutions AB, 556627-1929, Income tax paid -574 -450 Linköping 1,000 100.0% 1 Cash ﬂow from operating activities before Saab Surveillance Systems AB, 556577-4600, changes in working capital 2,511 2,342 Järfälla 1,000 100.0% Saab Systems Oy, Finland 100.0% 103 Working capital Saab Technologies Norway AS, Norway 100.0% 1 Inventories -199 -243 Saab Technologies UK Limited, UK 100.0% Current receivables 707 -96 Saab Training Systems AB, 556030-2746, Jönköping 150,000 100.0% 42 Advance payments from customers -459 409 Saab Training Systems B.V., Netherlands 100.0% 6 Other current liabilities -1,701 610 Saab Training Systems GmbH, Germany 100.0% 3 Provisions -509 -630 Saab Ventures AB, 556757-5211, Linköping 1,000 100.0% Change in working capital -2,161 50 Dormant companies etc. 494 Carrying amount at year-end 6,482 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 350 2,392 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 117 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 46, CONT. Interest paid and dividends received Group Group Parent Company MSEK 2012 2011 MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 Investing activities Dividends received 2 55 291 226 Investments in intangible ﬁxed assets -343 -41 Interest received 218 69 342 212 Investments in tangible ﬁxed assets -328 -325 Interest paid -101 -139 -169 -198 Investments in lease assets -1 -1 Total 119 -15 464 240 Sale of tangible ﬁxed assets 10 23 Sale of lease assets 312 301 Adjustments for items not affecting in cash ﬂow Investments in operations and associated companies, net effect on liquidity -568 -1,135 Group Parent Company Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies, net effect MSEK 2012 2011 2012 2011 on liquidity 174 1,264 Depreciation and amortisation 1,172 1,240 548 601 Investments in and sale of ﬁnancial assets -2 -1 Impairments 17 21 Cash ﬂow from investing activities excluding change in short-term investments and other interest-bearing Changes in the value of biological assets -1 -6 ﬁnancial assets -746 85 Changes in the value of investment properties 1 12 Operating cash ﬂow -396 2,477 Proﬁt shares in associated companies -27 12 Dividends from associated companies 2 50 Dividends and Group contributions OPERATING CASH FLOW VS. CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR IN STATEMENT from/to Group companies -902 -1,547 OF CASH FLOWS Capital gains/losses from sales of Group MSEK 2012 2011 companies, associated companies and other shares -10 -1,169 -33 -181 Operating cash ﬂow -396 2,477 Capital gains/losses on sales of Investing activities – interest-bearing: tangible ﬁxed assets -1 -1 2 Short-term investments 585 -2,967 Impairment of shares and receivables 4 9 47 128 Other ﬁnancial investments and receivables 28 307 Provisions -57 9 50 94 Financing activities: Provisions for pensions 176 -114 -150 278 Repayment of loans -19 -50 Other -97 78 43 -17 Dividend paid to the Parent Company’s shareholders -474 -367 Total 1,179 141 -397 -642 Cash ﬂow for the year -276 -600 Investments in operations and subsidiaries SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION ON STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS Group Liquid assets MSEK 2012 2011 Group Acquired assets and liabilities MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Intangible ﬁxed assets 631 1,007 The following components are included Tangible ﬁxed assets 7 286 in liquid assets: Deferred tax assets 4 Cash and bank 622 681 Inventories 62 63 Bank deposits 862 1,083 Current receivables 254 325 Funds in escrow account 131 139 Liquid assets 25 127 Deposits on behalf of customers 1 15 Total assets 983 1,808 Total according to the statement of ﬁnancial position 1,616 1,918 Provisions 2 34 Total according to statement of cash ﬂows 1,616 1,918 Deferred tax liability 56 38 Interest-bearing liabilities 47 102 Parent Company Current liabilities 180 256 MSEK 31-12-2012 31-12-2011 Total liabilities 285 430 The following components are included in liquid assets: Cash and bank balances 87 154 Purchase price paid 593 1,158 Bank deposits 862 1,083 Less: Liquid assets in acquired operations -25 -127 Total according to balance sheet 949 1,237 Effect on the Group’s liquid assets 568 1,031 Effect on the Group’s net liquidity 521 929 Total according to statement of cash ﬂows 949 1,237 118 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 46, CONT. Acquisitions in 2012 relate mainly to the Dutch company hitt n.v., the GerNOTE 47 Information on Parent Company man company medav gmbh, Sörman Intressenter ab (parent company of Sörman Information ab), Täby Displayteknik ab, and 70 per cent of the Saab ab (publ) is a limited company registered in Sweden, with its registered shares in the Norwegian company Bayes Risk Management as. Acquisitions office in Linköping. The Parent Company’s shares are registered on the in 2011 relate to Sensis Corporation in the u.s., assets from Scandinavian Air nasdaq omx Stockholm. The address of the head office is Saab ab, Box 12062, Ambulance Holding and assets from the Czech company e-com. SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden. The consolidated accounts for 2012 comprise the Parent Company and its Acquisitions of associated companies Group companies, together referred to as the Group. The Group also includes Group the holdings in associated companies and joint ventures. MSEK 2012 2011 Acquired assets and liabilities NOTE 48 Environmental Report Financial ﬁxed assets 104 Total assets 104 Operations subject to permit requirements in the Parent Company Production of aircraft and aircraft components by the Parent Company, Saab ab, in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping is Purchase price paid 104 subject to licensing pursuant to the Swedish Environment Code due to aeroEffect on the Group’s liquid assets 104 nautics operations, surface treatment processes, manufacturing of composite materials, handling of chemical substances and the size of the manufacturing facilities. The environmental impact of these operations primarily arises from Acquisitions in 2011 primarily relate to 36.6 per cent in AVIA SATCOM Co. emissions of volatile organic compounds (vocs) and aircraft emissions into Ltd and shares in associated companies in the venture portfolio. the atmosphere and of metals into waterways, the generation of industrial wastes and noise disturbing local surroundings. The operations subject to Sale of subsidiaries and associated companies licensing predominantly entail manufacturing. The National Licensing Board Group for Environmental Protection granted the licence for aircraft manufacture in MSEK 2012 2011 1990. The supervisory authorities and the Environmental Court imposed additional terms for these operations in 2006 and 2007, respectively, against Divested assets and liabilities the backdrop of the eu’s ippc directive. Tangible ﬁxed assets 190 11 In Järfälla, Saab ab has operations involving the manufacture of advanced Financial ﬁxed assets 7 3 command and control systems, among other things, which are also subject to Current receivables 1 23 licensing under to the Environment Code. The licensing requirement is due to surface treatment processes and the size of the manufacturing facilities. Assets held for sale 113 The environmental impact of these operations primarily arises from voc Liquid assets 8 emissions into the atmosphere and of metals into waterways. The National Total assets 198 158 Licensing Board for Environmental Protection granted the licence in 1990. With the exception of a few exceeded limits, Saab ab did not exceed any conditions in its permits or injunctions in 2012. Current liabilities 8 Deferred tax liability 25 Operations subject to permit requirements in subsidiaries The operations carried on by Linköping City Airport ab are subject to licensTotal liabilities 25 8 ing under the Environment Code and are covered by the permit issued by the National Licensing Board for Environmental Protection in 1990 for Saab ab’s Sales price 174 1,272 collective operations in the Tannefors industrial zone in the municipality of Linköping. This permit also covers the operations of Saab Dynamics ab in Purchase price received 174 1,272 the area, despite the fact that they are not subject to licensing and notification requirements under the Environment Code. Less: Liquid assets in divested operations -8 Saab Dynamics ab and Saab Bofors Test Center ab run operations in Karlskoga that are subject to licensing under the Environment Code. During Effect on the Groups net liquidity 174 1,264 the first six months of 2012, Saab Dynamics ab ran similar operations in whereof liquid assets 174 1,264 Eskilstuna. In addition, Saab Barracuda ab runs operations subject to licensing in Gamleby. Divestments in 2012 relate to an investment property and the shares in SörThe environmental impact from subsidiaries subject to licensing primarman Intressenter ab, parent company of Sörman Information ab. Divestily consists of emissions of vocs and emissions from aircraft into the atmosments in 2011 relate to the shares in Grintek Ewation (Pty) Ltd, Denel Saab phere, emissions of metals and de-icing solvents into waterways, generation Aerostructures (Pty) Ltd, C3 Technologies ab and Image Systems ab. of industrial wastes and noise disturbing local surroundings. In 2012, none of Saab’s subsidiaries exceeded any conditions of their permits or injunctions. Operations subject to notiﬁcation requirements Saab ab has operations in Arboga, Ljungbyhed, Malmslätt, Nyköping and Östersund which are subject to notification requirements pursuant to the Swedish Environment Code. Permits granted by the county boards in Arboga and Malmslätt in 1993 and 1994, respectively, still apply. The Group also has operations subject to notification requirements in the subsidiaries Saab Dynamics ab in Motala, Saab Training Systems ab in Huskvarna and Saab Precision Components ab in Jönköping. The environmental impact of these operations is extremely limited. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 119 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > NOTES NOTE 49 Exchange Rates used in Financial Statements NOTE 50 Definitions of Key Ratios Year-end rate Average rate Capital employed Country 2012 2011 2012 2011 Total capital less non-interest-bearing liabilities. Australia AUD 1 6.77 7.03 7.02 6.70 Capital turnover Denmark DKK 100 115.52 120.33 116.96 121.26 Sales divided by average capital employed. Euro EUR 1 8.62 8.94 8.71 9.03 Cash ﬂow from operating activities per share Canada CAD 1 6.55 6.78 6.78 6.57 Cash flow from operating activities divided by the average number of shares Norway NOK 100 116.72 115.05 116.41 115.87 after dilution. Switzerland CHF 1 7.13 7.36 7.22 7.35 Earnings per share UK GBP 1 10.49 10.68 10.73 10.41 Net income for the year attributable to Parent Company shareholders’ South Africa ZAR 100 76.61 85.08 82.75 89.72 interest, divided by the average number of shares before and after full Czech Republic CZK 100 34.36 34.64 34.64 36.76 dilution. There is no dilution impact if the result is negative. USA USD 1 6.52 6.92 6.78 6.50 EBITDA margin Operating income before depreciation, amortisation and impairments less depreciation and impairments of lease aircrafts as a percentage of sales. Equity/assets ratio Equity in relation to total assets. Equity per share Equity attributable to the Parent Company’s shareholders divided by the number of shares, excluding treasury shares, at the end of the year. Gross margin Gross income as a percentage of sales. Interest coverage ratio Operating income plus financial income divided by financial expenses. Net liquidity/net debt Liquid assets, short-term investments and interest-bearing receivables less interest-bearing liabilities and provisions for pensions. Operating cash ﬂow per share Operating cash flow divided by the average number of shares after dilution. Operating margin Operating income as a percentage of sales. Proﬁt margin Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of sales. Return on capital employed Operating income plus financial income as a percentage of average capital employed. Return on equity Net income for the year as a percentage of average equity. 120 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > DIVIDEND MOTIVATION DIVIDEND MOTIVATION The Board of Directors’ statement according to chapter 18, § 4 of the Companies Act with regard to the proposed dividend – Saab AB Saab is one of the world’s leading high-technology companies, Saab’s gross capital expenditure in 2012 amounted to MSEK 328, because of which its operations are distinguished by complex develwhich is considered a good approximation of annual future investopment assignments on the cutting edge of technology. Over the ments in tangible fixed assets. Investments are also made in research years, Saab has conducted significant development projects and and development, which in 2012 amounted to MSEK 1,798, of which managed the associated risks with great success. See also risks and MSEK 292 was capitalised in the balance sheet. uncertainties in the annual report. At year-end, Saab had a net cash position, which includes liquid The Board of Directors’ proposed dividend amounts to SEK 4.50 assets, short-term investments and interest-bearing receivables less per share, corresponding to a total dividend of MSEK 477. Unreinterest-bearing liabilities, including provisions for pensions, stricted equity amounts to MSEK 4,531 in Saab AB and profit amounted to MSEK 4,405. Saab’s ability to carry out its commitcarried forward in the Group before the dividend paid amounts to ments is not affected by the proposed dividend either on a shortor a MSEK 11,380. long-term basis. Net income for the year attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders amounted to MSEK 1,564 for the Group and MSEK 965 for The proposed dividend is considered justifiable with regard to what is the Parent Company. stated in chapter 17, § 3, paragraphs two and three of the Companies After paying the dividend to the shareholders, the Group’s equity/ Act (2005:551): assets ratio amounts to 46.6 per cent, compared to the long-term 1. The demands that the company’s nature, scope and risks place on objective of 30 per cent. Since the IPO in 1998, the equity/assets the size of its equity, and ratio has risen from 22 per cent to 47 per cent in 2012. 2. The company’s consolidation needs, liquidity or financial position in other respects. The Board of Directors Saab AB SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 121 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF EARNINGS PROPOSED DISPOSITION OF EARNINGS The Board of Directors and the President propose that the unapproAfter the proposed disposition, equity in the Parent Company will be priated earnings in the Parent Company at disposal of the Annual as follows: General Meeting, amounting to: SEK SEK Capital stock 1,746,405,504 Retained earnings 3,565,659,280 Statutory reserve 542,471,135 Net income for the year 964,946,957 Revaluation reserve 706,648,200 Total 4,530,606,237 Retained earnings 4,053,917,507 Total 7,049,442,346 Be disposed as follows: To the shareholders, a dividend of SEK 4.50 per 476,688,731 The company’s policy is to issue a dividend of 20–40 per cent of net income share over a business cycle. The Board of Directors and the President propose that Funds to be carried forward 4,053,917,507 MSEK 477 (474), or SEK 4.50 per share (4.50) be issued as a dividend. This Total 4,530,606,237 has been calculated based on the amount of outstanding shares on 31 December 2012, of 105,930,829. Saab’s equity/assets ratio is currently 47.5 per cent (41.1) and after the proposed disposition of earnings will be 46.6 per cent (40.2). The undersigned certify that the consolidated accounts and the annual report have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted for use in the European Union, and generally accepted accounting principles, and give a true and fair view of the ﬁnancial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company, and that the management report gives a fair review of the development of the operations, ﬁnancial positions and results of the Group and the Parent Company and describes substantial risks and uncertainties that the Group companies faces. Linköping, 15 February 2013 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman Johan Forssell Sten Jakobsson Per-Arne Sandström Board member Board member Board member Cecilia Stegö Chilò Åke Svensson Lena Treschow Torell Joakim Westh Board member Board member Board member Board member Catarina Carlqvist Stefan Andersson Conny Holm Board member Board member Board member Håkan Buskhe President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer (CEO) and board member Our audit report was submitted on 22 February 2013 PricewaterhouseCooopers AB Håkan Malmström Authorised Public Accountant 122 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 FINANCIAL INFORMATION > AUDIT REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB, corporate identity number 556036-0793 Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Report on other legal and regulatory requirements We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated Saab AB for the year 2012. The annual accounts and consolidated accounts, we have also audited the proposed appropriations of the accounts of the company are included in the printed version of this company’s profit or loss and the administration of the Board of Direcdocument on pages 44-122. tors and the Managing Director of Saab AB for the year 2012. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Managing Director for the annual accounts and consolidated accounts The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaThe Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for tions of the company’s profit or loss, and the Board of Directors and the preparation and fair presentation of these annual accounts and the Managing Director are responsible for administration under the consolidated accounts in accordance with International Financial Companies Act. Reporting Standards , as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors Auditor’s responsibility and the Managing Director determine is necessary to enable the Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable assurance preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts that are on the proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss and free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. on the administration based on our audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Auditor’s responsibility As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ proposed Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual accounts appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we examined the and consolidated accounts based on our audit. We conducted our Board of Directors’ reasoned statement and a selection of supportaudit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing and ing evidence in order to be able to assess whether the proposal is in generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Those standards accordance with the Companies Act. require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perAs a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liability, in form the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from material accounts, we examined significant decisions, actions taken and cirmisstatement. cumstances of the company in order to determine whether any memAn audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence ber of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director is liable to the about the amounts and disclosures in the annual accounts and concompany. We also examined whether any member of the Board of solidated accounts. The procedures selected depend on the audiDirectors or the Managing Director has, in any other way, acted in tor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the misstatement of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, Articles of Association. whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s preparaand appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. tion and fair presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in Opinions the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that the profit on the effectiveness of the company’s internal control. An audit also be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the statutory includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used administration report and that the members of the Board of Directors and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for the finanof Directors and the Managing Director, as well as evaluating the cial year. overall presentation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient Stockholm 22 February 2013 and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. PricewaterhouseCooopers AB Opinions In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accordHåkan Malmström ance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material Authorised Public Accountant respects, the financial position of the parent company as of 31 December 2012 and of its financial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 December 2012 and of their financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. The statutory administration report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of shareholders adopt the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 123 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Introduction Code of Corporate Governance (“the Code”). The Code is available Saab AB is a Swedish public limited liability company listed on at www.bolagsstyrning.se NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. Saab applies the Code and strives to maintain a high standard in Saab’s corporate governance is based on Swedish legislation, its corporate governance. This Corporate Governance Report is in primarily the Swedish Companies Act, the Swedish Annual Accounts accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and the Code, and Act, NASDAQ OMX Stockholm Rules for Issuers – which also describes how Saab applied the Code during the financial year 2012. includes the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance – and other Moreover, the Annual General Meeting 2012 was planned and carried relevant Swedish and foreign laws and guidelines. out in accordance with the Code and the Annual General Meeting in Saab has a Code of Conduct with ethical guidelines in a number 2013 will also be planned and carried out pursuant to the provisions of areas for how the employees are expected to act in contacts with of the Code. Saab’s website has a special area for corporate governcustomers, business partners and in the society and with each other ance issues, which is updated in accordance with the Code. as colleagues. Saab’s Code of Conduct is a part of the governance of The Board annually issues a report on how the internal control of Saab. For further information, please refer to page 36 of the Annual financial reporting is organised, which can be found at the end of this Report. report. This Corporate Governance Report has been reviewed by the Swedish Code of Corporate Governance company’s auditor pursuant to the Annual Accounts Act, see the The Saab shares are admitted to trading at NASDAQ OMX StockAuditor’s Report attached to the Corporate Governance Report. holm and Saab must therefore follow good practices in the securities Saab has not deviated from the provisions of the Code during market, which includes an obligation to comply with the Swedish 2012 and hence does not report any deviations from the Code. Organisation 2012 Nomination Commitee Shareholders’ Meeting External Auditors Remuneration Committee Board of Directors Audit Commitee Internal Audit President and CEO Internal boards * Finance Board Group Management Operational Excellence Board Strategy Board Ethics and Compliance Board Human Resources Board Brand Council * The internal boards handle and resolve issues within their respective areas on a Group level. They also prepare certain issues to be resolved by the Group Management. 124 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Shareholders’ meeting and number of shares months prior to the Annual General Meeting based on known voting Pursuant to the Swedish Companies Act, the Shareholders’ Meeting rights as per the last business day in August the year before the is the highest decision-making body within a company. At a ShareAnnual General Meeting. The nomination committee process holders’ Meeting, the shareholders are given the possibility to exerincludes procedures, where necessary, to replace a member who cise their voting rights. The Annual General Meeting shall be held leaves the committee before its work has been completed. within six months after the end of each financial year. At the Annual According to the nomination committee process, the Nomination General Meeting, resolutions are made relating to matters such as Committee shall provide proposals regarding the following issues, to the annual report, dividend, election of Board members, Board fees be presented to the Annual General Meeting for resolution: and auditors fees as well as adoption of principles for remuneration (a) the Chairman of the Shareholders’ Meeting, of senior executives and, when applicable, election of external audi(b) the Board of Directors, tor and other matters stipulated in the Companies Act. The Annual (c) the Chairman of the Board, General Meeting of Saab was held on the 19 April 2012 in Stockholm. (d) the remuneration to the members of the Board, allocated 461 shareholders were represented at the meeting, corresponding to between the Chairman and other members of the Board, and approximately 63 per cent of the total voting rights in the company. remuneration for committee work, This year the Annual General Meeting will be held on the 17 April (e) election of auditors, if applicable, and 2013 in Stockholm. For further information please see page 135. (f) fees to Saab’s auditors. Saab’s share capital amounted to SEK 1,746,405,504 on 31 December, 2012 and consisted of 1,907,123 series A shares and Before the Annual General Meeting of Saab AB on 17 April 2013, it 107,243,221 series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, was announced through a press release on 12 October 2012 that, in while series B shares have one vote each. One series A share may, addition to Chairman of the Board, Marcus Wallenberg, the following on demand of the owner, be converted into one series B share. The shareholder representatives had been appointed to Saab’s NominaSaab shares are registered with Euroclear Sweden AB. The quota tion Committee (shareholder’s name in parentheses): Petra Hedenvalue per share is SEK 16. The series B shares are listed on NASDAQ gran (Investor AB), Peter Wallenberg Jr (Knut and Alice Wallenberg OMX Stockholm on the large cap list. The series A shares are not Foundation), Jan Andersson (Swedbank Robur Funds) and Anders listed. A round lot consists of 100 shares. All series A shares are Algotsson (AFA Insurance). Petra Hedengran is the Chairman of the owned by Investor AB. Nomination Committee. These persons represent in the aggregate approximately 53 per Largest shareholders, 31 December 2012 cent of the votes in Saab based on the ownership structure as of 31 Share of Share of August 2012. According to SIS Ownership Service capital, % votes, %1) The proposal of the Nomination Committee will be presented not later than in connection with the notice of the Annual General MeetInvestor AB, Sweden 30.0 40.6 ing 2013. Wallenberg Foundations 8.7 7.7 Members of the Nomination Committee for Swedbank Robur Funds, Sweden 5.5 4.9 Annual General Meeting 2013 SHB Funds, Sweden 3.2 2.8 % of votes % of capital Member Representing 31-08-2012 31-08-2012 AFA Insurance, Sweden 3.1 2.8 Unionen, Sweden 2.7 2.4 Petra Hedengran Investor AB 39.54 30.03 SEB Funds, Sweden 2.3 2.0 Peter Wallenberg Jr Knut and Alice Wallenberg Foundation 7.55 8.74 Fourth AP Fund, Sweden 1.8 1.6 Jan Andersson Swedbank Robur Nordea Funds 1.5 1.3 Funds 4.02 4.66 Länsförsäkringar Funds, Sweden 1.5 1.3 Anders Algotsson AFA Insurance 2.38 2.75 Total 60.3 67.4 Marcus Wallenberg Chairman of the Board, 1) Share of votes, % is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding Treasury shares, at year-end. Saab AB – – At the end of December 2012, Saab held 3,219,515 own shares of The Board of Directors series B shares, corresponding to approximately 2.9 per cent of the Composition of the Board share capital. For additional information about the ownership strucAccording to Saab’s Articles of Association, the Board of Directors ture, see pages 136-139. The Board of Directors has an authorisation shall, in addition to the employee representatives, consist of at least from the Shareholders’ Meeting to repurchase shares. See page 57 six and not more than twelve members. Members of the Board shall for further information. be elected each year by the Shareholders’ Meeting. According to a resolution at the Annual General Meeting on April 19, 2012, Saab’s Nomination Committee Board of Directors shall consist of nine members elected by the According to the Nomination Committee process, which was Shareholders’ Meeting, with no deputies. In addition, the employee adopted at the Annual General Meeting in 2011 and applies until furorganisations appoint three Board members, with an equal number ther notice, Saab shall have a Nomination Committee consisting of of deputies. one representative of each of the four shareholders or groups of At the Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2012, Håkan Buskhe, shareholders with the greatest number of votes, along with the ChairJohan Forssell, Sten Jakobsson, Per-Arne Sandström, Cecilia Stegö man of the Board. The names of the four shareholder representatives Chilò, Åke Svensson, Lena Treschow Torell, Marcus Wallenberg and and the shareholders they represent shall be announced at least six Joakim Westh were re-elected. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 125 Members of the Board, Saab AB. Marcus Wallenberg was elected Chairman of the Board of Directors. Composition and independence of the Board in 2012 Only Håkan Buskhe, President and CEO of Saab, is employed by the company, Independent Information on the remuneration to the members of the Board as of the comIndependent pany/manof major resolved by the Annual General Meeting 2012 is set forth in the Board Member Elected agement shareholders Annual Report, Note 37. Marcus Wallenberg 1992 Yes No 1) 2) Members of the Board elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting Håkan Buskhe 2011 No Yes Marcus Wallenberg Cecilia Stegö Chilò Johan Forssell 2010 Yes No 3) Håkan Buskhe Åke Svensson Sten Jakobsson 2008 Yes Yes Johan Forssell Lena Treschow Torell Per-Arne Sandström 2005 Yes Yes Sten Jakobsson Joakim Westh Cecilia Stegö Chilò 2010 Yes Yes Per-Arne Sandström Åke Svensson 2003 No 4) Yes Other significant professional commitments, work experience, etc. Lena Treschow Torell 2005 Yes No 5) are set forth in the presentation of the Board of Directors. See pages Joakim Westh 2010 Yes Yes 131–132. 1) Member of Investor AB’s Board Employee representatives 2) President and CEO of Saab 3) Employed by Investor AB Regulars Deputies 4) Former President and CEO of Saab 5) Member of Investor AB’s Board Stefan Andersson Göran Gustavsson Catarina Carlqvist Jan Kovacs Accordingly, the company fulfils the requirements of the Code that a Conny Holm Nils Lindskog majority of the Board Members appointed by the Shareholders’ Meeting are independent of the company and the management, and Independence requirement that at least two of them are indepen¬dent of the major shareholders. The following table sets forth the members of the Board elected by the Shareholders’ Meeting who, according to the provisions of the Code, are considered independent in relation to the company and the management, as well as in relation to the company’s major shareholders. 126 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Work of the Board ing the year particularly focused on the company’s strategy, followAccording to the Board’s rules of procedure, six ordinary meetings up on significant export opportunities and related marketing investshall normally be held each year, in addition to the statutory meeting. ments, as well as questions concerning risk exposures. The Board may also meet whenever circumstances demand. During Committee work represents an important part of the Board’s 2012, the Board held one statutory meeting, six ordinary meetings work. After meetings of the Audit and Remuneration Committees, the and two extraordinary meetings, totalling nine meetings. issues that have been handled are reported to the Board, and resoluThe Board annually adopts rules of procedure and an instruction tions are adopted on issues where the committees have prepared on the allocation of work between the Board and the President and matters for resolution by the Board. CEO, as well as an instruction on financial reporting to the Board. The rules of procedure contain, i.a. provisions on the number of Board of Directors’ committee work board meetings to be held, a list of matters to be considered at the Audit Committee meetings, reporting from the auditor and special decisions to be The Board of Directors has, in accordance with the principles set out taken at the statutory meeting. The rules of procedure and special in the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, appointed an Audit instruction for the CEO set forth the delegation of responsibilities Committee consisting of three members. The work of the Audit Combetween the Board and its two committees, the Remuneration Committee is mainly of a preparatory nature, i.e., it prepares matters for mittee and the Audit Committee, as well as between the Board and the ultimate resolution by the Board. However, the Audit Committee the CEO. The instruction for the CEO sets out the CEO’s duties and has certain limited decision-making power. The Audit Committee has authority. The instruction also includes policies on investments, e.g. established guidelines for services other than auditing that the financing and reporting. company may procure from auditors. During the course of the year, the Board was assisted by the SecSince the Annual General Meeting in April 2012, the Audit Comretary of the Board of Directors, General Counsel Annika Bäremo, mittee has consisted of the following members: Per-Arne Sandström who is not a member of the Board. (Chairman of the Committee), Johan Forssell and Joakim Westh, of The Board of Directors’ meetings follow a determined and prewhom Per-Arne Sandström and Joakim Westh are independent of approved agenda. Prior to the meetings the Board Members receive the company and the management as well as of the major shareholddocumentation in support of the issues that are on the agenda. At ers. All members of the committee have accounting compentence each Board meeting, the CEO presents a Market and Operations and auditing competence. The General Counsel, Annika Bäremo, Report. Financial reports are prepared monthly and submitted to the was Secretary to the Audit Committee during 2012. Board. The reports are presented at each Board meeting and before The Audit Committee’s assignment is set forth in the Board’s rules the quarterly reports and year-end report. Furthermore, the Board of procedure. Among other things, the Audit Committee shall monitor regularly reviews and considers investments, mergers and acquisithe company’s financial reporting, monitor the efficiency of the comtions, and divestments. In 2012, the Board of Directors has reviewed pany’s internal control, internal audit and risk control in respect of the and adopted a budget and a business plan. The Board has also durfinancial reporting, keep itself informed about the audit of the annual Attendance and Board remuneration, 2012 Attendance Fees kSEK Audit Remuneration Board Committee Audit Remuneration Total Name Committee Committee meetings 1) meetings 2) Board 3) Committee Committee kSEK Marcus Wallenberg X 9 2 1,165 80 1,245 Håkan Buskhe 9 Johan Forssell X 9 5 450 100 550 Sten Jakobsson X 9 1 480 80 560 Per-Arne Sandström X 9 5 450 150 600 Cecilia Stegö Chilò 9 450 450 Åke Svensson 7 450 450 Lena Treschow Torell X 9 2 450 135 585 Joakim Westh X 9 5 450 100 550 1) Of a total of 9 meetings 2) Of a total of 5 meetings for Audit Committee and 2 meetings for Remuneration Committee 3) President and CEO Håkan Buskhe does not receive a fee SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 127 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT report and the group accounts, review and monitor the auditor’s neuThe Board continuously evaluates the CEO’s work by monitoring trality and independence, and assist the Nomination Committee in business results in relation to established objectives. During 2012 the preparing proposals for the Shareholder Meeting’s decision on elecBoard Members have also evaluated the CEO’s work by responding tion of auditors. The company’s external auditor is co-opted to the to a questionnaire about the CEO within the areas of strategy, performeetings of the Audit Committee. During 2012, the Audit Committee mance, organisation, people and leadership. focused particularly on the financial reporting, the budget, Saab’s business plan, introduction of quarterly audits as well as questions President and CEO concerning risk exposures. The President and CEO of Saab, Håkan Buskhe, is also a Member The Audit Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, which are of the Board. His significant professional commitments outside the promptly distributed to the other members of the Board. company, work experience, etc. are set forth in the presentation of In 2012, the Committee held five meetings. the Board of Directors and the Group Management, see pages 131 and 133. Håkan Buskhe does not own shares in any company with Remuneration Committee which Saab has material business ties. The Board of Directors has in accordance with principles set out in the Code appointed a Remuneration Committee consisting of three Guidelines for remuneration and other beneﬁts members: Marcus Wallenberg, Sten Jakobsson and Lena Treschow for senior executives Torell. Lena Treschow Torell is Chairman of the committee. All of the The guidelines for remuneration and other benefits for senior execumembers are independent of the company and the management. tives can be found in the administration report. The General Counsel, Annika Bäremo, was secretary to the committee during 2012. Auditor The Remuneration Committee’s assignment is to prepare Board On behalf of the shareholders and in accordance with current laws matters concerning principles for remuneration, remunerations and and regulations, the external auditor examines the financial stateother terms of employment for the Group Management, monitor and ments, group accounts, annual report and administration and manevaluate programmes for variable remuneration for the Group Management of the company by the Board of Directors and the CEO and agement, both ongoing and those that have ended during the year, also the Corporate Governance Report. In addition, the Half-Year and monitor and evaluate the application of the guidelines for remuReport as well as the Q3 interim report have been reviewed by the neration for Group Management that the Annual General Meeting has auditor. The auditor also presents an Auditor’s Report to the Annual adopted as well as the current remuneration structures and levels in General Meeting. the company. The Remuneration Committee shall also propose The Shareholders’ Meeting elects the auditors. The firm that was guidelines for remuneration of senior executives to be submitted to elected as new auditor by the Annual General Meeting 2011 is the the Annual General Meeting following resolution by the Board of registered accounting firm PricewaterhouseCoopers AB. Directors. Matters concerning employment terms, compen¬sation and other benefits for the CEO are prepared by the Remuneration PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Committee and adopted by the Board. It is the Remuneration Comr&MFDUFEJOGPSUIFUFSNm mittee who is responsible for the interpretation and application of the r VEJUPSJODIBSHFJT)ÇLBO.BMNTUSÕN guidelines of remuneration for senior executives. The Remuneration r0UIFSBVEJUBTTJHONFOUT YFM+PIOTPO (BNCSP ,BSP#JP /$$ Committee has no decision-making powers of its own. During the and Nordstjernan year, the Remuneration Committee was particularly involved in a review of the guidelines of remuneration for senior executives as well PricewaterhouseCoopers AB is a member of PwC’s global network as the long term incentive programme for senior executives and straXJUIPQFSBUJPOTJOBSPVOEDPVOUSJFT1X$IBTDPNQFUFODFBOE tegic key employees. experience in areas important to Saab: auditing of large and listed The Remuneration Committee keeps minutes of its meetings, companies, accounting issues, industry experience and experience which are promptly distributed to the other members of the Board. In in international business. 2012, the Committee held two meetings. The Audit Committee is responsible for ensuring that the independent position of the auditor is maintained, i.e. by staying informed Evaluation of ongoing consulting assignments. The Audit Committee has also The Chairman of the Board annually performs an evaluation of the established guidelines for the services other than auditing that the quality of the Board’s work and possible improvements in order to company may procure from its auditors. develop the forms and efficiency of the Board work. The members fill out a questionnaire on their opinions of how well the Board is funcAudit fees tioning. The result is then compared with previous years. The quesSaab’s auditor receives a fee according to approved invoices as tionnaire consists of five parts covering the breadth of competence resolved by the Annual General Meeting. represented in the Board, the manner in which its work is performed, PwC has during 2012 carried out services on behalf of the comthe Chairman, the Board’s composition and the co-operative atmospany in addition to their audit assignments, consisting of consultaphere. The purpose of the evaluation is to understand the Board tions closely associated with the audit, including accounting and tax Members’ opinion about the Board’s work. The results are then disissues. cussed by the Board. No external consultants are involved in the evaluation. The Nomination Committee is also informed of the results of the evaluation in connection with its analysis, evaluation and appointment of Board members. 128 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT The annual assessment process of internal ﬁnancial controls January 1 Preparation of Corporate Governance Report Independent review of SelfAssessment results Q1 Self-Assessment √ Status of ﬁnancial controls reported to Group Management on monthly basis. Q3 Self-Assessment √ Self-Assessments communicated to Audit Committee, Internal Audit and External Auditors. t en Co nt m Remediation of issues identiﬁed during in u ss ous se Q1 Self-Assessment R is k A s June 30 Auditors’ fees for the Group, 2011-2012 The entire Board reviews the interim reports before they are published. MSEK 2012 2011 The company’s auditor attends the Board meeting at which the annual accounts are approved. Audit assignments: The Board has met with the auditor to discuss their review of the company for the financial year 2012. The Board has also met on one PwC 15 15 occasion with the auditor without the presence of the CEO or any Other 2 1 other members of the Group Management. Other assignments: Internal control over ﬁnancial reporting PwC 6 7 Saab’s system of internal control is designed to assist the business in achieving its goals and managing associated risks. Internal control The Board’s report on internal control of ﬁnancial reporting over financial reporting is a part of all internal control processes Under the provisions of the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, within Saab, the framework for which is developed by the Committee the Board is responsible for internal control. This report on internal of Sponsoring Organisations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). control of financial reporting has been prepared pursuant to the proInternal control over financial reporting aims to provide reasonavisions of the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. ble assurance of the reliability of external financial reporting and to ensure that it is prepared in accordance with legislation, applicable Financial reporting accounting standards and other requirements for listed companies. The Board documents the manner in which it ensures the quality of the financial reports and how it communicates with the company’s Control environment auditor. Delegation of responsibilities is based on the Board’s rules of proceThe Board ensures the quality of financial accounting through its dure and a directive which sets forth the roles, responsibilities and Audit Committee, according to the report submitted above. The activities of the Board and the CEO. Audit Committee considers not only critical accounting questions Internal control is based on Saab’s organisation, where operating and the financial reports presented by the company, but also matters responsibilities and powers are delegated to business areas and of internal control, regulatory compliance, potential material uncersupport units, which are also supported and supervised by Group tainty in reported values, post-statement events, changes in assessfunctions with specific competencies. These Group functions issue ments and evaluations and other circumstances that may affect the Group guidelines that clarify responsibilities and powers and constiquality of the financial statements. The auditor has participated in all tute part of the internal control in specific areas such as finance, meetings with the Audit Committee during 2012. accounting, investments and tenders. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 129 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT Risk assessment Monitoring and evaluation Saab’s operations are mainly characterised by the development, proAll operating units report monthly and quarterly according to a standduction and supply of technologically advanced hardware and softardised routine. ware for customers around the world. The major part of sales are Quarterly reports are the basis of Saab’s external financial reportgenerated from countries outside of Sweden. As a rule, projects ing. In operating reports, each business area’s measures of profitabilentail considerable sums of money, stretch over long periods of time ity and financial position are consolidated to measure the Group’s and involve technological development or refinement of products. total profitability and financial position. Accounting managers and Based on Saab’s operations, the material risk areas in financial controllers are in regular contact with Group Finance concerning any reporting are project accounting, acquisitions and goodwill, developquestions related to finance and accounting. ment costs, hedging and other financial transactions, leasing operaTo assist in evaluating internal control in each business area, tions, taxes and accounting for pensions. In addition to business Saab uses an annual self-assessment. In addition to the processes risks, the processes are also assessed on the basis of the risk of that form the basis of financial reporting, these assessments cover exposure to any improprieties. operating risks, reputational risks and compliance with laws, regulaGroup Finance continuously coordinates an overall risk assesstions and internal rules. This is also reported to the Audit Committee. ment of financial reporting. This process involves self-assessments The Internal Audit department, part of the internal control strucby Group functions and business areas. The current risk assessment ture, is a dedicated resource for independent review of the effectiveis reviewed with Saab’s Internal Audit, which adjusts its annual audit ness of internal control processes. At the same time, Internal Audit plan accordingly. Information on developments in essential risk areas supports locally-applied internal controls and the central controller as well as a report on planned and executed activities in these areas staff. Together these serve as a resource for monitoring financial are communicated regularly to Saab’s Audit Committee. Saab’s reporting routines. Internal Audit’s assignments are initiated by the risk assessment is also communicated regularly to Saab’s external Audit Committee, Group Management and its members, and on its auditors. own initiative. Information, communication and control activities Activities in 2012 Internal control within Saab is based on clearly defined areas of During 2012, risk self-assessments were conducted on a regular responsibility and authority, issued Group guidelines, processes and basis in the Swedish, and Australian operations. One independent controls. evaluation was conducted on one occasion in both countries. ImpleUniform handling of financial reporting is assured by adopting mentation of the self-assessment process was concluded in Saab’s and issuing Group guidelines approved by the CEO or by function operations in Denmark in 2012 and implementation of this process managers appointed by the CEO. All Group directives are updated was initiated in Saab’s operations in South Africa and in the U.S. on an ongoing basis, are clearly communicated and are available on the internal website. Focus in 2013 Each business area designs its risk management routines and In 2013 a minimum of two self-assessments will be performed in all structure for internal control based on overall routines and Group Saab business areas and the countries where the process has been guidelines. introduced. At least one independent evaluation will be conducted. The most significant risks identified as regards financial reporting The self-assessement process will be finalised in the U.S. and are managed through control structures within the business areas South Africa in 2013. Implementation of this process will also be initiand Group functions and are based on Saab’s minimum requireated in Saab’s operations in Germany, the Czech Republic and ments for good internal control in significant processes. Holland. At the same time, improvements to existing control systems are continuously being made. 130 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNACE REPORT > BOARD OF DIRECTORS THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS MARCUS WALLENBERG HÅKAN BUSKHE JOHAN FORSSELL STEN JAKOBSSON PER-ARNE SANDSTRÖM Chairman of the Board since 2006. Member of the Board since April 2011 Member of The Board since 2010 Member of the Board since 2008 and Member of the Board since 2005 Deputy Chairman of the Board 1993President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Member of Saab’s Audit Committee Deputy Chairman since 2010 Chairman of Saab’s Audit Committee 2006 and Member of the Board since of Saab AB Managing Director Investor AB, Head Born 1949 Born 1947 1992 Born 1963, of Core Investments M.Sc. Upper secondary engineering school Member of Saab’s Remuneration M.S.c., Licentiate of Engineering Born 1971 Shares in Saab: 3,490 Shares in Saab: 3,000 Committee (Transportation & Logistics) M.Sc. in Finance, Stockholm School Born 1956 Employed 2010 of Economics Other board commitments: Other board commitments: Bachelor of Science of Foreign Shares in Saab: 16,078 Shares in Saab: 7,000 Chairman of Power Wind Partners Board Member of Telia Sonera AB Service Board member of LKAB Lieutenant in Royal Swedish Naval Other board commitments: Other board commitments: Board member of Stena Metall AB Former employment Academy Board member of Vattenfall AB Board Member of Atlas Copco Board member of FLSmidth A/S and positions: Shares in Saab: 100,000 Board member of the Association of Board member of Xylem Inc Deputy CEO and COO of TelefonakSwedish Engineering Industries Former employment tiebolaget L M Ericsson Other board commitments: (Teknikföretagen) and positions: Former employment President and CEO, Ericsson Inc., Chairman of SEB, Electrolux AB Head of Research Core Investments and positions: USA and LKAB Former employment at Investor AB President and CEO, ABB Sweden Vice President and General Manager, Board member of AstraZeneca PLC, and positions: Head of Capital Goods and HealthExecutive Vice President, Asea GSM business unit, Ericsson Radio Stora Enso Oyj, Investor AB, TePresident and CEO of E.ON Nordic AB care Sector at Investor AB Brown Boveri AB, Sweden Systems AB masek Holding Ltd and the Knut and and E.ON Sverige AB Head of Capital Goods Sector at Business Area Manager, Business Executive Vice President and ManagAlice Wallenberg Foundation Executive Vice President of E.ON Investor AB Area Cables ing Director, Cellular Systems, EricsSverige AB Analyst Core Holdings at Investor AB President, ABB Cables AB son Ltd, UK Former employment Senior Vice President of E.ON President, Asea Cylinda Vice President and General Manager, and positions: Sverige AB Production Manager, Asea Low VoltGSM Western Europe, Ericsson President and CEO, Investor AB CEO of Schenker North/Board memage Division Radio Systems AB Director, Stora Feldmühle AG, ber of Schenker AG, CEO Land OperAsea central staff – Production Vice President and General Manager, Düsseldorf ations CEO Schenker-BTL AB Asea trainee Airborne Radar Division, Ericsson MiSkandinaviska Enskilda Banken, crowave Systems AB Stockholm and London Department Manager, Naval ComCiticorp (Hong Kong) mand and Control Systems, Ericsson Citibank N.A. (New York) Microwave Systems AB The shares held by Board members include any holdings by closely affiliated persons. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 131 CORPORATE GOVERNACE REPORT > BOARD OF DIRECTORS CECILIA STEGÖ CHILÒ ÅKE SVENSSON LENA TRESCHOW TORELL JOAKIM WESTH Member of the Board since 2010 Member of the Board since 2003 Member of the Board since 2005 Member of the Board since 2010 Adviser to management of corporaDirector General of the Association of Chairman of Saab’s Remuneration Member of Saab’s Audit Committee tions and organisations Swedish Engineering Industries Committee Born 1959 Born 1952 Professor in Physics Born 1961 Studies in political science and M.Sc. Born 1946 M.S.c. economics Shares in Saab: 9,425 B.Sc. and Ph.D. in Physics Shares in Saab: 8,000 Shares in Saab: 600 Shares in Saab: 5,400 Other board commitments: Other board commitments: Other board commitments: Board member of Parker Hanniﬁn Other board commitments: Chairman of EMA Technology AB Chairman of Fortum Värme AB Corporation Vice Chairman of ÅF AB Board member of Rörvik Timber AB Chairman of Gotlands Bryggeri Board member of the Swedish Board member of Investor AB, SKF Board member of Absolent AB Board member of Spendrups BrygExport Credit Corporation AB and The Chalmers University of Board member of Swedish Match AB gerier. Board member of Linköping Member of IVA’s Business Executives Technology Foundation. Chairman for Board member of Intrum Justitia AB University Holding AB Council. Board member of VA (Public the Foundation for Strategic EnvironBoard Member of the Expo & Science). Board member of the mental Research (MISTRA). Former employment and Foundation Swedish Higher Education Authority positions: Board member of the Royal Swedish Former employment and Chairman of Absolent AB Former employment and Academy of Engineering Sciences positions: Board member of Telelogic AB and positions: (IVA). Member of the Royal Swedish President and Chairman of the Royal VKR Holding A/S Board member of AMF Fonder and Academy of War Sciences Swedish Academy of Engineering Deputy Board member of Sony EricsLänsförsäkringar Liv, Sciences (IVA). Board member of son Mobile Communications AB Managing Director of the foundation Former employment and Getinge AB, Telefonaktiebolaget L M Senior Vice President, Group function Fritt Näringsliv. Head of the think tank positions: Ericsson, Gambro AB and Micronic Strategy & Operational Excellence, ErTimbro. Cabinet member and Head President and CEO of Saab AB Mydata AB. Chairman of European icsson, and member of the Group of the Ministry of Culture General Manager, Business Area Council of Applied Sciences TechnolManagement Team, Ericsson Editorial writer and foreign policy Saab Aerospace, Saab AB ogy and Engineering (Euro-CASE) J Westh Företagsutveckling AB commentator at Svenska Dagbladet General Manager, Business Unit FuDirector, Joint Research Centre, EuroGroup Vice President and member of Commentator at Sveriges Radio ture Products and Technology, Saab pean Commission (Brussels). Vice the Executive Management Group, Swedish Employer’s Confederation AB. Project Manager for RBS15, President, Chalmers. Professor of Assa Abloy AB , Partner McKinsey & Moderate Party. Saab Dynamics AB. Material Physics, Chalmers Co.Inc Other positions in the Saab Group. Professor of Solid State Physics, Uppsala University Deputies, Employee Representatives GÖRAN GUSTAVSSON JAN KOVACS Deputy Board member since 2008 Deputy Board member since 2008 President of the Local Trade Union IF President of the Local Salaried EmMetall at Saab AB, Linköping ployees’ Union Unionen at Saab AB, Born 1953 Linköping Shares in Saab: 1,115 Born 1960 Upper secondary technical school Shares in Saab: 1,309 NILS LINDSKOG Auditor Deputy Board member since 2007 Member of the Local Swedish AssoPRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS AB STEFAN ANDERSSON CATARINA CARLQVIST CONNY HOLM ciation of Graduate Engineers at HÅKAN MALMSTRÖM Saab AB, Göteborg Member of the Board since 2008 Member of the Board since 2007 Member of the Board since 2008 and Born 1955 President of the Local Salaried EmVice Chairman of the Local Swedish Deputy Board member 1995 2008 M.S.E.E. from Chalmers University of ployees’ Union Unionen at Saab DyAssociation of Graduate Engineers, President of the Local Trade Union IF Technology namics AB, Linköping Saab Dynamics AB, Karlskoga Metall at Saab Electronic Defence Shares in Saab: 501 Born 1974 Born 1964 Systems, Jönköping B.Sc Luleå University of Technology Born 1947 Shares in Saab: 1,567 Shares in Saab: Upper secondary engineering education Shares in Saab: 927 The shares held by Board members include any holdings by closely affiliated persons. 132 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 CORPORATE GOVERNACE REPORT > GROUP MANAGEMENT GROUP MANAGEMENT HÅKAN BUSKHE LENA OLVING LENNART SINDAHL GÖRGEN JOHANSSON MICAEL JOHANSSON President och Chief Executive Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Executive Vice President och Head Senior Vice President och Head of Senior Vice President och Head of Ofﬁcer (CEO). and Chief Operating Ofﬁcer (COO) of Business Area Aeronautics Business Area Dynamics Business Area Electronic Defence Member of the Board of Saab AB Born 1956, M. Sc., Mechanical Born 1956, M.Sc. Born 1964, MBA Systems since April 2011 Engineering Employed 1986 Employed 2004 Born 1960, B.Sc. Born 1963, M.Sc., Licentiate Employed 2008 Shares in Saab: 5,861 Shares in Saab: 1,433 Employed 1985 of Engineering (Transportation and Shares in Saab: 6,926 Shares in Saab: 2,354 Logistics) Employed 2010 Shares in Saab: 16,078 Other board commitments: Board member of Vattenfall AB Board member of the Association of Swedish Engineering Industries (Teknikföretagen) Former employment and positions: President and CEO E.ON Nordic AB och E.ON Sverige AB, Executive Vice President E.ON Sverige AB, Senior Vice President E.ON Sverige AB, CEO Schenker North and member of av Schenker AG:s Executive Management , Production Manager Falcon Brewery GUNILLA FRANSSON LARS-ERIK WIGE MAGNUS ÖRNBERG LENA ELIASSON Senior Vice President och Head Senior Vice President och Head Senior Vice President och Chief Senior Vice President och Head of of Business Area Security and of Business Area Support and Financial Ofﬁcer (CFO) Group Human Resources Defence Solutions Services Born 1965, MBA Born 1967, M.Sc. Born 1960, M.Sc. and PhD Born 1954 Employed 2012 Employed 2012 (Tec. Lic) Employed 2001 Shares in Saab: 364 Shares in Saab: 1,361 Employed 2008 Shares in Saab: 2,120 Shares in Saab: 3,176 PETER SANDEHED ANNIKA BÄREMO DAN JANGBLAD Senior Vice President och Head Senior Vice President och Head of Senior Vice President och Chief of Group Corporate Investments Group Legal Affairs, General Strategy Ofﬁcer (CSO), Head of Born 1952, MBA Counsel, Secretary of the Board of Group Strategy Employed 1981 Directors Born 1958, M.Sc. Shares in Saab: 15,252 Born 1964, LLB Employed 2000 Employed 2012 Shares in Saab: 10,095 Shares in Saab: 685 In 2012, Group Management also included Tomas Samuelsson, Senior Vice President and Head of business area Dynamics, Jonas Hjelm, Executive Vice President and Chief Marketing Ofﬁcer (CMO), Head of Group Marketing and Business Development, Lars Granlöf, Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Ofﬁcer, and Mikael Grodzinsky, Senior Vice President and Head of Group Human Resources. Carina Brorman, Senior Vice President and Head of Group Communication, was also member of Group Management in 2012 and left her position on 13 February 2013. Peter Sandehed, Senior Vice President and Head of Group Corporate Investments, will leave Group Management on 1 March 2013. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 133 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT AUDITOR’S REPORT ON THE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT To the Annual General Meeting of the shareholders of Saab AB Corporate identity number 556036-0793 It is the Board of Directors who is responsible for the Corporate Govdifferent approach and is of a significantly lesser scope than an audit ernance Report for 2012 on pages 124–133 and for ensuring that it according to the International Standards on Auditing and accepted has been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. We auditing standards in Sweden. have read the Corporate Governance Report and based on his readIn our opinion, a Corporate Governance Report has been preing and our knowledge of the company and the group are of the pared and its statutory content is consistent with the Annual Report opinion that we have a sufficient basis for our statement. This means and the consolidated accounts. that our statutory review of the Corporate Governance Report has a Stockholm, 22 February 2013 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Håkan Malmström Authorised Public Accountant 134 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION INFORMATION TO SHAREHOLDERS Annual General Meeting Right to participate The Annual General Meeting will be held at 3:00 pm (cet) on WednesOnly shareholders recorded in the share register maintained by Euroday, 17 April 2013 at Annexet, Stockholm Globe Arenas, Entrance 2, clear Sweden AB on Thursday, 11 April 2013 are entitled to particiGlobentorget 10, Stockholm, Sweden. pate in the meeting. Shareholders registered in the names of nominees through the Notiﬁcation trust department of a bank or a brokerage firm must temporarily Shareholders must notify the company of their intention to particireregister their shares in their own names to participate in the meetpate in the meeting not later than Thursday, 11 April 2013. ing. To ensure that this re-registration is recorded in the share register by Thursday, 11 April 2013, they must request re-registration with rCZUFMFQIPOF  their nominees several business days in advance. rCZNBJMXJUITFQBSBUFJOWJUBUJPO rCZNBJM4BBC OOVBM(FOFSBM.FFUJOH #PY 4UPDLDividend holm, Sweden The Board of Directors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.50 per share rPOMJOFXXXTBBCHSPVQDPNBSTTUBNNB and 22 April 2013 as the record day for the dividend. With this record day, Euroclear Sweden AB is expected to distribute the dividend on Please indicate your name, personal ID number (Swedish citizens), 25 April 2013. address and telephone number. If you are attending by power of proxy, registration certificate or other authorisation, please submit Distribution of the annual report your documentation well in advance of the meeting. The information The annual report will be available on Saab’s website, you provide will be used only for the Annual General Meeting. www.saabgroup.com, approximately four weeks prior to the Annual Shareholders or their proxies may be accompanied at the Annual General Meeting on 17 April. It can also be ordered from Saab’s head General Meeting by a maximum of two people. They may only office, Investor Relations. A printed version of the annual report will attend, however, if the shareholder has notified Saab AB as indicated be distributed to those who became shareholders in December above. 2012, January and February 2013, as well as other shareholders who request a printed version. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 135 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > THE SAAB SHARE THE SAAB SHARE Capital stock and number of shares The plan was introduced in autumn 2007 in Sweden and Norway. In Saab’s capital stock amounted to SEK 1,746,405,504 on 31 December 2008 it was expanded to include employees in Denmark, Germany, 2012 and consisted of 1,907,123 unlisted Series A shares and the UK, the U.S., Switzerland and Australia. South Africa was 107,243,221 listed Series B shares. Series A shares have ten votes each, included in 2009, Finland in 2010 and thereafter the Czech Republic while Series B shares have one vote each. The quota value per share is in 2011. India will be included in the Share Matching Plan 2012 startSEK 16. The Series B share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm’s Large ing in January 2013. Cap list. A round lot consists of 100 shares. In April 2008, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to introSaab’s Series A shares are owned by Investor AB. duce a performance-based plan for senior executives and key Saab’s market capitalisation was SEK 14.7 billion at year-end employees entitling them to 2–5 matching shares depending on the 2012. The price of the Series B share decreased during the year by 5 category the employee belongs to. In addition to the requirement that per cent, compared to an increase of 12 per cent for the OMX index. the employee remain employed by Saab after three years, there is a The total return on Saab’s Series B share – i.e., the dividend plus the requirement that earnings per share grow in the range of 5 to 15 per change in the share price – has been 17 per cent over the last five cent on average per year during the three-year period. The Annual years. General Meetings in 2009, 2010, 2011 and 2012 resolved to renew the share matching plan and performance share plan. Trading volume and statistics The 2011 share matching plan comprises all employees, includA total of 32,962,432 Series B shares (47,073,222) were traded on NASing senior executives and key persons. The performance share plan DAQ OMX Stockholm in 2012. The share’s price reached a high of SEK for 2011 and 2012, which is directed to senior executives and key 150.30 on 6 February and a low of SEK 101.00 on 18 May. persons, entitles participants to 1–4 matching shares, depending on the category the employee belongs to. Ownership structure In 2007, Saab repurchased 1 million shares, in 2008 and 2009 it Saab had 28,833 shareholders (29,056) as of year-end 2012. Swedrepurchased 1,340,000 shares per year, and in 2010 it repurchased ish investors accounted for 74.0 per cent (73.6) of the capital stock 838,131 shares to hedge the plans. In 2011 and 2012 no shares were and 77.5 per cent (76.5) of the votes. purchased. The Annual General Meeting on 19 April 2012 renewed the Board Dividend and dividend policy of Directors’ mandate to repurchase up to 10 per cent of the CompaSaab’s long-term dividend policy is to distribute 20–40 per cent of ny’s shares, of which 1,340,000 shares to hedge the share matching income after tax over a business cycle. For 2012, the Board of Direcplan and performance share plan. tors proposes a dividend of SEK 4.50 (4.50) per share. This would The purpose of the authorisation was to provide the Board with correspond to 30 per cent (21) of net income for 2012. greater scope in working with the company’s capital structure and enable acquisitions when considered appropriate, as well as to Saab’s Share Matching Plan secure the Group’s share matching plan and performance share plan. In April 2007, Saab’s Annual General Meeting resolved to offer employThe mandate applied until the Annual General Meeting 2013. Repurees the opportunity to participate in a voluntary share matching plan chases may be effected over the stock exchange or through offerwhere they can purchase Series B shares in Saab during a 12-month ings to shareholders. During 2012, the Board has not decided to utiperiod. Purchases are made through deductions of between 1 and 5 lise its authorisation for repurchases and thus no shares were per cent of the employee’s monthly salary. If the employee retains the repurchased in 2012. purchased shares for three years after the investment date and is still employed by the Saab Group, the employee will be allotted a corresponding number of Series B shares. 136 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > THE SAAB SHARE Saab B, 1 January 2009–31 December 2012 Share of capital, % 400 20,000 Swedish owners according to SIS ägarservice 28 December, 2012 Investor AB 30.0 300 15,000 Wallenberg Foundations 8.7 Swedbank Robur funds 5.5 SHB funds 3.2 200 10,000 AFA Insurance 3.1 Unionen 2.7 SEB funds 2.3 Other Swedish owners 18.5 100 5,000 Foreign owners DFA Funds, U.S. 1.0 0 0 The Norweigan Bank 2009 2010 2011 2012 Investment Mgt 0.9 Fidelity Funds, U.S. 0.8 B share, SEK OMX Stockholm_PI, SEK Thousands of shares traded (incl. off-ﬂoor trading) Other Foreign owners 23.3 Equity per share, SEK Earnings per share, SEK Dividend per share, SEK 132 4.5 4.5 4.5 20.4 123 17.6 108 102 100 3.5 14.3 86 2.3 6.3 1.8 4.0 -2.3 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 1 1) Proposed by the Board of Directors. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 137 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > THE SAAB SHARE Data per Share 2007–2012 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Closing prices 1) at year-end, SEK 135.10 142.40 123.00 118.00 71.50 129.50 high for the year, SEK 150.30 155.00 128.75 118.00 180.00 216.50 low for the year, SEK 101.00 104.20 84.10 50.50 51.00 116.50 2) Market capitalisation, MSEK 14,746 15,543 13,425 12,879 7,804 14,135 Average daily turnover, no. of shares1) 131,850 186,060 192,507 234,069 255,782 240,390 Yield, % 3.3 3.2 2.8 1.9 2.4 3.5 Price/equity, % 102 116 114 118 83 128 P/E ratio 9.4 7.0 31.0 18.8 -32.2 7.4 P/EBIT, multiple 7.3 5.3 13.8 9.4 47.0 5.4 Sales before dilution, SEK 227.3 223.8 232.2 231.8 221.33 211.85 after full dilution, SEK 220.0 215.3 223.9 225.8 218.01 210.91 Net income for the year (attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders) before dilution, SEK 14.81 21.19 4.12 6.45 -2.31 17.68 3) after full dilution, SEK 14.33 20.38 3.97 6.28 -2.31 17.60 Equity per share, SEK 132.02 122.94 107.66 99.91 86.49 101.53 Cash ﬂow from operating activities before dilution, SEK 3.31 22.78 42.65 15.95 8.87 -12.40 after full dilution, SEK 3.21 21.91 41.11 15.54 8.74 -12.34 Dividend (2012 proposal), SEK 4.50 4.50 3.50 2.25 1.75 4.50 Dividend /net income, % 30 21 85 35 25 Total dividend, MSEK 477 474 367 237 187 491 Dividend growth, % 0.6 29 55 27 6 Number of shareholders 28,833 29,059 31,125 32,555 32,164 28,181 Share of foreign ownership, capital, % 26 26 27 40 40 39 Share of foreign ownership, votes, % 23 24 24 35 34 34 Average number of shares before dilution 105,632,911 104,982,315 105,217,786 106,335,553 107,515,049 108,668,700 Number of shares, excluding Treasury shares, at year-end 105,930,829 105,331,958 104,717,729 105,511,124 106,829,893 108,150,344 Number of shares after full dilution 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 109,150,344 1) Saab B on NASDAQ OMX Stockholm. 2) At full dilution 3) No dilution effect if net income is negative. 138 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > THE SAAB SHARE Shareholders Distribution of shareholders Per cent Number Per cent Per cent of As of 31 December 2012 Thousands of share Per cent of of shareof shareNumber of share according to SIS Ägarservice of shares capital votes1) Number of shares holders holders shares capital Investor AB, Sweden 32,778 30.0 40.6 1–500 24,150 83.8 2,824,690 2.6 Wallenberg foundations, Sweden 9,469 8.7 7.7 501–1 000 2,667 9.2 2,041,633 1.9 Swedbank Robur Funds, Sweden 5,993 5.5 4.9 1 001–5 000 1,631 5.6 2,852,476 2.6 SHB Funds, Sweden 3,457 3.2 2.8 5 001–10 000 110 0.4 844,950 0.8 AFA Insurance, Sweden 3,425 3.1 2.8 10 001–15 000 46 0.2 563,864 0.5 Unionen, Sweden 2,901 2.7 2.4 15 001–20 000 22 0.1 394,601 0.3 SEB Funds, Sweden 2,515 2.3 2.0 20 001– 207 0.7 99,628,130 91.3 Fourth AP-Fund, Sweden 1,968 1.8 1.6 Total1) 28,833 100 109,150,344 100.0 Nordea Funds, Sweden 1,654 1.5 1.3 1) Including 3,219,515 repurchased B shares Länsförsäkringar Fund Management, Sweden 1,653 1.5 1.3 DFA Funds, U.S. 1,056 1.0 0.9 Shares and votes, 31 December 2012 The Norwegian Bank Investment Number of Per cent of Number of Per cent of Management 998 0.9 0.8 Share class shares total shares votes votes RAM One Fund, Sweden 970 0.9 0.8 Series A 1,907,123 1.7 19,071,230 15.5 Foundation Asset Management, Sweden 927 0.8 0.8 Series B 107,243,221 98.3 104,023,706 84.5 Fidelity Funds, U.S. 915 0.8 0.7 Total1) 109,150,344 100.0 123,094,936 100.0 Svolder AB, Sweden 750 0.7 0.6 1) The number of votes excludes 3,219,515 B shares which were repurchased to secure the Group’s Share Matching Plan. The repurchased shares are kept as Treasury stock. SEB AB, Sweden 692 0.6 0.6 Evli Funds, Finland 648 0.6 0.5 SEB Trygg Liv, Sweden 472 0.4 0.4 Share issues, etc. Paid-in Catella Funds, Sweden 467 0.4 0.4 Increase in share amount Subtotal, 20 largest shareholders 73,708 67.4 73.9 capital, MSEK MSEK Other Swedish shareholders 7,564 7.0 6.5 2002, Conversion1) 50,699 shares 0.8 4.6 Other international shareholders 24,658 22.7 19.6 2003, Conversion1) 7,189 shares 0.1 0.7 Repurchased shares 3,220 2.9 2004, Conversion 1) 2,632,781 shares 42.1 239.6 Total 109,150 100 100 1) 1998 convertible debenture loan 1) Per cent of votes is calculated based on the number of shares, excluding Treasury shares, at year-end. Analysts who cover Saab ABG SUNDAL COLLIER, STOCKHOLM ERIK PETTERSSON, erik.pettersson@abgsc.se CARNEGIE, STOCKHOLM MIKAEL LASÉEN, mikael.laseen@carnegie.se DANSKE MARKETS EQUITIES, STOCKHOLM CARL GUSTAFSSON, cagu@danskebank.se BJÖRN ENARSON, bjorn.enarson@danskebank.se ENSKILDA SECURITIES, STOCKHOLM STEFAN CEDERBERG, stefan.cederberg@enskilda.se SWEDBANK, STOCKHOLM MATS LISS, mats.liss@swedbank.se SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 139 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > QUARTERLY INFORMATION QUARTERLY INFORMATION January–March April–June MSEK 2012 Operating margin 2011 Operating margin 2012 Operating margin 2011 Operating margin Sales Aeronautics 1,419 1,508 1,704 1,835 Dynamics 1,035 962 1,359 1,084 Electronic Defence Systems 1,181 1,035 1,108 1,094 Security and Defence Solutions 1,323 1,303 1,354 1,272 Support and Services 779 907 844 781 Combitech 311 239 361 257 Corporate 4 4 Internal sales -475 -506 -498 -466 Total 5,573 5,452 6,232 5,861 Operating income Aeronautics 78 5.5% 79 5.2% 84 4.9% 157 8.6% Dynamics 108 10.4% 89 9.3% 175 12.9% 123 11.3% Electronic Defence Systems 91 7.7% 36 3.5% 210 19.0% 181 16.5% Security and Defence Solutions 60 4.5% 71 5.4% 89 6.6% 67 5.3% Support and Services 67 8.6% 75 8.3% 94 11.1% 107 13.7% Combitech 39 12.5% 28 11.7% 21 5.8% 20 7.8% Corporate -45 -10 53 42 Total 398 7.1% 368 6.7% 726 11.6% 697 11.9% Net ﬁnancial items -30 16 -17 -149 Income before taxes 368 384 709 548 Net income for the period 265 277 538 418 Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 279 279 552 425 Earnings per share after dilution 2.56 2.56 5.06 3.89 No. of shares after dilution, thousands 109,150 109,150 109,150 109,150 July-September October–December MSEK 2012 Operating margin 2011 Operating margin 2012 Operating margin 2011 Operating margin Sales Aeronautics 1,275 1,268 1,678 1,740 Dynamics 873 724 1,512 1,565 Electronic Defence Systems 805 979 1,182 1,453 Security and Defence Solutions 1,280 1,310 2,019 1,819 Support and Services 697 786 1,091 954 Combitech 299 200 439 304 Corporate Internal sales -330 -429 -615 -488 Total 4,899 4,838 7,306 7,347 Operating income Aeronautics 72 5.6% 22 1.7% 125 7.4% 74 4.3% Dynamics 105 12.0% 60 8.3% 233 15.4% 212 13.5% Electronic Defence Systems -78 -9.7% 42 4.3% -106 -9.0% 38 2.6% Security and Defence Solutions 59 4.6% 109 8.3% 209 10.4% 147 8.1% Support and Services 34 4.9% 79 10.1% 215 19.7% 165 17.3% Combitech 18 6.0% 3 1.5% 44 10.0% 41 13.5% Corporate 48 902 -70 -18 Total 258 5.3% 1,217 25.2% 650 8.9% 659 9.0% Net ﬁnancial items -35 12 -44 -37 Income before taxes 223 1,229 606 622 Net income for the period 151 1,103 585 419 Attributable to Parent Company’s shareholders 149 1,108 584 413 Earnings per share after dilution 1.37 10.15 5.35 3.78 No. of shares after dilution, thousands 109,150 109,150 109,150 109,150 140 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW MULTI-YEAR OVERVIEW MSEK, unless otherwise indicated 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 20044) Order bookings 20,683 18,907 26,278 18,428 23,212 20,846 27,575 17,512 16,444 Order backlog at year-end 34,151 37,172 41,459 39,389 45,324 47,316 50,445 42,198 43,162 Sales 24,010 23,498 24,434 24,647 23,796 23,021 21,063 19,314 17,848 Foreign market sales, % 64 63 62 69 68 65 65 56 48 Defence sales, % 82 84 83 83 83 81 79 82 80 Operating income (EBIT) 2,032 2,941 975 1,374 166 2,607 1,745 1,652 1,853 Operating margin, % 8.5 12.5 4.0 5.6 0.7 11.3 8.3 8.6 10.4 Operating income before depreciation/amortisation and write-downs (EBITDA) 3,168 4,088 2,187 2,598 1,515 3,685 2,519 2,182 2,346 EBITDA margin, % 13.2 17.4 9.0 10.5 6.4 16.0 12.0 11.3 13.1 Income after ﬁnancial items 1,906 2,783 776 976 -406 2,449 1,693 1,551 1,712 Net income for the year 1,539 2,217 454 699 -242 1,941 1,347 1,199 1,310 Total assets 29,679 31,799 29,278 30,430 32,890 33,801 32,771 30,594 27,509 of which advance payments, net 553 1,022 643 442 897 2,558 3,642 3,528 2,860 of which shareholders’ equity 14,097 13,069 11,444 10,682 9,330 11,008 10,025 9,493 8,221 equity per share, SEK 1) 132.02 122.94 107.66 99.91 86.49 101.53 89.80 84.10 74.89 Net liquidity/Net debt excluding interest-bearing receivables and after deduction of provisions for 3,837 4,735 2,382 -1,631 -3,061 -2,802 -261 5,144 3,211 pensions Net liquidity/ debt 4,405 5,333 3,291 -634 -1,693 -1,627 605 2,856 781 Cash ﬂow from operating activities 350 2,392 4,487 1,696 954 -1,304 969 2,541 865 Operating cash ﬂow -396 2,477 4,349 1,447 659 -1,603 -1,900 2,645 325 Average capital employed 15,335 13,987 13,743 13,775 13,994 13,430 12,789 12,925 12,386 Return on capital employed, % 14.2 22.2 7.9 10.3 1.4 19.4 14.5 14.6 17.3 Return on equity, % 11.3 18.1 4.1 7.0 -2.4 18.5 13.8 13.5 16.7 Proﬁt margin, % 9.10 13.21 4.47 5.78 0.82 11.4 8.83 9.73 11.74 Capital turnover rate, multiple 1.57 1.68 1.78 1.79 1.70 1.71 1.65 1.49 1.47 Equity/assets ratio, % 47.5 41.1 39.1 35.1 28.4 32.6 30.6 31.0 29.9 Interest coverage ratio, times 7.78 9.58 3.20 3.16 0.35 21.40 13.47 6.08 6.08 Earnings per share before dilution, SEK 2) 14.81 21.19 4.12 6.45 -2.31 17.68 11.91 10.89 11.78 Earnings per share after dilution, SEK 3) 14.33 20.38 3.97 6.28 -2.31 17.60 11.91 10.89 11.78 Dividend, SEK 4.505) 4.50 3.50 2.25 1.75 4.50 4.25 4.00 3.75 Gross capital expenditures for tangible ﬁxed as328 325 262 197 386 395 433 296 348 sets Research and development costs 5,946 5,116 5,008 4,820 4,141 4,523 3,537 3,546 3,929 Number of employees at year-end 13,968 13,068 12,536 13,159 13,294 13,757 13,577 12,830 11,936 1) Number of shares, excluding treasury shares, as of 31 December 2012: 105,930,829; 2011: 105,331,958; 2010: 104,717,729; 2009: 105,511,124; 2008: 106,829,893; 2007: 108,150,344 and 2006/2005/2004: 109,150,344. 2) Average number of shares 2012: 105,868,651; 2011: 105,214,551; 2010: 105,217,786; 2009: 106,335,553; 2008: 107,515,049; 2007: 108,668,700, 2006/2005: 109,150,344 and 2004: 108,234,126. 3) Average number of shares 2012/2011/2010/2009: 109,150,344; 2008: 107,515,049; 2007/2006/2005: 109,150,344; 2004: 108,234,126. Conversion of debenture loan concluded 15 July 2004. 4) Restated according to IFRS. 5) 2012 Board of Directors proposal. SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 141 SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION > FINANCIAL INFORMATION 2013 AND CONTACT DETAILS Financial Information 2013 Annual General Meeting 2013 17 April 'JOBODJBMJOGPSNBUJPODBOCFPSEFSFECZ5FMFQIPOF  Interim Report January–March 2013 25 April or accessed online at www.saabgroup.com Interim Report January–June 2013 19 July Interim Report January–September 2013 29 October Contact Ann-Sofi Jönsson, Investor Relations, 5FMFQIPOF  BOOTPàKPOTTPO!TBBCHSPVQDPN Contact Details Headquarters Linköping P.O. Box 12062 Saab AB SE-102 22 Stockholm, Sweden P.O. BOX 14085 Visiting address: Gustavslundsvägen 42 SE-581 88 Linköping, Sweden 1IPOF  Visiting address: Bröderna Ugglas gata 'BY  1IPOF  www.saabgroup.com 'BY  For contact details to all offices, visit www.saabgroup.com 142 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 GLOSSARY GLOSSARY AESA Active Electronically Scanned Array ILS Instrument Landing System (Instrumentlandningssystem) AEW&C Airborne Early Warning & Control (Luftburet radaroch LEDS Land Electronic Defense System kontrollsystem) LFV Board of Civil Aviation (Luftfartsverket) AMB Agile Multi-Beam MidCAS Mid Air Collision Avoidance System ATM Air Trafﬁc Management (Flygtraﬁkledning) MMRCA Medium Multi-Role Combat Aircraft ASD Aerospace and Defence Industry Association NATO North Atlantic Treaty Organization BOL High capacity counter measure dispenser for chaff or ﬂares NGO Non-Governmental Organization (Högkapacitets motmedelsbehållare för remsor NLAW Next Generation Light Anti-tank Weapon eller nödraketer) OECD Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development C4I Command, control, communications, computers and Intelli(Organisationen för ekonomiskt samarbete och utveckling) gence (Kommunikationsoch ledningssystem) PPP (OPS) Public-Private Partnership (Offentlig-Privat Samverkan) C4ISR Command, control, communications, computers, intelligence and surveillance and reconnaissance (Övervaknings-, RAKEL Sweden’s national communication system for collaboration kommunikationsoch ledningssystem) and management (Sveriges nationella kommunikationssystem för samverkan och ledning) CISB Swedish-Brazilian Centre for Research and Innovation (Svensk-brasilianskt forskningsoch innovationscenter) RT Remote Tower (Flygledning på distans) EDA European Defence Agency RTAF Royal Thai Air Force ETPS Empire Test Pilot’s School SAFE Situation Awareness for Enhanced Security FMV Försvarets Materielverk SESAR Single European Sky ATM Research FN Förenta Nationerna SIPRI Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (Stockholms internationella fredsforskningsinstitut) FoU Forskning och Utveckling SITC Saab India Technology Centre GIS Geographic Information Systems (Geograﬁska informationssystem) STRiC Operations Room and Air Surveillance (Luftbevakningsoch stridsledningscentral) HOTAS Hands On Throttle And Stick TUAV Tactical Unmanned Aerial Vehicle (Taktiskt obemannat ICT Information and communications technology ﬂygsystem) (Informationsoch kommunikationsteknologi) UCAV Unmanned Combat Aerial Vehicle (Obemannat stridsﬂygIDAS Integrated self-defence for airborne platforms system) IFBEC Forum on Business Ethical Conduct WISE Widely Integrated Systems Environment SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 143 SOURCES SOURCES U.S. Defense Strategic Guidance, 2012, ”Sustaining U.S. Global Leadership: EU/U.S. Joint Statement on Supply Chain Security, June 2011: http://ec.europa. Priorities for 21st Century Defense”: http://www.defense.gov/news/defense_ eu/taxation_customs/resources/documents/common/whats_new/eu_us_joint_statestrategic_guidance.pdf ment_protocol_en.pdf The White House Ofﬁce of the Press Secretary, ”Remarks By President ObaAnnex to EU/U.S. Joint Statement: http://trade.ec.europa.eu/doclib/docs/2011/ ma to the Australian Parliament,” November 17, 2011: http://www.whitehouse. december/tradoc_148391.pdf gov/the-press-ofﬁce/2011/11/17/remarks-president-obama-australian-parliament U.S. Defense Strategy Guidance, January 2012: http://www.defense.gov/news/ Tom Donilon (President Obama’s National Security Advisor), ”America is Back defense_strategic_guidance.pdf in the Paciﬁc and will Uphold the Rules”, Financial Times, November 27, 2011: http://www.ft.com UK National Security Strategy, October 2010: http://www.number10.gov.uk/news/ national-security-strategy/ U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton on her ofﬁcial blog on APEC and Asia’s importance to the U.S. in connection with the APEC Summit 2012: http://blogs. World Economic Forum, Global Risks 2013: http://www3.weforum.org/docs/ state.gov/index.php/site/entry/travel_diary_apec_vladivostok WEF_GlobalRisks_Report_2013.pdf Advisor to Barack Obama on Asia’s importance to U.S. economy and export: Professor Otto Cars in Svenska Dagbladet, January 2013: http://www.svd.se/ http://edition.cnn.com/2011/11/12/politics/obama-apec/index.html opinion/brannpunkt/det-kravs-politiska-initiativ-for-ny-antibiotika_7857244.svd Australia’s Defence Minister, Stephen Smith, ”Paper presented to the Sea PoWHO report: http://www.who.int/mediacentre/factsheets/fs194/en/; wer Conference, January 2012”: http://www.minister.defence.gov.au/2012/01/31/ http://www.nhs.uk/news/2012/03march/Pages/antibiotic-resistance-who-strategy. minister-for-defence-paper-presented-to-the-sea-power-conference/ aspx A Cooperative Strategy for 21st Century Seapower (US Navy, Marine Corps EU Action Plan Against the Rising Threats from Antimicrobial Resistance: and Coast Guard): http://www.navy.mil/maritime/Maritimestrategy.pdf http://ec.europa.eu/dgs/health_consumer/docs/communication_amr_2011_748_ en.pdf Australia’s Defence Minister, MP, Stephen Smith, Paper presented to the Sea Power Conference, January 2012: http://www.minister.defence.gov.au/2012/01/31/ National Security and the Threat of Climate Change, Center for Naval minister-for-defence-paper-presented-to-the-sea-power-conference/ Analyses, 2007: http://www.cna.org/sites/default/ﬁles/news/FlipBooks/Climate%20 Change%20web/ﬂipviewerxpress.html President Vladimir Putin on Russia’s naval focus: http://www.wired.com/dangerroom/2013/01/russia-exercise/ Global Trends 2030, U.S. National intelligence Council: http://info.publicintelligence.net/GlobalTrends2030.pdf Russia’s ambitions for the upgrading of naval capabilities (e.g. to protect ﬁnancial interests): http://rt.com/news/russia-navy-nuclear-submarine-ﬂeet-450/ U.S. Secretary of Defense, Leon Panetta, on climate change as a security threat, May 2012: http://washingtonexaminer.com/article/1268336 U.S. Cyber Command (CYBERCOM – subject to the Strategic Command): http://www.stratcom.mil/factsheets/Cyber_Command/ Swedish Foreign Minister Carl Bildt’s speech at the Budapest Conference on Cyberspace 2012: http://www.government.se/sb/d/7956/a/203864 U.S. Global Supply Chain Security Strategy, January 2010: http://www.whitehouse.gov/sites/default/ﬁles/national_strategy_for_global_supply_chain_security.pdf 144 SAAB ANNUAL REPORT 2012 Production: Intellecta Corporate Print: Larsson Offsettryck AB 2013 Photo: Sandra Birgersdotter, Shutterstock and Saabs image bank
