Corporate Responsibility 2012 Communication on Progress UN Global Compact www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility Communication on Progress 2012 Experience Bertelsmann RTL Group is the leading European entertainment network, with interests in 52 TV channels and 29 radio stations in nine countries and content production throughout the world. The TV portfolio of Europe’s largest broadcaster includes RTL Television in Germany, M6 in France, the RTL channels in the Netherlands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Croatia and Hungary, and Antena 3 in Spain. RTL Group’s flagship radio station is RTL in France, and it also owns or has interests in other stations in France, Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, Spain and Luxembourg. RTL Group’s content production arm, Fremantle Media, is one of the largest international producers outside the United States. Each year, it produces 9,200 hours of programming across 58 countries. ​W ith holdings of approximately 92 percent, Bertelsmann is the principal shareholder of RTL Group. 12,184 employees worldwide Revenues of 5,814 million euros Random House is the world’s trade-book market leader, a commercial and literary powerhouse publishing around 10,000 new hardcovers, paperbacks, audio and electronic books annually in the local languages of 15 countries, and selling close to 400 million books a year. Almost 40,000 English-, German-, and Spanish-language titles are available as Random House e-books. Random House is home to many of the world’s most popular and culturally admired adult and children’s authors, including Nobel laureates and international leaders. It is a company of people working together to share their love of books as passionate supporters of their authors, booksellers and readers. 5,343 employees worldwide Revenues of 1,749 million euros 2 Communication on Progress 2012 Experience Bertelsmann Gruner + Jahr is Europe’s leading publisher of magazines. It is represented in more than 30 countries with over 500 media products (magazines, websites and digital media). It publishes the magazines Stern, Brigitte, Geo, Capital, Gala, Eltern, P.M. and Essen & Trinken. With foreign revenues accounting for 56 percent of its income, Gruner + Jahr is one of the most international publishing companies in the world. Bertelsmann owns 74.9 percent of Gruner + Jahr, the Jahr publishing family of Hamburg owns 25.1 percent. 11,822 employees worldwide Revenues of 2,287 million euros As a global services provider Arvato supports business customers all over the world in successfully shaping their customer relationships. More than 68,000 employees design and implement customized solutions for business processes through integrated service chains. These include data management, customer service, customer relations services, supply chain management, digital distribution, financial services and customized IT services, as well as the full range of services related to the production and distribution of printed materials and digital storage media. 68,325 Mitarbeiter weltweit Revenues of 5,357 million euros Bertelsmann Bertelsmann uses its creativity and entrepreneurship to directly develop key emerging businesses. They include the music rights company BMG as well as the Corporate BDMI and BAI funds, which invest in rapidly growing start-ups in the United States, Europe and Asia. Through the University Ventures Fund, Bertelsmann is involved in innovative educational initiatives. Bertelsmann is also home to the Club and Direct Marketing business units. 2,952 Mitarbeiter weltweit Revenues of 382 million euros All figures from 2011 3 Communication on Progress 2012 Vorwort 3 Ladies and Gentlemen, Bertelsmann is a global media and services company, with more than 100,000 employees doing business in over 50 countries. We are very aware of the fact that by taking entrepreneurial and journalistic actions we have a particular responsibility.Thomas We seeRabe, responsible business conduct not as a niceto-have, but as something that needs Vorsitzender to be an integral part of our daily value des Vorstandes, creation. The binding and connective basis for this are our shared values, Bertelsmann the Bertelsmann Essentials: Partnership, Entrepreneurship, Creativity and Citizenship. Liebe Leserinnen und Leser, The ten principles of the UN Global Compact reflect our understanding liebeofFreunde des Hauses Bertelsmann, ­social responsibility. We deliberately entered into this membership to c­ ontribute to the sustainable advancement of labor standards, human rights, environment protection and anti-corruption at our international sites and in wir wollen in den nächsten Jahren die Voraussetzungen partnership schaffen, with our employees, damit Bertelsmann customers and suppliers. The Communicanoch wachstumsstärker, tion on Progress is entitled to document internationaler und digitaler wird. Dabei soll unser Unter­ this claim and specific examples. nehmen sehr profitabel, solide finanziert und hoch To sein. attraktiv see how diversified Wir wollen fields ourOrt zu einem of actions an dem and how extensive the specific werden, efforts of und Geschäftsideen individual Bertelsmann Innovationen Wirklichkeit werden. worldwide are, you can also find companies Dazu out brauchen aboutwiron eine Kultur der Offenheit our Corporate und derportal. I would like to invite you to Responsibility Zusammenarbeit. visit www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility and contact us in case of queries. Mit dieser Broschüre möchten wir Ihnen einen ersten Ein­ We look forward to your comments and suggestions! blick in die Welt von Bertelsmann vermitteln. Dazu gehö­ ren unsere Geschäftsfelder ebenso wie unsere Grund­ In the months ahead, we will be taking additional steps in the areas of lagen und Zukunftsstrategien. Ich würde mich freuen, ­Corporate Responsibility, Diversity, Compliance, responsibility for our wenn wir Ihr Interesse an Bertelsmann, seinen Unterneh­ ­employees men, seinen and seiner Produkten, protecting the environment Leistungsfähigkeit und sei­ and climate. I am very delighted ner Kultur you come thatwecken along würden. Denn beipath this with us.gibt es Bertelsmann vieles zu entdecken! Regards, Ihr Dr. Thomas Rabe Chairman and CEO, Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA 4 Communication on Progress 2012 Bertelsmann Essentials The Bertelsmann Essentials convey the goals and basic values of our company’s employees, executives and shareholders and build on the Corporate Constitution. It is the responsibility of our executives to spread and epitomize these values and to serve as role models. The Bertelsmann Essentials reflect the common understanding of our corporate culture and are subject to constant review, revision and improvement. Our mission Bertelsmann is an international media corporation. We provide information, entertainment and media services to inspire people’s daily lives. We aspire to make a valuable contribution to society. We strive to be leaders in our markets and achieve returns on capital employed that guarantee growth and continuity of our corporation. Our joint efforts focus on creative content and customer relations. We seek to provide working conditions that are equitable and motivating for our employees. We commit ourselves to ensuring the continuity and ongoing progress of our corporation. 5 Communication on Progress 2012 Bertelsmann Essentials Our core values Partnership Creativity Our corporate culture is based on a mutually-beneWe provide a home for artists, authors and creative ficial partnership between our employees and the talents in all of our fields of business, promoting their company. Motivated individuals who identify with the creative development and commercial success. We company and its values are the driving force behind strive for the protection of intellectual property on a quality, efficiency, innovation, and growth within our worldwide basis. We promote artistic freedom and corporation. The hallmarks of our participatory leaderfreedom of thought, the protection of democracy ship approach are mutual trust and respect as well and human rights and the respect of traditions and as the principle of delegation of responsibilities. Our cultural values. Consequently, the content we provide employees enjoy autonomy to the greatest extent reflects a wide range of viewpoints and opinions. possible. They receive comprehensive information Continuous innovation and improvement, guided by and participate in decision making and our financial customer needs and interests, are the cornerstones success. We are committed to the professional develof our success. opment of our employees and seek to provide long term employment. Citizenship Entrepreneurship The continuity and development of Bertelsmann as an independent entity is ensured by the Bertelsmann The principle of decentralization is at the heart of Verwaltungsgesellschaft’s (Bertelsmann Management Bertelsmann’s management philosophy. It enables Company) control of the majority of voting rights. our employees to act with flexibility, responsibility, In the view of our shareholders, the possession of efficiency, and entrepreneurial freedom. Our operproperty creates an obligation to the community. ating businesses are run by managers who act as They believe that, in a market economy, a corporaentrepreneurs: They enjoy considerable independ‑ tion derives its legitimacy from making a valuable ence and bear full responsibility for the performance contribution to society. The work of the Bertelsmann of their companies. Our executives act not only in Stiftung – to which the majority of Bertelsmann the best interests of their individual businesses, but shares has been contributed – is also guided by this are also committed to the interests of the group principle. Our businesses are managed in accordance as a whole. with the spirit and the letter of the law. They maintain high standards of ethical conduct and act responsibly toward society and the environment. Our commitment We expect everyone at Bertelsmann to adhere to this mission and these core values. 6 Communication on Progress 2012 Our Corporate ResponsibilityProgram CR Strategy and Management Goals Measures realized (2012) Measures planned (2013) Corporate Responsibility-Program Corporate Responsibility organizationally Reposition the cross-divisional CR Council shifted to Corporate HR as part of Corporate Expansion of the CR department Responsibility & Diversity Management Expand external and internal Published Bertelsmann’s first CR Report in Relaunch Bertelsmann’s CR Portal CR communications compliance with Global Reporting Initiative Conception Bertelsmann’s CR Report guidelines (Level B+) 2013/2014 Further build understanding and awareness of CR through intensified internal communications Formulate Bertelsmann’s Finalized the development of industryCross-divisional stakeholder dialog as basis CR strategy specific indicators for sustainability reporting for developing the CR strategy as part of the GRI Media Sector Supplement Purposeful dialog with CR experts at other companies and in academia as well as with NGOs Derive and implement decentralized and topical measures on CR-related results from the employee survey Responsibility for Employees Goals Measures realized (2012) Measures planned (2013) Promote the corporate culture of partnership / Hosted 45 trainings for employee Host a works councils conference Promote employee’s involvement in representatives Carry out labor-law training for employee operations Hosted a works councils conference with representatives and employees from HR 73 participants departments Established an internal transfer company Continue online dialog for direct communiFinalized and introduced a new pension cation between employees and the Chairman contract (IV) and CEO Introduced an online dialog for direct communications between employees and the Chairman and CEO Promote the integration of people Employment of a significant high number of Further sensitize managers and employees with disabilities employees with severe disabilities in Germany to dealing with people with disabilities (2009: 1,460 (3.9%); 2010: 1,520 (4.2%); 2011: 1,551 (4.1%)) Participated in 17 international conferences and tradeshows Hosted a conference for councils of employees with disabilities, with around 80 participants Revised the group’s integration agreement 7 Communication on Progress 2012 Our Corporate Responsibility-Program Responsibility for Employees Goals Measures realized (2012) Measures planned (2013) Promote diversity among employees Established the Group Management Implement the diversity action plan based Committee (GMC), which includes the Execuon the results from the worldwide diversity tive Board members as well as selected senior survey managers (38 % women, six nationalities) Host a diversity conference 2013 Resolution of a Group-wide diversity Implement the Bertelsmann Sponsorship strategy by the GMC Projects Diversity survey in all companies with more Introduce flexible job models at the than 150 employees (covered 85,378 emploCorporate Center; pilot projects in the yees in 28 countries) corporate divisions Revised the group rules for flexible working Develop instruments to improve a hours stage-of-life-oriented HR policy Launched the Bertelsmann Sponsorship Project: promotion of select young managerial talent by members of the GMC Promote employee participation and improve Prepared the fourth worldwide employee Carry out the fourth worldwide employee working conditions survey and revised the group rules on the survey employee survey (e.g. introduced the “rule Introduce a web-based Learning of 3” to give more employees access to the Management System throughout the group results) to promote the use of new kinds of learning Analyzed internal job market, with (E-Learning, Blended Learning) and to increase subsequent demand-driven revision to transparency regarding existing further maximize transparency of the development training offers perspective in the group Extensive analysis and discussion of results at team, company, division and group level, followed by collective definition of measures at the respective levels Internal knowledge building for HR managers Hosted 20 events for the HR coordination Prepare and host 3rd HR Summit in 2013 as committees that Bertelsmann maintains in an international conference for HR managers different countries and regions Continue hosting regular events for HR Launched the HR Circle as a network and coordination committees and HR Circles training program for top HR staff in the group Bertelsmann Academy to offer services on current topics in HR work, under the for the German HR departments to provide patronage of the group HR director and demand-driven support on matters related to divisional HR directors HR development Expand Group-wide health management Hosted 230 BeFit health action days Expand leisure offers in the sports program activities (Participants in 2009: 1,503; 2010: 3,293; and carry out burnout prevention measures 2011: 4,208) and health checks Expanded sports program activities in Germany (Participants in 2009: 8,500; 2010: 8,800: 2011: 9,250) and in other countries including the U.S., China and Luxembourg BeFit workshop for occupational health ­management, further development of the health contact persons Bertelsmann Academy offered preventive seminars on stress, burn-out and work-life balance Ensure the employability of young people Clear commitment of Bertelsmann Keep making apprenticeship slots available SE & Co. KGaA to the “dual-mode degree at group companies in Germany course“ principle in Germany and active Introduce the dual training scheme at participation in the development of Bertelsmann sites in Spain as well, in partnerappropriate training for new careers ship with ASET/DIHK Maintained number of apprenticeship slots Adapt the “Du bist Deine Zukunft” (You are offered by group companies in Germany your future) initiative for Spain, and run it as a (trainee ratio in 2009: 3,6%; 2010: 3,6%; pilot project at the Madrid site with around 2011: 3,4%) 12 young unemployed Spaniards Permanently established the “Du bist Deine Launch a trainee program at Bertelsmann Zukunft” (You are your future) program – sites in Spain a training program for young people who have been trying in vain for an apprenticeship 8 Communication on Progress 2012 Our Corporate Responsibility-Program Ethics & Compliance Goals Measures realized (2012) Measures planned (2013) Ethics & Compliance As part of the Ethics & Compliance Program, All implemented measures will contiProgram a number of measures are realized on an nue to be realized as core components of ongoing basis, including, but not limited to the Bertelsmann’s Ethics & Compliance Program following: Conduct an annual assessment of compliance risks Distribute Code of Conduct and administer corresponding training to newly hired employees Monitor compliance with the Code of Conduct, based on a confidential whistle­ blowing system, conduct investigations and take remedial action where needed New initiatives Implemented an enhanced anti-corruption Relaunch revised edition of the Code of policy and conducted corresponding training Conduct to employees and a Code of Conduct for senior management. refresher training Continue rollout of anti-corruption training to a wider audience Environmental and Climate Protection Goals Measures realized (2012) Measures planned (2013) Establish a proactive, comprehensive Continued developing the Group-wide Next steps in developing the Group-wide approach for environmental and climate climate protection strategy, “be green” climate protection strategy „be green“ protection as an umbrella for the Updated Bertelsmann’s international activities in the corporate divisions Environmental Policy Updated Bertelsmann’s international Paper Policy Expand Group-wide reporting on Prepared Bertelsmann’s third carbon footDraw up the third Bertelsmann carbon footenvironmental and climate protection print for the 2012 reporting period (Due: 2013) print and publish the t. CO² eq for the 2012 Systematic reporting of relevant reporting period environmental indicators (Due: 2013) simultaneous publication of other relevant environmental indicators from the corporate divisions Build environmental consciousness and Implemented the International Organize the fourth international “be green” knowledge among employees “be green” Day 2012 on June 5th, the UN’s Day 2013 World Environment Day. Activities at 54 sites Qualify Bertelsmann trainees as “climate in 16 countries (for comparison, in 2011: ambassadors” by means of Train-the-Multiplier 44 sites in 15 countries; 2010: 35 sites in workshop 10 countries) Intensify “be green” communications in Drew up a concept for qualifying Bertelsvarious sections of the Bertelsmann Intranet mann trainees as “climate ambassadors” and on Bertelsmann’s Corporate Responsibility to act as multipliers for promoting climate portal protection at their places of training. Expanded in-house “be green” communications, including publication of “green news” and “be green” matching game on the Bertelsmann Intranet Produced a Berlin “be green” Day video 9 Communication on Progress 2012 Our Corporate Responsibility-Program Environmental and Climate Protection Goals Measures realized (2012) Measures planned (2013) Increase energy and resource efficiency Used the 2008 and 2010 carbon footprints Discuss measures to increase energy and as a basis for deriving measures to increase resource efficiency based on 2010 and 2012 energy and resource efficiency carbon footprints including introduction/use of Hosted workshops Green IT (deadline 2013) Regular sharing of Best Practice examples for energy efficiency and energy purchasing on the “be green Team” (a task force composed of environmental officers from all the corporate divisions) Expand stakeholder dialog Continued the stakeholder dialog on Conference with stakeholders on issues in on environmental and climate protection environmental and climate protection and environmental and climate protection expanded it to additional issues Internal knowledge building for environmental Updated the environmental and climate Update the “Green Innovations in Practice” management officers protection benchmarking of Global Players in study on green business models and publish the Media Industry and carried out additional in-house studies Reduce CO² emissions Climate neutrality for all fuel consummated by company cars in Germany, except at Gruner + Jahr and RTL Group Introduce a hierarchically graduated CO² limit for company cars in Germany, including the Executive Board and CEO, except at Gruner + Jahr and RTL Group (Target for 2013: The average CO² eq of all new orders should remain below 130 g. Target for 2015: average CO² eq of all new orders should remain below 120 g.) 10 Communication on Progress 2012 Bertelsmann Corporate Responsibility-Portal For more detailed information about Corporate Responsibility at Bertelsmann, operating figures und specific projects of our engagement please visit www.bertelsmann.com/responsibility 11 Communication on Progress 2012 Bertelsmann Corporate Responsibility-Portal 12 ur f en t w Ro h Contact and further information Your contact Corporate Responsibility Barbara Kutscher Director Corporate Responsibility responsibility@bertelsmann.com Further information Bertelsmann SE & Co. KGaA Carl-Bertelsmann-Straße 270 33311 Gütersloh, Germany Telephon +49 (0) 52 41-80-0 Fax +49 (0) 52 41-80-623 21 www.bertelsmann.com info@bertelsmann.com
