United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress – Year 2012 Statement of Continued Support 09 January 2013 imc information multimedia communication AG Altenkesseler Str. 17/D3 | 66115 Saarbruecken / Germany Tel. +49 681 9476-0 | Fax +49 681 9476-530 www.im-c.com IMCC AG | Altenkesseler Str. 17/D3 | 66115 Saarbrücken/Germany United Nations Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Saarbruecken, 09 January 2013 Communication on Progress Year: 2012 2013 To whom it may concern: Being a good corporate citizen is an ambition enthusiastically embraced at all levels within our company. As a member of a Global Compact, we believe that our business policies incorporate the ten principles. Our board fully supports our actions in working towards sustainability goals – in particular those contained in the UN Global Compact – and endorses the future priorities and specific targets we set out in our report. Through our support of the United Nations Global Compact, we also aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labor rights, the environment and the fight against bribery and corruption. In this report, we summarize the progress we have made against these principles and we will continue to follow them up in the future. Yours sincerely IMC information multimedia communication AG Altenkesseler Str. 17/D3 66115 Saarbruecken/Germany Tel. +49 (0) 681 9476-0 Fax +49 (0) 681 9476-530 eMail info@im-c.de Web www.im-c.de Commercial Register Saarbruecken HRB 13 338 Ust. Id. DE 812 187 208 Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer Executive Board: Dr. Wolfgang Kraemer (CEO) (Chief Executive Officer, IMC AG) Frank Milius Dr. Volker Zimmermann Chairman of the Supervisory Board Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. August-Wilhelm Scheer Bank Details Deutsche Bank AG Kto. Nr. 2 545 440 02 BLZ 590 700 00 IBAN DE71590700000254544002 BIC/SWIFT-Code: DEUTDE5M555 Global Compact Principle Action Taken & Impact Achieved and/or Plans for the upcoming Year 1: Businesses should support and respect IMC acts in conformity with humans rights legislation and considers its prescriptions especially with  the protection of internationally proclaimed regards to following points: human rights Work Conditions It’s one of the main objectives of IMC to create safe and healthy work environment for its employees according to existent international standards. Appropriate steps are taken to prevent accidents or injury for health arising out of or occurring during the work. In each subsidiary there is a security officer, who is trained in first aid and can be contacted in any case of injury. The security officer is also responsible for risks of injury or any dangerous situations. IMC employees have always access to drinkable water. Snack-bar, canteen and small kitchen with drinks are also available in every IMC building. In February 2013, IMC’s headquarters will move to a new building, the Scheer Tower, which offers a state-of-the-art office environment on the highest standards. Wages and Salary Labour is being paid in conformity with national legal standards. Wages and salaries paid are enough to meet basic needs of the employees. Also IMC employees can benefit from special arrangements concerning retirement provisions and other compensations for capital accumulation purposes. All employees are provided with written information about wages and salaries to be paid during their employment time before they enter the employment. Wages and salaries are to be paid in case of force majeure circumstances, such as natural disaster, resulting in interruption of operations or financial crises influencing financial stability of the firm. 2: and make sure that they are not comIMC respects and acts in conformity with the norms of applicable legislation in the regions it oper plicit in human rights abuses; ates. IMC is committed to the concept of fair dealing. Each director, officer and employee should deal fairly with the Company’s suppliers, customers, employees and competitors. No one should take their advantage of another by manipulation, concealing information, misrepresentation or other similar practice. 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom IMC accepts the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining in accord of association and the effective recognition ance to local labour legislation. Employees have right to join or to form trade unions. Employees’ of the right to collective bargaining; representatives are not discriminated and have an ability to carry out their representative functions in a work place. 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and All labour is sourced from the open labour market, employment is freely chosen and there is no  compulsory labour; forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour. All IMC employees are provided with labour contracts and may resign at any time they consider appropriate. 5: the effective abolition of child labour; IMC doesn’t source workforce from a child labour. It acts in accordance to following rules:  The course of action taken shall be in the best interests of the child, conform to the provisions of ILO Convention 138 and be consistent with the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child. Every employee under 18 should be enabled to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child. Children and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at night or in dangerous conditions. 6: and the elimination of discrimination in It is the policy of IMC to ensure that no job applicant or employee receives less favourable treat respect of employment and occupation. ment on the grounds of sex, race, marital status, disability, age, part-time or fixed term contract status, sexual orientation or religion, or is disadvantaged by conditions or requirements that cannot be shown to be justifiable. Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct by an officer and employee is unacceptable, whether verbal, physical or visual. All employees have to sign an anti-discrimination statement. Officers and employees should report any potential incident of harassment to the Human Resources Manager when it occurs. IMC emphasises that discrimination is unacceptable conduct which may lead to disciplinary action under the organisation’s Disciplinary Procedure. IMC recognises the great benefits in having a diverse workforce with different backgrounds, solely employed on ability.  7: Businesses should support a precauIMC promotes perceived attitude to resource management and resource expenditure in relation to  tionary approach to environmental chalenvironmental background. All operations have to be completed undue any negative impacts on lenges; human beings or environmental pollution. 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater IMC continues the use of an additional line in all employees e-mail signature: “Think again – do you  environmental responsibility; really need to print this e-mail?” to avoid waste of paper not only internally, but also outside the house. Travel policy of IMC underlines that employees must respect environmental standards when booking flights and hiring cars. IMC practices waste separation, according to the German law. 9: and encourage the development and The “Green IT” concept is widely advocated for IMC. Challenges, which result from complexity of  diffusion of environmentally friendly techenvironmental protection, have large influence on ITdevelopment and usage spectrum: nologies New media channels for educational programmes are offering chances to promote environmental protection.  Learning Solutions become a core competence of Green IT because they can substitute business trips and face-to-face meetings, and hence they reduce CO2 emissions, the travel cost budget and the strain on employees, thus improving their work life balance.  The term “Green IT” marks information technologies which make significant ecologic contribution. Reducing a travel route by 1 km reduces the CO2 emission by an average of approximate 204 gram – in comparison to this, the energy use produced by the IT is negligible. A virtually conducted meeting or an e-learning course with 12 students would reduce the CO2 emission by 244 kg, given an average travel route of 1,200 km.  IMC has increased the use of Web Meetings and Virtual Classroom Sessions for internal communication and cooperation as well as for project coordination meetings with customers. This action reduces the need for travelling and contributes to the reduction of Co2 emissions. IMC intends to further expand its activities in this area in the coming years.  10: Businesses should work against all All directors, officers or employees shall comply fully with all laws affecting the business of IMC,  forms of corruption, including extortion and including, without limitation, all laws prohibiting insider trading, money laundering, bribery, improper bribery. payments and anti-competitive activities. A zero-tolerance policy is in place at IMC. The consequences to the company and its directors, officers and employees of any departure from this policy can be very serious. If a criminal violation has occurred, the company will take appropriate steps to stop the criminal conduct and to prevent such conduct from happening again. END OF DOCUMENT
