2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2013 United Nations Global Compact 1/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 Commitments Assuming our responsibility in Sustainable Development is part of the 5 fundamental commitments FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is making towards its customers. Company values, both collective and individual, include: Customers’ satisfaction, Profitable growth, Respect and promotion of our collaborators. This value has always been part of the COMMITMENTS OF THE MANAGEMENT, part of our quality management system. A diagnosis was run in 2007 by an independent expert (on the basis of the AFNOR SD 21 000 standard) in order to get recommendations to adapt the management system with Sustainable Development objectives. The company’s organization was thoroughly examined (interviews and site visits) and an international benchmarking was done. A SWOT grid was used after the audit to cover the 34 subjects defined by the SD 21 000 standard, mandatory in the major areas of environmental organization: Governance and managerial practices, Sustainable Development and economic performance, Sustainable Development and corporate social responsibility, Sustainable Development and environmental responsibility, Sustainable Development and transversal approach. This work resulted in the launch of an operational “excellence” workshop dedicated to Sustainable Development. FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is committed to enforce and make progress on its environment, according to the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact: Human Rights, labor standards, environment and fight against corruption (Declaration signed in 2008). Our business model is organized by process, with an annual roadmap follow-up regarding Sustainable Development. This enables FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS to continuously improve its environment management. Many subjects mentioned in this COP are already covered in our financial annual report. We will strengthen communication on our actions to improve even more our commitments. Bart RENTMEESTERS General Manager Our objectives for 2013 are included in the attached Self-assessment board. 2/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 Description of concrete actions GLOBAL COMPACT principles 1, 2, 3, 4, and 5: o Promote and respect international laws on Human Rights o Make sure our company does not violate Human Rights o Respect association liberty and recognize negotiation rights o Eliminate all forms of forced or compulsory labor o Effective abolition of child labor FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is asking its suppliers to sign a charter, based on the principles of ethics, morality, professionalism, transparency and responsibility, shared by all partners. For instance, ordered products must comply in all aspects with laws and regulations, particularly with regards to: Quality, contents, presentation and labelling of the products, Employment and labor law: in any case, suppliers will not sell products which could have been manufactured by under-aged children, The provisions of International Conventions on Children Rights, and more particularly those related to child labor, Environmental law. Our suppliers must systematically approve this code of ethics and sign the Charter. 99% of our suppliers signed this charter. They therefore committed to the 3 pilars of Sustainable Development (environmental / social / economics). FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is deploying an analysis tool to determine the Sustainable Development part of our products. Achats Concept Eco helped us develop this tool. We created product sheets mentioning: Environmental and social characterics, Sustainable development policy evaluation, Labels. --------------------------------------------------FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is regularly conducting assessments of its suppliers’ performance in terms of quality of service and compliance with established processes and commitments. Asian suppliers are audited by the Purchasing Direction on fundamental Human Rights protection. FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is also auditing suppliers, taking into account: Labor law and employment (ban suppliers who would sale products manufactured by children) The provisions of international conventions, and in particular those relating to child labor 3/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is committed to constantly increase its ethical and environmentally product offer: FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS’ printing-house SACIPRINT is FSC certified. SACIPRINT ensures respect of forest ecosystems and local populations and allow them to develop a sustainable economic growth. Some of our “green” facility management products have the Rainforest Alliance label. These products meet social and environment standards (forests, rivers, soil, fauna and flora are protected and workers are treated with respect, get a decent wage, are properly fitted and have access to education and health care). --------------------------------------------------The Company values include respect and promotion of all employees, from a collective and individual perspective. The work environment contributes to social and personal individual development. The company is offering staff restaurants and parking lots. The company authorizes desk personnalization and invests in furniture and all necessary equipment for its employees’ comfort (wrist rests, air-conditionning, etc…). Some important maintenance work was made in 2011 and 2012. All hygiene, security and work conditions questions are treated by a « Health, safety and working conditions Committee ». The company promotes working time arrangements (part-time) so that any employee may combine their professional and private lives. The company is organizing regional and national integration seminars to develop a sense of belonging to the Group. The company puts a strong emphasis on training and promotes the individual right to training so that employees are proactive on their wishes of promotion. The company gives great importance to communication. Every employee has a yearly appointment with his manager. The company newsletter “InFOS” is sent twice a month to all employees, informing them of the results, the on-going projects and their contributors, organization changes, the new employees joining the company. The company is constantly adapting its organization to fit its business. 4/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 GLOBAL COMPACT principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS has a strong culture based on collective and individual values. They include, beyond others, respect and promotion of all employees. FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is committed to employing disabled workers. As of December 2012, disabled workers were totalizing 1.68% of the global workforce. The company is therefore discharged of its obligations (article L 5212 from labor code): Employment of disabled workers Sub-contracting with protected workshops Payment of a financial contribution to Agefiph (association collecting funds for vocational integration of disabled people). FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS makes sure that all employees are equally treated (employment, wage, carreer plan and training). The recruitment process makes no distinction of sex, age nor disability. In terms of workforce, as of December 2012, FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS was employing 54% of women and 46% of men. As of December 2012, 19% of FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS’ employees were over 50. The company is currently working on a plan for senior employees (recruitment and retention in employment). FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is granting specific training to all employees to: Enable the acquisition of new skills, Maintain alignment of their skills with the evolution of employment, Promote the acquisition of news skills, complementary to those required for their current position in order to get a promotion. As a distributor, FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is putting the customer at the heart of its concerns. Specific trainings to develop customer relationship are organized as well as trainings to get the necessary knowledge about products and services. Employees’ sensitization to Sustainable Development: FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is concentrating efforts on major stakes such as hygiene, security, Sustainable Development and Quality. Employees can: take part in the Sustainable Development approach take part in the Quality management system and the ISO 9001 V2008 standard. FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS defined a Sustainable Development program in 2007 with the company Be Citizen (strategic counseling on Sustainable Development). Our Sustainable Development commitments are available on our website www.fos.com. Our company set up actions for the employees: Recycling garbage bins A mug was given to our employees to reduce the consumption of disposable cups. --------------------------------------------------5/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 GLOBAL COMPACT principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges We integrate varied elements in the environmental pilar of our approach to Sustainable Development. Aware of the issues in this area, we implemented a Global Progress Plan which is translated into concrete actions: Carbon assessment to mesure the quantity of GHG (greenhous gas) emissions Complete renewal of our delivery vans, which are now all equiped with particle filters and Start & stop system. Our vans meet the EURO V standard. Use of 100% recycled paper for the printing of our media. Our envelopes are 100% recyclable and we use biodegradable bags for packing orders. Ecological recycling network for used ink cartridges and used batteries. Compliance with the REACH directive Compliance with the DEEE directive: control in our suppliers’ warehouses that a certified recycling circuit is in place. Development of a light bulb recycling circuit on our distribution platforms. FSC/PEFC certification for SACIPRINT (printing-house). We also ensure that all our economic actions contribute to Sustainable Development: Regionalization of our paper stock (limitating GHG) Administrative dematerialization (internet orders and purchasing card) Consolidation of orders and limitation of small orders A. Our carbon assessment: was realized according to the ADEME method. The objective was to determine greenhouse gas emissions generated by the direct and indirect activity of our company, associated to a progress plan in order to reduce emissions. Our recent efforts in this domain helped us reduce by 24% our CO2 emissions between 2008 and 2012. Our progress plan to reduce GHG emissions since 2008: Logistics: o Transportation: Advanced regional platforms where paper is stocked Semi trailers have a 70% to 90% filling rate at our logistics center Delivery planning optimization standards Adaptation of vehicles based on the activity volume (20, 13, 12 et 10 m3) o Packaging: Waste & cardboard sorting on our logistics center. Cardboard is varlorized by recycling specialists. Back office: Recycling of papers & used cardboards, Financial allocation to employees if they take public transports, Flow dematerialization (internet sales and purchase card), Orders globalization and limitation of small orders. 6/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 Example of new actions in 2010 and 2011 : direct and indirect costs savings program (optimization of products returns). B. Our certification: realized according to international standards. Our ISO 9001 certification, version 2000 (for all our sites), since 2004, and renewed in its 2008 version All our procedures and operational documents are available on our intranet. Our printing-house SACIPRINT o FSC/PEFC certification since 2009 o IMPRIM’VERT label since 2004 --------------------------------------------------GLOBAL COMPACT principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility We offer our customers an ecological recycling circuit for used ink cartridges, used batteries and used light bulbs. Our strenghths: Real time collection by our drivers in France and Belgium An ecological recycling circuit: o Thanks to our adhesion to the NEW LIFE Attitude program (REVIALIS) for ink cartridges: Sorting of ink cartridges Revalorization of re-usable cartridges (0% of waste at the end of treatment and 100% valorization – re-use of spare parts) Environment friendly treatment (no incineration and no burying) A complete traceability of materials Ecological packagings (recycled cardboard and vegetal ink printing) o Thanks to our partnership with COREPILE, we recycle used batteries. o Thanks to our partnership with RECYLUM, we recycle used light bulbs. These operations are financed by the Eco-contribution. FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS performs audits of suppliers. Suppliers agree to comply with the law n°2001-420 of May 15, 2001 on new econ omic regulations (“NRE” Act) and its related decree n°2002-221 of February 12 th, 2002. Upon our request, suppliers may be requested to communicate on the consequences of their activity on the environment. The first audit includes examination of the following items: Consumption of water, raw materials and energy resources, and the measures taken to improve energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy, land use, air, water and soil releases auditory or olfactory pollution and waste; Measures taken to limit breaches to the biological balance in natural environment to protected animals and plant species; Evaluation or certification steps taken for the environment; Measures taken to ensure the company’s activity compliance with applicable legislative and regulatory obligations; Expenses paid to prevent the consequences of the company’s activity on the environment; the existence of internal training on environmental management and information on the employees devoted to reducing risks; 7/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 Pollution breaches measures taken to ensure compliance of the company’s activity with applicable legislative and regulatory obligations; Reserves and warranties for environment risks and amount of penalties paid in the year pursuant to a court decision to compensate environmental damages. Quality and Sustainable Development represent 30% of the suppliers’ rating, each criterion being calculated with a coefficient. Audited areas related to Sustainable Development are the ones with the highest ratios. Audited areas related to Sustainable Development are: Labels and product standards: coefficient 3 Sustainable Development program: coefficient 2 Selective sorting and waste collection: coefficient 2 General criteria: o ISO 14001 environmental certification: coefficient 1 o Global Compact membership: coefficient 1 Other actions: Consideration of the control flow in the housing master plan. For the energy consumption: real estate has implemented follow-up ratios of energy consumption for our major sites and determines a patrimonial maintenance plan based on the sites’ effective consumption. FIDUCIAL Group is considering installing photovoltaic panes on the roofs of buidlings to be renovated. This possibility is also considered for our printing-house SACIPRINT. Insulation improvements: on new buildings but also while renovating insulation, glazing actions are regularly made to decrease energy consumption. FIDUCIAL’s real estate department has cut down the electric consumption in the offices, cutting the needed voltage by 3 to 4. --------------------------------------------------GLOBAL COMPACT principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies. FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is committed to constantly increase respect of the environment by increasing the share of branded products and generic products offer, certified or recognized by environmental labels (“green” products catalogue). Implementation of an eco-design for green products by product family: “Green” products board: More than 6000 « green » products in 2013, i.e. over 75% of our general catalogue 1486 references are labeled in 2013, i.e. 25% of our « green » products The part of recycled products within each product family of « green » products reaches 26% in 2013. Classification, printing materials & writing instruments are the best represented. 4875 references are recycled products 8/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 1. Paper: More than 70% of our products are Blue Angel, Nordic Swan, APUR, European Ecolable or FSC/PEFC certified. The Blue Angel label provides warranties on the use of recycled paper and on the non-use of some substances in the production process. This label is monitored by independent agencies and the Germain public authorities. The European Ecolabel grants that at all stages of the product lifecycle, energy consumption, gas emissions, effluents, origin of filters, forest management, use of chemicals, waste management are monitored. The PEFC certification guarantees that wood come from sustainably managed forests. The FSC certification ensures respect of forests’ ecosystems and enables local populations to develop a sustainable economic resource. The APUR brand guarantees the percentage of recycled paper fiber used to manufacture the product. 2. Classification, notebooks, dispatch, labeling and envelopes: More than 50% of these products are labelled. The NF Environnement certification ensures that the product meets environmental criteria, based on an analysis of the product lifecycle. This certification is granted by independent agencies (Afnor) and Governmental agencies. Paper by Nature is a European certification that ensures the low environmental impact of transformed products. 3. Printing materials: Our main suppliers guarantee: The ISO 9001 certification of their production sites The collection and recycling of used cartridges Manufacturers’ commitments exist on all environmental issues. Example for ink cartridges: Waste reduction (remanufactured cartridges, NF Environnement certification on a laser ink cartridges selection, 100% recycled cardboard packaging…) Clean manufacturing (objective of cutting wastes by 30% and electricity consumption by 10% on production sites, Nordik Swan certification) Proximity services to collect used ink cartridges Guarantee 100% recycling: o Dismantling, products valorization by specialized companies o No burying, no landfill, no export, o No production waste incineration 9/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 4. Writing instruments: Our suppliers offer a wide range of pens with Sustainable Development characteristics: Labelled products ISO 14021 certified products (100% recycled material), in major segments of writing instruments and iso-technology ISO 14001 certified production sites. --------------------------------------------------GLOBAL COMPACT principle 10: Businesses should fight all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS is preventing all kind of corruption, whether direct or indirect. The principle is based on a commitment to respect the core values of integrity, transparency and responsibility. The company makes sure to create and maintain a culture of trust that does not tolerate corruption. The company has implemented reliable procedures to eliminate any risk of corruption (for example, every order captured by a Commercial Assistant is made via a secure information system. If the order exceeds a certain amount, a validation by the hierarchy is required). The management has a monitoring role in the implementation of measures and staff missions. FIDUCIAL has an in-house audit department that performs audits of FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS’ structure to control the application of good practice and prevent bribery. FIDUCIAL OFFICE SOLUTIONS encourages dialogue with all Staff representative bodies, in charge of alerting about any problem related to illegal practices in business. --------------------------------------------------Complements: Business continuity plan in case of major risk During the pandemic H1N1 flu alert in 2009/2010, the Group quickly set up a health surveillance plan and took all necessary measures, in accordance with the Government’s prescripts. This plan associated the Management Committee’s members as well as operationnal managers. Our multi-sites structure would have enabled lower contagion risks between collaborators. The Management Committee decided: 1. To inform the staff on the virus, the risks, the pandemic evolution, the elementary hygiene rules to respect and instructions in case of an infection suspicion. 2. To work with the Staff representative bodies 3. To keep employees posted, via the information boards and by email 4. To be regularly in touch with the health and safety inspectors 10/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 5. To update the risk assessment document 6. To ask our suppliers to send us their business continuity plan The Management Committee’s members prepared an alternative organization plan and adapted measures in case the risk would be aggravated. Alternative solutions: Identification of people particularly exposed and key essential functions Determination of work adjustment measures to activate (telework, shifts..), Examination of possible alternatives (temporary workers, training of some employees to prioritary tasks, flexibility…). Adapted measures: Secure stocks Reinforce cleaning of professional and collective spaces Prefer electronic mails and fax to classic paper mail in case public utilities would be paralyzed Prefer telephone conferences and visioconferences to face-to-face meetings and travel Prevention of workers’ accidents and professional deseases An analysis of workers’ accidents and professional deseases is run periodically. Determination of frequence rates and gravity based on the 2011/2012 Social Assessment: Gravity rate: The gravity rate represents the number of wasted days for 1 000 worked hours: (Number of days of sick leave x 1 000) / Number of worked hours Our gravity rate has been decreasing for the past two years. Frequence rate: The frequence rate represents the number of accidents with more than a one-day sick leave, that occurred during the pas 12 monts for every million worked hours: (Number of days of sick leave x 1 000 000) / Number of worked hours Our frequence rate decreased in the past three years. Employees have an appointment with Health and safety inspectors every two years. During these visits, the inspectors analyze the functions and the corresponding security elements. The risk assessment document is regularly updated. 11/12 2013 COP FIDUCIAL Office Solutions July 25, 2013 Appendix: Self assessment board Global Compact Our goals as of Our performance Our performance 2013 and future focus Indicators equivalent 2008 in 2011 in 2012 targets % of suppliers who signed our Charter All 99% 97% 99% 100% Environment Principle 7 Global % of suppliers who are certified ISO 14001 35% 23% 25% 50% Principle 8 activities Principle 9 Decrease of Carbon Balance 20% (from 2008) 15% 24% 25% Principle 7 Order Carbon balance (kg équ. CO2) 15 19 18 16 % of products certified or recognized by 50% 40% 55% 75% environmental labels Labour standards % of products recognized by environmental Principle 4 & 5 Purchases 50% 33% 29% 40% labels (among green products) Environment Principle 9 % of products made of recycled materials (among 30% 23% 24% 30% green products) Management/ Women/men parity Men 47% 46% to be maintained Labour standards Organization Principle 6 Employability of employees over 50 years > 50 ans : 14% 19% to be improved 12/12
