SUSTAINABILITY POSITION STATEMENT IDLC is committed to sustainable development by creating long-term value – value for our stakeholders, value for the environment and value for the community TABLE OF CONTENTS Statement of the CEO and Managing Director 6 CHAPTER 3: VALUE FOR OUR EMPLOYEES Reporting Parameters 8 Major Indicators of HR Management 30 Disclosure on Management Approach 9 Creating Value for our Employees 33 CHAPTER 1: BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY CHAPTER 4: ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY CSR and Sustainable Business at IDLC 14 Responsible Business 38 Membership with Sustainability Initiatives 14 Maximizing Green Portfolio 38 Focus Areas of IDLC 15 Carbon Footprint Analysis 39 CSR Investments 15 Plantation Activities 40 Community Plantation at Satchari, Sylhet 40 CHAPTER 2: ABOUT US Tree Plantation at Mirpur DOHS 42 Company Profile 18 Environmental Awareness Campaign in Schools 43 Shareholding Structure 19 Bicycle Tour of Bangladesh 44 Products and Services 19 Customer Inclusion 45 Corporate Governance 20 Environment-friendly Technologies 45 Board of Directors 20 Waste Management 47 Risk Management 21 Management Committee 22 Financial Performance 24 Business Focus 27 Memberships 27 CHAPTER 5: SERVING THE COMMUNITY CHAPTER 7: STAKEHOLDER ACCOUNTABILITY Community Empowerment 50 Stakeholder Engagement 64 Skilled Manpower for the RMG Sector 50 Progress Report 65 Model Village Project 50 CHAPTER 8: COMPLIANCE STATUS Distribution of Blankets 51 Other Activities 52 GRI Content Index 70 Serving Small Businesses 53 CHAPTER 9: CONCLUSION Contribution to Women Empowerment 54 Citizenship Data 2012 84 Supporting Home Ownerships 55 UN Global Compact Principles 95 Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs 55 Awards and Achievements 95 CHAPTER 6: WALKING THE EXTRA MILE Geographic Locations Re-branding of IDLC 58 Technological Innovations 58 HR Automation Project 58 E-Solutions 59 Launching of IDLC Ladies Forum 59 Customer Value Creation 59 Anti-corruption Policies and Practices 60 CHARTS AND TABLES CHARTS Chart 1.1 Environmental Activities in 2012 Chart 1.2 Community Initiatives in 2012 Chart 2.1 Shareholding Structure Chart 2.2 Total Assets (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.3 Shareholders' Equity (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.4 Operating Income (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.5 Profitability (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.6 Growth in Deposit Portfolio (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.7 Disbursement Lease and Term Loan (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.8 Disbursement Housing Finance (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.9 Market Capitalization (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.10 Earnings per Share (in BDT) Chart 2.11 Dividend per Share (in BDT) Chart 2.12 Net Asset Value per Share (in BDT) Chart 2.13 Non-performing Loan Ratio Chart 2.14 DebtEquity Ratio Chart 2.15 Distribution of Value Addition (in BDT Mln) Chart 2.16 Distribution of Value Addition (in %) Chart 2.17 Sectoral Exposure Chart 2.18 Industrial Portfolio Chart 3.1 HR Strength of the IDLC Group Chart 3.2 Growth in Human Resources Chart 3.3 Management vs. Non-management Chart 3.4 Employee Age Analysis Chart 3.5 Recruitment Status Chart 3.6 Gender Diversification across Employment Positions Chart 3.7 Female Participation over the years Chart 3.8 Training Sessions in 2012 Chart 3.9 Training Participants in 2012 Chart 3.10 Increase in Training Participants Chart 3.11 Training Investments (in BDT Mln) Chart 3.12 Employee Loan Facilities (in BDT Mln) Chart 3.13 Employee Support Scheme (in BDT Mln) Chart 3.14 Employee Turnover Chart 3.15 Gender Classification in Turnover Chart 4.1 Major Sources of Emission Chart 4.2 Travel Footprint Chart 4.3 Waste Generation by Type Chart 5.1 Disbursement under SME Finance (in BDT Mln) Chart 5.2 Disbursement under WEL Facility (in BDT Mln) TABLES Table 4.1 Major Sources of GHG Emission Table 4.2 Server Virtualization Table 5.1 Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs Table 6.1 Risk-based Auditing Table 6.2 AML Training Table 7.1 Stakeholder Engagement in 2012 Table 7.2 Progress Report Table 8.1 Status of Compliance against Performance Indicators Table 8.2 GRI Content Index ABBREVIATIONS ABBREVIATIONS ADB Asian Development Bank AGM Annual General Meeting AML Anti-Money Laundering BDT Bangladeshi Taka BSEC Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission CBS Core Banking Software CMC Co-management Committee CSR Corporate Social Responsibility DFIM Department of Financial Institutions and Markets ERM Environmental Risk Management GHG Green House Gas GRI Global Reporting Initiatives HR Human Resources ICC Internal Control and Compliance IDLCIL IDLC Investments Limited IDLCSL IDLC Securities Limited ILO International Labour Organization IFG International Factors Group IPAC Integrated Protected Area Co-management ICT Information and Communication Technology JICA Japan International Cooperation Agency KPI Key Performance Indicator kWh Kilo Watt Hour LEADS Livelihood Education and Development Services NBFI Non-banking Financial Institution NPS Net Promoter Score NRB Non-Resident Bangladeshi SBBN Small Business Banking Network SEF Small Enterprise Finance SME Small and Medium Enterprises SNS Satchari Nishorgo Sangastha SQ Service Quality TSC Technical School and College TVET Technical and Vocational Education and Training UNEP FI United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative UNESCAP United Nations Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific UNGC United Nations Global Compact USD US Dollars VSO Voluntary Service Overseas W2RF Waste to Resource Fund Limited WEL Women Entrepreneur Loan STATEMENT OF THE CEO AND MANAGING DIRECTOR 2012 was a challenging year for both banks and financial institutions in Bangladesh. For most of the first half of 2012, the financial markets suffered from a liquidity squeeze brought on by the central bank’s ‘conservative’ monetary policy. Interest rates sky-rocketed and remained high throughout the year. New businesses and industrial projects suffered from a shortage of gas and power. The bearish sentiments that followed the end-2010 stock market crash continued and the financial markets also suffered from a number of ‘scams’, which negatively affected confidence levels amongst both bank management and clients. Despite such challenges, the IDLC Group performed satisfactorily. The Capital Market businesses, IDLC Investments Limited and IDLC Securities Limited, naturally, bore the brunt of the depressed stock market, but the ‘Loans and Deposit’ business performed very well. Core (i.e. Consumer and Corporate) Customer Deposits grew by 31 percent while Core Loans and Advances (to Corporate, SME and Consumer segments) grew by 29 percent over the previous year. The ratio of Non-performing Loans (NPL) dropped from 2.32 percent in 2011 to 2.09 percent at the end of 2012. Overall, the Group PAT witnessed an year-on-year growth of almost 42 percent. At IDLC, we have a simple philosophy :  We will grow our business while maintaining the highest standards of corporate governance, statutory compliance and ethical practices;  We will invest in our people, our technology, our processes and our Brand;  We will add value to all our stakeholders – clients, regulators, shareholders, staff, and society in general. 2012 Sustainability Report 6 In 2012, IDLC Finance continued, and indeed enhanced, its memberships with the UN Global Compact (UNGC), the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI), and the CSR Centre of Bangladesh. These associations have served to guide and support our business practices and align them with international sustainability standards. IDLC’s commitment to ‘sustainable business practices’ is borne out of this need to continuously add value to all stakeholders and become the best financial brand in the country. We are committed to sustainable development because we believe that a good corporate citizen in Bangladesh can create sustainable returns for all stakeholder groups. The environment is an area we have particularly focused on and we are proud at having initiated the process of converting the IDLC Group into a ‘carbon-neutral’ organization. We have also incorporated the ‘green banking’ guidelines into all our decision making processes. In the second half of 2012, we began an environmental awareness program for school children and our initial experience suggests this to be very effective. In 2013 we plan to set up a ‘green-desk’ with dedicated staff to focus on financing alternative energy projects. Our commitment to and achievements in different areas are outlined in the section ‘Disclosure on Management Approach’. We will continue to publish our progress every year against each of these commitments. Selim R.F. Hussain CEO and Managing Director 2012 Sustainability Report 7 REPORTING PARAMETERS Reporting period January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2012 Reporting cycle Annual Most recent previous report “Annual Sustainability Report 2011”, published in April 2012 Report Application Level “B” (Self-declared) Contact person Zurat Haque Manager, CSR Department, IDLC Finance Limited Tel: +880-2-8834990, Ext 178 Email: zurat@idlc.com BOUNDARY This report covers strategic decisions, commitments and sustainability initiatives in 2012 of the IDLC Group, i.e. IDLC Finance Limited and its two subsidiaries, IDLC Investments Limited and IDLC Securities Limited. In addition to reporting on core CSR activities, it also covers strategies and initiatives of both IDLC’s business and support functions that are closely integrated with its CSR and sustainability commitment. SCOPE This report covers the period from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. The report is prepared based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines, disclosing IDLC’s performance in 2012 against specific indicators under six general categories: Economic, Environmental, Labor Practices and Decent Work, Human Rights, Society, and Product Responsibility, as well as against the Product and Service Impact Performance Indicators of the Financial Sector Supplements. The scope has changed significantly from last year’s reporting in terms of:  Reporting against 48 GRI Performance Indicators, compared to 27 in 2011 (inclusive of Financial Sector Supplements);  Reporting on Management Disclosure against each of the performance categories mentioned above;  Upgrading Report Application Level to “B” in 2012, from “C” in 2011;  Covering more stakeholder engagement initiatives. However, no third-party/external assurance has been sought for this report. APPROACH TO REPORTING MATERIALITY The report mainly covers: Issues having significant impacts on major stakeholder groups, and the company’s economic, environmental and  Management commitment towards sustainable business; social performance and good governance practices in the  CSR strategies and initiatives of IDLC; long run have been considered as Material Contexts for this  Sustainable practices by major business and support functions, in report. line with IDLC’s CSR and sustainability commitment;  Integration of sustainability commitment with business strategies; Going forward, discussions with major internal and external  Results achieved; stakeholder groups will be a key process for identifying  Challenges faced and measures taken; such material issues.  Inclusion of important stakeholder groups; and We are working hard to make our Sustainability Report  Future plans more transparent and forthcoming. We also aim to provide Moreover, sources of the major data used in this report, and a more robust and informative report by upgrading our underlying assumptions for the measurement/calculations, have also metrics and goal setting, and we recognize that there is been disclosed. always room for improvement in our data collection and reporting process. 2012 Sustainability Report 8 DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH This section provides the context for understanding IDLC’s performance against specific indicators and future strategies relating to Economic Performance, Environmental Performance, Labor Practice and Decent Work, Human Rights, Society, and Product Responsibility (including Product and Service Impact Disclosure): ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE The performance of IDLC was directly affected by the ongoing We are continuing to integrate environmental considerations in crisis in the financial market of Bangladesh, as well as the our business performance and strategic decisions. We are taking prolonged bearish trend in the capital market. In spite of these the approach of streamlining our own performance first, while challenges, IDLC performed impressively throughout 2012 across at the same time undertaking independent measures aimed its various business segments and support units. Our operating at minimizing the impacts of environmental degradation and income increased by 11 percent to BDT 2,403 Million, while net climate change. profit after tax was BDT 713 Million, showing a 43 percent growth We have adopted the Environmental Risk Management over last year. Our total assets witnessed a growth of 21 percent guidelines of Bangladesh Bank in our credit assessment to become BDT 37,784 Million in 2012, and we received BDT 1,192 process to make our lending operations more responsive to Million from various refinancing windows of Bangladesh Bank. environmental challenges. We have also recently voluntarily Although we did not open any new branches, we continued adopted a checklist based on the UN Global Compact (UNGC) to enter new markets and serve new client segments from our Principles to ensure better environmental and social safeguard existing service points across the country. of various projects. We are also strategically increasing our ‘green’ portfolio by focusing on various environment-friendly projects. Our broader contribution to the economy is mainly highlighted by creation of jobs, payment to the national exchequer, and In addition, to manage our own carbon footprint, we are contribution to both individual and institutional development continuously undertaking various internal and external measures. with our diversified products and services. In 2012 alone, we Adoption of energy efficient technologies across the organization created jobs for 119 people, paid BDT 404 Million as corporate tax and regular plantation activities are some of the major initiatives to the Government Exchequer, increased lending by 67 percent in this regard. to small and medium enterprises, and disbursed BDT 2,736 Million We believe environmental concerns can be managed through for home ownership. mutually beneficial solutions for both IDLC and its stakeholders. Moreover, we are increasingly using technological innovations As such, we are sharing better practices with our stakeholder as a tool to bring more dynamism in our processes, and we also groups to spread awareness regarding our mutual responsibilities became the first NBFI to launch the core banking software within for a better environment. Instead of viewing these as obstacles to the shortest possible time. our progress, we view environmental challenges as opportunities to introduce innovative products, processes and service solutions for continuous growth and development. Going forward, we will strategically focus on neutralizing direct or indirect environmental impacts of our product portfolio. LABOR PRACTICE AND DECENT WORK We recognize that successful employment relationships are built on mutual benefits, understanding and trust. At IDLC, we strive to provide the best working place for our employees by embracing diversity and meritocracy, and ensuring equal opportunities for all. In addition to our Human Resource Department, we have a dedicated HR and Compensation Committee headed by the CEO and Managing Director himself, to better address issues related to human resource management across the Group. We have made it our top priority to ensure that each member of our workforce acts with the highest levels of ethics, integrity and commitment by conforming to a formalized Code of Conduct and Ethics. We provide every possible development opportunities to our people through extensive training sessions, workshops and career advice. We are particularly keen on hiring and developing female employees for improving gender balance across the organization. Hence we take extra care to provide the best facilities to our female employees at all times, including flexible working hours, maternity leave benefits, transportation facilities following late working hours 2012 Sustainability Report 9 etc. We have also recently launched IDLC’s “Ladies Forum” in participation of all our female colleagues to better understand and address issues and concerns faced by them at work. We believe that every worker has a right to a safe and healthy workplace. Although the nature of our operation does not put our employees at significant occupational risks, we make it a point to ensure a healthy, hygienic and safe working environment across all our branches, while providing sufficient insurance coverage and medical benefits for our employees and their families. HUMAN RIGHTS We are committed to complete eradication of any discrimination and biasness, both conscious and unconscious, arising from issues such as age, gender, race, religion, ethnicity, or any other attributes. Employees undergo counseling sessions, as and when required, to help them properly address and manage these issues. We also have in place a formal grievance mechanism to help employees access the appropriate authorities with their concerns. The nature of our operation negates the scope of using any form of forced labor or child labor within our organization. However, going forward, we will work with our clients and major suppliers in addressing these issues, where applicable, relating to their operations. We already require our clients to disclose incidence of child labor in their facilities, which is considered in our credit decisions. SOCIETY For broader community development, we are working with We combine both business and CSR in working for the marginal groups in different regions by contributing to their skills community around us. We have partnered with a number development and livelihood generation. Going forward, we have of NGOs and development organizations providing better plans to work with indigenous groups as well. educational and healthcare facilities to underprivileged children. Moreover, with our long term strategy for community empowerment, we are focusing mostly in North Bengal, one of the most underdeveloped regions of Bangladesh, aiming skills development of the disadvantaged group and providing alternative livelihood opportunities for them in the long run. Our main focus is on female groups, contributing to women empowerment. At the same time, we are involving our customer groups as well in some of these initiatives. We exercise strict control and compliance to ensure ethical and transparent practices across all our functions by maintaining a zero-tolerance policy. Our dedicated Internal Control Committee, and Internal Control and Compliance Department, address various operational risks and accordingly take necessary measures to manage such risks. Till date, IDLC has not faced any charges related to non-compliance in any area of operation. To continue maintaining an environment free of all forms of corruption, we also update our policies regularly to bring on board the best practices. 2012 Sustainability Report 10 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY (INCLUDING PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT DISCLOSURE) With the vision to become the best financial brand in the country, aiming for “Stakeholder Happiness”, IDLC started the year 2012 with a renewed sense of energy, innovation and quality growth by unveiling its new logo and brand pay-off line in 2012. Our products and services directly contribute to the growth and expansion of small, medium and large enterprises, while enabling people to accumulate and own assets. In 2012, IDLC introduced a range of new products and services in response to the changing needs of its growing customer base. A uniform Service Quality Guideline is being introduced to ensure standard service delivery across the organization. Since the nature of our operation dictates possession of confidential and sensitive customer information, we make it our topmost priority to maintain customer privacy at all times. Moreover, we comply with all the applicable rules and regulations in both our marketing communications and product promotion activities. Our Ethics and Compliance Committee is responsible for ensuring such ethical business practices by all units of IDLC. Moreover, we are continuously upgrading our credit assessment process to better identify and address environmental and social issues related to our business, which form a significant part of our product responsibility. Going forward, both short term and long term measures will be adopted together with our clients to address and manage these issues in mutually beneficial manners. Moreover, we will increase our focus on arranging awareness sessions, seminars and discussions with our clients, partners and other stakeholder groups to continue sharing of information and best practices, and accordingly develop future strategies. 2012 Sustainability Report 11 Niall FitzGerald Niall FitzGerald is the former Chairman and CEO of Unilever. He is also the Deputy co-Chairman of Thomson Reuters, a Trustee of the Leverhulme Trust, and a member of the Foundation Board of the World Economic Forum. He was awarded the Honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire in 2002. CHAPTER 1 BUSINESS AND SUSTAINABILITY “Corporate Social Responsibility is a hard-edged business decision. Not because it is a nice thing to do or because people are forcing us to do it... but because it is good for our business.” Niall FitzGerald CSR AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS AT IDLC At IDLC, we believe that the basic difference between Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Corporate Philanthropy lies in the nature and scope of these activities, and the degree of accountability of the organization for achieving the desired outcome. We believe that CSR is a self-regulating mechanism that 3 P’s: helps an organization assume responsibility for its own People, refers to the community in which we live and conduct our actions and decisions, and conduct its business in a business; responsible manner by integrating the 3 P’s: People, Planet Planet, refers to the surrounding environment; and and Profit. And a business thus conducted is known as a Profit, refers to the economic profit generation, which is vital for Sustainable Business. the long-term survival of any organization WHY CSR? Organizations with strong CSR commitment are more likely to gain advantage over competitors. Achievements in terms of CSR and Sustainable Business can be used for: Brand Promotion, by gaining public support for the organization’s continued presence in the local and global markets; Brand Differentiation, based on reputation gained from corporate governance, statutory compliance, ethical practices and responsible operations; Attracting and Retaining Talents, by changing perception of applicants and existing employees about the organization that is committed to responsible practices, and thus increasing their desire to be associated with that organization; Increasing Employee Commitment, where employees satisfied with the organization’s CSR practices are likely to be more positive, engaged, productive and loyal; Gaining Customer and Investor Trust, thus having a clear advantage over peers and competitors; Building a Favorable Image, in the minds of the employees, clients and other important stakeholders that is imperative for the organization’s sustained operations; and Identifying better Business Prospects, where customers will be more willing to do business with an organization that is deemed responsible and sustainable in the long run. MEMBERSHIP WITH SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES IDLC became members of a number of voluntary local and global initiatives in late 2010 to manage its CSR activities following globally acceptable standards:  UNGC (United Nations Global Compact), promoting ten  CSR Centre, promoting the concept of CSR among the principles, detailed in later part of this report, for sustainable corporate houses in Bangladesh, while acting as the local practices in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment network of UNGC. IDLC also has representation in the Board and Anti-corruption; of the CSR Centre.  UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Although these initiatives are voluntary in nature, compliance Initiative), promoting environmentally responsible practices is mandatory to continue membership with these initiatives, among financial institutions worldwide; and thus showing IDLC’s commitment to walk the extra mile for a responsible and sustainable business. 2012 Sustainability Report 14 FOCUS AREAS OF IDLC CSR INVESTMENTS 2012 Sustainability Report 15 Douglas Adams Douglas Noel Adams is an English writer, humorist and dramatist. He is best known as the author of “The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy” which started as a BBC radio comedy and later was developed into a trilogy of five books, a television series, several stage plays, comics, a computer game, and a feature film. His contribution to the UK radio is commemorated in The Radio Academy's Hall of Fame. CHAPTER 2 ABOUT US “To give real service you must add something which cannot be bought or measured with money, and that is sincerity and integrity.” Douglas Adams IDLC Finance Limited, Bangladesh’s pioneering leasing company, was established in Dhaka in 1985. Ownership IDLC was formed through the collaboration of International Finance Corporation (IFC), German Public Limited Company Investment and Development Company (DEG), Kookmin Bank, Korea Development Financing Corporation, The Aga Khan Fund for Economic Development, The City Bank Limited, IPDC of Governing Act Bangladesh Limited and Sadharan Bima Corporation. Financial Institutions Act, 1993 Today, IDLC Finance is the leading multi-product Non-Banking Financial Institution in Bangladesh Regulatory Authority with 26 branches and 2 SME booths, and over 600 permanent staff across the Group. IDLC offers Bangladesh Bank a wide range of loan and deposit products to its Corporate, Consumer and SME client segments, Credit Rating while operating in the Capital Markets through its two wholly-owned subsidiaries – IDLC Investments Limited, providing Merchant Banking services, and IDLC Securities Limited, providing Long-term Short-term Brokerage services. AAA ECRL-1 The IDLC Group has always been a standard bearer for the financial sector in terms of corporate Validity: May 9, 2012 to governance, statutory compliance and ethical business practices. The Group is also highly regarded May 8, 2013 for its professional pool of resources and progressive work environment VISION MISSION We will be the best financial brand in the country We will focus on quality growth, superior customer experience and sustainable business practices CORE VALUES CODE OF CONDUCT AND ETHICS Integrity | Customer Focus | Trust and Respect | Equal In accordance with the approved and agreed Code of Conduct, Opportunity | Eco-friendly | Passion | Simplicity IDLC employees shall: STRATEGIC OBJECTIVES  Act with integrity, competence, dignity and in an ethical manner when dealing with customers, prospects, colleagues,  Grow and develop our talent pool; agencies and public;  Fully leverage new core banking platform;  Optimize distribution points;  Act and encourage others to behave in a professional and  Grow and diversify funding sources; ethical manner that will reflect positively on IDLC employees,  Grow sales and service capabilities in Consumer their profession and on IDLC, at large; Division;  Strive to maintain and improve the competence of all in the  Aggressively grow SME portfolio; business;  Focus on top-tier clients in Corporate;  Consolidate capital market operations and enhance  Use reasonable care and exercise independent professional capabilities; judgment;  Embrace internationally accepted corporate governance and sustainable business practices.  Not restrain others from performing their professional obligations;  Maintain knowledge of and comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations;  Disclose all conflicts of interest;  Deliver professional services in accordance with IDLC policies and relevant technical and professional standards;  Respect the confidentiality and privacy of customers, people and others with whom they do business; and  Not engage in any professional conduct involving dishonesty, fraud, deceit or misrepresentation or commit any act that reflects adversely on their honesty, trustworthiness or professional competence. 2012 Sustainability Report 18 SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE As of December 31, 2012, IDLC has a total of 123,750,000 shares outstanding, with the following ownership status: PRODUCTS AND SERVICES FOR LARGE LOCAL AND FOR SMALL AND MEDIUM ENTERPRISES, WE OFFER: MULTINATIONAL CORPORATE Small Enterprise Finance (SME Loan, Abashan Loan, Seasonal Loan, Revolving HOUSES, WE OFFER: Short–term Loan, SME Sachal Loan) | Medium Enterprise Finance (Term Loan, Lease Finance, Working Capital Finance, Project Finance, Specialized Products) | Term Loan | Lease Finance | Working Capital Supplier Finance | Women Entrepreneur Loan | Commercial Vehicle Loan Finance | Project Finance | Refinancing and Special Funds | Corporate Advisory Services FOR RETAIL CLIENTS, WE OFFER: WE ALSO PROVIDE STRUCTURED FINANCE Deposit Schemes (Cumulative Term Deposit, Monthly/Quarterly/Annual Earner SOLUTIONS IN THE FORMS OF: Deposit, Double/Triple Money Deposit, Short-term Deposit) | Home Loan | Car Loan | Personal Loan Fund-raising through Loan/Lease/Private Placement of Equity/Preference Shares/Bond/ FOR CAPITAL MARKET CLIENTS, WE OFFER: Foreign-currency Loan/Refinancing of Special Funds | Project/Infrastructure Finance | Advisory Portfolio Management (MAXCAP Discretionary Portfolio Management known Services | Securitization of Assets | Structured as MAXCAP, Cap Invest Margin Lending) | Investment Banking (IPO, RPO, Bond Solutions Issuance, Rights Shares Offering, Corporate Advisory etc.) | Research | Brokerage Services 2012 Sustainability Report 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Maintenance of an effective Corporate Governance process remains a key priority of the Board of IDLC. To ensure clarity about the Directors’ responsibilities towards the stakeholders, Corporate Governance has to be dynamic and business-focused, within a culture of transparency and accountability. As such, clear structures and processes supported by well understood policies and practices have been instituted, and are regularly updated, to guide overall management of the organization. IDLC ensures that its Corporate Governance practices comply with all the aspects of the Notification No. SEC/CMMRRCD/2006-158/Admin/44 dated August 07, 2012 issued by the Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC), and those of the DFIM Circular No. 7 dated September 25, 2007 of Bangladesh Bank. Moreover, independent roles of the Board of Directors; separate and independent roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; distinct roles of the Company Secretary, Chief Financial Officer and Chief Compliance Officer; and different Committees of the Board allow IDLC to achieve excellence in the best Corporate Governance practices. BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of IDLC comprises of eleven Nonexecutive Directors, including two Independent Directors, and one Executive Director, i.e. the CEO and Managing Director of IDLC. All Non-executive Directors, other than the Independent Directors, are nominated by their 01 02 03 respective organizations, and the elected Directors nominate two Independent Directors for the Board. The Directors are then appointed by the shareholders in the Annual General Meeting (AGM). The CEO and Managing Director of IDLC is also appointed by the Board subject to consent of the shareholders in the AGM. Any change in the Board members requires intimation to the Bangladesh 06 04 05 Bank, all scheduled banks and financial institutions, Bangladesh Securities and Exchange Commission (BSEC), and stock exchanges. 01 02 Anwarul Huq Rubel Aziz Chairman-nominated by Director-nominated by Reliance Insurance Limited The City Bank Limited 03 04 07 08 09 Md. Habibur Rahman Mollah, FCA Aziz Al Kaiser Director-nominated by Director-nominated by Transcom Group The City Bank Limited 05 06 Hossain Mehmood Meherun Haque Director-nominated by Director-nominated by The City Bank Limited The City Bank Limited 07 08 Kazi Mahmood Sattar Md. Rezaul Karim Director-nominated by Director-nominated by The City Bank Limited Sadharan Bima Corporation (SBC) 10 11 12 09 10 M. Amanullah Farooq Sobhan Director-nominated by Independent Director Mercantile Bank Limited 11 12 Syed Abu Naser Bukhtear Ahmed Selim R. F. Hussain Independent Director Ex Officio 2012 Sustainability Report 20 QUALIFICATION OF THE BOARD MEMBERS RISK MANAGEMENT The Board members of IDLC have extensive Risk assessment refers to the processes by which a company identifies knowledge and experience in the areas of finance, and assesses risks related to achievement of strategic objectives. economy, management, business administration, Continuously changing external and internal environments require a marketing and law to ensure formulation of the dynamic risk assessment process that must occur at all levels of the right policies and strategies for business expansion organizational structure, and entails adoption of various measures to and sustainable development, and conduct strengthen the ability of an organization to cope with the complexities management audits in a balanced manner. of the business environment in which it operates. As a financial institution, the major risks faced by IDLC include Credit DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION Risk, Market Risk, Liquidity Risk, and Operational Risk. To manage these risks in line with the Corporate Governance policies and practices, Directors are not entitled to any remuneration IDLC is governed by the following committees of the Board and the other than attending meetings of the Board and Management: its Committees, as per DFIM Circular No. 03 dated February 24, 2010.  Board of Directors’ Committee Executive Committee | Audit Committee CONFLICTS OF INTEREST  Management Committee Each Board member endeavors to avoid any Management Committee (ManCom) | Credit Evaluation conflict of his/her personal interests with the Committee (CEC) | Asset Liability Management Committee interests of the organization, while performing (ALCO) | Internal Control and Compliance Committee |HR and his/her respective duties and responsibilities Compensation Committee | Corporate Governance Committee objectively and effectively. | Ethics and Compliance Committee | BASEL II Implementation They are to avoid receiving or allowing immediate Committee family members to receive improper personal Of the above committees, the Credit Evaluation Committee (CEC) benefits from the company. Also each Board and Asset Liability Management Committee (ALCO), comprised member has to make a full disclosure to the entire of IDLC’s senior management, are responsible for regular review Board regarding any transaction or relationship of issues relating to market, credit and liquidity, and subsequent that could raise any conflict of interest with recommendations for addressing and mitigating the associated the company and accordingly seek the Board’s risks. Activities of these committees are supported by the Credit Risk authorization for such transactions or relationships. Management (CRM) Department by independent assessment of projects from a risk-weighted point of view, thus setting business BOARD MEETINGS priorities in line with IDLC’s risk appetite, as well as by the Credit Administration Department (CAD) and Internal Control and Meeting of the Board of Directors is mandated Compliance (ICC) Department through operational risk assessment to be held at least once every three (3) months. across the company. Our Internal Control Committee addresses The rest of the Committees hold meetings as and and assesses operational risks across the company, while ensuring when required. a framework to identify, assess and manage such risks. Also the BASEL Implementation Unit (BIU) implements Capital Adequacy and Market Discipline (CAMD) instructions of Bangladesh Bank across the company. The Board also acknowledges its overall responsibility for maintaining the adequacy and effectiveness of IDLC’s internal control system. The Board views internal control framework as a tool to manage the company’s risks within an acceptable risk profile, rather than completely eliminating the risk of failure to achieve the policies, goals and objectives of the IDLC Group. 2012 Sustainability Report 21 MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Zahid Ibne Hai M. Ataur Rahman Chowdhury Md. Saifuddin Mustaq Ahammed, FCA Head of SME Division Head of Operations Managing Director, IDLCSL Head of ICC M. Jamal Uddin Bilquis Jahan Selim R. F. Hussain Head of Corporate Division Head of Human Resources CEO & Managing Director 2012 Sustainability Report 22 Md. Moniruzzaman, CFA Irteza A. Khan Mir Tariquzzaman Asif Saad Bin Shams Managing Director, IDLCIL Head of Consumer Division Chief Technology Officer Head of Credit & Collection H. M. Ziaul Hoque Khan, FCA Deputy Managing Director & CFO 2012 Sustainability Report 23 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE KEY FINANCIALS (CONSOLIDATED) Chart 2.2 Total Assets Chart 2.3 Shareholders' Equity (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 37,784 4,693 31,165 3,980 3,690 26,930 22,681 2,393 17,342 1,611 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.4 Operating Income Chart 2.5 Profitability Proﬁt before Tax Proﬁt aer Tax (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 1,956 3,047 1,273 1,327 1,252 1,217 2,403 2,160 822 708 713 1,913 500 406 1,179 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.6 Growth in Deposit Chart 2.7 Disbursement Portfolio Lease & Term Loan (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 12,304 22,008 8,517 16,828 12,373 9,780 3,750 4,345 8,249 3,412 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Sustainability Report 24 Chart 2.8 Disbursement Chart 2.9 Market Capitalization Housing Finance (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 27,888 2,736 2,586 2,121 1,839 1,612 13,712 11,109 11,373 5,723 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.10 Earnings per Share Chart 2.11 Dividend per Share* (in BDT) (in BDT) 10.72 11.00 10.00 6.64 5.76 4.04 3.28 3.50 2.50 3.00 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * Per share of BDT 10 Chart 2.12 Net Asset Value per Share (in BDT) 47 Chart 2.13 Non-performing Loan Ratio 40 3.97 37 3.43 2.84 24 2.32 16 2.09 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.14 Debt-Equity Ratio 8.32 8.48 6.83 7.05 6.30 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Sustainability Report 25 PARTICIPATION IN REFINANCING PROGRAMS CONTRIBUTION TO THE GOVERNMENT IDLC is one of the largest participants in the refinancing programs EXCHEQUER of Bangladesh Bank and other donor organizations, with the In 2012, IDLC contributed BDT 404 Million to the Government objective of diversifying its source of funds through dependable Exchequer as Corporate Income Tax of the Company. Also BDT sources at significantly lower costs, and transferring this benefit 287.73 Million was collected and deposited to the Government to the customers by offering financing at competitive rates. Exchequer as withholding tax and VAT. In 2012, IDLC received BDT 1,192.58 Million from various refinancing windows of Bangladesh Bank, especially Women Entrepreneur and Agro Refinancing Facility for SMEs, as well as from ADB and JICA funds. IDLC, so far, is the highest fund receiver, out of 39 participating banks and NBFIs, under the JICAassisted Financial Sector Project organized by Bangladesh Bank Refinancing and Pre-Financing Scheme in June 2012, with total refinancing amounting to BDT 91.42 Million. In 2012, such refinancing contributed to 10 percent of IDLC’s total funding mix, compared to 83 percent Term Deposits and 5 percent Bank Borrowing. 2012 Sustainability Report 26 BUSINESS FOCUS Chart 2.17 Sectoral Exposure MEMBERSHIPS ASSOCIATIONS Bangladesh Leasing and Finance Companies Association | Asian Financial Services Association | Bangladesh Merchant Bankers Association | Bangladesh Association of Publicly Listed Companies INSTITUTE The Institute of Bankers, Bangladesh CHAMBERS OF COMMERCE AND INDUSTRY International Chamber of Commerce – Bangladesh | Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Dhaka Chamber of Commerce and Industry | Bangladesh German Chamber of Commerce and Industry | The Federation of Bangladesh Chambers of Commerce and Industry INTERNATIONAL MEMBERSHIPS International Factors Group (IFG) an international association of factoring companies | Small Business Banking Network (SBBN) a global initiative to improve access to financial services by small businesses In addition, IDLC is also members of the UNGC, UNEP FI and CSR Centre of Bangladesh for its sustainability initiatives. 2012 Sustainability Report 27 Bill Gates William (Bill) H. Gates is the Co-founder and Chairman of Microsoft, the worldwide leader in personal-computer software, services and solutions. He is ranked among the world's wealthiest people, and was named by Time magazine as one of the 100 people who most influenced the 20th century. In 2000, Gates and his wife created the ‘Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation’, the largest charitable foundation in the world. As of 2007, they were the second-most generous philanthropists in the USA, having given over USD 28 Billion to charity. CHAPTER 3 VALUE FOR OUR EMPLOYEES “Take our 20 best people away, and I will tell you that Microsoft would become an unimportant company.” Bill Gates MAJOR INDICATORS OF HR MANAGEMENT EMPLOYEE PROFILE Chart 3.1 HR Strength of the Chart 3.2 Growth in Human IDLC Group Resources 481 (79%) 80 (13%) 48 (8%) IDLC Finance IDLCSL IDLCIL Core Chart 3.3 Management vs. Non-Management Chart 3.4 Employee Age Analysis < 30 years 39.41% 30-50 years 59.44% > 50 years RECRUITMENT 1.15% Chart 3.5 Recruitment Status 2012 Sustainability Report 30 GENDER BALANCE Chart 3.6 Gender Diversification across Employment Positions Male Female 92% 84% 85% Chart 3.7 Female Participation over the years Male Female 82% 83% 84% 16% 15% 8% Entry Level Mid-level Senior Management 18% 17% 16% 2010 2011 2012 TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT Chart 3.8 Training Sessions in 2012 Public Programs Chart 3.9 Training Participants in 2012 73 In-house Public Programs 23 191 Foreign Customized 18 781 Customized In-house 19 746 Foreign 33 Chart 3.11 Training Investments Chart 3.10 Increase in (in BDT Mln) Training Participants 20.59 1,751 10.83 10.67 1,293 35% 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2012 Sustainability Report 31 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Chart 3.12 Employee Loan Facilities* (in BDT Mln) 117.34 122.55 Chart 3.13 Employee Support Scheme* (in BDT Mln) 30.37 1.57 2010 2011 2012 0.17 0.37 2010 2011 2012 TURNOVER Chart 3.14 Employee Turnover 13.38% 14.00% 11.25% Chart 3.15 Gender Classification in Turnover Male Female 79% 71% 2010 2011 2012 29% 21% 2011 2012 *Employee Loan Facilities include Home Loan, Transport Loan and Personal Loan; Employee Support Schemes include contributions to the Employee Welfare Fund and Education Support Scheme 2012 Sustainability Report 32 CREATING VALUE FOR OUR EMPLOYEES WORK ENVIRONMENT At IDLC, we promote an environment where diversity is embraced, where people are evaluated based on their merit and performance, and where everyone is treated with respect and dignity. We offer challenging prospects to young and competent professionals, make career development opportunities widely available, and encourage employees to attain both their professional and personal goals. To put it simply, we strive to continue being a company where the best people want to work. DIVERSITY NON-DISCRIMINATION Embracing diversity is a key element of IDLC’s long-term strategy in terms of human resource management. Although IDLC is not exposed to widely different cultures Non-discrimination at all levels of and backgrounds owing to operations limited within Bangladesh only, during human resource management has been recruitment, we prioritize people from our respective areas of operations, thus integrated in IDLC’s core values and is a promoting diversity and inclusion across the organization, providing equal access to part of our employee Code of Conduct. job opportunities, and meeting stakeholder expectations. We aim to ensure equal opportunities for all our employees, regardless of their Our diversity commitment includes a range of aspects such as gender, age, diverse backgrounds and characteristics. religion, ethnicity, background and cultural orientation, and physical characteristics, We consider meritocracy and performance including disability. We work closely with our external head hunting agencies, as the most important criteria during helping them understand our diversity priorities and access the widest possible recruitment and evaluation. To ensure pool of talent. Rather than just expanding minority representation in our workforce, non-discrimination, IDLC’s strong focus we strive to foster a culture where diverse values and beliefs are shared, thus has been on “Gender Neutrality” across the increasing competitiveness of the organization. organization. GENDER NEUTRALITY We continue to focus on achieving a better balance between male and female employees in our workforce, particularly at management and decision-making levels, and there is complete commitment of the Board and the Management in this regard. At present, we have one female member in our Board, while female participation in mid-level management has declined to 15 percent from 20 percent a year earlier; however, percentage of female participation in our senior management positions has remained stable. Though success in this regard has been slower than preferred, we are not the only financial institution facing such challenges. We are particularly keen on developing female colleagues within the organization for improving gender balance, rather than resorting to external hiring. We also strive to continue eradication of unconscious bias and unintentional disadvantages objected towards female employees in IDLC. On February 7, 2013, IDLC launched its very first “Ladies Forum” for all female members of the IDLC Group, to ensure various issues and practical challenges faced by women at work are well understood and addressed, and future strategies and decisions are taken accordingly. TRAINING PROGRAMS IDLC offers a variety of training programs, suiting specific needs of its employees for both their personal and professional development. Investments in employee training programs amounted to BDT 20.59 Million in 2012, increasing by more than 90 percent compared to the same period last year. 2012 Sustainability Report 33 JOB ROTATION INTERNSHIP PROGRAMS IDLC strongly encourages job rotation IDLC offers extensive Internship Programs to fresh graduates from leading public and by its employees across different private universities of the country. The interns undergo a 3-month program with different departments. Job rotation has business and support units, and are eligible to apply for a permanent position in the been formalized across the Group, company at the end of the internship period. subjecting all Management Trainees Such programs provide them the opportunity to familiarize with corporate culture and to a rotation period of six (6) months. work environment, while developing their competitive skills for future jobs. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS SUCCESSION PLANNING Major facilities include Benefit Schemes IDLC has a formal succession planning in place to ensure continuity in leadership such as Performance Bonus, Insurance and avoid vacancies in key positions over an extended period. This plan focuses Coverage, Welfare Fund etc., and Loan on identification and subsequent development of candidates for high-level Facilities such as Housing Loan, Transport management positions that may/have become vacant due to resignation; new Loan, Personal Loan etc.; whereas career opportunities, both within or outside the organization; and/or demise. As Company Contributions include Transport such, IDLC is keen on assessing leadership needs of the company to ensure selection Maintenance Support Scheme, Furniture of qualified future leaders, having diversified qualifications and compatibility with the and Household Equipment Allowance, organization’s mission, values and goals. Education Support Scheme, Annual Recognition Scheme etc. To encourage more participation of female GRIEVANCE MANAGEMENT WORK-LIFE BALANCE employees across the organization, we provide facilities including flexible working IDLC ensures prompt and impartial Being a financial institution, IDLC hours, maternity benefits, transportation resolution of employee grievances resulting employees need to work for a specific facilities following late working hours etc. from any discrimination or deprivation. number of hours. Keeping that IDLC makes a point to reassure employees aside, IDLC has a flexible approach that they will be treated fairly at all times, to allow its employees strike the WORKPLACE SAFETY and if faced with an unwanted situation balance between their professional The nature of our activities exposes our not in line with the values the organization and personal lives. Our senior employees to minimum occupational stands for, they are always at liberty to management also has an open health and safety risks. A safe, healthy and bring it forward to the management, as approach in this regard. hygienic work environment is maintained mandated in relevant policies. Moreover, across all branches of the IDLC Group. employees receive proper counseling Sufficient lighting and other utilities, as well before reverting to work, if such air-conditioning and separate toilet grievances arise. facilities are ensured. All the branches are adequately equipped with fire-fighting equipments, and fire drills and fire safety training are arranged on a regular basis to prepare employees in the event of any fire hazard. Moreover, doctor facilities are provided every two weeks at major branches. EMPLOYEE HEALTH MANAGEMENT IDLC provides comprehensive life and hospitalization insurance coverage to its employees. Moreover, health awareness sessions are also organized with third-party service providers on a regular basis. IDLC is currently conducting a vaccination program against Hepatitis B and Cervical Cancer for its employees and their family members. After completion of the first batch in December 2012, following an awareness session, the second round began in February 2013, due to be completed next year. 2012 Sustainability Report 34 EMPLOYEE EVALUATION EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT An effective performance Orientation management process is critical All new recruits at IDLC go through an extensive orientation session, to have a comprehensive to our success in the long run. In understanding of the core functions, both business and support, of IDLC. This session is measuring employee competency conducted usually after 2-3 months of their joining IDLC, to help them better relate to IDLC’s and performance, we seek to operations. promote a culture of meritocracy, strong risk management and Employee Motivation non-discrimination. To ensure continued performance and morale among its employees, IDLC provides Spot Our employees are evaluated Awards for special achievements, while arranging Team-building Programs, corporate and not only in consideration of their family events such as picnic, family day, corporate night etc. goal-based performance, but also Communication how targets have been achieved over the year, and accordingly Our employee engagement mechanisms include internal communications and employee employee development plans volunteering initiatives. Emails are circulated on a regular basis, updating employees of IDLC’s are proposed. Comprehensive recent initiatives/achievements, changing money market scenario and regulatory issues etc., feedback is provided to each while softcopy of the MBR (Monthly Business Review), a monthly publication of IDLC, is also employee regarding their provided. expectation on pay and promotion, while highlighting Employee Volunteering each individual’s strengths and As part of employee volunteering initiatives, IDLC employees are involved in the arrangement areas they need to develop. of various events across the Group, as well as contributing in various CSR activities through idea sharing and active participation. IDLC is in the process of introducing a new HR Automation Software, as detailed in the segment “Technological Innovations” in page 58. 2012 Sustainability Report 35 Carter Roberts Carter Roberts is the President and CEO of the World Wildlife Fund. He had also worked for Procter & Gamble, and had received an MBA from the Harvard Business School. With inspiration from nature and a background in business, he has sought to solve problems by creatively influencing the way markets and businesses operate. He also serves on the boards of the Grantham Institute for Climate Change; InterAction, a consortium of development and environmental NGOs; and the Nicholas Institute at Duke University. CHAPTER 4 ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY “Companies still thinking about the environment as a social responsibility rather than a business imperative are living in the dark ages.” Carter Roberts RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS Financial performance and conditions for both debt addresses Human Rights issues such as wage levels, overtime facilities and equity may be weakened by a number of factors and leave facilities in comparison with industry standards, health and including climate-sensitive market conditions; lowered safety standards at the workplace, presence of adequate fire-fighting efficiency and performance of assets due to climate equipments etc.; Labor issues such as incidences of child labor or forced/ change, requiring more frequent replacements; higher bonded labor; gender balance within the workforce etc.; Environmental incidences of insurance claim; impact on employee issues such as use of energy-efficient products and processes, significant health, safety and productivity etc. conservation measures, percentage of recycled In light of these, there is a considerable opportunity and We should understand that continued and/or reused raw responsibility for financial institutions to take a leading competitiveness in the market requires materials, waste disposal role in climate change adaptation. Many financial overcoming a range of barriers including methods, environmental institutions, including members of the UNEP FI and public policy support ensuring a level management plan of the UNGC, have environmental and social goals associated playing field, innovative financial organization etc.; and with their investments, as do major companies in which instruments designed as per market lastly, Anti-corruption they invest. However, considering only historical data needs, a strong carbon market, and policies and practices in environmental and social impact assessments will entrepreneurs promoting clean of the organization likely disregard material changes occurring during a technologies and environment-friendly with regard to nonproject’s life cycle and as such, financial decisions on products, while effectively leveraging compliance with existing this basis may fail to cope with new climate change and public or donor funds to offer the riskrules and regulations. social considerations. As a result, mitigation measures in reward balance required for long-term Responses to these issues environmental and social management plans may not institutional investments. At the same are considered during function as intended. time, continuous information updates, the final credit decision, supported by additional research data and and accordingly, business Understanding this need, IDLC has incorporated the application of risk-management tools, will Environmental Risk Management (ERM) Guidelines of units are required facilitate incorporation of climate change to plan appropriate the Bangladesh Bank in its credit assessment process to considerations into decision making, thus ensure better environmental and social safeguard of the safeguard measures in making investments more climate-resilient consultation with the projects financed by IDLC. and better adapted to the changing borrower(s). Voluntary Taking these safeguard measures one step further, conditions. adoption of this measure IDLC has voluntarily adopted an additional checklist, further reflects on IDLC’s prepared in light of the ten principles of UN Global commitment to strongly manage adverse environmental and social Compact to further assess environmental and social issues related to its financing/investments, and thus create a sense of risks associated with the projects. The checklist accountability among its borrower(s) as well. MAXIMIZING GREEN PORTFOLIO In addition to streamlining its risk management process, IDLC is taking active measures to gradually increase its “Green” portfolio in a structured manner. In 2012, IDLC’s SME Division provided financing to different projects for installation of Effluent Treatment Plants and Waste Recycling Plants in various industries and for setting up biogas plants, as well as Supplier Finance facilities to enterprises working in the renewable energy sectors in regions including Dhaka, Narshingdi, Bogra etc. Some recent major initiatives in this regard include: Signing of an agreement between Waste to Resource Fund Limited (W2RF) and IDLC’s 2012 Sustainability Report 38 Structured Finance Department. Under this arrangement, IDLC will provide financial advisory services for design, monitoring and evaluation of investments in solid waste management projects for reduction of GHG (Green House Gas) emission across Asia and Africa. The Board of W2RF consists of representatives from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, UNESCAP, and Waste Concern from Bangladesh. The first project to be financed is a CDM (Clean Development Mechanism) project located at Bulta, Dhaka. IDLC is the first financial institution in Bangladesh to be involved in such a project as a financial advisor. Signing of an MoU with Clean Energy Alternatives Inc. (CEA) and IDLC’s SME Department. CEA is an organization providing consultancy services for introduction and adoption of clean energy technologies. Under this arrangement, IDLC will target projects/sectors promoting the use of energy-efficient technologies, with primary focus on brick kiln projects adopting HHK (Hybrid Hoffman Kiln) and other low carbon technologies. CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS IDLC conducted carbon footprint analysis of its operations in May 2012. Carbon footprint is the measure of the Green The study was conducted across three major branches on a pilot basis, with House Gas (GHG) emission by an organization as the objective of minimizing/neutralizing IDLC’s carbon footprint for better a result of its regular activities. Being a financial environmental management. IDLC is one of the first financial institutions in institution, the major sources of GHG for IDLC Bangladesh to have undertaken such an initiative. are electricity, diesel (used in generators), This study helped calculate Green House Gas (GHG) emissions in 2011 by the octane, CNG (for vehicles), paper, organic waste following major sources: and air travel. Table 4.1 Major Sources of GHG Emission Particulars Sources Consumption/Year CO2 Emission/ Year Electricity 591,696 kWh 381 tons Power 439 tons Diesel 20,361 liters 58 tons Octane 12,879 liters 32 tons Travel CNG 138,319 m3 253 tons 289 tons Air Travel 33,980 km 4 tons Paper 10,244 kg 33 tons Waste Generation 36 tons Organic Waste 2,391 kg 3 tons Total Emission in 2011 764 tons 2012 Sustainability Report 39 To minimize and/or neutralize this carbon footprint, IDLC is undertaking a combination of short-term and long-term measures including regular tree plantation, adoption of environment-friendly technologies; use of more energy-efficient devices for lighting and air conditioning purposes; increasing focus on green financing etc. The three-month study was conducted by Waste Concern Consultants, a leading consultancy firm in Bangladesh working for capacity development in environmental sustainability by offering better prevention, control and management approaches. PLANTATION ACTIVITIES Growing population, industrialization and urbanization are increasingly causing indiscriminate destruction of trees and forestlands, posing a major concern all around the world. Not only is this adversely affecting the climate, but also giving rise to various natural calamities, putting countries like Bangladesh in a vulnerable position. Growing awareness among people, as well as coordinated efforts from both public and private sectors are crucial for preserving our natural environment and scale down climate change adversities. With this understanding and as part of its broader environmental management approach, IDLC regularly undertakes plantation initiatives in different locations to reduce its own carbon footprint. In 2012, our major activities included a “Community Plantation Program at Satchari, Sylhet”, and “Tree Plantation at Mirpur DOHS”. COMMUNITY PLANTATION AT SATCHARI, SYLHET IDLC undertook a “Community Plantation” initiative at Satchari, Habiganj, Sylhet in August 2012, combining alternative livelihood Project Rationale options and biodiversity conservation with tree plantation. The initiative was undertaken together with Satchari Nishorgo Sangastha Livelihood of many people in Bangladesh is directly (SNS), the local Co-management Committee (CMC) at Satchari reserved or indirectly dependent on natural forest areas forest area, under the broader Nishorgo Network of USAID’s IPAC and wetlands, while meeting their daily needs of (Integrated Protected Area Co-management) project. foods, woods, medicines, house-building materials etc. Moreover, these forest areas have cultural and Under this approach, 7,500 saplings of local varieties of fruit-bearing spiritual significance as well. Therefore, effective and medicinal species were planted across 750 households in the core and sustainable conservation of these resources is zone and buffer zone of the Satchari protected forest area. Priorities critically important for the greater benefit of these were given to households with high dependence on forest resources. forest-dependent communities. The plants, under ownership of the households, are expected to increase income level of these household after 2/3 years, from the sale However, many of these dependent communities of fruits, woods and other products from the mature trees, and in the are increasingly getting involved in the illegal cutting process, reduce dependence on forest resources. However, the mature of mature and regenerated trees for developing farm trees can not be cut before 25 years. lands, sourcing woods and timber for construction works and furniture manufacturing etc. And this The plants included Amrapali (Hybrid Mango), Bau Kool, Amla, Hybrid growing trend is accelerating deforestation and Guava, Olive and Black Berry. The plants and associated materials such destruction of biodiversity. as fertilizer, fencing etc. were sponsored by IDLC, whereas the project beneficiaries provided land, labor and equipments for weeding and To turn around this situation, a local management watering the plants. Initial orientation sessions were also arranged system in participation of the community people with experts from the Forest Department and the Department of should be in place to create awareness regarding Agricultural Extension prior to distribution of the plants, and the the importance of tree plantation and biodiversity plantation and subsequent maintenance are being closely monitored conservation. Moreover, alternative measures by the Satchari CMC. should be adopted to reduce dependence on forest resources, thus contributing to the conservation process. 2012 Sustainability Report 40 The word “Satchari” refers to the seven streams, flowing through the forest area of the Satchari National Park. Situated in Chunarughat Upazilla under Habiganj district and established in 2006 as a national park, the tropical evergreen park comprises of 243 hectares, as part of the 6,205 hectares of Raghunandan Hills Reserve Forest. There are 24 species of mammals, 149 species of birds, 6 species of amphibians, and 18 species of reptiles in the park. Some flagship attractions for tourists are the Hoolock Gibbon and Phayre’s Langur, as well as bird species like Oriental Pied Hornbill, Red Jungle Foul, Red-headed Trogon, Pygmy Woodpecker etc. MAJOR OBJECTIVES OF THE PROJECT  Increased awareness among the local community regarding the importance of tree plantation and conservation;  Higher income generating potential of the households after 2/3 years through alternative livelihood options, by extracting maximum value from the mature trees; and  Reduced dependence on forest resources, thus contributing to conservation and biodiversity; An MoU was signed with SNS on July 18, 2012, and the plantation was completed by August 2012. 165 tons of CO2 emission reduction targeted per year 2012 Sustainability Report 41 TREE PLANTATION AT MIRPUR DOHS In September 2012, IDLC planted 700 saplings of local varieties at Mirpur DOHS, the newest and largest DOHS area in Bangladesh for housing defense 15.4 tons officers and their families. IDLC of CO2 is the first private organization emission to have undertaken such an reduction initiative in this area. targeted per year 2012 Sustainability Report 42 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN IN SCHOOLS IDLC, together with LEADS – a social organization of TRK Consultancy Services, has initiated a campaign across different schools to create awareness among the school children on various environmental issues. The half-day sessions consist of presentations, workshops and team-based activities with 50 children from each school, focusing on issues such as types and causes of environmental pollution, identification of natural and national resources and causes of wastage etc., while the students are asked to come up with measures that are feasible and easily adaptable in their lives to address these issues. Moreover, stickers with responsible messages and tri-color waste bins for source-separation of waste materials are also provided to the school authorities for use within the school premises. Viqarunnisa Noon School & College (January 17, 2013) Udayan Higher Secondary School (October 1, 2012) Jhigatola Government High School (February 11, 2013) Bangladesh International School & College (February 4, 2013) The children are then assigned the task of sharing this knowledge with their families, relatives and friends, and nominate one of their friends to take part in a followup session after two months to share updates of these Dhaka Residential activities. Model College (February 14, Till now, IDLC and LEADS have jointly covered the above 2013) five schools under this campaign. 2012 Sustainability Report 43 BICYCLE TOUR OF BANGLADESH IDLC sponsored a country-wide campaign titled “Bangladesh is marching forward: Let’s visit the country on Bicycle”, an initiative of Musa Ibrahim, the first Bangladeshi to conquer Mount Everest. Musa Ibrahim and his team of twenty cyclists went on a tour of 25-days covering Everest Academy 90 educational institutions across 40 districts of Bangladesh. The group carried the Joint messages for green education, responsible environmental practices, importance of Organizer Prothom Alo Bondhushava tree plantation, awareness against drug abuse, and the liberation war of 1971, while Green encouraging the youth to participate more in adventure as a way of life. 630 saplings IDLC Finance Limited Partner of local varieties were also planted in the school premises during the campaign. Employees from IDLC’s Gazipur, Chittagong, Comilla and Jessore branches also Cycle Meghna Group actively participated in the event in their respective areas. Partner 2012 Sustainability Report 44 CUSTOMER INCLUSION WORLD ENVIRONMENT DAY IDLC observed World Environment Day on June 5, 2012 by distributing pot plants among its Consumer Division’s deposit clients with a simple message “Let’s make a greener planet!” Considering the importance of tree plantation in the context of Bangladesh, this effort was much appreciated by our clients. CALENDAR FOR SME Opening Address of the Calendar CLIENTS Sadly, very few people seem to understand and recognize that the future of the human IDLC’s SME Department race will be directly shaped by the environment which we will leave for future generations. published the 2013 calendar Therefore, it is high time we embraced practices that have positive impacts or no negative combining environmental impact on our environment, while adopting a lifestyle that is in harmony with nature. considerations with stakeholder Such practices lead us towards environmental sustainability – fulfilling our needs without inclusion program. This initiative compromising the rights of the future generations. was much appreciated by our clients, and they lauded IDLC is committed to sustainable development and looks beyond the immediate profit IDLC’s attempt to feature major motive. All our actions and decisions are influenced by our desire to achieve environmental environmental concerns, while and social sustainability in the long run and we believe that this can be achieved by making suggesting simple measures to conscious and relatively small changes in the way we operate. address those. The IDLC Group urges you to recognize the need for all of us to become environmentally friendly now. ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Information and Communication Technology (ICT) is fast becoming indispensable for financial institutions to ensure smooth operation and efficient services. IDLC is one of the very few organizations in Bangladesh to have recognized this need, and thus embraced ICT as the key to achieving excellence in various aspects of everyday operations. Accordingly, the new core banking system, Oracle Flexcube Universal Banking Solution (FCUBS), became operational in January 2012, result of significant efforts of a team of professionals from all the departments of IDLC throughout the previous year. This system has enabled creation of a number of satellite systems to further enhance our operational efficiency and MIS generation, and we have just completed a year of efficient operation on this platform. Green computing is always the focus of the IDLC Group, with the objective of capacity maximization, cost efficiency, and reduction of our carbon footprint. Initiatives such as server virtualization and consolidation, video conferencing facility, technologies aiming reduction of paper usage across the office etc. are playing a major role in this regard. 2012 Sustainability Report 45 SERVER VIRTUALIZATION IDLC initiated server virtualization process back in 2010. Table 4.2 summarizes achievements over the years in reducing power consumption and CO2 emission: Table 4.2 Server Virtualization Particulars 2010 2011 2012 2013* No of physical servers 28 27 23 20 No of virtual servers (after consolidation) 2 11 29 38 Reduction in power consumption (in kWh) 14,000 77,000 203,000 266,000 Reduction in CO2 emission (in tons) 8 44 116 152 *Target Note: Every server virtualized saves 7,000 kWh of electricity and 4 tons of CO2 emission per year VIDEO CONFERENCING IDLC’s video conferencing facility connects five major branches with the Corporate Head Office, on an average saving 45,800 km of traveling and 8.71 tons of CO2 emission per year from meetings conducted through video conferencing. GOING FORWARD In 2013, we are taking our IT platform to a whole new level, starting with a unified communication project to bring the people of dispersed branches closer and thus enabling them to work in collaboration, irrespective of their physical presence. With implementation of this project, all IDLC branches will be connected with audio and video conferencing facilities enhancing online collaboration. PCs and other IT equipments consume a lot of electricity and have high levels of carbon emission. Therefore, IDLC plans to switch to “Green PCs” in 2013 to become more environmentally sustainable, while increasing its technological competitiveness. A Green PC is assembled with environment-friendly components that 60 percent electricity consume less power and that can be recycled. It comes with features consumption  such as supporting sleep modes by cutting down power for unnecessary 23 percent CO2 emission  components; dimming the monitor when it is not in use for some time; keeping radiation by CPU, monitor etc. at lower levels etc. 20 percent cost  2012 Sustainability Report 46 WASTE MANAGEMENT The nature of our operations limits waste generation mainly to paper, old IT equipments and kitchen wastes. As seen in the chart, paper constitutes, on an average, 47 percent of IDLC’s total waste generation. Considering the nature of our business, we often deal with confidential and sensitive information related to our business and our clients. As such, extreme caution is exercised in storage of old files and disposal of waste papers. Moreover, old IT equipments are either donated to different NGOs or sold off through fixed vendors. 2012 Sustainability Report 47 William Ford, Jr. William Clay Bill Ford, Jr. is the great-grandson of Henry Ford, and the Executive Chairman of Ford Motor Company. Under his direction, Ford Motor Company made technological progress towards improving fuel efficiency, with the introduction of the Hybrid Electric Escape, the most fuel efficient SUV on the market. CHAPTER 5 SERVING THE COMMUNITY Social obligation is much bigger than supporting worthy causes. It includes anything that impacts people and the quality of their lives. William Ford, Jr. COMMUNITY EMPOWERMENT In a country burdened with overpopulation, it is an irony that lack of skilled manpower is one of the major challenges faced by industries. IDLC believes that in addition to focusing on skills development, targeting both domestic and export markets, more non-traditional avenues of employment should also be created. A coordinated effort from both public and private sectors is crucial to address this issue. In light of the above, IDLC is exploring sustainable measures for skills development and alternative livelihood opportunities, leading to community empowerment. SKILLED MANPOWER FOR THE RMG SECTOR IDLC arranged a discussion session titled Knitting and Dyeing Industries Limited, the industry partner for this project. “Partnership for Sustainable Development” in The project aims skills development of people from the Gazipur belt and North September 2012, bringing together stakeholders Bengal. On-the-job training at Fareast will follow initial institutional training at from both public and private sectors, along with TSC Gazipur, in close collaboration with Fareast and TVET. representatives from different RMG companies. The In future, this model can be stepped up to start a common training facility objective was to address various issues in devising catering industry needs. a sustainable model for skills development of the marginal and underprivileged people, targeting placement in the RMG industry as sewing machine operators. Following outcome of the session, IDLC is currently working with the TVET Reform Project of ILO, technical consultant for the project, and TSC Gazipur, the training partner for this project with assistance from TVET; Shiree, an international development organization funded by the UK Government, for sourcing people for the training; and Fareast MODEL VILLAGE PROJECT IDLC signed an MoU with VSO Bangladesh in March 2013 for Target village: Sadarpur, Mithapukur, undertaking a Model Village Project in North Bengal. Rangpur IDLC will conduct various activities for youth and community Area: 161 acres empowerment, sustainable livelihood generation, Population: 1,024 (197 households) environmental management, and primary healthcare awareness, over a period of one year. Pairabond Jono Kallan Male-Female ratio: 52:48 Unnayon Sangstha (PJKUS), a local NGO, will be working as Major occupation: Agriculture the Management Partner in close collaboration with VSO Bangladesh for implementation of the project activities. 2012 Sustainability Report 50 About VSO Voluntary Service Overseas (VSO) is a leading international development organization working in developing countries against poverty, social injustice and discrimination. VSO places international volunteers in the target areas to create sustainable local networks, bringing people, especially the youth groups together to share knowledge, build capacities, and promote international understanding and action. In Bangladesh, VSO follows a Model Village concept, combining technical expertise and innovations of international volunteers with local networks within the small geographical areas of a Model Village. They are currently working in different villages across the South Mr. Sukamal Sinha Chowdhury, GM, SME and Special West, the North West, and the Chittagong Hill Tracts Programmes Department, Bangladesh Bank, was areas of Bangladesh. present as the Special Guest in the event DISTRIBUTION OF BLANKETS Bangladesh recorded its lowest temperatures in over 40 years (Own Village Advancement) at Nilphamari, and PIDIM Foundation this winter. With the temperature dropping to 3 degrees Celsius, at Kurigram. The distribution was coordinated by Shiree, an UKnormal work and life were seriously disrupted, and people at based organization working for the development of the extreme the bottom of the income ladder suffered the most, while many poor. reportedly died from cold-related illnesses. In this back-drop, the IDLC Group distributed around 5,000 blankets and warm clothes The last phase took place at Lalmonirhat in North Bengal, in amongst the worst-hit communities in various areas of North cooperation with ASOD (Assistance for Social Organization and Bengal and Jessore. Development), a local NGO. The distribution took place in three phases, in cooperation with It may be mentioned that IDLC distributes warm clothes and a number of NGOs. The first phase of the distribution covered blankets every winter among the underprivileged people. Northern regions of Bogra (Bogra Shadar, Sherpur, Dhupchachia, Gabtoli, Nandigram, Kahalu, Shibganj, Shajahanpur, Shataher and Adamdighi), Natore, Sirajganj (Sirajganj Shadar, Chadaikona, Talgachi and Ullapara), and Gaibandha (Gaibandha Shadar and Gobindoganj), in cooperation with BRAC. Another distribution program was arranged at the Jessore branch of IDLC at the same time, with support from our employees, clients and other stakeholders. The second phase targeted remote Char areas of Nilphamari and Kurigram in North Bengal, organized in cooperation with local NGOs such as JSKS (Jhanjira Shomaj Kollan Shangstha) and OVA Mr. S.M. Ferdous Hossain, DGM, SME and Special Programmes Department, Bangladesh Bank, was present as the Special Guest in the event at Nilphamari 2012 Sustainability Report 51 OTHER ACTIVITIES IDLC is sponsoring 15 children of SEID Trust for one year. A formal ceremony was arranged in this regard in February 2013. SEID Trust is a voluntary non-government organization working for the rights and social inclusion of underprivileged children with physical and mental disabilities, including autism. At present, they are operating four centers in and around Dhaka with over 450 children, aided by both individual and institutional sponsorships. IDLC has been a regular partner of SEID Trust for the last seven years. IDLC is assisting Shishu Bikash Chhaya, a residential centre located at Old Dhaka, providing better education and healthcare facilities to underprivileged children. The centre houses seventeen children who are mostly orphans or from broken families in the slum areas. The children have been enrolled in different government primary schools, and the centre makes every effort to nurture their talents. IDLC sponsored operational expenses of the centre for October 2012 and it will be continued in the coming years as well. IDLC arranged a painting competition in its Jessore branch in Bangladesh, celebrating our Victory Day on December 16 and January 2013, celebrating one year of the branch’s opening. The cultural diversity of our country. The event, the first of its kind theme of the competition was the natural beauty and six seasons in Bangladesh, was marked by a diverse range of activities in of Bangladesh, our cultural festivals, and portrayal of our towns participation of renowned personalities from different fields such and villages. 150 children from different schools participated in as literature, music, sports, fashion, adventure etc. the event, accompanied by their parents. The event was much appreciated by our stakeholders in Jessore. The event committee comprised of Dr. AAMS Arefin Siddique, Honourable Vice Chancellor, University of Dhaka; Dr. Anowar IDLC has recently co-sponsored “Bijoy Parbon” – a three-day Hossain, Honourable Vice Chancellor, Jahangirnagar University; cultural event at the University of Dhaka, organized by Utse Professor Abdullah Abu Sayeed, Founder Director, Bishwa Shahitya Kendra; Mr. Anisul Haque, renowned writer and journalist; Mr. Abed Khan, CEO, ATN News; and many other distinguished personalities. 2012 Sustainability Report 52 In October 2012, IDLC arranged a blood donation In January 2013, IDLC arranged another blood program at its Sylhet branch, in participation of its donation program at its Chittagong branch, for employees, clients and other stakeholders. A total Bangladesh Thalassaemia Hospital and Lions Club of 104 bags of blood were collected for Bangladesh of Chittagong Karnaphuli, in participation of its Thalassaemia Hospital and Bangladesh Red employees. Crescent Society. IDLC also assisted Sylhet Diabetic Hospital for installation of a dialysis machine for providing better treatment facilities to its patients. EMPLOYEE VOLUNTEERING INITIATIVES Employees of IDLC’s Chittagong branch collected funds for purchase of blankets and warm clothes, and distributed those among the street IDLC’s IT Department developed a dedicated website for people with assistance from “Power of Youth”, a voluntary youth club in LEADS, an NGO providing better education and healthcare for Chittagong. underprivileged children. Every year, our employees also donate warm clothes and their Zakat funds for helping the underprivileged people. SERVING SMALL BUSINESSES Small and Medium Enterprises (SME) are the growth drivers of number of live customers of SME Department stood at 5,222, any economy. Researches estimate presence of approximately while commercial lending increased by 67 percent over the same six million SMEs in Bangladesh, making up 75 percent of period in 2011. the domestic economy, while accounting for 80 percent of industrial employment and 25 percent of the total workforce. Moreover, With continuous development in business models and service recognizing the fact approaches, the total SME portfolio in Bangladesh stood at USD that capital alone is 11.60 Billion in June 2012, registering a year-on-year growth of not always enough 28.4 percent. for growth of a small business, we also However, the nature and scale of their operations dictate more arrange seminars, specialized financing solutions to start, operate and expand discussion sessions these businesses. Recognizing this need and the potential of and workshops/ SMEs to contribute to the economy, serving small businesses training programs for has become fundamental to IDLC’s core strategy, and we new and expanding have significantly stepped up lending to such enterprises in small business recent years by focusing more on special products, customized entrepreneurs, solutions and geographic expansion. At the end of 2012, the 2012 Sustainability Report 53 helping them expand their businesses and employee base, and grow their revenues. Major events of 2012 have been detailed in the section “Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs”. In 2012, SME launched two new products: SME SACHAL Loan, a facility for small and medium trading, manufacturing, service, agriculture, non-farm and agro-based industries etc.; and Revolving Short Term Loan, a facility to meet the working capital requirements of comparatively larger SMEs in trading, manufacturing and service ventures, especially to help the entrepreneurs meet their short-term cash flow needs. IDLC has recently joined the Small Business Banking Network IDLC has earned the prestigious membership status as one (SBBN) – a global initiative of bankers, finance professionals and of the shareholders of the International Factors Group experts dedicated to improving access to financial services for (IFG) – an international association of factoring companies. small businesses. IDLC is the first NBFI from Bangladesh to have IDLC is the first financial institution from Bangladesh to gained this membership, which will help us: have gained this status.  Access a global platform for interacting with banking This membership will enable IDLC to access various professionals worldwide; network building and knowledge sharing initiatives of IFG in Factoring business, gain extensive learning opportunities  Share knowledge with over 550 peer bankers from 42 in Supplier Financing, and adopt international best financial institutions and industry experts worldwide; practices.  Access global banking and international best practices; Established in 1963, IFG helps factoring companies conduct  Enhance knowledge and develop skills in the core functions; cross-border business. It is recognized as the representative and Trade Association for the Factoring and Asset-based Finance Industry, focusing mainly on education and events,  Participate in quarterly webinars and events on various issues industry information and regular news. related to banking. IFG today is represented by more than 160 members from 50 countries worldwide. CONTRIBUTION TO WOMEN EMPOWERMENT IDLC’s SME Department offers “Women Entrepreneur Loan”, a special facility providing working capital and term financing to women entrepreneurs having the potential to grow their businesses, but lacking access to traditional financing channels. A dedicated team has also been formed to better respond to the unique requirements of the women entrepreneurs. 2012 Sustainability Report 54 SUPPORTING HOME OWNERSHIPS Home ownership enables families accumulate wealth and assets over the long term, while supporting the development of stable and prosperous communities. With this understanding, IDLC offers a diverse range of facilities to support our borrowers, including NRBs, own a home. Disbursement under the Housing IDLC launched “RegistraLoan”, the first loan of its kind in Bangladesh to facilitate apartment buyers Finance Facility in 2012 alone meet property registration cost. was BDT 2,736 Million. It may be mentioned that Home Loan IDLC also recently launched “Construction Loan” facility to help borrowers build their property facility of Consumer Division alone with plans and features most important to them. contributes to around 85 percent IDLC also offers “Home Loan Shield” – a special Life Insurance coverage taking over outstanding of the total Consumer Finance principal amount of the home loan with IDLC, in the event of the unfortunate demise of the home portfolio. loan borrower(s). FINANCIAL LITERACY/INCLUSION PROGRAMS IDLC arranged/participated in the following major events in 2012, creating awareness among its external stakeholder groups on various financial issues, products and services, and thus enabling them to take informed decisions: Table 5.1 Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs Department/Subsidiary Event SME Division Discussion session with entrepreneurs from the light engineering sector in Bogra; Collaboration with INSPIRED, supported by the European Union, for capacity development of both the employees and customers of SME Department; Consumer Division Participation in the REHAB Fair in February 2013, in presence of 45 developers and around 3,000 customers, discussing about the products of Consumer Division; Customer awareness program regarding insurance coverage under Home Loan Shield, taken against the Home Loan facility of IDLC; Presentation on IDLC’s home loan policies and benefits at the project handover ceremony of Impulse Properties Limited, covering around 800 customers; Corporate Sales Visits to Syngenta Pharmaceuticals Limited, KAFCO, Alpine Fresh Water, Radiant Pharma, Institute of Microfinance, Borak Real Estate Limited and Azim Group, discussing IDLC’s retail products; Discussion sessions with major real estate developers to strengthen relationship for future business; Presentation on IDLC’s profile, deposit products, retail loans and other financial services at Sylhet MAG Osmani Medical College Golden Jubilee program, with over 650 participants; and in GP (Grameen Phone) Fair at GP House in presence of all GP employees; IDLC Investments Key Note Presentation on “Portfolio Management” in a seminar of the University of Asia Pacific (UAP), in Limited presence of senior faculty members, most notably Professor Jamilur Reza Chowdhury, Honorable VC of UAP, and the University students; Presentation on Merchant Banking Activities and Regulations for 25 participants from various financial institutions; Extensive media coverage through informative articles, market commentaries and weekly report publication in the Financial Express titled “IDLC Investment Insight”; IDLC Securities Limited Investor awareness program, in participation of over 500 investors from Gazipur and Narayanganj, on issues including the stock market, investment methodology, rules and regulations of BSEC, companies listed with BSEC, decision making in connection with the investment, method of selecting the right securities based on fundamentals etc.; ICC Department Presentation on AML procedures in the CAMLCO Conference organized by the Bangladesh Bank; 2012 Sustainability Report 55 Warren Buffett Warren Edward Buffett is widely considered as the most successful investor of the 20th century. He is the primary shareholder, Chairman and CEO of Berkshire Hathaway, and is consistently ranked among the world's wealthiest people. He is noted for his adherence to the value investing philosophy and for his personal frugality despite his immense wealth. In 2012, the Time magazine named him one of the most influential people in the world. Buffett is also a notable philanthropist, having pledged to give away 99 percent of his fortune to philanthropic causes, primarily via the Gates Foundation. CHAPTER 6 WALKING THE EXTRA MILE “Price is what you pay, value is what you get.” Warren Buffett RE-BRANDING OF IDLC IDLC unveiled its new logo and brand pay-off line in a “We are confident the new brand will stand out amongst the crowd press conference in Dhaka on March 11, 2012. and clearly differentiate IDLC from competitors.” – Anwarul Huq, Chairman, IDLC Finance Limited At IDLC, our vision is to become the best financial brand in the country. The new logo, with red and black as “It is the staff of the IDLC Group who individually, and collectively, predominant colors, will continue to reemphasize the must take ownership of their brand…[They are] the ambassadors company’s traditional strengths and strong reputation for the IDLC Brand”. – Selim R.F. Hussain, CEO and Managing Director, for corporate governance, statutory compliance, IDLC Finance Limited consistency, stability and profitability, while reflecting a sense of renewed energy, innovation and quality growth through a modern outlook. At IDLC, we aim for a more visionary target of ‘Stakeholder Happiness’. All staff members of the IDLC Group are committed to ‘owning and living’ this new message. This concept has now become our guiding philosophy, one that will validate all our actions. And therefore, our new logo includes our tagline – Financing Happiness. TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS Continuous innovations in our IT infrastructure, service delivery and software solutions have helped us achieve: 0% downtime 100% bandwidth  100% on-time delivery Saving over 120 tons of CO2 Reduction of power consumption by around 200,000 kWh Implementation of HR Software for more efficient employee management A unified communication system across the Group We are also the only Bangladeshi NBFI and the fastest-ever implementer of CBS (Core Banking Software) – Oracle Flexcube, while subsequently creating additional satellite systems for better efficiency. As per our commitment to continuous development, we will complete our HR Automation Project, introduce Green PCs for better environmental management, and adopt a unified communication system across the Group in 2013. HR AUTOMATION PROJECT With a growing number of employees across different regions, IDLC is also working on a new efficient HR management is fast becoming a significant challenge performance management system for IDLC. As such, a technology-driven solution is the need of the focusing on performance and moment to bring in place a more robust process. achievements, in light of relevant KPIs for employees across different With this view in mind, IDLC’s HR Department has undertaken designations and departments. an automation project to launch “HR Management Software” for This new system of Performance the Group. The implementation is taking place in two phases: Management will be adopted Phase I includes Payroll Management and has already been along with the second phase of HR launched in January 2013; and Phase II includes other core aspects Automation. such as Employee Profiles, Performance Management, Training Management etc., and is scheduled to be launched by the end of 2013. 2012 Sustainability Report 58 E-SOLUTIONS IDLC is the first organization in Bangladesh to go live with Citi’s E-Collect Solution, with an anticipated volume of USD 8.7 Million annually. This gives IDLC a significant operational advantage over its competitors, while making us the first NBFI in Bangladesh to have appeared in the “Asia Pacific Client Casebook” of Citibank that showcases the best practices and innovative solutions by Citi across the Asia Pacific region. LAUNCHING OF IDLC LADIES FORUM The IDLC Group has witnessed substantial growth over the last few years not only in terms of economic indicators, but also in terms of its human resources. Currently 17 percent of the Group’s over 600 permanent employees are female. With growing female participation in IDLC’s workforce, special concerns are inevitable that must be addressed properly to maintain an environment fostering growth and success. To provide a common platform for female employees to collectively raise various issues and concerns, and share their views with the Group Management, IDLC, for the first time, has launched “IDLC Ladies Forum”. The Forum will be presided over by the Head of HR of the IDLC Group. Launching of ‘IDLC Ladies Forum’ on February 07, 2013 CUSTOMER VALUE CREATION In today’s competitive world, an excellent customer-service culture is vital for the sustainable growth of any service-oriented business. And such performance can only be ensured through customer satisfaction by meeting and exceeding their expectations. As such, a professional pool of front-line employees, strengthened by a uniform and standard service quality platform, is necessary for IDLC to continue being a leading financial brand of the country. SERVICE QUALITY GUIDELINE Objective of the SQ Guideline IDLC management drafted a Service Quality (SQ) Guideline in July 2012  Treating customers with more dignity and respect; to create a uniform standard across different divisions and locations of the IDLC Group. 11 training sessions have been conducted till date in  Offering faster and more efficient services; participation of 365 employees, informing them of their responsibilities towards both our internal and external customers, and asking them to  Ensuring accuracy in service delivery; and provide their feedback to improvise the guideline. The guideline will be  Ensuring high standard of professionalism and finalized and launched after completion of training for all employees, customer satisfaction and will be updated regularly to be referred to as the basic customer service standard. MAJOR INITIATIVES To continuously offer excellent services to our clients, IDLC is strategically focusing on both skills development of its employees and partnering with external parties to ensure the best service at competitive terms. Moreover, customer engagement initiatives are also being undertaken to receive direct feedback. 2012 Sustainability Report 59 EMPLOYEE SESSIONS ENGAGING CUSTOMERS A three-day workshop on “Sales Skill Development” was arranged IDLC’s SME and Consumer Divisions have recently carried in participation of 141 sales team members from IDLC’s SME out the “Net Promoter Score (NPS ) Survey” among 4,550 of and Consumer Division, providing them an overall idea about its clients. NPS is a customer loyalty measurement survey banking, deposits, SME business, sales and services, and office developed by Fred Reichheld, Bain & Company and Satmetrix, etiquettes and grooming; and is regarded globally as a tool to chalk out the company’s portion of Promoters over its Detractors. A two-day training program on “Professional Salesmanship of the 21st Century”, in participation of 25 members of Consumer Against a global industry average of +24 for financial Division, was jointly arranged with Briddhi, an Industrial and services, IDLC’s SME-SEF has scored an NPS of +59, while Marketing Consultant; and the Liability and Asset segments of the Consumer Division have respectively earned NPSs of +61 and +56. To achieve A two-day training program on “Customer Service and Service its vision to “be the best financial brand in the country”, IDLC Excellence”, in participation of 53 members of the Credit will leverage the confidence and insights derived from this Administration Department, was jointly arranged with Briddhi, an survey and will continue to use NPS as a measure of customer Industrial and Marketing Consultant. experience of its products and services; ARRANGEMENTS WITH EXTERNAL PARTIES An MoU was signed with Finlay Properties Limited to provide better customer service facilities to clients in the housing and real estate sector, while offering financing at flexible terms and conditions to the clients of Finlay Properties Limited; An MoA was signed with Navana Limited, the pioneering Complaint/Suggestion boxes have been placed across all automobile company and the exclusive distributor of Toyota cars the branches of the IDLC Group, as per requirement of the in Bangladesh, to provide car loans at competitive interest rates, Bangladesh Bank, for customers to share their feedback and with flexible repayment plans and faster processing times to regarding our services. Navana customers. ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PRACTICES IDLC believes that compliance is for sustainable business. To ensure this compliance across the Group through both audit and non-audit services, the ICC (Internal Control and Compliance) Department was formed as part of a regulatory directive, with direct reporting to the CEO and Managing Director and the Audit Committee of the Board of IDLC. MAJOR FOCUS AREAS Measures to prevent Money Laundering and Terrorist Financing Activities, Zero-tolerance Policy for incidences of corruption or malpractice, leading in compliance with Money Laundering to either monetary compensation or immediate termination of the accused, Prevention Act 2012 and Anti Terrorism if found guilty; (Amendment) Act 2012, a comprehensive ‘Anti Money Laundering and Combating Risk-based Auditing for better risk control and management; Terrorist Financing Policy’ has been Table 6.1 Risk-based Auditing developed and approved by the Board of Directors in October 2012, following the Status Departmental Audits Branch Audits Guidance Note issued by the Bangladesh Audits completed in 2011 12 9 Financial Intelligence Unit of the Bangladesh Bank; Audits completed in 2012 12 28 Audits planned for 2013 14 54 2012 Sustainability Report 60 Table 6.2 AML Training Divisions 2011 2012 2013 (Planned) Employees from business units 39 121 All staff members of Employees from support units 9 39 the IDLC Group Employees from ICC 4 2 Introduction of KYC (Know Your Customer) guidelines as part of IDLC’s Credit Policy; ADDITIONS IN 2012 Whistle-blowing Guideline for providing a formal channel for employees to report malpractices within the organization, to be effective from April 2013. Branch-wise trainings are being conducted since September 2012, prior to formalization of the guidelines; Introduction of Guest Auditors to develop detailed audit criteria for extraordinary cases, adding value to the existing audit system. The pool of guest auditors has been proposed, and assistance will be sought from time to time during our audit process; MAJOR ACHIEVEMENTS Development of guidance notes for prevention of Money Laundering and Terrorist IDLC improved its internal control Financing Activities; and compliance rating to “Strong” in Introduction of Departmental Control Function Checklist (DCFCL), a declaration of a Bangladesh Bank inspection; compliance to policies and procedures; IDLC made two presentations on Introduction of branch-wise AML Self Assessment on a quarterly basis; and AML procedures in the Conference of Chief Anti-Money Laundering Documentation of Standard Operating Procedure (SOP) for each department and Compliance Officers, arranged by the function, which has already been completed for IDLC Investments Limited and is currently Bangladesh Bank. under process for IDLC Finance Limited. 2012 Sustainability Report 61 Courtney Pratt Courtney Pratt is the Chairman of Toronto Region Research Alliance. He also served as the Chairman of Stelco Inc., and held leadership positions with Toronto Hydro Corporation, Hydro One Networks Inc., The Caldwell Partners, and Noranda Inc. He was also awarded the ‘Order of Canada’ in 1999. CHAPTER 7 STAKEHOLDER ACCOUNTABILITY “Business has a responsibility beyond its basic responsibility to its shareholders; a responsibility to a broader constituency that includes its key stakeholders: customers, employee, NGOs, government the people of the communities in which it operates.” Courtney Pratt STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT At IDLC, we believe that working together with our stakeholders will help us magnify our sustainability impacts. As a service provider, IDLC considers its employees and clients as its most valued stakeholder groups. Hence while considering stakeholder engagement, these two groups are given the topmost priority. At the same time, our broader stakeholder groups, such as regulators, community people etc. are also targeted through specific initiatives. Table 7.1 Stakeholder Engagement in 2012 Particulars Stakeholders Engaged/ Benefitted by IDLC Awareness Creation Environmental awareness creation at schools School children, their families and friends; Distribution of pot plants on World Environment Day IDLC’s Deposit clients; Employee Welfare Regular training programs and workshops Employees; Life and Hospitalization Insurance Coverage Employees; Employee vaccination program Employees and their families; Employee Engagement Orientation sessions New recruits at IDLC; Launching of “Ladies Forum” All female employees of the IDLC Group; Development of website for LEADS IDLC’s IT Department; Employees, as well as clients and other stakeholders, of IDLC’s Blood donation programs Chittagong and Sylhet branches; Donation and distribution of blankets and warm clothes Employees across the IDLC Group; by employees Customer Engagement Net Promoter Score (NPS) Survey for customer loyalty Clients of IDLC’s SME and Consumer Divisions; measurement Placement of complaint/suggestion boxes across all Clients and other stakeholder groups; branches Distribution of blankets and warm clothes in North Bengal IDLC employees at Bogra and Jessore; clients of IDLC’s Jessore and Jessore branch; Bangladesh Bank officials; Environmental Sustainability Community plantation at Satchari, Habiganj, Sylhet Community people; Plantation program at Mirpur DOHS IDLC employees, and members of Mirpur DOHS Porishod; Children of different education institutes, and IDLC employees Bicycle campaign across Bangladesh by Musa Ibrahim from different branches; Community Empowerment Skills development and sustainable livelihood generation IDLC’s RMG client(s), and people of Gazipur and North Bengal; project Model village project Community people at the target village in North Bengal; Underprivileged children of SEID Trust, LEADS and Shishu Bikash Offering better education and healthcare facilities Chhaya; Financial Literacy/Inclusion Sharing the latest financial, investment and product knowledge Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs with various external stakeholder groups to help them take informed decisions; 2012 Sustainability Report 64 KEY ISSUES ADDRESSED One of the major challenges faced by IDLC, in terms of its CSR activities, is the lack of awareness among major stakeholder groups regarding various environmental and social issues, and their responsibilities in managing these issues. Hence awareness creation and information sharing is a major priority of IDLC. Initiatives like environmental awareness program in schools, distribution of pot plants among our clients, CSR orientation sessions for new recruits etc. are a few examples. Moreover, financial literacy/inclusion programs for external stakeholder groups are also arranged on a regular basis, covering various product features and financial issues. We are also strategically involving our major stakeholder groups, mainly our customers and regulators, in various CSR initiatives to create a sense of trust and ownership among them regarding our brand. There is also a lack of understanding among various stakeholder groups regarding the scope of CSR and Corporate Philanthropy. Through our employee orientation sessions and other events, we are trying to address that issue. Also this report itself clearly differentiates between ad-hoc philanthropic activities, and CSR initiatives with long-term orientation that are key to a sustainable future. PROGRESS REPORT The following table shares IDLC’s progress against initiatives undertaken/planned in previous years: Table 7.2 Progress Report Year* Particulars Current Status/Follow-up Projects IDLC is undertaking a combination of short and long term measures including tree plantation, adoption of environment-friendly technologies 2012 Carbon footprint analysis and energy-efficient devices, green financing etc. to minimize or neutralize its carbon impact (details in Page 39); CSR sessions are conducted regularly during orientation programs for new 2011 CSR orientation session for employees recruits (details in Page 35); Campaign for responsible utilization of resources across the IDLC Group, reducing Taking this initiative one step further, we have started environmental 2011 electricity and paper consumption by 23 awareness campaign across different schools (details in Page 43); percent and 53 percent respectively Plantation of 1,000 trees at the University Plantation of 7,500 saplings at Satchari, Sylhet; 700 saplings at Mirpur DOHS; 2011 of Dhaka and 630 saplings across different educational institutions (details in Page 40); We have recently adopted an additional checklist based on the principles Introduction of Environmental Risk of UNGC in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti2011 Management (ERM) Guidelines in our corruption; this voluntary adoption shows our commitment to better credit assessment process safeguard environmental and social issues related to various projects (details in Page 38); Number of virtual servers has been increased to 29 in 2012, from 11 a year 2010 Server consolidation and virtualization before, thus contributing more in reducing power consumption and CO2 emission (details in Page 46); In 2013, we are implementing a unified communication project, connecting Video conferencing facility connecting 2010 all branches of IDLC with audio and video conferencing facilities (details in major branches with the Head Office Page 46); *Year of initiation/project plan 2012 Sustainability Report 65 Year* Particulars Current Status/Follow-up Projects Automating HR Management process, switching to Green PCs, and Technological innovations introducing a unified Communication Platform in 2013 (details in Page 58); Introduction of Core Banking Software CBS was successfully launched in January 2012; a number of satellite 2011 (CBS) systems have also been developed for more efficient performance; Contribution of educational and IDLC’s IT Department developed a dedicated website for LEADS in 2012, as 2011 healthcare materials and computers to part of “Employee Volunteering” program; LEADS 2006 Contribution to SEID Trust IDLC is sponsoring 15 children of SEID Trust in 2013 (details in Page 52); Collaboration with CRP (Centre for 2011 IDLC will explore further opportunities of working with CRP; Rehabilitation of the Paralyzed) Blood donation programs were arranged at IDLC’s Sylhet branch and Blood donation program at IDLC for 2010 Chittagong branch in October 2012 and February 2013 respectively (details Bangladesh Thalassaemia Hospital; in Page 53); Distribution of around 5,000 blankets and warm clothes among the Distribution of blankets and warm clothes marginal people in various areas of North Bengal and Jessore (details in every year among the marginal people; Page 51); Distribution of computers to three schools 2012 One time contribution; in Jessore; The first round of vaccination has been completed in December 2012; the 2011 Vaccination for employees; second phase started in February 2013 (details in Page 34); Introduction of Women Entrepreneurship 2011 The team was formed in 2012; Finance Team Management Trainees are now subject to a rotation period of six (6) 2011 Formalization of job rotation months; Introduction of a formal grievance Launching of IDLC Ladies Forum in February 2013 to address issues and 2011 mechanism concerns faced by female employees across the Group (details in Page 59); Introduction of whistle-blowing To be effective from April 2013; training sessions across branches are being 2011 guidelines conducted since September 2012 (details in Page 61); The pool of guest auditors has been proposed, and assistance will be 2011 Introduction of Guest Auditors sought from time to time during our audit process (details in Page 61); Different units of IDLC arrange/participate in various events to share the Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs latest financial knowledge and product features with the stakeholders (details in Page 55); *Year of initiation/project plan 2012 Sustainability Report 66 Contribution to SEID Trust Distribution of computers to three 2012 2012 schools in Jessore Collaboration with CRP (Centre for Contribution of educational and healthcare 2011 Rehabilitation of the Paralyzed) 2011 materials and computers to LEADS Plantation of 1,000 trees at Distribution of blankets and warm Employee vaccination 2011 the University of Dhaka 2011 clothes among the marginal people 2011 Blood donation program at IDLC Corporate Head Office for Bangladesh Thalassaemia 2010 Hospital 2012 Sustainability Report 67 Nelson Mandela Nelson R. Mandela is a South African politician, revolutionary and activist, internationally acclaimed for his anti-colonial and anti-apartheid stance. He served as the President of South Africa from 1994 to 1999. He has received over 250 awards for his lifelong work, including the 1993 Nobel Peace Prize, the US Presidential Medal of Freedom and the Soviet Order of Lenin. CHAPTER 8 COMPLIANCE STATUS It always seems impossible until it’s done.” Nelson Mandela GRI CONTENT INDEX This document has been prepared following the Global Reporting Initiatives (G3.1) Indicator Protocols and its Financial Sector Supplement. We have self-declared our report to be complying with Application Level “B”, as per the following GRI application level criteria: For attaining Application Level “B”, i.e. the second level of GRI reporting, we have reported our progress against specific performance indicators, while making management disclosures against each of the indicator categories. Table 8.1 Status of Compliance against Performance Indicators Level of Compliance and Reporting Performance Indicators* Full Partial Not Reported NA Economic Performance Indicators 6 4 Environmental Performance Indicators 12 11 8 Social Performance Indicators – Labor Practice and Decent Work 9 2 4 Social Performance Indicators – Human Rights 2 1 8 Social Performance Indicators – Society 6 2 4 Social Performance Indicators – Product Responsibility 7 2 1 FS Supplement – Product and Service Impact 3 4 Overall Compliance Status 45 3 35 13 *Including Financial Sector (FS) Supplements 2012 Sustainability Report 70 The compliance status has been presented using the following indicators:  Fully covered in this report  Not covered in this report  Partial Reporting   Covered both in this report and the previous report NA Not Applicable for IDLC Detailed compliance status has been provided in the GRI Content Index below: Table 8.2 GRI Content Index Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (e.g. CEO, Chair, or equivalent senior Statement of the CEO and Managing 1.1  6 position) about the relevance of sustainability to the Director organization and its strategy. Statement of the CEO and Managing Director; Disclosure on Management 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities.  6, 9, 20, 84 Approach; Corporate Governance; Citizenship Data ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE 2.1 Name of the organization  IDLC Finance Limited 2.2 Primary brands, products and services  Products and Services 19 2.3 Operational structure of the organization  Corporate Governance 20 Bay’s Galleria (1st Floor), 57 Gulshan 2.4 Location of the organization’s headquarters  Avenue, Gulshan 1, Dhaka 1212 2.5 Number of countries where the organization operates  Bangladesh 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form  Public Limited Company 2.7 Markets served  Geographic Locations IDLC Profile; Shareholding Structure; 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization  18, 19, 24 Financial Performance Reporting Parameters; Shareholding Significant changes during the reporting period in 2.9  Structure; Financial Performance; 8, 19, 24 terms of size, structure and ownership Geographic Locations 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period  Awards and Achievements REPORT PARAMETERS 3.1 Reporting period  January 1, 2012 – December 31, 2012 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report  April 2012 3.3 Reporting cycle  Annual Zurat Haque Manager, CSR Department, IDLC Finance 3.4 Contact point regarding the report or its contents  Limited Tel: +880-2-8834990, Ext 178 Email: zurat@idlc.com 3.5 Process for defining report content  Reporting parameters 8 3.6 Boundary of the report  Reporting parameters 8 2012 Sustainability Report 71 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page No external assurance was sought for 3.7 Any specific limitation on the scope of the report  this report Basis for reporting on subsidiaries that may affect 3.8  Reporting parameters 8 comparability from period-to-period Data measurement techniques and the basis of calculations, including assumptions and techniques underlying estimations applied to the compilation 3.9  Reporting parameters 8 of the indicators and other information in the report. Explain any decisions not to apply, or to substantially diverge from, the GRI Indicator Protocols. Explanation in terms of any restatement of information 3.10  No such restatement has been made provided in earlier reports Significant changes from previous reporting periods in 3.11 terms of scope, boundary or measurement methods  Reporting parameters 8 applied in this report GRI Content Index: Table identifying location of 3.12  GRI Content Index 70 Standard Disclosures in the report Policy and current practice with regard to seeking IDLC has not sought any external external assurance for the report. If not included in assurance for its sustainability reports. the assurance report accompanying the sustainability It is currently self-declaring the 3.13 report, explain the scope and basis of any external  Application Levels of the sustainability assurance provided. Also explain the relationship reports, based on the GRI Application between the reporting organization and the external Level Criteria. assurance provider(s). GOVERNANCE, COMMITMENT AND ENGAGEMENT Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1  Corporate Governance 20 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. If the Chair of the highest governance body is also an 4.2  Board of Directors 20 executive officer For unitary board structure, the number of members 4.3 of the highest governance body that are independent  Board of Directors 20 and/or non-executive members Mechanism for shareholders or employees to provide Board Meetings; Annual General 4.4  recommendations to the highest governance body Meetings; Corporate Governance (Directors’ Remuneration); Moreover, the CEO and Managing Director is responsible for setting financial targets and operational and management goals for the Linkage between compensation for members of Management Committee members. the highest governance body, senior managers, and The CEO and Evaluation Committee 4.5 executives (including departure arrangements), and  20 conduct a detailed performance review the organization’s performance (including social and of the senior executives against these environmental performance) short-term and long-term goals on an annual basis. Remuneration of all senior executives is based on their performance measured against these financial and individual targets. 2012 Sustainability Report 72 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Processes in place for the highest governance body to 4.6  Conflicts of Interest 21 ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7  Qualification of the Board 21 body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, Sustainability Position Statement codes of conduct, and principles relevant to economic, 4.8  environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Vision, Mission, Strategic Objectives, 18 Core Values, Code of Conduct and Ethics Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and 4.9 opportunities, and adherence or compliance with  Corporate Governance 20 internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Include frequency with which the highest governance body assesses sustainability performance. Both new and existing Directors are provided with the Code of Conduct for the Board members on general aspects of the directorship and industry specific matters. Moreover, the Board is immediately informed of any new Processes for evaluating the highest governance rules, regulations and/or changes in the 4.10 body’s own performance, particularly with respect to  existing regulations. economic, environmental, and social performance. Evaluation of the performance of the Board is made by analyzing the performance of the projects and proposals approved by the Board. Classified and non-performing loans are also reviewed in the Board on a quarterly basis. Commitment to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization (Article 15 of the Rio Principles Corporate Governance (Risk 4.11 introduced the precautionary approach. A response  21 Management) to 4.11 could address the organization’s approach to risk management in operational planning or the development and introduction of new products). Principles of UNGC and UNEP FI; ERM Externally developed economic, environmental, and Guidelines of the Bangladesh Bank 4.12 social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which  the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships 27 2012 Sustainability Report 73 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization:  Has positions in governance bodies 4.13  Memberships 27  Participates in projects or committees  Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, or  Views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement List of stakeholder groups engaged by the 4.14  Stakeholder Engagement 64 organization Basis for identification and selection of the stakeholder 4.15  Stakeholder Engagement 64 groups Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including 4.16 frequency of engagement by type and stakeholder  Stakeholder Engagement 64 group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Stakeholder Engagement Key Issues 4.17  65 organization has responded to those key topics and Addressed concerns, including through its reporting. DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH Economic Performance  Disclosure on Management Approach Environmental Performance  Disclosure on Management Approach Labor Practice and Decent Work  Disclosure on Management Approach Human Rights  Disclosure on Management Approach 9 Society  Disclosure on Management Approach Product Responsibility (including Product and Service  Disclosure on Management Approach Impact Disclosure) ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Economic Performance Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other community   Financial Performance 24 investments, retained earnings, and payments to EC1 capital providers and governments. EC1-FS: Commentary added to the value generated by the organization’s community investment programs  CSR Investments 15 and breakdown of community investment by theme. Financial implications and other risks and EC2 opportunities for the organization’s activities due to  climate change. Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan Major Indicators of HR Management; EC3   30, 34 obligations. Employee Benefits Significant financial assistance received from EC4  Participation in refinancing programs 26 government. 2012 Sustainability Report 74 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Market Presence Range of ratios of standard entry level wage by gender IDLC’s entry level wages are consistent EC5 compared to local minimum wage at significant  with industry standards. locations of operation. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on EC6 locally-based suppliers at significant locations of  operation. Local hiring is preferred subject to proper assessment of the candidate Procedures for local hiring and proportion of senior following standard process. At the same EC7 management hired from the local community at   time, placement at locations preferred locations of significant operations. by employees is also given due consideration. Indirect Economic Impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit  through commercial, in-kind or pro bono engagement. Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9  economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Materials EN1 Materials used by weight and volume NA Percentage of materials used that are recycled input EN2 NA materials Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source  Carbon Footprint Analysis 39 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source  Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency Plantation Activities; EnvironmentEN5  40, 45 improvements friendly Technologies Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable Responsible Business (Maximizing EN6 energy based products and services, and reductions in   Green Portfolio); Environment-friendly 38, 45, 58 energy requirements as a result of these initiatives Technologies; Technological Innovations Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7  reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source  Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of EN9  water Percentage and total volume of water recycled and EN10  reused. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed No such area is under the ownership/ EN11 in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high  lease/management of IDLC biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected EN12  Community Plantation at Satchari, Sylhet 40 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored  2012 Sustainability Report 75 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Strategies, current actions, and future plans for EN14  managing impacts on biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected  by operations, by level of extinction risk Emissions, Effluents and Wastes Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight EN16  Carbon Footprint Analysis 39 EN16-FS: Commentary added to invite reporting on greenhouse gas emissions relating to business travel. Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by EN17  weight Carbon Footprint Analysis; Plantation Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and EN18  Activities ; Environment-friendly 39, 40, 45 reductions achieved Technologies EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight  NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and EN20  weight. EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination NA Total weight of waste by type and disposal method EN22 EN22-FS: Commentary added to specify primary types  Waste Management 47 of waste streams being paper and waste IT for financial institutions EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills NA Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 NA Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected EN25 NA by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Products and Services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of EN26  Responsible Business 38 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Percentage of products sold and their packaging EN27 NA materials that are reclaimed by category Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number IDLC has not been involved in any such EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with  incident; environmental laws and regulations Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the NA EN29 organization’s operations Significant environmental impacts of transporting  Carbon Footprint Analysis 39 members of the workforce 2012 Sustainability Report 76 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Overall Total environmental protection expenditures and EN30  CSR Investments 15 investments by type SOCIAL: LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Employment Total workforce by employment type, employment LA1   Major indicators of HR Management 30 contract and region, broken down by gender. Total number and rate of new employee hires and LA2   Major indicators of HR Management 30 employee turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not LA3 provided to temporary or part-time employees, by   Employee Benefits 34 major operations. Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, Only maternity leave is provided at IDLC, LA15  by gender. with 100 percent retention rate Labor/Management Relations Percentage of employees covered by collective LA4 NA bargaining agreements. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational Minimum notice period of one month, LA5 changes, including whether it is specified in collective   specified in employee contracts. agreements. Occupational Health and Safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and LA6 NA safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by NA region. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk control programs in place to assist workforce LA8   Employee Health Management 34 members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements LA9 NA with trade unions. Training and Education Average hours of training per year per employee by LA10  gender and by employee category. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability LA11  of employees and assist them in managing career endings. Percentage of employees receiving regular LA12  100 percent employees performance and career development reviews. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of Board of Directors; Management employee category according to gender, age group, LA13   Committee; Major Indicators of HR 20, 22, 30 minority group membership and other indicators of Management diversity. 2012 Sustainability Report 77 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Similar regardless of gender and Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee LA14  locations of operations for same category, by significant locations of operations. position(s) across the organization. SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Investment and Procurement Practices Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements that include clauses incorporating human rights concerns, or that have undergone human rights HR1 screening.  HR1-FS: Commentary added to report on investment agreements for the financial services. Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and HR2 other business partners that have undergone human  rights screenings, and actions taken. Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that HR3  are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of discrimination and No such incidence has been recorded/ HR4   corrective actions taken. reported yet at IDLC Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association HR5 and collective bargaining may be violated or be at  significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and HR6  measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced and Compulsory Labor Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or HR7  compulsory labor, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Security Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s policies or procedures concerning HR8  aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Indigenous Rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights No such incidence has been recorded/ HR9  of indigenous people and actions taken. reported yet at IDLC Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have HR10 been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact  assessment. 2012 Sustainability Report 78 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Remediation Number of grievances related to human rights filed, Grievance Management; Launching of HR11 addressed and resolved through formal grievance  IDLC Ladies Forum 34, 59 mechanisms. SOCIAL: SOCIETY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local Community Plantation at Satchari, community engagement, impact assessments, and  Sylhet; Model Village Project 40, 50 development programs. SO1 FS13: Access points in low-populated or economically disadvantaged areas by type.  Geographic Locations FS14: Initiatives to improve access to financial services  for disadvantaged people. Operations with significant potential or actual negative SO9  impacts on local communities. Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in SO10 operations with significant potential or actual negative  impacts on local communities. Corruption Percentage and total number of business units SO2   Anti-corruption Policies and Practices 60 analyzed for risks related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s antiSO3   Anti-corruption Policies and Practices 60 corruption policies and procedures. SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption.   Anti-corruption Policies and Practices 60 Public Policy Public policy positions and participation in public SO5  policy development and lobbying. Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to No such contribution has been made by SO6 political parties, politicians, and related institutions by  IDLC till date country. Anti-competitive Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive No such issue/lawsuit has been faced by SO7 behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their  IDLC till date outcomes. Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of IDLC has not been involved in any such SO8 non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with laws  major non-compliance till date. and regulations. SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS Customer Health and Safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, PR1 NA and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning Health No such non-compliance has been PR2  and Safety impacts of products and services during made by IDLC their life cycle, by type of outcomes. 2012 Sustainability Report 79 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page Product and Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by PR3 procedures and percentage of significant products  and services subject to such information requirements. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product IDLC has not been involved in any such PR4  and service information and labeling, by type of non-compliance till date customers. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including  Customer Value Creation 59 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR5 FS16: Initiatives to enhance financial literacy by type of   Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs 55 beneficiary. Marketing Communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and PR6 voluntary codes related to marketing communications,  including advertising, promotion and sponsorship. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing IDLC has not been involved in any such PR7  communications, including advertising, promotion, non-compliance till date. and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy No such complaint has been made Total number of substantiated complaints regarding against IDLC till date (Please also refer PR8 breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer to placement of complaint/suggestion data.  boxes across all IDLC branches, detailed in the section “Engaging Customers” Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance IDLC has not been involved in any such PR9 with laws and regulations concerning the provision  non-compliance till date. and use of products and services. 2012 Sustainability Report 80 Global Reporting Elements Status Segment Title Page PRODUCT AND SERVICE IMPACT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (FS SUPPLEMENT) Product Portfolio Percentage of the portfolio for business lines by FS6 specific region, size (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by   Business Focus 27 sector. Financial Performance (Disbursement Monetary value of products and services designed to – Lease and Term Loan; Disbursement FS7 deliver a specific social benefit for each business line  – Housing Finance); Serving Small 24, 53, 54 broken down by purpose. Businesses; Contribution to Women Empowerment Monetary value of products and services designed FS8 to deliver a specific environmental benefit for each  business line broken down by purpose. Audit Degree of compliance to the ERM Coverage and frequency of audits to assess (Environmental Risk Management) FS9 implementation of environmental and social policies  Guidelines of the Bangladesh Bank and risk assessment procedures. during credit assessment is subject to periodic audits Active Ownership Percentage and number of companies held in the institution’s portfolio with which the reporting FS10  organization has interacted on environmental or social issues. Percentage of assets subject to positive and negative FS11  environmental or social screening. Voting polic(ies) applied to environmental or social FS12 issues for shares over which the reporting organization  holds the right to vote shares or advises on voting. 2012 Sustainability Report 81 Martin Luther King, Jr. Martin Luther King, Jr. was an American activist and leader in the African-American Civil Rights Movement. Best known for his role in the advancement of civil rights using non-violent civil disobedience, King has become a national icon in the history of American progressivism. He delivered his “I have a Dream” speech in 1963, thereby establishing himself as one of the greatest orators in the history of America. He received the Nobel Peace Prize in 1964 for combating racial inequality through non-violence. CHAPTER 9 CONCLUSION The time is always right to do what is right. Martin Luther King, Jr. CITIZENSHIP DATA 2012 CSR INVESTMENTS SHAREHOLDING STRUCTURE 2012 Sustainability Report 84 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Chart 2.2 Total Assets Chart 2.3 Shareholders' Equity (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 37,784 4,693 31,165 3,980 3,690 26,930 22,681 2,393 17,342 1,611 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.4 Operating Income Chart 2.5 Profitability Proﬁt before Tax Proﬁt aer Tax (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 1,956 3,047 1,273 1,327 1,252 1,217 2,403 2,160 822 708 713 1,913 500 406 1,179 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.6 Growth in Deposit Chart 2.7 Disbursement Portfolio Lease & Term Loan (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 12,304 22,008 8,517 16,828 12,373 9,780 3,750 4,345 8,249 3,412 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Sustainability Report 85 Chart 2.8 Disbursement Chart 2.9 Market Capitalization Housing Finance (in BDT Mln) (in BDT Mln) 27,888 2,736 2,586 2,121 1,839 1,612 13,712 11,109 11,373 5,723 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.10 Earnings per Share Chart 2.11 Dividend per Share* (in BDT) (in BDT) 10.72 11.00 10.00 6.64 5.76 4.04 3.28 3.50 2.50 3.00 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 * Per share of BDT 10 Chart 2.12 Net Asset Value per Share (in BDT) 47 Chart 2.13 Non-performing Loan Ratio 40 3.97 37 3.43 2.84 24 2.32 16 2.09 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Chart 2.14 Debt-Equity Ratio 8.32 8.48 6.83 7.05 6.30 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 Sustainability Report 86 BUSINESS FOCUS Chart 2.17 Sectoral Exposure 2012 Sustainability Report 87 Major Indicators of HR Management EMPLOYEE PROFILE Chart 3.1 HR Strength of the Chart 3.2 Growth in Human IDLC Group Resources 481 (79%) 80 (13%) 48 (8%) IDLC Finance IDLCSL IDLCIL Core Chart 3.3 Management vs. Non-Management Chart 3.4 Employee Age Analysis < 30 years 39.41% 30-50 years 59.44% > 50 years RECRUITMENT 1.15% Chart 3.5 Recruitment Status 2012 Sustainability Report 88 GENDER BALANCE Chart 3.6 Gender Diversification across Employment Positions Male Female 92% 84% 85% Chart 3.7 Female Participation over the years Male Female 82% 83% 84% 16% 15% 8% Entry Level Mid-level Senior Management 18% 17% 16% 2010 2011 2012 TRAINING & DEVELOPMENT Chart 3.8 Training Sessions in 2012 Public Programs Chart 3.9 Training Participants in 2012 73 In-house Public Programs 23 191 Foreign Customized 18 781 Customized In-house 19 746 Foreign 33 Chart 3.11 Training Investments Chart 3.10 Increase in (in BDT Mln) Training Participants 20.59 1,751 10.83 10.67 1,293 35% 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2012 Sustainability Report 89 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS Chart 3.12 Employee Loan Facilities* (in BDT Mln) 117.34 122.55 Chart 3.13 Employee Support Scheme* (in BDT Mln) 30.37 1.57 2010 2011 2012 0.17 0.37 2010 2011 2012 TURNOVER Chart 3.14 Employee Turnover 13.38% 14.00% 11.25% Chart 3.15 Gender Classification in Turnover Male Female 79% 71% 2010 2011 2012 29% 21% 2011 2012 *Employee Loan Facilities include Home Loan, Transport Loan and Personal Loan; Employee Support Schemes include contributions to the Employee Welfare Fund and Education Support Scheme 2012 Sustainability Report 90 CARBON FOOTPRINT ANALYSIS Table 4.1 Major Sources of GHG Emission Particulars Sources Consumption/Year CO2 Emission/ Year Electricity 591,696 kWh 381 tons Power 439 tons Diesel 20,361 liters 58 tons Octane 12,879 liters 32 tons Travel CNG 138,319 m3 253 tons 289 tons Air Travel 33,980 km 4 tons Paper 10,244 kg 33 tons Waste Generation 36 tons Organic Waste 2,391 kg 3 tons Total Emission in 2011 764 tons PLANTATION ACTIVITIES Particulars Project Details Community plantation project at Satchari, Habiganj, Sylhet 7,500 saplings planted, covering 750 households Mirpur DOHS 700 saplings planted in the area Bicycle Tour of Bangladesh by Musa Ibrahim 630 saplings planted in 90 educational institutes across 40 districts 2012 Sustainability Report 91 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS CAMPAIGN IN SCHOOLS Udayan Higher Secondary School Viqarunnisa Noon School & College (October 1, 2012) (January 17, 2013) Bangladesh International School & College Jhigatola Government High School (February 4, 2013) (February 11, 2013) Dhaka Residential Model College (February 14, 2013) 2012 Sustainability Report 92 ENVIRONMENT-FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGIES Table 4.2 Server Virtualization Particulars 2010 2011 2012 2013* No of physical servers 28 27 23 20 No of virtual servers (after consolidation) 2 11 29 38 Reduction in power consumption (in kWh) 14,000 77,000 203,000 266,000 Reduction in CO2 emission (in tons) 8 44 116 152 *Target Note: Every server virtualized saves 7,000 kWh of electricity and 4 tons of CO2 emission per year WASTE MANAGEMENT SERVING SMALL BUSINESS CONTRIBUTION TO WOMEN EMPOWERMENT 2012 Sustainability Report 93 Table 5.1 Financial Literacy/Inclusion Programs Department/Subsidiary Event SME Division Discussion session with entrepreneurs from the light engineering sector in Bogra; Collaboration with INSPIRED, supported by the European Union, for capacity development of both the employees and customers of SME Department; Consumer Division Participation in the REHAB Fair in February 2013, in presence of 45 developers and around 3,000 customers, discussing about the products of Consumer Division; Customer awareness program regarding insurance coverage under Home Loan Shield, taken against the Home Loan facility of IDLC; Presentation on IDLC’s home loan policies and benefits at the project handover ceremony of Impulse Properties Limited, covering around 800 customers; Corporate Sales Visits to Syngenta Pharmaceuticals Limited, KAFCO, Alpine Fresh Water, Radiant Pharma, Institute of Microfinance, Borak Real Estate Limited and Azim Group, discussing IDLC’s retail products; Discussion sessions with major real estate developers to strengthen relationship for future business; Presentation on IDLC’s profile, deposit products, retail loans and other financial services at Sylhet MAG Osmani Medical College Golden Jubilee program, with over 650 participants; and in GP (Grameen Phone) Fair at GP House in presence of all GP employees; IDLC Investments Key Note Presentation on “Portfolio Management” in a seminar of the University of Asia Pacific (UAP), in Limited presence of senior faculty members, most notably Professor Jamilur Reza Chowdhury, Honorable VC of UAP, and the University students; Presentation on Merchant Banking Activities and Regulations for 25 participants from various financial institutions; Extensive media coverage through informative articles, market commentaries and weekly report publication in Financial Express titled “IDLC Investment Insight”; IDLC Securities Limited Investor awareness program, in participation of over 500 investors from Gazipur and Narayanganj, on issues including stock market, investment methodology, rules and regulations of BSEC, companies listed with BSEC, decision making in connection with the investment, method of selecting the right securities based on fundamentals etc.; ICC Department Presentation on AML procedures in the CAMLCO Conference organized by the Bangladesh Bank; TECHNOLOGICAL INNOVATIONS 0% downtime 100% bandwidth  100% on-time delivery Saving over 120 tons of CO2 Reduction of power consumption by around 200,000 kWh Implementation of HR Software for more efficient employee management A unified communication system across the Group 2012 Sustainability Report 94 ANTI-CORRUPTION POLICIES AND PRACTICES Table 6.1 Risk-based Auditing Status Departmental Audits Branch Audits Audits completed in 2011 12 9 Audits completed in 2012 12 28 Audits planned for 2013 14 54 Table 6.2 AML Training Divisions 2011 2012 2013 (Planned) Employees from business units 39 121 All staff members of Employees from support units 9 39 the IDLC Group Employees from ICC 4 2 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES The ten principles of UN Global Compact include: HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses; LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor; Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all discrimination in respect of employment and occupation; ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies; ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery AWARDS AND ACHIEVEMENTS SAFA (South Asian Federation of Accountants) Best Presented Accounts Awards IDLC received the First Prize under the Best Presented Annual Report Awards 2011 by SAFA IDLC also received the SAFA Best Presented Accounts Award for 2005, 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010 ICAB (The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Bangladesh) National Awards IDLC received the 12th ICAB National Awards for Best Presented Annual Reports 2011, under both the “Financial Services Sector” and “Corporate Governance” categories Previously IDLC had also received the ICAB National Award for best published Annual Accounts and Reports for 2004, 2006, 2007, 2009 and 2010 ICMAB (The Institute of Cost and Management Accountants of Bangladesh) Awards ICMAB Best Corporate Award 2010 | ICMAB Best Corporate Performance Award 2008 | ICMAB National Best Corporate Award 2007 “COMMWARD Excellence in Communication 2009” and “Superbrands” recognition in 2009 2012 Sustainability Report 95 GEOGRAPHIC LOCATIONS Corporate Head Office and branches of the IDLC Group
