A s Yüksel, our professional experience and achievements spanning half a century stem from our corporate responsibility and our business ethics. In this context, we are proud of to be among the leading Turkish companies to join United Nations Global Compact, which we signed in 2006. At Yüksel, we refer to forging stronger economic foundations, developing our sensitivity towards environment and making our social responsibility more sustainable as Riseability. It gives us great pleasure to share with you our Riseability Report, which takes our effort in the field of corporate responsibility one step further. Yüksel’s Sustainability Report Yüksel’s Sustainability Report II September2011 September2012 1 INDEX 03 10 19 Message from 04 About Riseability 12 Environmental the Chairman of Contributions About Yüksel’s the Board Yüksel Work Force 24 43 48 Social 36 United Nations 44 Contact Contributions Global Compact The Sustainability Global Reporting Indicators Goals of Yüksel Initiative (GRI) Companies Indicators 2 Message from the Chairman of the Board Dear Reader, Active in several sectors, construction and contracting in produce renewable energy. The Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meeting, particular, Yüksel not only directly and indirectly contributes to which has taken place for 17 years under the main sponsorship of quality of life with the infrastructure and superstructure projects it Yüksel, was organized in this manner and went on record last year undertakes, we also produce high quality goods and services. For as Europe’s first carbon-neutral international athletic event. almost half a century, Yüksel has created important employment That all of our employees take ownership of our sustainability opportunities in Turkey and in many other countries, forming related efforts adds more meaning to our work in this area. important portions of supply chains, and attaches great importance Educational activities frequently taking place regarding our to creating a reputation that focuses on corporate responsibility sustainability efforts, publications and the dissemination of and business ethics. information on this topic ensure that more of our employees Our “Riseability” approach, which we define as Yüksel’s approach internalize it. Occupational health and safety, which is among to sustainability, continues to bring to life innovative ideas for our the basic elements of our success, is another area in which we sector by taking into account human, environmental and economic are trying to inform and motivate more of our employees with a elements simultaneously. Each innovation we create as a product similar approach. With encouraging practices and training, the of our social responsibility transforms the abstract concept of success of our ocuupational health and safety management system sustainability into reality. is increasing. As the first company in the Turkish construction sector to measure Yüksel cares deeply about taking into consideration economy, its carbon footprint, we are endeavoring to deepen our work in society and the environment simultaneously within the work this field. It is our belief that the first step to establishing healthy, processes in order to become an organization that its employees green strategies involves measuring the impact of our corporate and shareholders are proud of. With this goal in mind, we have activities on the environment. In this context, we are in the been rising in unison for half a century. It gives me great pleasure process of working on measuring the carbon emissions of all of to share with you all of Yüksel’s sustainability related activities as our operational activities. We are reviewing our activities so as to transparently as possible, in line with its institutional values on the minimize any damage we cause to the environment, and when it eve of the company’s 50th anniversary in 2013. is unavoidable, we try to compensate by supporting projects that Emin Sazak Chairman and CEO Yüksel İnşaat A.Ş. 3 About Yüksel Yüksel was founded in 1963 in Ankara. In its first years, Yüksel İnşaat specialized in ports, quays and docks, later contributing to many projects in fields such as energy, transportation and industrial facilities, thereby supporting the infrastructure and superstructure not only in Turkey but also in other countries. Since 1983, Yüksel İnşaat has continued its international activities, and since 2007, it has earned a place among “The World’s 225 Largest International Contractors”. Yüksel İnşaat, according to 2010 data, is the 66th largest company in Turkey. The importance Yüksel attaches to quality, workplace safety and environmentally friendly practices as well as the level it has achieved has been certified by the EN ISO 9001-2000 Quality Management System, OHSAS 18001 Health and Safety Management System and ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. In addition to the construction sector, Yüksel’s companies active in fields such as finance, tourism, information technologies, manufacturing, defense industry and energy were gathered under the umbrella of Yüksel Holding in 1997. In 2006, Yüksel Holding signed the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest corporate citizenship initiative in the world, and claimed its position among leading Turkish companies expressing their institutional responsibility in a global sense. Yüksel Companies continue their international activities in Libya, Jordan, Saudi Arabia, Qatar, the United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Afghanistan, Uzbekistan, Kazakhstan, Georgia, Ukraine, and Romania, and have company representatives in Ghana, South Sudan, Ethiopia, Algeria, Oman, Pakistan, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan and Russia. With nearly 14,000 employees, Yüksel operates in many sectors, particularly in construction and contracting, with various customer and supplier groups in the countries where it is active; it is in constant communication with governments, public institutions, educational organizations, NGOs, international organizations and locals. Fully aware of its numerous shareholders and far reaching geography, Yüksel’s objective is to raise the quality of life. 4 About Yüksel Yüksel Companies Yüksel Holding A.Ş.: The group companies active in various fields such as construction, tourism, finance, information technology, manufacturing, security, defense, energy and investment were collected under the Yüksel Holding umbrella in 1997. Yüksel İnşaat A.Ş.: Yüksel’s founding company which undertakes domestic and international contracts involving high technology infrastructure and superstructure work. Yüksel İnşaat Saudia Limited Şirketi: Carries out infrastructure and superstructure projects in Saudi Arabia. Sasel Elektromekanik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş.: Provides all kinds of electromechanical engineering, installment, contract and project consulting services as well as manufacturing electrical board and electrical system pipes. Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri A.Ş.: Active in the fields of information processing and information technology. Meksa Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş.: Investment company that offers extensive capital markets mediation services to individual and corporate clients. Yüksel Yapı Elemanları A.Ş.: With factories in Gaziantep, Gebze and Ankara, the company manufactures concrete, reinforced concrete, pre-stressed concrete pipes and beams. Yüksel Enerji Holding A.Ş.: Founded in 2008 to collect all of the energy related companies in the group under one umbrella. Works to resolve the financing, investment, organization and management of these companies in which it holds shares under this single roof. Yüksel Enerji Elektrik Üretim ve Tic. A.Ş.: Production facility founded to produce and sell electrical energy. 5 Yüksel Özel Güvenlik Hizmetleri A.Ş.: Provides all kinds of domestic and international security services. Yüksel Savunma Sistemleri A.Ş.: Its goal is to produce and develop products and system solutions compatible with developing technology at low costs by conducting R&D and engineering tests on defense systems and to ensure continuity and integrated logistical support under all conditions. Yüksel Kompozit Teknolojileri A.Ş.: Set up for the purpose of composite part and component manufacturing, tool designing and manufacturing with an emphasis on the aerospace industry. Kask Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş.: Provides general insurance services. Yüksel Yatçılık A.Ş.: Provides yacht tourism services in Marmaris with its modern fleet of yachts and sailing club. Yüksel Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satış A.Ş.: Carries out bulk sales and trading of electrical energy, as well as export and import activities. Yüksel Yönetim Hizmetleri A.Ş.: Provides services in the fields of automotive and security systems, organization, cleaning, landscaping and hygiene. About Yüksel Yüksel İnşaat Board of Directors Chairman and CEO Emin Sazak Vice Chairman Mehmet Emin Sazak Executive Member Süleyman Servet Sazak Executive Member İsmail Öncel Executive Member Tuna Aksel Member Yurdal Sert Member Cihan Candemir 6 About Yüksel Organizational Chart Yüksel İnşaat Executive Board President H. Suha Ünsal Ethics Program Consultants Director Senior Vice President Vice President Vice President Vice President Vice President Vice President (Mang. Rep.) (Technical) (Technical) (Technical) (Technical) (Financial) Bülent Güngör T. Adil Ağoğlu M. Cüneyt Karacasu Oğuzhan Kocabaş Erol Özdemir G. Candan Ak Electromechanics Mechanical Supply Business Development Design Group Design Group General Accounting Group Manager Manager Group Manager Manager Manager Manager Contracts Group Contract Request Proposal Writing Group Managers Group Managers Head Office Manager Management Group Manager (Projects) (Projects) Accounting Manager Group Manager Project Managers Project Managers Purchasing Group Group Managers Group Managers Budget Planning Manager (Projects) (Projects) Manager Project Managers Project Managers Quality and Environment Financial Controller Manager and Tax Auditing Occupational Health Chief of Personnel and Safety Manager Group Managers Purchasing and Accounting (Projects) Project Managers Project Accounting Managers Financing Manager Information Technologies Manager 7 About Yüksel Awards and Achievements 2011 Tax Honor Award Ankara Tax Department Directorate Yüksel İnşaat was among the top 100 companies paying high corporate tax in 2011. ASO 2011 Achievement Award Ankara Chamber of Industry Achievement Award Yüksel İnşaat was among the highest Ankara Chamber of Industry corporate tax payers in 2010. Yüksel İnşaat was presented with an award in 2009 for the great amount of its export activities. Contracting Services Gold Medal Turkish Red Crescent Abroad Achievement Award Yüksel İnşaat was given a gold Turkish Contractors’ Association and medal by the Turkish Red Crescent the Undersecretariat of Foreign Trade for its donations to international Yüksel İnşaat placed 120th in the list humanitarian aid causes. of the world’s 225 largest international contracting companies. Excellence in Construction Award USA Army Engineering Association Yüksel İnşaat was given an award for its contributions to the infrastructure work in Afghanistan and the work experience it provided for Afghan employees. Fortune 500 METU Appreciation Award Fortune Magazine Middle East Technical University Yüksel is the 66th largest company in Yüksel Holding General Coordinator Tuna Aksel was granted an award for the Turkey. company’s contribution to education and to environmental organizations as well as its support for the professional growth of youth, and the company’s leadership. 8 About Yüksel Yüksel’s Corporate Memberships Yüksel contributes to many NGOs to maintain more productive professional relations with its shareholders and to utilize its professional experience to benefit the entire private sector. Yüksel İnşaat CEO and Chairman Emin Sazak also acts as Turkish Contractors’ Association President, European International Contractors’ Association Board Member and the Turkish-Qatari Work Council President; Board Member Cihan Candemir also acts as the Turkish-Afghan Work Council President, Turkish-Russian and Turkish-Iraqi Work Council Presidents and the Asia-Pacific Countries Union of Chambers Construction Sector Parliament President; Senior Vice President Bülent Güngör acts as a Board Member for the Turkish-Saudi Work Council. The list of the organizations in which we hold corporate membership is below: Organization Company of Yüksel Turkish Contractors’ Association Yüksel İnşaat Ankara Chamber of Commerce Yüksel İnşaat Ankara Chamber of Industry Yüksel İnşaat Foreign Economic Relations Board Yüksel İnşaat UN Global Compact Yüksel İnşaat The Turkish Employers Association of Construction Industries Yüksel İnşaat Deniz Temiz Association /Turmepa of Turkey Yüksel Holding Informatics Association Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Turkish Medical Informatics Association Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Informatics Sector Businessmen’s Association Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Health Informatics Management Association Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Ankara Chamber of Commerce Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Ankara Chamber of Industry Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Istanbul Minerals and Metals Exporters’ Associations Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri IHE Turkey Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Informatics Association Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri Medical Informatics Association Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri SABİYED (Health Informatics Management Association) Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri World Energy Council Turkish National Committee Yüksel Enerji Elektrik Üretim Electricity Producers Association Yüksel Enerji Elektrik Üretim Electricity Producers Association Yüksel Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satış Saudi Council of Engineers Yüksel İnşaat Saudia Riyadh Chamber of Commerce Yüksel İnşaat Saudia Ankara Chamber of Commerce Sasel Elektromekanik Ankara Chamber of Industry Sasel Elektromekanik Central Anatolian Exporters Unions Sasel Elektromekanik İstanbul Ferrous and Non-ferrous Metals Exporters’ Association Sasel Elektromekanik Istanbul Minerals and Metals Exporters’ Associations Sasel Elektromekanik Istanbul Electrical – Electronics and Mechanical Industry Goods Exporters’ Union Sasel Elektromekanik Istanbul Chemicals and Chemical Products Exporters Association Sasel Elektromekanik Electromechanical Industrialist Association Sasel Elektromekanik Turkish Exporters Assembly Sasel Elektromekanik 9 Riseability Meeting with media representatives [2011] About Riseability Riseability is Yüksel’s approach to sustainability, an important component being incorporated into work processes. This report, whereby all of the projects created in line with sustainability, as well as corporate social responsibility, and occupational health and safety are shared with the public, is prepared in conjunction with our Riseability approach. About Riseability About the Report Yüksel, after signing the UN Global Compact in 2006, has regularly This report entails Yüksel’s activities from September 2011 to published Communication on Progress reports since 2008, and September 2012. The report was prepared in accordance with GRI shared its sustainability activities with the public. The first Riseability Level C implementation level conditions and was evaluated within Report published in 2011 was published in a more extensive format the scope of the Global Compact Communication on Progress. in keeping with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators in The Riseability Report, while mostly focusing on Yüksel İnşaat and addition to the Global Compact. Yüksel Holding’s activities, also provides information about all of the companies under the Yüksel Group. In the coming sections, the sustainability goals of the Yüksel companies have also been provided. 10 About Riseability Reflections on Riseability Riseability, Yüksel’s approach to sustainability, focuses on five basic goals: Measuring and managing Yüksel’s economic, social and environmental impact. Expressing the responsibilities that Yüksel’s corporate entity has as a corporate citizen in terms of economic, social and environmental approaches and reporting it to stakeholders. Implementing sustainable practices in all areas in which Yüksel is active, in particular the construction sector and serving as a model with these practices. Ensuring that the Riseability approach is internalized by all Yüksel employees. Emphasizing the importance of the concept of corporate citizenship and its contribution to sustainable development in all areas in which Yüksel is active. The endeavors and activities carried out to meet these goals were Yüksel’s sustainability performance was discussed in a master’s met with great interest from the public. The first Riseability Report dissertation entitled “The Competitive Advantage that Corporate published in November 2011 is the most extensive report published Social Responsibility Provides in the Construction Sector” in a in the construction sector in Turkey and in many other sectors in graduate program jointly run by Istanbul Technical University and which Yüksel is active. The Riseability Report was covered 23 times Salford University in England. Furthermore, Yüksel was the second in nearly all of the national newspapers in Turkey, by journalists and company in Turkey to be featured in the 2012 edition of the Global columnists. Yüksel Holding General Coordinator Tuna Aksel met Compact Year Book, which displays the best practices by companies with members of the press from various newspapers and magazines that are party to the UN Global Compact, contributing with the in a special meeting to explain our Riseability approach in more concept of Riseability. detail. Global Compact Yearbook 2012 11 Yüksel’s Work Force Yüksel’s Work Force Financial Performance Consolidated financial performances of Yüksel companies can be seen below: 2009 2010 2011 Total Assets (TL) 1.673.119.111 1.719.064.425 2.217.060.551 Cash Balance at 127.634.673 167.438.730 174.904.349 the End of the Period (TL) 2011 Yüksel İnşaat Turnover (TL) 2010 2011 Total taxes and social security premiums paid by Yüksel Companies ~84.3 million USD ~92.1 million USD Yüksel’s Work Force Number of employees by organization and gender Number of 31.05.2012 Location Employees Male Female DATASEL A.Ş. 80 57 23 FİBA YÜKSEL 4 4 0 HİDRO-D 1 1 0 KASK SİGORTA 6 2 4 MEKSA YATIRIM A.Ş. 142 98 44 OTOYOL A.Ş. 32 29 3 SASEL ELEKTROMEKANİK A.Ş. 2.155 2.105 50 YÜKSEL ENERJİ HOLDİNG 1 1 0 YÜKSEL ENERJİ ELEKTRİK ÜRETİM VE TİCARET A.Ş. 2 2 0 YÜKSEL ENERJİ ELEKTRİK ÜRETİM TİC. A.Ş. KÖPRÜBAŞI 19 18 1 YÜKSEL ELEKTRİK TOPTAN SATIŞ A.Ş. 6 3 3 YÜKSEL HOLDİNG 36 18 18 YÜKSEL İNŞAAT A.Ş. 8.596 8.502 94 YÜKSEL KOMPOZİT TEKNOLOJİLERİ A.Ş. 15 14 1 YÜKSEL ÖZEL GÜVENLİK HİZMETLERİ A.Ş. 593 570 23 YÜKSEL SAUDIA 2.293 2.293 0 YÜKSEL SAVUNMA SİSTEMLERİ A.Ş. 29 24 5 YÜKSEL YAPI ELEMANLARI A.Ş. 132 127 5 YÜKSEL YAPI YATIRIM A.Ş. 7 6 1 YÜKSEL YATÇILIK A.Ş. 18 12 6 YÜKSEL YÖNETİM HİZM. A.Ş. 137 64 73 YTY YÜKSEL TURİZM YATÇILIK A.Ş. 1 1 0 Total 14.305 13.404 901 12 Yüksel’s Work Force Yüksel’s Work Force Education Level of Employees Employees by Category 30.05.2012 31.05.2012 Higher Primary education Education % 26 White Collar % 31 % 26 High School % 43 Yüksel’s Work Force Blue Collar Yüksel İnşaat Employees by % 74 Job and Nationality Yüksel Yüksel Job Category (Turkish) (other) Subcontractor Total Architect, Engineer %3,096 %1,059 %1,068 %5,224 Accounting, HR, Administrative %2,939 %2,561 %0,783 %6,284 Technician, Foreman %2,773 %1,760 %1,667 %6,201 Operator, Skilled Worker %2,119 %5,657 %7,482 %15,259 Worker %6,081 %33,938 %27,008 %67,029 Total %17,010 %44,977 %38,011 %100 Yüksel’s Work Force Domestic Yüksel İnşaat Employees by Age 1400 1200 1000 800 600 400 200 0 Under 30 30-49 Over 50 Elif Pehlivanlı Human Resources Expert Yüksel İnşaat Yüksel İnşaat is very special for me because it is the first workplace where I started to build my career five years ago. I am very much honoured, because I feel myself as a member of this family, which made me feel confident and peaceful. The synergy, created in the Human Resources Department and in the whole company make us feel valuable. I consider myself lucky since I am working in HR department and Yüksel. 13 Yüksel’s Work Force Work Standards For Yüksel the ‘human’ element matters most. There is no discrimination in national or international work processes by sex, language, religion, race, political view or difference of opinion. Any practices in violation of universal human rights are considered unacceptable. All Yüksel employees are guaranteed a continuously improved, high quality, healthy and safe work environment. Unionization and collective agreement rights in the Turkish Republic are protected under the constitution. Yüksel respects the constitutional right of employees to join labor union and collective agreement and does not obstruct these in any way. Child labor is not practiced at Yüksel. Further, it is a company policy to avoid suppliers that do practice child labor. Yüksel is strictly against any forced employment practices. Yüksel’s Work Force Occupational Health and Safety Providing a healthy and safe work environment, calculating any possible risks and working towards becoming a zero accident workplace make up the cornerstones of Yüksel’s approach to occupational health and safety (OHS). Considering all work sites, the Yüksel İnşaat OHS team makes up 5-10 % of its entire workforce. Moreover, Yüksel has started a series of activities to inform and encourage employees within the OHS management system. Within the scope of the Encouragement and Discipline Procedure aiming to reinforce OHS related communication within the company and involve all employees, all worksites belonging to Yüksel İnşaat now feature visible warnings and informative lists. In addition, in the OHS Violation list prepared in Turkish and English, any situations that could pose a threat in terms of OHS and the sanctions in place in the event they are violated have been clearly stated. Other new practices in place within the scope of the Encouragement and Discipline Procedure: • Each worksite will feature a “OHS Employee of the Month”, who will be awarded a 50 USD prize, • Special certificates will be awarded to the management and OHS technical teams for projects completed without lost time, • Each year a worksite will be chosen for the greatest OHS success. The technical OHS employees of this site will be awarded an additional salary and a special certificate. Within the Encouragement and Discipline Procedure, an annual OHS slogan contest was started in English and Turkish at Yüksel İnşaat worksites. Those with the best Turkish and English slogan are to be awarded 100 USD. 2012 OHS Slogan Competition Winners Emre Afşar: “Have work with safety principles, don’t have difficult days” (Tr: İş güvenliği ilkesi ile yaşa, zor günler yaşama) Vincente Labindao: “Accidents bring tears while safety brings cheers” (Kaza gözyaşı, güvenlik neşe getirir.) Çetin HEPP OHS Team 14 15 Dragon Rowing Team Yüksel’s Work Force Training and Performance Evaluation Training is a lifelong process at Yüksel. Not limited to merely The Managerial Vision Meetings (MVM), held quarterly for our technical subjects, the training at Yüksel aims to help its employees midand high-level management, provide the participants with the develop themselves in every way; Yüksel places great importance on opportunity to update themselves on various current issues. Each its corporate training strategy every year. MVM is done by inviting a different expert to the Yüksel İnşaat Head Quarters to share his/her knowledge with our managers. Our employees are not limited with the subjects offered to them, but instead have a say in the selection of the topics via the training Within the one year span this report covers, about 210 employees request form they receive from our Human Resources Department working at the Yüksel Headquarters were provided with 5,186 man three times a year. hours of training. The total budget spent for this training process was US $ ~76,111. Arzu Özkan Administrative Affairs Supervisor Sasel Elektromekanik A.Ş. Not only among its workers, also in the outside, Yüksel İnşaat is known and acknowledged as a family. For me, it really is. It is an adventure from parents to children, which begins on confidence. What essential in Yüksel is sympathy. Our first steps in our company were very similar to unconfident, coward steps of a toddler. However, we knew that there would be hands to help us if we fell down. Then we started to take steps confidently; because in Yüksel, the employee is important. I know that the company where started to my working life, Sasel; and the big, warm and valuable family of Yüksel will always be so special for me. 16 New Year Celebration – 2012 Yüksel’s Work Force Employee Motivation Yüksel, in order to become a company whose employees and corporate responsibility activities and other issues. shareholders take pride in, acts in accordance with corporate values Yüksel employees come together every New Year’s at the Headquarters in all of its work procedures. The accomplishment of this ideal is Social Facilities and welcome in the New Year. This tradition, which only possible through a work environment where employees feel safe has carried on for many years, was honored as 2012 began and Yüksel and involved in the decision making processes. employees greeted the New Year with shared well wishes and hope. The quarterly published Yüksel Bulletin is very important to the The Hello to Summer and Hello to Fall receptions also held at the reinforcement of the communication and sense of camaraderie social facilities also present occasions on which Yüksel employees among all Yüksel employees. The Bulletin does not only feature come together to enjoy each other’s company. project related news from Yüksel companies: it is also a news medium that covers the corporate communication projects that Hello to Summer Party Yüksel is involved in as well as social activities and carefully chosen featured subjects. With involving Yüksel employees in the decision making processes in mind, internet based surveys are used as a quick and extensive solution. Yüksel employees were invited to participate in 3 different surveys on various topics in 2011 with questions in both Turkish and English. Each month, a corporate communication representatives (CCR) meeting is held so that the communication among the companies active in various sectors is strengthened and common decisions are made. In the meetings where each company is represented by one CCR, various strategic decisions are made related to Yüksel’s 17 Aysun Yılmaz Energy Trade Assistant Specialist Yüksel Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satış I became a member of the Yüksel family in 2011. I found the opportunity of working in different sectors before. What makes Yüksel so special for me is its peaceful atmosphere and human focused governance approach. Yüksel Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satış A.Ş. is comprised of young and dynamic staff; this makes our working environment even more enjoyable. With its various social responsibility projects, Yüksel is strengthening its team spirit and supports the sustainability in order to make this goal as the first priority for each employee. These projects contribute to the employees’ awareness of responsibility both in their corporate and personal lives. I think it is a privilege for me to be a part of this working environment. The success of Yüksel Holding, doubtlessly is a consequence of the importance that gives to its shareholders and the “happy corporate picture” appeared as a result of this. Yüksel’s Work Force Work Ethics and the Work Ethics Program Yüksel, after highlighting its allegiance with the principles of the Yüksel’s business ethics, as detailed in its Business Ethics Program UN Global Compact in 2006, published a “Yüksel Business Ethics booklet, clearly states Yüksel’s expectations of its employees, Program” booklet, thereby putting in writing its professional values. partners and suppliers. Any individuals or entities in the position of Further, Yüksel does not discriminate on the basis of religion, supplying goods or services for Yüksel are expected to comply with language, race, sex, age, marital status, sexual preference or political the Yüksel Business Ethics Program and the principles of the UN view as per Universal Human Rights. According to the Business Global Compact. Ethics Program; The Yüksel Business Ethics Program provides an ethics hotline “YÜKSEL is a contracting company that aims to uphold the highest accessible 24/7 to all Yüksel employees and anyone professionally business ethics in all its endeavors, committed to reaching this aim related to Yüksel. Any comments or complaints can be made to the via professionally prepared, well-equipped and highly qualified hotline toll-free by phone, by email, mail or in person 24 hours a day, staff and advanced technology; it attaches the greatest importance 7 days a week. All of the statements made to the ethics hotline are to HONESTY as demonstrated by the sincerity in its work; confidential. After any requests or complaints are followed up, the RESPECT AND TRUST as shown by its awareness of the value initiating person is provided information. of each employee; RESPONSIBILITY and HARMONY evident in the highest regard it has for team work; and HIGH QUALITY through offering our customers creative ideas, solutions and high quality technology.” In order to reach the Ethics Line Phone Free: Turkey within the: 0800 314 10 28 Iraq and Afghanistan: 1008 # 41099 00005 0 800 314 10 28 Getting e-mail through the Ethics Hotline: etik@yuksel.net Direct Access to the Ethics Line: Yüksel Construction, General Manager / Director of the Ethics Program 18 Environmental Contributions Active in the contracting business and many other sectors for almost half a century, Yüksel has contributed directly to the improvement of Turkey’s and other countries’ infrastructure and superstructure. These achievements and a consistent growth tendency underline the importance of Yüksel’s responsibility to protecting the environment as a corporate entity. Decreasing the detrimental environmental effects from an organization’s activities and minimizing them requires the calculation of a company’s ecological footprint as a result of corporate activities. Yüksel is the first company in the Turkish construction and contracting sector to calculate its corporate carbon footprint. Yüksel’s efforts related to corporate carbon footprints are expected to result in realistic green approaches and to help minimize any negative impact on the environment as a company. Yüksel İnşaat’s 2011 Corporate Carbon Footprint Total Carbon Footprint by Scope tCO2-e Mail, Courier: 39,42 Energy: 1.843,28 14000 Transportation: 269,6 12000 11.678,41 Business trip: 1.534,58 10000 8000 Hotel accommodation: 27,99 6000 Office supplies and waste: 20,82 4000 2000 Other: 1.036,94 678,45 821,35 0 Shipment: 8.405,58 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total: 13,178.21 tCO2-e The carbon footprint of the work machines at all Yüksel İnşaat work sites in 2011: 107.963,06 tCO2-e Saim Yılmaz Cleaning Services Yüksel Yönetim Hizmetleri I have been working in cleaning services since 2001. I was working in one of the subcontractors of Yuksel before. My boss told to me that if I work hard and self-disciplined, I could work in Yüksel for long years, and even will be retired from here. I have been working hard as much as I can, in order to reach these days since 2001. In 2011, I moved to Yüksel Yönetim Hizmetleri, which is under the roof of Yüksel Holding. If God allows me, I would like to work many more years and to be retired from here. 19 YSAM Race Environmental Contributions International Yılmaz Sazak Age Group Athletics Meetings The Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings (YSAM), which has been held In the 17th YSAM in 2012, the green dimension of the meetings was for 17 consecutive years under the main sponsorship of Yüksel, taken to a new level, making YSAM Europe’s first carbon-neutral attracts young athletes aged 12-17 from all over the world, and is athletics event. This success was achieved through hard work on one of Europe’s three largest organizations of its kind. The YSAM is the part of Yüksel-elaborate efforts were put forth to minimize the also an activity that raises environmental awareness. Throughout the environmental impact of the YSAM. Each of the costs necessary meetings environmental sensitivity is highlighted, no unnecessary for the organization of the YSAM was listed one by one, followed waste is produced and recycling is underlined. by the carbon footprint equivalent of these consumptions. The consumption items and the carbon footprints of these items are given in the table below: Explanation Total CO2 Emission Air travel of 90 international athletes to Istanbul (Total 12,285 km) 23,49 tCO2-e 551 athletes’ transportation by land within Turkey to Istanbul (Total 11,324 km) 41,35 tCO2-e Carbon emissions resulting from accommodation 9.12 tCO2-e The boat tour organized for the athletes 0.78 tCO2-e Emissions resulting from drinks (4,300 liters of water in various packaging) 270,90 tCO2-e Emissions resulting from food 70,63 tCO2-e Emissions resulting from printed materials 5.73 tCO2-e Total Emission Amount 422 tCO2-e The 422 tCO2-e carbon footprint resulting from the YSAM was compensated for by carbon credit eared through the Ankara Mamak Landfill Waste Management Project, which is a Gold Standard project. Therefore, the YSAM was the first carbon-neutral athletics event in Europe. 20 Environmental Contributions Other Carbon-Neutral Activities The Riseability press conference held to explain Yüksel’s sustainability The 8th Photograph Lane Exhibit consisting of professional approach to members of the press was a carbon-neutral event, with photographs taken at the YSAM was carbon-neutral, by taking the goal of having the smallest possible impact on the environment. into consideration the number of participants in the event at the The carbon footprint of the event was calculated taking into Yüksel Head Quarters as well as the details pertaining to the event. account how the participants would reach the meeting site and the The carbon emission levels that resulted from both activities were preparations for the meeting. balanced out with contributions to renewable energy producing facilities. Environmental Contributions The Yüksel Bulletin Goes Green The Yüksel Bulletin, published since June 1997 as Yüksel’s main communication source, ensures communication By using among all Yüksel companies and informs employees and recycled paper, the public about Yüksel’s activities. The Yüksel Bulletin, 34 trees a year are saved. which is distributed throughout Turkey as well as all countries where Yüksel is active, reached its 62nd issue 2000 kg paper in October 2012. = About 1,400 copies are printed for each issue. Aware 34 trees. of the serious environmental impact of the printing process, Yüksel has been using recycled paper since This requires the 60th issue. Thus, each month, about 9 trees, which 4 issues of the 2,000 kg of would yield the 500 kg of paper needed for one issue of Yüksel Bulletin are paper. the Yüksel Bulletin, are saved. produced per year. Environmental Contributions Yüksel prefers to use recycled paper in many print materials including calendars, invitations and even the Riseability Report Give & Gain Day you are reading right now. Yüksel employees helped clean the shores of the Ankara Mogan Lake to contribute to the Give & Gain European Employee Volunteerism Day, in which Turkey participated for the first time on May 18th 2012. Yüksel’s team of volunteers comprised 33 people working for Yüksel companies. As a result of the cleaning effort supported by the Ankara Gölbaşı Municipality, two truckloads of waste were removed from the lake and its shores. 21 Yüksel İnşaat Forest This area has been afforested with 3000 trees by Yüksel İnşaat Environmental Contributions Yüksel İnşaat Forest The number of trees contributed to Ankara through the cooperation of Yüksel İnşaat with Çevkor Magazine has reached 3,000. 22 Environmental Contributions Tree Saplings presented to Female Employees for Women’s Day The female employees working in the General Directorate offices were given sapling certificates from the Turkish Foundation for Combating Soil Erosion, for Reforestation and the Protection of Natural Habitats on March 8th, Women’s Day. Thus, 100 saplings were donated to the Ankara Memorial Forest. Environmental Contributions Meksa’s Blue Cap Campaign Meksa also joined the plastic cap collection of water bottles campaign, which garnered much public attention. The nearly 45 kilograms of plastic bottle caps collected by Meksa employees were delivered to the Bakırköy Municipality. The campaign involves the donation of a wheel chair to someone in need for every 250kg of blue caps, not to mention that a great deal of plastic waste is recycled. 23 Social Contributions Social Contributions 17th Annual Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings As one of Turkey’s longest standing social responsibility projects, the Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings featured 3 Turkish records with the highest athlete presence to date. Thus, the number of records broken in only the past 7 years reached 79. The most important feature of the Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings is that it gathers athletes aged 12-17 from almost 20 different countries. This way, not only do young athletes have the opportunity to develop themselves in an international competition which is one of three of its kind in Europe, but they also make friends from around the world regardless of the language barrier. 24 Satılmış Doğan Finance Manager Yüksel İnşaat I entered to Yüksel building in 1985, when my father took my hand said that “look my son, this is our company”. Since then, I started to be a Yüksel employee. I belong to a member of a very large family and my perspective on life changed. I think, the address for people, who want to pursue a good life in a big family and seeking new experiences in constantly changing world, should be the Yüksel. Social Contributions 17th Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings Participant Countries Turkey USA Azerbaijan Belarus Bosnia And Herz. Bulgaria Armenia Ethiopia France Georgia Croatia TRNC Kosovo Macedonia Egypt Romania Russia Serbia Slovenia Ukraine 17th Annual Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings Events 12/13 Years 14/15 Years 16/17 Years 12/13 Years 14/15 Years 16/17 Years (Date of Birth (Date of Birth (Date of Birth (Date of Birth (Date of Birth (Date of Birth 1999/2000) 1997/1998) 1995/1996) 1999/2000) 1997/1998) 1995/1996) Female Male 100 m 100 m 100 m 100 m 100 m 100 m 800 m 1500 m 1500 m 800 m 1500 m 1500 m 100 m Hurdles 100 m Hurdles Long Jump Long Jump Triple Jump Long Jump Long Jump Long Jump High Jump Pole Voult High Jump Pole Voult Shot Put Shot Put Javelin Throw Throw Discus Records at 17th Annual Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings Events Seniors 300 m under 23 Turkey Record Time Mehmet Güzel 33:40 Female Male 300 m 300 m 2000 m Youth Turkey Record Time Yunus Emre Çavuşlu 5:16:94 1 mil 2000 m 1 mile Older Women’s Turkey Record Time Esma Aydemir 5:16:94 25 Yükselen Yıldızlar Pınar Aday Törem Sazak Emel Dereli Deniz Sazak Nimet Karakuş Social Contributions Sub-Projects within the Scope of the Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings Rising Stars Project The Rising Stars Project, which first came about in 2007 with Within this project, Yüksel provides corporate sponsorship to Burcu Ayhan and Toros Pilikoğlu, has continued since 2009 with athletes and coaches to support the success of young and talented Nimet Karakuş and Pınar Aday. Young Athlete Emel Dereli, who athletes. was noteworthy in 2012 with her success in shot putting, was also Further, our national female athlete and Rising Star Nimet Karakuş included in the Rising Stars Project. was given special funding in the 2012 London Olympics to represent Turkey for the first time in the Women’s 100 m event. The Achievements of the Rising Stars: Nimet Karakuş: The only Turkish athlete among age groups to go below 12 seconds in the 100 meter event. She ran 100 m in 11:33 seconds in the 2012 Balkan Youth Championship and broke the Turkish record and represented Turkey in the 2012 London Olympics as the only female Turkish athlete to pass the 100 m limit. Pınar Aday: Became the Balkan Champion in the 2012 Balkan Youth Championship with 6.11m in the long jump event. She also broke her own Turkish record in the heptathlon event in the Turkish Youth Championship in Eskişehir with 5,614 points. Emel Dereli: Broke the Turkish record in the shot putting event with 18:87. She represented Turkey in the World Athletics Championship in Istanbul in March 2012, and won a gold medal in the European Champion Clubs Cup Youth Competition held in 2012 in Slovenia. 26 Meryem Kılıç Security Officer Yüksel Private Security Services In 1999, I entered the security industry since 2005 and getting involved in Yüksel Security employees. Yüksel job after the structure continues to be happier and more peaceful, my work has enabled me to be more loving and more efficient. Yüksel providing managers and staff would like to thank this orFullı. The Yılmaz Sazak Photograph Lane Exhibition The Maltepe University Faculty of Fine Arts and the Faculty of Communication have offered their support in merging sports and art by photographing the most interesting moments of the athletes, coaches, spectators, referees and everyone else there for their love of sport for 7 years. The Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings is the only athletics event that has created its own visual memory through a photography exhibition. Kenan Onuk Cup In 2011, changes were made to the Kenan Onuk Special Athletics project, and the Kenan Onuk Cup was awarded to the champion of the women’s 1 mile run in the senior category of the Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings in memory of Kenan Onuk. The first Kenan Onuk Cup was awarded to Esma Aydemir with her time of 4:31:28. Aydemir’s time also went into record as a Turkish record. Yılmaz Sazak Service to Athletics Award This award, which began in 2012, serves to express our gratitude to those well known in the field of athletics for their contributions to Yüksel’s efforts related to the development of Turkish athletics and to Turkish athletes’ international success, for sharing their invaluable experience and support. The first person to be awarded this prize was Nejat Kök, still a member of the International Athletics Statisticians Association, who has worked diligently for Turkish Athletics for many years. 17th Total Budget for Yılmaz Sazak Athletics Meetings: 419.711 TL Social Contributions The Alaca Höyük Archeological Excavation Site and the Hittite Dam General Information The capital of the Hittite Civilization, Alaca Höyük, is located in However, interest and support declined following Atatürk’s death, Çorum, in the Alaca Höyük area, 25 km northeast of Boğazköy and no scientific research was done in this important site after Hattuşaş. Archeological studies started at Alaca Höyük upon 1982. The Alaca Höyük excavation was restarted by a team led by Atatürk’s directives in 1935. It has the distinction of being the first archeology professor Aykut Çınaroğlu of the Ankara University national excavation of the history of the Republic of Turkey. Great Faculty of Languages, History and Geography. When the project importance was placed on this historical region during that period reached a standstill in 2005 due to financial issues, Yüksel started and an aerial photograph of the excavation site was taken as per to support the excavation and was instrumental in the continued Atatürk’s directives in 1936. A museum was established in 1940 for illumination of the history of civilization through the excavations. the exhibition of the excavated historical items. 28 Deniz Cingi Attorney at Law Yüksel Holding In spite of working here for nearly two years, the support of my colleagues helped me to feel like I am the part of Yüksel for years. I am always pleased to be the member of Yüksel family. I always feel the difference of working in Yüksel family that is always one step ahead in its class with its perspective and appreciate to its workers, the harmony of the working environment and the facilities for its employees. I am happy and proud of being representative of this establishment, which focuses to do the best and become a brand in the international area. I hope this relation goes on many years. The Hittite Dam The Alaca Höyük Hittite Dam in the Alaca Höyük region has a Alaca Höyük Hittite Dam has become a point of much interest with special significance. The Alaca Höyük Hittite Dam, known as the its historical and technical features. oldest functioning dam in Anatolia, which was found by excavation The rock filling in the body of the dam which is 15 m wide and 135 president Professor Aykut Çınaroğlu and his team, was brought back m tall was covered with clay, and the construction technique of the to life by support from Yüksel and started offering the farmers in the rock filling set is the same as today’s dam construction technique; Alaca Höyük region the opportunity to carry out irrigated farming. however, the Hittites used clay instead of cement. When completely Dams from the Hittite period have all disappeared or lost their full, the dam is estimated to hold 15 thousand cubic meters of water. functionality except for the one in Alaca Höyük. Since the spring The hieroglyphic stone found in the region shows that the Hittite water comes out of its trunk, the Alaca Höyük Dam has not Dam was built by King Hattusili III’s wife Pudu-Hepa as a tribute to disappeared until our time. Having been constructed with the same the Goddess Hepat. method as most modern dams that use the latest technology, the This dam was built by Tudhaliya IV in 1240 BC 29 Neolithic period receptacle piece Excavation Work In previous excavations, the first iron sword in history, Anatolia’s Period ceramics from 8,000-9,000 years ago. Therefore, the history oldest ruby, various tablets and the only Hittite statue excavated of Alaca Höyük was pushed back by 1,000-1,500 years. These pieces at Alaca Höyük and many other historical artifacts had enriched found in the excavations were found to reflect the ceramic repertoire our cultural inheritance. With support from Yüksel İnşaat, the of the Neolithic Period similar to ones found on the Urfa Göbeklitepe excavations continue to uncover many invaluable historical artifacts stone blocks and those in Burdur Kuruçay Höyük. It was found belonging to the Hittite Civilization. out that the first settlement in Alaca Höyük went back as far as the Late Neolithic Age. This information is not only important for this Previous studies had dated the first settlement in the area at the area, but for a better historical understanding of the settlements in Calcolithic Age, 7,000-7,500 years ago. In 2012, 28 artifacts newly Central Anatolia. found rewrote Alaca Höyük’s history. The production technique, rough workmanship, the large particles of sand mixed into the clay and the insufficiently baked quality reflected the Anatolian Neolithic Zehra Yücel Project Director & Field Manager Datasel It is very hard to believe that 19 years passed behind after I started to work in Datasel when I was 23. At the beginning, I was one of the youngest members of this family, but I become the elder sister now. I have a lot of friends, brothers and sisters in this company, which was both school and home for me. My job is little bit stressful and not easy. It is tiresome to work for setting dialogue and building trust for our customers, but it is worthy. The warm working environment in Datasel and Yüksel’s confidence are my biggest helpers. After our domestic market success, we started to give service about Hospital Information Management Systems internationally after 2009. I think these developments that I proud of and my job, which is always open for learning, are keeping my soul alive. 30 Signage Efforts Despite the continuation of work at Alaca Höyük for nearly 100 years, with all its significance for the cultural history of the world, no signage existed pointing visitors to the site. To make the site more visible and accessible to more visitors, proper signage was put up directing people from four directions. Further Support Provided by Yüksel for Other Archeological Excavation Work With help from Yüksel İnşaat, the topographical plan of Alaca Höyük form the 1940s was renewed and the immovable cultural assets were transferred onto the topographical plan. In addition, the new architectural remains found recently were added to the plan, with pictures taken for proper documentation processes. Yüksel İnşaat equipped the laboratory necessary for the scientific repair of the artifacts found in Alaca Höyük with state of the art instruments. Also, Yüksel İnşaat support ensured the protection of the artifacts found through the construction of a study warehouse for the excavation house. To ensure safety on the dig site spanning 7 acres, a guard house was built by Yüksel İnşaat. Further, three generators were provided to prevent any power cuts in the excavation house and the nearby school. A new vehicle also provided helps the team collect supplies and carry equipment to the site. With support from Yüksel İnşaat, the team is able to use funds provided to purchase the necessary supplies and equipment. Yüksel also contributes to the payment of employees wages when the funding is not enough. It is thus that the Alaca Höyük Excavation has continued with greater strength since 1997. Total budget spent on archeological work in Alaca Höyük in 2012: 40.000 TL 31 Social Contributions Support for Education Yüksel, in line with the importance it attaches to education, provides a wide range of scholarships to first degree relatives of Yüksel İnşaat employees. The applications from employees are evaluated by a committee, and the merits and level of need of each student is assessed. Students whose scholarship applications are accepted are supported throughout their education unconditionally. Students Receiving Scholarships from Yüksel Primary and secondary education 27 Higher Education 36 Total 63 2011-2012 Total Scholarship Budget 219.600TL 32 School built in Tobruk, Libya Donations made to Primary Schools in Turkey A school was built in Libya, which is being restructured in the Yüksel continues to support educational institutions in need of aftermath of the Arab Spring, by Yüksel. The school project various types of help in the country. Within this scope, Sarıköy undertaken by Yüksel İnşaat to support Libya was completed in 6 Atatürk Primary School in Balıkesir was selected and provided months. The net area of the one storey school is 1,585 m2; it has a with school supplies. Similarly, the Silopi İpekyolu Primary School courtyard as well as 24 classrooms for 24 students each. in Şırnak was sent hundreds of books and educational materials. Assistant specialist of the ministry Köprübaşı visiting Seminar for Assistant Experts at the Ministry of Labor and Social Security A group made up of Assistant Specialists at the Ministry of Labor Moreover, a technical field trip was made to the Köprübaşı and Social Security visited the Yüksel İnşaat Social Facilities to hydroelectric plant, which produces electricity under Yüksel Energy, learn about approaches in the construction and contracting sector. with specialists, assistant specialists and branch directors from the The seminar on Yüksel’s approaches to corporate responsibility same division in attendance. The participants learned about Yüksel and occupational health and safety was attended by 27 assistant Enerji’s production practices and general approaches to health and specialists from the ministry’s health and safety at work division. safety at work. 33 Archeological findings between Taksim – Yenikapı Metro Project Social Contributions The Taksim-Yenikapı Project Archeological Findings Due to the archeological findings discovered at the Taksim-Yenikapı part of the Istanbul Metro Project run by the Anadolu Metro Partnership under the leadership of Yüksel İnşaat, about 30 revisions were made to the project. To date, the construction site has yielded 36 historical boat remains, 30,000 pieces of animal bones to provide information about natural life in Istanbul and 35,000 objects which will reveal the habits of people from the periods to which they belong. The tombs and human skeletons found dating back to the Neolithic period changed Istanbul’s history as it was known. While excavations changing the history of civilization continue in the construction site, diligent work is being carried out to complete the project. Social Contributions Webinar on the Iraqi Government A web seminar entitled “How to establish constructive relations with the Iraqi government” was Global Compact Network held with the cooperation of the UN Global Compact Office and the Global Compact Iraqi Local Iraq Network. The seminar conducted online also involved the Turkish-Iraqi Work Council Vice President and Yüksel İnşaat Board Member Cihan Candemir. The webinar was attended by about 30 Turkish and international people important to Iraq and relations in the region. 34 Social Contributions Turkish Civil Engineering Students’ Meeting’12 Yüksel İnşaat attended the Turkish Civil Engineering Students’ Meeting to share its corporate knowledge on various topics with civil engineering students. Yüksel İnşaat Board Member Cihan Candemir was accompanied by those from the human resources department, business development and corporate communications, who presented in various sessions about the construction sector and responded to students’ questions. Social Contributions 2011 Black Sea Energy and Economy Forum Yüksel supported the Black Sea Energy and Economy Forum, which is carried out with leaders and businessmen from countries with coasts on the Black Sea, as a “Forum Partner”. The event, which was organized by the Atlantic Council, featured group business meetings as well as bilateral meetings, and involved discussions regarding development projects concerning the Black Sea Region. Social Contributions International Machine Design and Production Convention 2012 Yüksel was among the sponsors of the 15th International Machine Design and Production Convention organized by a committee of METU Mechanical Engineering Department professors. Within the scope of the event, many academics from Turkey and around the world gathered to discuss the latest developments in machine design, production and technological advances. 35 Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Economic Sustainability Goals • Producing low cost cement while maintaining high quality in high velocity trains, in which Turkey is investing more around the cement mixtures by using new generation additives and decreasing country. Adding B70 type travers to the production portfolio. the amount of the primary material, which is what affects the cost. • Renewing cement plant automation and ensuring that the amount • Mobilizing reinforced concrete bridge beam production facilities of materials used corresponds with the formulas determined, thus and doing the production on site so as to avoid any disadvantages of producing high quality cement by preventing overuse. shipping and taking the opportunity to increase chances of getting • Participating in the World Bank’s Project for restructuring contracts. railroads and investments in increasing inter-city highways within • Developing our customer base through investments expected to the framework of our production activities. increase in hydroelectricity power plants in Turkey and increasing • Following post-tension related projects that might come up and steel production. operationalizing the technical infrastructure. • Working to increase the production of railroad travers used in Social Sustainability Goals • Providing training in line with current administrative staff • Supporting Yüksel Holding and Yüksel İnşaat’s projects and needs and ensuring they always stay up to date personally and activities in the area of social sustainability to promote awareness professionally in their work life. and benefit society. • Working in compliance with existing laws with regard to health and safety at work and achieving the zero accident goal. Insuring the workers’ health and safety by the company. Environmental Sustainability Goals • Following the waste management project run jointly by the • Grouping all wastes resulting from production in accordance EU and the Ministry of Forestry and Water Works and taking the with waste management project regulations and management with necessary precautions for the Yüksel factory. the least damage inflicted on the environment. • Planning facilities that are to be established so that any land such • Building any new production facilities to be mobile, and therefore as farm or forest land that should be under protection is not harmed saving on energy and cost. in any way. • Holding training activities for staff and workers on the environment and managing waste and creating awareness. 36 Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Yüksel İnşaat Saudia Limited Şirketi Economic Sustainability Goals • Avoiding problems related to payments to subcontractors, • Ensuring that the system prepared for customer satisfaction is suppliers, work force / human resources providing companies, and completed fully and within the time periods defined and, and that ensuring regular, efficient payments. feedback is provided. • Expediting work to keep new employer and customer satisfaction • Maintaining the certification for ISO 9001:2008 and OHSAS high, and to meet the target budget defined in the 2013 quality goals. 18001:2007. • Initiating the process towards making expenses related to health and safety at work and environmental applications as a separate item in the project expenses list and following up. Social Sustainability Goals • Providing an environment in which employees from 9 different • Carefully following up with feedback and complaints made by countries of origin working within the organization are able to local governments or residents; making sure a suitable response is acclimate to the local culture where operations are carried out, and provided within 48 hours depending on the issue. conducting suitable activities on location. • Coordinating with local auditing companies in the hiring process • Ensuring the continued good relations with international of 3rd country nationality employees and ensuring employee quality. employees working under or with the company since 1984. Quality, Environment and Work Safety Goals • Carefully investigating the assessments related to health and • Carefully following the maintenance forms and maintenance lists safety at work during the tender. prepared for the maintenance of the increasing number of vehicles • Getting into contact with local governments especially during and work machines to prevent oil leaks, decrease fuel consumption the set up of the work sites, and increasing the training requests and keep exhaust emissions to a minimum. made to the local administrations in order to raise environmental • Notifying relevant units regarding the forestation of at least 30 % awareness and ensure compliance with environmental regulations. of the work site camping areas in new projects. • Broadening the incentive systems initiated to decrease accident frequency. 37 Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Yüksel Savunma Sistemleri A.Ş. Economic Sustainability Goals Yüksel Defense Systems prioritizes “homeland security” and with While domestic and international marketing activities for its identity as a system integrator, has a strategy in which it utilizes ROBOGUARD, a product of Yüksel Defense, are underway, different SMEs and technocity companies’ capabilities to contribute tactically versions of this product serving different needs have been designed final products that are technology based to the defense industry, and since the end of 2010. These products are: develops an increasing amount of software and electronics based products. • A remote controlled firing station which can be mounted and has stabilization and ballistic correction capabilities on land vehicles and has stabilization and ballistic (D-YAK) correction capabilities (YAK) • A surveillance system with day and night vision (dual • A remote controlled weapon station which can be camera), 360 degree vision and movement detection mounted on sea vehicles between 6 and 23 meters high, capabilities (YAT) Marketing activities to countries with which first contact was Further advancing the technology of YAK and increasing the established during fairs will continue in 2013. workforce allocated to R&D via an application for a grant from the Scientific and Technological Research Council of Turkey. The domestic and international promotion and marketing activities are still underway for the YAK, D-YAK, and YAT products, for which The Turkish Armed Forces and Ministry of National Defense are the design and prototype production have taken place; although 2012 prioritized domestic target organizations, while international targets was a year mostly involving YAK platform related work for Yüksel for marketing have been established as countries in the Middle East, Defense Systems. Far East and North Africa. It is planned that this work will continue throughout 2013 and beyond. A product that has garnered much interest, YAK will be mounted on BMC’s product called “Kirpi” with a joint project being initiated. Social Sustainability Goals Applying for and securing a grant from the Scientific and in country and creating employment opportunities for the qualified Technological Research Council of Turkey, and achieving mutual domestic workforce during design and production work in defense information transfer with relevant departments at universities by industry projects, thereby facilitating important societal gains and ensuring cooperation and consulting services. contributing to decreasing brain drain. Due to being a defense industry company based on R&D, working Using the integrator identity to ensure domestic companies are to keep the majority of the resources allocated to defense systems included while these projects are carried out. Environmental Sustainability Goals Making requests of subcontracting companies that do not harm Ensuring the recycling of old batteries by transporting them to TAP the environment or result in pollutants that need to be controlled (Moveable Battery Producer and Exporters Association), authorized and continuing a green approach; also continuing to follow by the Turkish Ministry of Environment and Urban Planning. subcontracting companies so that they are contributing to recycling. 38 Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Yüksel Kompozit Teknolojileri A.Ş. Economic Sustainability Goals Having the facility to be built for composite productions qualified Starting design based certification procedures following the and certified by international aerospace authorities/producers and certification of composite and component production as per AS9100. obtaining necessary certificates necessary for the aerospace sector Using the supplier evaluation system prepared in 2012 to ensure (AS9100 The Standard for Aerospace, NADCAP The National efficient production by using fewer resources at lower costs. Aerospace and Defense Contractors Accreditation Program). Social Sustainability Goals Ensuring customer satisfaction, reasonable costs, high quality goods departments of universities and technical schools. Encouraging and services delivered in a timely manner. employees to continue their professional education and increasing their personal growth while doing these. Being active in the national and international development projects in the aerospace sector and ensuring effective work flow by becoming It is among the basic goals of the company to consider the a center of excellence in composite applications. expectations and needs of all shareholders as a social process and ensure satisfaction. Developing joint projects by collaborating with the relevant Environmental Sustainability Goals Yüksel Composite Technologies attaches importance to the To do this, it has been planned that a Waste Collection System separation of waste types that are harmful for the environment will be established with a company working under the Ministry of resulting from materials used in production and to making sure Environment and Urban Planning. recycling is increased in the facility it is operating in. 39 Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Yüksel Yatçılık A.Ş. Economic Sustainability Goals Providing technical services to boats docked at the marina in the to want to attend with 1 to 5 friends in tow, thereby increasing the winter season in addition to the boat rental and sailing training trainee number by 10%. offered, in order to increase revenues. For the past five years, such gifts have been offered at the AICC Ball In 2012, 6 boats received technical services. In 2013, it is planned in Ankara. The person who won in 2012 took the training alone, that about 10 boats will be serviced at a rate of 900 Euro per boat. then came back with a friend and took a second course. In 2013, the award will be given in the same way. Drawings will be held so that free RYA sailing training can be provided at various times during the year; it is planned that 5 people In 2013, Yüksel Yachting will offer this prize at the Boatshow to 5 will be trained free of charge. Those who win the draw are assumed people free of charge and increase attendance. Social Sustainability Goals Organizing monthly seminars during the winter months with RYA Establishing a team made up of Yüksel Yachting employees and going trainers on seamanship, terminology, what to be aware of on the to Marmaris for the winter trophy sailing competition ; thereby water and so on for Turkish and international people living on their trying to promote team work and develop a team spirit. own boats in the marina and/or staff working on boats. Environmental Sustainability Goals Attaching locking instruments to the ends of the hoses to decrease With the Blue Card application started in the Aegean region in 2012, the water used on board while washing boats and decreasing the the rate of waste water emptied into the sea has decreased greatly. wasted water during this operation by 30%. As Yüksel Yachting, we provide detailed information about this to customers and do more frequent inspections and have prevented Continuing to use marine detergent while washing boats to waste water tanks being emptied into the sea. considerably decrease conFullination. With help from Turmepa, each Yüksel Yachting boat, upon return, is Preventing pollution by providing customers with information guided to the Turmepa so that customers can empty their tank into about waste water, emptying trash and the amount of water used on the waste water tank to prevent conFullination. board while handing over boats. 40 Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Datasel Bilgi Sistemleri A.Ş. Economic Sustainability Goals • Expediting product promotion activities to gain a greater market • Preparing to form strong consortia to bid on turnkey projects share abroad in order to increase company revenues, therefore using and to form the infrastructure of healthcare management in Publicthe necessary instruments to increase brand awareness in these Private Partnership projects. markets. • Expecting the service based work structure developing in tele• Reinforcing the presence of Datasel in the market by forming medicine and internet technologies to become a common work correct and reliable partnerships to offer more extensive and effective model in the future, we aim to change the company’s income plans solutions to international customers. and organizations to meet this change. • The public hospitals under the Ministry of Health have been • Joining forces with respected international companies in the reorganized by province under the name Public Associations health and information technology sectors. Secretariat General within the framework of a single hospital data • Developing and marketing reusable financial products that management system transfer plan. One goal is to meet the challenge involve scientific specialization and which cater to specific purposes of this swift change and increase the market share and company in the management of Ministry of Health hospitals or hospital revenue by doing what is necessary inside and outside the company. chains. • Closely following tele-medicine and internet technology • Monitoring the company expenses in terms of their importance advances which will result in change in the healthcare sector in the in the applicable areas and/or whether they are strictly necessary, and middle term and ensure the remote monitoring and management taking precautions to save where possible, acting with economization of especially chronic diseases; reflecting this in the development of awareness in all spending. products and maintaining our leadership position in the market through high quality functionality in products. Forging good solution partnerships to offer products to potential markets. Social Sustainability Goals • Letting organizations that provide health training for educational • Periodically encouraging company staff to donate blood, and purposes use Datasel healthcare software free of charge and making therefore increase social awareness, and establish and announce an effort to train the trainers of these organizations. blood drive days at the work place. • Promoting Datasel’s healthcare software and solutions through slogans and information to also increase awareness regarding health in our printed materials and on our website. Environmental Sustainability Goals Recycling principles; Productivity; • Increasing the number of recycling bins and ensuring waste • Relaying the food lists directly to the team leaders toward the management. end of the week so that all staff can provide information whether • Ensuring care in the use of plastic bags and initiating efforts for they will be eating in order to prevent waste. the procurement of cloth bags. • Completely preventing the use of heating and cooling systems • Providing a battery recycling bin and ensuring its use in the outside work hours and keeping the doors to offices closed after office. work hours particularly in the winter. • Making an effort to use both sides of paper, especially in the • Ensuring that staff computers are taken off standby or unplugged, administrative, sales, accounting and projects divisions. including adaptors. • Saving paper by using a fax server. 41 Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Sasel Elektromekanik Sanayi ve Ticaret A.Ş. Social and Environmental Sustainability Goal Developing medium and large scale projects in which we can be more competitive and recommending to our customers that environmentally friendly systems and materials be used in these projects. Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Kask Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş. Economic Sustainability Goal Increasing production by at least 10 % by implementing cross sales to corporate clients. Social Sustainability Goal Training technical staff in sales and diction in order to increase quality and production. Environmental Sustainability Goal Planting at least 50 trees a year. Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Meksa Yatırım Menkul Değerler A.Ş. Economic Sustainability Goal Obtaining the license to practice in FOREX markets and swiftly establishing an FX team in order to maintain our competitive edge and offer investors a wider range of products. Sustainability Goals of Yüksel Companies Yüksel Enerji Elektrik Üretim ve Tic. A.Ş. Social and Environmental Sustainability Goal Carrying out forestation with the social aid provided to the villages in the vicinity of the Köprübaşı Dam and HEPP. 42 United Nations Global Compact Indicators Yüksel signed the Global Compact in 2006, and took its place among leading companies that demonstrate how much they care about corporate citizenship. Within the scope of the Global Compact, you may still access the previous Progress Notifications prepared in 2008, 2009 and 2010 as well as the our Riseability Report published in 2011 at www.yuksel.net. The index below provides easy access to the information provided related to the Global Compact Principles. United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Page Princible 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 14 proclaimed human rights; and Princible 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 18 Labour Princible 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 14 18 recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Princible 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 14 18 Princible 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 14 18 Princible 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 18 Environment Princible 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 19 20 21 22 23 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Princible 8 19 20 21 22 23 responsibility; and Princible 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 19 20 21 22 23 technologies. Anti-Corruption Princible 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 18 extortion and bribery. 43 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Indicators This report, reflecting Yüksel’s economic, social and environmental performance between September 2011 and September 2012, was prepared in accordance with the GRI’s G3 sustainability reporting principles and C level requirements. Standard Explanations Performance Indicators Strategy and Analysis Economic Performance Indicators Code Content Scope Page / Explanation Code Content Scope Page / Explanation 1.1 CEO Statement Full 2 EC1 Direct economic value Full 12 1.2 Main effect risk and opportunities Partial 3-4 Significant financial assistance EC4 Full N/A received from government Corporate Profile Development and impact of Code Content Scope Page / Explanation EC8 Full 16 19, 35 infrastructure investments 2.1 Name of the organization Full 5-6 2.2 Primary brands Full 5-6 Environmental Performance Indicators 2.3 Operational structure Full 7 Code Content Scope Page / Explanation 2.4 Location Full 48 EN3 Direct energy consumption Partial 19 Countries where the organization EN4 Indirect energy consumption Partial 13 2.5 Full 4 operates Initiatives to provide energy2.6 Ownership Full 4 EN6 efficient or renewable energy Partial 19 20 21 23 based product and services 2.7 Markets Full 4 EN13 Habitats protected or restored Full 23 29 2.8 Scale Full 12 13 Number of IUCN Red List Species 2.9 Significant changes Full 10 11 EN15 and national conservation list Full N/A 2.10 Awards Full 8 species Total direct and indirect Report Parameters EN16 Partial 19 20 greenhouse emissions Code Content Scope Page / Explanation Other relevant indirect EN17 Partial 19 20 greenhouse gas emissions 3.1 Reporting period Full 10 Weight of transported, imported, 3.2 Date of the most recent report Full 10 exported or treated waste EN24 Full N/A. 3.3 Reporting cycle Full 10 deemed under the terms of Basel Convention 3.4 Contact point for questions Full 48 Initiatives to mitigate Process for defining report Full 10 EN26 environmental impacts of Full 19 20 21 23 3.5 content products and services 3.6 Boundary of the report Full 10 Percentage of products sold and EN27 Full N/A 3.7 Specific limitations Full 10 their reclaimed packages Basis regarding the other Full 5-6 There is no 3.8 Monetary values of significant establishments EN28 Full incident related to fines the subject 3.10 Restatements of the information Full 10 Significant environmental impacts 3.11 Significant changes Full 10 11 EN29 of transporting goods and other Partial 19 3.12 Standard disclosers in the report Full 44 products Management, Commitments and Attendance Labor Practices and Decent Work Performance Indicators Code Content Scope Page / Explanation Code Content Scope Page / Explanation 4.1 Governance structure Full 6-7 LA1 Total workforce Full 12 13 Highest management Full Percentage of total workforce 4.2 6 represented in formal joint administrator management–worker health Unitary structure within the Partial LA6 and safety committees that Partial 14 4.3 7 establishment help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety 4.4 Management mechanism Partial 6-7 programs 4.12 Support for external activities Full 4-9 Average hours of training per year LA10 Partial 16 4.13 Memberships in associations Full 9 per employee 4.14 List of stakeholder groups Partial 4 Programs for skills management LA11 Partial 16 and lifelong learning Basis for identification and Partial 4.15 4 selection of stakeholders 44 Composition of governance Product Responsibility Performance Indicators LA13 bodies and breakdown of Partial 13 employees Code Content Scope Page / Explanation Total number of incidents of Human Rights Performance Indicators non-compliance with regulations There is no PR4 and voluntary codes concerning Full incident related to Code Content Scope Page / Explanation product and service information subject and labeling Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures NPR HR3 Partial 16 concerning aspects of human Communication rights Consultancy A.S. (ISO 9001:2000), HR4 Total number of incidents Partial 14 1 8 who conduct Operations identified as having Yüksel İnşaat and significant risk for incidents of Programs for adherence to Yüksel Holding’s HR6 child labor and measures taken to Full 14 laws, standards, and voluntary communication contribute to the elimination of codes related to marketing consultancy, has PR6 Full child labor communications, including the Total Quality advertising, promotion, and Management Operations identified as having sponsorship. System Certificate significant risk for incidents of and gets audited forced and or compulsory labor in terms of CMS HR7 Full 14 18 and measures to contribute to Consultancy the elimination of forced or service compulsory labor Management Total number of incidents of Standards. There is no violations involving rights of Total number of incidents of HR9 Partial incident related to indigenous people and actions non-compliance with regulations the subject taken and voluntary codes concerning There is no PR7 marketing communications, Full incident related to including advertising, promotion, the subject Society Performance Indicators and sponsorship by type of outcomes. Code Content Scope Page / Explanation Total number of substantiated Actions taken in response to There is no SO4 Full 18 complaints regarding breaches of incidents of corruption PR8 Full incident related to customer privacy and losses of the subject customer data. Public policy positions and 33 35 (There is SO5 participation in public policy Full not any lobbying Monetary value of significant fines development and lobbying activities) for non-compliance with laws There is no PR9 and regulations concerning the Full incident related to Total value of financial and No any support provision and use of products and the subject SO6 in-kind contributions to political Full provided services. parties Total number of legal actions for No legal process anti-competitive behavior, antiSO7 Full related to the trust and monopoly practices and subject their outcomes There is no fine as a result of not SO8 Monetary value of significant fines Full complying with legislation and regulations 45 Notes: 46 Alaca Höyük 47 Contact Yüksel Holding Corporate Communications kurumsaliletisim@yuksel.net Yüksel Holding / Yüksel İnşaat A.Ş. Söğütözü Caddesi 14/A-B 06560 Beştepeler / Ankara T: +90 312 284 25 45 F: +90 312 286 17 37 www.yuksel.net /yukselinsaat /yukselinsaat To access Riseability II online: www.yuksel.net/riseability2.pdf 48 No trees were cut to print this report.
