CHIYODA CORPORATION Group CSR Report 2013 Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2013 Corporate Profile C h i y o d a Corporation i s a n integrated Consolidated Financial Highlights (Billions of yen) engineering company engaged in the design and construction of plants and facilities New Orders Revenues Net Income around the world. The Chiyoda Group strives 612.5 446.4 16.1 398.9 14.4 to contribute to the sustainable development of society while promoting harmony between 429.4 402.9 313.0 247.1 254.7 energy and the environment. 8.0 235.3 6.5 209.4 (As of March 31, 2013) 3.0 Name: Chiyoda Corporation ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 ’09 ’10 ’11 ’12 ’13 Address: Minatomirai Grand Central Tower (Fiscal years ended March 31) 4-6-2, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama 220-8765, Japan Revenues by Industry Revenues by Region Main Offices: Chiyoda Global Headquarters (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2013) (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2013) (Nishi-ku, Yokohama, Japan) Koyasu Office & Research Park 5% 11% LNG Plants (Kanagawa-ku, Yokohama, Japan) Gas & Power Utilities 38% 32% Tokyo Office (Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan) Domestic Fine Industries & 62% Paid-in Capital: ¥43,396 million Industrial Machinery Overseas 33% Petroleum & Petrochemicals Main Business Fields: Consulting, planning, engineering, 19% Environment & Others procurement, construction, commissioning (test operation), consulting and training for operation and maintenance, research and development, technology services, and project management for On the Cover plants and facilities in fields including energy, chemicals, pharmaceuticals, In line with the start of our new medium-term biotechnology and the environment management plan, “Seize the moment, Open up new frontiers,” the cover illustration Number of Major expresses our commitment to cultivating a Group Companies: Domestic: 7 diverse workforce and sharing work globally, as Overseas: 12 well as our corporate philosophy of harmony Number of between energy and the environment. (See Group Employees: 4,915 pages 4-5.) URL: http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/en/ Contents Corporate Profile...................................... Inside front cover The Chiyoda Group’s CSR Vision in Action Editorial Policy ....................................................................1 CSR Vision ❶ A Reliable Company .......................... 12 The Chiyoda Group’s CSR ....................................................2 CSR Vision ❷ Environmental Initiatives .................. 13 CSR Vision ❸ Social Contributions through Message from the President ...............................................4 Business Activities............................ 14 Stakeholder Dialogue CSR Vision ❹ Respect for Human Rights ................ 15 Sharing Value through Sustained Communication .......6 CSR Vision ❺ Commitment to Fairness ................... 16 Feature Contributing to the Growth of Renewable Energy .......8 Third-Party Opinion ...........................................................17 Group Company Activity Highlights .................................10 Editorial Policy The Chiyoda Group reports its CSR activities on the Chiyoda Corporation website and in the CSR Report. Differentiation of Content of Website and Other Publications Composition of the CSR Report The diagram below shows the differentiation of the content reported on This CSR Report highlights activities in the fiscal year ended the website and the CSR Report. On our website we present basic corpoMarch 31, 2013. rate social responsibility (CSR) This year, in addition to the corporate profile, message The Chiyoda Group’s information and activities for each CSR activities from the president, a summary of activities for each CSR Vision, CSR Vision to facilitate the underChiyoda Group company activity highlights, and a feature titled standing of visitors to the site. Website “Contributing to the Growth of Renewable Energy,” we presDetailed reporting In addition, business and ent “Stakeholder Dialogue: Sharing Value through Sustained financial information is available CSR Report Communication,” in which people from outside the Company in the publications listed below. Reporting with discuss their expectations for the Chiyoda Group. We also a focus on highlights of activities in the include the third-party opinion of Mr. Eiichiro Adachi, an expert most recent in CSR, who offers an objective assessment of our initiatives fiscal year and suggestions for improvement. Scope of the Report An annual report that all joint-stock The report encompasses the CSR activities of 20 Chiyoda Group companies in Japan are required to companies (Chiyoda Corporation and 19 major Group companies), prepare under the Companies Act. It is unless otherwise specified. sent to shareholders by mail. We also issue an interim report for the first half Applicable Period and Date of Publication Shareholders’ Report of the fiscal year (April – September). Applicable Period: Fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 (Japanese only) (April 1, 2012 to March 31, 2013) Prepared in English for shareholders Date of Publication: August 2013 and investors outside Japan. It includes the consolidated financial statements, Guidelines Used for Reference which are published separately. This report is prepared with reference to the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G3.1, the Reporting Guidelines (2012 Version) of the Ministry of the Annual Report Environment in Japan, ISO 26000, and the United Nations Global Compact. A collection of data necessary for investment analysis, including various financial and management indicators and long-term historical data, as well Fact Book as graphs and charts. The publications above, along with reports to the Tokyo Stock Exchange (in Japanese only), press releases and other information, are available for download on the Chiyoda website. Contact Us http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/ir/en/library/index.html As we would like to reflect your opinions and thoughts CHIYODA IR Library Search in our future activities, please go to the “Contact Us” page on our website, select “CSR (Corporate Social Corporate governance information is available at http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/company/en/corporate-governance.html Responsibility)” and submit your comments using the CHIYODA Corporate Governance Search form provided. Group CSR Report 2013 1 The Chiyoda Group’s CSR Our Mission Enhance our business in aiming for harmony between energy and the environment and contribute to the sustainable develChiyoda Group opment of a society as an integrated engineering company Corporate Philosophy through the use of our collective wisdom and painstakingly developed technology. Our Values Chiyoda Group CSR Visions As an integrated engineering company, the Chiyoda Group pledges to contribute to the sustainable development of society Compliance with International through its business activities, and to constantly strive to increase Guidelines corporate value and earn the trust and understanding of all stakeholders by adhering to the following principles. ISO 26000 UN Global Compact Core Subjects A Reliable Company 1 We strive to be a reliable company to our customers and other business partners by providing world-class technologies and knowledge. Consumer (customer) issues ̶ Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary Environmental Initiatives approach to environmental challenges; 2 We will work to remain an invaluable company to society by utilizing refined technologies to promote harmony between the global environment and economic and social activities. The environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Social Contributions through Business Activities 3 Through our engineering business in Japan and overseas, Community we contribute to local communities in ways including involvement and ̶ human resources development, technology transfer and development environmental protection. Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in Respect for Human Rights human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of 4 We are dedicated to respecting the human rights of all people. We Human rights association and the effective recognition of will create a corporate culture where the diversity, individuality and Labor practices the right to collective bargaining; character of employees are respected, where people are motivated to Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and do their best, and of which employees and their families are proud. compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Commitment to Fairness Organizational 5 governance Principle 10: Businesses should work against We are dedicated to achieving even greater transparency corruption in all its forms, including and stability by conducting our operations fairly in accordance Fair operating extortion and bribery. with the highest ethical standards. practices Basis of Our Actions Code of Conduct of the Chiyoda Group 2 CHIYODA CORPORATION Participation in the UN Global Compact In November 2012, the Chiyoda Group became a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), a global code for CSR. Chiyoda is the first company in the construction industry in Japan, including major engineering companies, to endorse and support the UNGC. Together with approximately 11,500 companies and organizations (as of June 2013) from more than 140 countries, Chiyoda will further strengthen its CSR activities to contribute to a sustainable society, in line with the Ten Principles of the UNGC on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Action Policies Actions in the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2013 Concrete Initiatives • Provide industrial plants that earn customer trust • Initiatives for a stable supply of energy and reduction of through engineering of outstanding quality greenhouse gases • Share our CSR principles with suppliers and other • Contribution to diversification of energy sources business partners • Plant construction that lives up to customer trust PP. 8, 9, 12 • Develop and provide environmentally friendly • Continuing research and development for a low-carbon energy and conservation technologies society and hydrogen energy economy • Expansion and promotion of renewable energy • Conduct business activities that contribute to • Consideration of the environment and biodiversity in PP. 8,9,13 environmental conservation project planning and operation • Promotion and support of culture in the community • Contribute to society through integrated • Contribution to local economic development and engineering business activities human resource development • Enhance social contribution activities by providing • Tie-ups and cooperation with educational institutions to educate the next generation PP. 6,7,14 knowledge and labor • Response to the Great East Japan Earthquake • Create a lively and energetic working environment and help employees develop their talents • Creation of pleasant work environments • Establishment and enforcement of a safety culture • Instill in everyone involved that safety is a • Enhancement of human resource development system P. 15 core value • Conduct business activities based on strict • Stronger collaboration with Group companies and business partners compliance and a high degree of transparency • Thorough information security • Conduct a thorough risk management program • Enhancement of awareness of export controls P. 16 Please visit the web pages below to view the Code of Conduct and Compliance Manual. -----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Code of Conduct of the Chiyoda Group Chiyoda Group http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/company/en/policy/behavior.html Compliance Manual Chiyoda Group Compliance Manual http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/company/en/policy/compliance.html Group CSR Report 2013 3 Message from the President In our pursuit of harmony between energy and the environment, we will seize the moment and open up new frontiers to contribute to the development of a sustainable world. The Chiyoda Group’s Corporate Social Seize the Moment and Open Up New Responsibility (CSR) Frontiers to Transform into an Engineering Since its founding 65 years ago, the Chiyoda Group has worked Company Ready for the Future to contribute to the advancement of society with the aim of The Chiyoda Group has formulated a new Medium-Term realizing its corporate philosophy centered on “Energy and Management Plan under the slogan “Seize the moment, Environment in Harmony.” As an engineering company, we build Open up new frontiers.” In developing the new plan, we infrastructure that requires state-of-the-art technologies in analyzed the changes and trends in the external environment, various countries. established a vision of the Chiyoda Group 10 years on, and The energy industry has recently undergone structural changes formulated an action plan to achieve that vision. such as the shift to natural gas and renewable energy. Rapid We have defined our vision of the Chiyoda Group 10 changes have also taken place in the industry environment, years from now as a corporate group that has 1) diversified notably the shale revolution that has revitalized the North into new business areas and enhanced the satisfaction of American market. The demands of society are becoming more stakeholders; 2) deepened its contribution to local communidiverse as well. ties in emerging and developing countries; and 3) established In this context, I believe the Chiyoda Group’s corporate social an operational framework for managing work globally, while responsibility is to accurately assess current demands and deploy maintaining our traditional engineering contractor business at engineering to provide the value that society requires for addressing the core. global challenges such as poverty, environmental issues and Our growth strategy will be to expand our core business in securing resources, consistent with our Corporate Philosophy. the fields of gas and liquefied natural gas (LNG) projects while 4 CHIYODA CORPORATION building our global presence in offshore, upstream, new energy, Sustained Growth and Reinforcing renewable energy and public infrastructure projects. At the Our Reputation for Reliability same time, we will accelerate business investments in fields In November 2012, the Chiyoda Group joined the United where we can take advantage of the Group’s strengths. Nations Global Compact (UNGC*), the first company to do so To build the Group structure necessary for achieving this in the Japanese construction industry, including major engigrowth strategy, we intend to develop and promote diverse neering contractors. Our objective in joining the UNGC is to human resources regardless of nationality, gender, age or advance our CSR efforts on a global basis and firmly establish other characteristics, and evolve into a company that offers CSR as a unifying force of the Chiyoda Group. We will align an attractive working environment in which all employees can the Chiyoda Group CSR Vision with the Ten Principles of the realize their potential. In support of that objective, we estabUNGC to further raise awareness of CSR among all Group lished the Crisis Management Unit in April 2013 as a dedicated employees and ensure that it is reflected in their behavior. In organization to enhance the safety and security of employees addition, we will continue to support the recovery from the and everyone involved in our work as the top priority in our Great East Japan Earthquake through our businesses and by business operations. supporting employee volunteers in the affected areas. Sustained communication with our various stakeholders is Direction of Evolution the foundation of our business activities. My personal Further evolve through business growth approach is to engage our partners in an open and consideron the three axes of Operation, Business ate dialogue with a friendly smile and attitude of respect. I Model and Business Fields/Regions believe that is the first step in practicing the Chiyoda Group’s CSR. We will continue our CSR initiatives with the aim of reinShift from operation by Japanese nationals in Japan to the global management of work by strategic forcing the Chiyoda Group’s reputation for reliability. regional operation centers. * The UNGC is a voluntary global initiative that encourages businesses to act as good corporate citizens and achieve sustainable growth by exercising responsible, creative leadership. It is centered on ten principles concerning human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. Operation August 2013 Current Business Domain Business Business Fields/ Model Regions Shogo Shibuya President & CEO Expand from engineering, Expand pillars of business Chiyoda Corporation procurement and from onshore gas, oil, construction (EPC) chemical and resource solutions to include projects and gas value investment in businesses chain projects to offshore, where we can leverage upstream, new energy, our project management renewable energy and public and technological infrastructure projects, and strengths. diversify into new regions. Group CSR Report 2013 5 Stakeholder Dialogue Introducing Participating Members ① Ryo Shibata Local coordinator: Industrial Growth Platform, Inc. ② Seiji Murakami Nagahora Genki Village Executive Office ③ Yoko Murakami Chiyoda Corporation volunteers ④ Yoshiyasu Ito Mechanical Engineering Unit ⑤ Noriko Shimizu Gas & LNG Project Operations ⑥ Akira Tsuruoka Mechanical Engineering Unit ⑦ Yuko Nakamura Finance & Project Audit Unit ⑧ Osamu Hirohata Technology Development Unit ⑨ Shodai Watanabe IT Management Unit ⑩ Makoto Watanabe CSR Unit ⑩ ⑦ ① ④ ⑥ ⑧ ⑨ ⑤ ② ③ Sharing Value through Sustained Communication The Chiyoda Group maintains ongoing exchanges with the people affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake of March 2011 through its volunteer recovery support activities. We hope to use these exchanges to draw a roadmap to the region’s revitalization by going beyond a relationship of supporter and the supported through mutual encouragement and understanding. Recovery Support Volunteer Efforts in-house organization that Chiyoda employees Volunteer Work to Support The Chiyoda Group dispatched its first group of launched after the visit. Reconstruction 25 employee volunteers to the region in Shibata (moderator): How do the people in November 2012 based on the results of a surOn-Site Discussion Meeting Genki Village feel about the same company vey of employees conducted one year after the In May 2013, seven of the 35 Chiyoda employregularly visiting and maintaining contact? In disaster, when post-disaster cleanup work and ees who visited Genki Village met with memChiyoda’s case, they place orders for yubeshi restoration undertaken by Chiyoda had slowed bers of Nadeshiko-Kai (whose members act as with you regularly. down. They carried out volunteer activities at guides for visitors and volunteers and organize S. Murakami: Rebuilding our homes is the three evacuation sites in Iwate Prefecture. One yubeshi-making and other symbolic activities main goal that we all share. But we sometimes of these sites was a temporary housing comfor community rebuilding) for the first time in feel depressed and overwhelmed when we pound called Nagahora Genki1 Village. six months. At that time, they spoke with Mr. think about the daunting road to reaching that In many instances, communities were broken Ryo Shibata of Industrial Growth Platform, Inc., goal. When people from the same company visit up by the move to temporary housing. At Genki which provides on-site management assistance us repeatedly, we are pleased to offer them Village, however, a conscious decision was made in Iwate and Fukushima prefectures in partnerhospitality. Even though the visits are short, to keep the community together and maintain ship with reconstruction support volunteers, each one is a special event that gives us a sense neighborhood relationships as they were prior to and engaged in a discussion with Mr. Seiji of fulfillment and confidence, which helps us the disaster. Chiyoda maintains regular contact Murakami and Ms. Yoko Murakami of the believe that we can achieve our main goal. with the village through the Yubeshi-no-Kai,2 an Genki Village Executive Office. Shibata: So, just having people from outside come to interact with you is an event that energizes the community. Nadeshiko-Kai Members S. Murakami: Yes. Because our goal is so large, doggedly persisting until we achieve it can be mentally draining. In a way, it is important to enjoy the process of trial-and-error on smaller projects. I hope that people in the village think so. The Executive Office has established relaLeader Guide tionships with the people at Chiyoda that Yaeko Toba Eiko Toba Rinko Murakami Sachiko Kaneno Kiyoko Kikawada allow us to freely discuss anything. We do not Notes: 1. Japanese for “vigor” 2. The Yubeshi-no-Kai maintains sustained communication with the local community in ways such as regularly ordering think of you as guests. yubeshi (sweet citron-flavored steamed dumplings) from the Nadeshiko-Kai and selling them in-house. 6 CHIYODA CORPORATION M. Watanabe: We conducted a survey of the Funakoshi Otsuchi Bay volunteers sent last November. Many of them Tono City (Oraga Otsuchi wondered if their activities in Genki Village Iwate te Yumehiroba) Kamaishi cturre Prefecture (Kirikirikoku) Bay were really supporting people; instead, they Kamaishi Kamaishi said they were energized by the hospitality Line City Mt. Goyo they were shown. I feel that the interaction with you encouraged the volunteers. That was Kamaishi City (Kamaishi Regional Forest an unexpected result. Cooperative)(United Green) Ofunato City Ito: I also participated last year. At first, I was Mt. Hikami 340 all fired up to go and help out with the reconcontinuing your support and expanding the Rikuzentakata City struction. Instead, I felt like I was being number of participants. I am impressed. Rikuzentakata City (Nagahora Genki Village) catered to. I wondered if that was okay. In the Shimizu: My boss said, “I can’t go to volunteer, 45 end, I realized that it seemed to be making so I’ll buy a lot.” Which he did, and gave them Regions where Chiyoda has conducted volunteer activities everyone happy. out to everyone. Some of the volunteers who Shibata: Chiyoda was about the third group to came this time are here because of that. S. Murakami: I wonder if it might lead to tourvisit Genki Village since the program began. Hirohata: I think we were able to create this ism in the future. I would also like to consider Moreover, it was the first group accepted from activity because we were moved by the close a kind of Nagahora-style tourism that evolves a large organization. I think the success of this social bonds of Genki Village, and felt like we from accepting volunteers. visit gave the village confidence and led you to wanted to help them in some way. Shibata: Are there any goals within sight that later accept regular exchanges with Harvard Tsuruoka: Chiyoda is a unique company. It has you would like to pursue with Chiyoda? What Business School and with other companies. more than a thousand employees at its head kind of relationship would you like to have S. Murakami: I totally agree. Even though I office, but if one person brings up a suggeswith Chiyoda going forward? was absent during Chiyoda’s November visit, it tion like “Let’s organize Yubeshi-no-Kai,” othS. Murakami: I would like to talk not just was a success, which gave the entire village ers will join regardless of their age, position or about reconstruction support, but about the confidence, and was a boost to the program. department. It becomes a unified movement. future of the whole village of Nagahora, where We are a company that values personal interthe number of young people is gradually Yubeshi-no-Kai change, and maybe the fact that people have declining. One of my tasks will be to figure out Shibata: Was the existence of the Yubeshi-novarious connections within the company how to create a more vibrant environment in Kai significant? makes it easy for us to act. the countryside so that people will want to Y. Murakami: Everyone appreciates the visits. S. Watanabe: On the same topic, when I joined stay here. We are really thankful for having to make the the company, I was impressed that there were In that sense, sending yubeshi to Chiyoda yubeshi every month. Everyone looks forward so many people who were leaders in various each month has become a core activity of to it, although we’re afraid people at capacities before they came to Chiyoda. Nadeshiko-Kai. Making the yubeshi on this Chiyoda’s headquarters might get tired of the People who have been leaders know very well regular schedule has given us a foundation to monthly yubeshi shipments. how hard leadership is, so when someone handle orders we might receive from other Nakamura: Your customer base is rapidly suggests doing something, they give them lots places as well. I think this kind of support is growing. of support. very helpful. We also would like to fulfill other Hirohata: There are many employees who miss people’s wishes somehow, because it motiout because the yubeshi sell out so fast. Don’t Continuing Activities vates us to keep trying. I will continue to value worry, there is plenty of demand! Shibata: Mr. Murakami, these visits by volunour relationship with Chiyoda. S. Murakami: Is that right? I noticed you teers have also given rise to exchange proShibata: Thank you all for your participation today. brought some new members along this time grams as a type of community business, which too. Rather than visiting us just once, you are is vital to the region’s recovery. Being impressed with the activities of Genki Village motivated us. I went to the region affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami for the first time in November 2012. The scene as I approached the area was different from the images I had seen on television. In our business, we often say that “It’s not enough just to look at drawings; you have to go to the actual site.” So I felt it was important to go to the region and see it myself. Yubeshi-no-Kai was launched because we were so impressed with what the people of Genki Village were doing and wanted to maintain the relationship with them even after we returned to Tokyo. Fortunately, many employees supported the idea. We are now selling around 500 pieces of yubeshi a month, which is amazing. Employees who are unable to visit the region due to their busy schedules are also buying the yubeshi, which gives them a sense of participation, too. I would like the people of Genki Village to come to our company and meet their yubeshi fans in person. We are currently planning such an opportunity. Masao Ishikawa Vice President, Deputy Division Director, Technology & Engineering Division Group CSR Report 2013 7 Feature Contributing to the Growth of Renewable Energy As an established leader in energy-related technologies and engineering, the Chiyoda Group is broadening its business range to the field of renewable energy and expanding its business in new technologies to contribute further to stable supplies of clean energy. The Chiyoda Group conducts its business with a corporate philosophy centered on “Energy and Environment in Harmony.” Chiyoda has been fulfilling this philosophy since the 1970s by using technology development and engineering for both stable energy supply and environmental protection. Miyazaki Plant 3 (Kunitomi Plant) of Solar Frontier K.K. The environmental technologies we have developed include flue gas desulfurization, wastewater treatment and heavy oil cracking. Recently, in response to public demand, we have been steadily expanding our activities in the area of new energy. This includes using solar photovoltaic, solar thermal, EPC Work for Large-Scale Photovoltaic geothermal, biomass and other types of renewable energy, creating a hydrogen supply chain with technology for storage and transport of large quantiChiyoda completed construction of the INPEX Mega ties of hydrogen, and developing Gas to Liquids (GTL)-related technology.* Solar Joetsu project, its third large solar power genIn particular, in the field of solar energy the Chiyoda Group is leveraging its eration EPC project, in March 2013. The Chiyoda expertise in plant construction to contribute to the expansion of solar power Group’s engineering expertise and capabilities were generation through plant engineering, procurement and construction (EPC) instrumental in winning the contract for this project, services that meet diverse customer demands, from production plants for which is located in Niigata Prefecture, a region of solar panel materials and panel products to the construction of large-scale heavy snowfall. mega solar power plants. We installed photovoltaic panels with a capacity This feature details the Chiyoda Group’s aggressive expansion into conof 2.3MW on a 46,710m 2 site owned by INPEX centrated solar power (CSP), a new type of solar energy. Logistics (Japan) Co., Ltd., a subsidiary of INPEX *Technology for producing liquid fuel from natural gas Strengthening Presence in Concentrated Chiyoda is also focusing on developing business in the field of concentrated solar power (CSP). In October 2012, Chiyoda acquired a 15 percent equity stake in Italian company Archimede Solar Energy (ASE). The two companies had previously signed a cooperation agreement in June 2011 to develop business in Molten Salt Parabolic Trough Concentrated Solar Power (MSPT-CSP), a next-generation solar power generation technology. ASE is the world’s only manufacturer of the receiver tubes that are a core technology of MSPTCSP systems. Chiyoda and ASE have been working together in the construction and operation of a plant to demonstrate this technology. In January Completed demonstration plant in Italy 8 CHIYODA CORPORATION Construction of One of World’s Largest Solar Photovoltaic Module Plants Amid calls for the supply of electric power from renewwhich began production of solar modules in 2011. able energy sources, in July 2012 a system was With annual production capacity of 900MW, Miyazaki launched in Japan that obliges electric utilities to purPlant 3 is the world’s largest thin-film CIS solar photovoltaic chase electricity generated from such sources at a fixed module plant and one of the largest single facilities of price. The use of solar cells is growing rapidly in appliits kind. It supplies modules globally. cations ranging from private residences to mega solar Chiyoda will contribute to the growth of renewable power generation facilities for industrial use. energy by leveraging the expertise it has gained from this Established in 2006, Solar Frontier K.K. has been project and from building other plants to aggressively parinvesting in construction of factories to expand the share ticipate in businesses that are expected to increase use of of its unique CIS* solar photovoltaic modules in the solar such energy. cell market. Chiyoda was commissioned to construct * Thin-film solar modules using copper, indium and selenium (CIS). Since they use Solar Frontier’s Miyazaki Plant 3 (Kunitomi Plant), less silicon than crystal silicon-based solar modules, they require fewer materials, thus enabling stable supplies of the product. Generation System in “Snow Country” CORPORATION. Power generation began in March 2013, and all electricity generated is sold to Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc. The system’s annual output is expected to be equivalent to the annual power demand of 750 average households. Chiyoda is contributing to the stable supply of clean energy through the EPC services it provided for this large-scale solar power generation system under harsh conditions. Completed mega solar facilities Mega Solar Construction Projects Solar Power Business Client Project location (Prefecture) Power generation capacity Solar Frontier K.K. Miyazaki 2.0MW INPEX CORPORATION Niigata 2.3MW 2013, Italy implemented a system under which Operating AIKAWA PRESS INDUSTRY Co., LTD. Yamagata 1.8MW electric utilities are obliged to purchase electricity SHOWA SHELL SEKIYU K.K. Miyazaki 2.4MW Sanko Real Estate Co., Ltd. Mie 5.2MW generated from renewable energy sources at a Sanko Real Estate Co., Ltd. Mie 2.5MW fixed price. Expectations that this new system Japan Petroleum Exploration Co., Ltd. Hokkaido 2.4MW OR Solar Co., Ltd. Toyama 2.5MW would accelerate the expansion of the MSPT-CSP EPC work in LM Sun Power Co., Ltd. Fukuoka 2.6MW progress business led Chiyoda to invest in ASE. The investLM Sun Power Co., Ltd. Ibaraki 2.5MW LM Sun Power Co., Ltd. Fukui 2.6MW ment in ASE, which specializes in this industry and LM Sun Power Co., Ltd. Miyazaki 8.8MW business, positions Chiyoda to develop the CSP busiSeibu Oil Company Limited. Yamaguchi 10.4MW* *Power output of 8.19MW ness while expanding EPC orders and sales of ASE’s Mega Solar Project Investments receiver tubes. Chiyoda established ENESHIIDO NOK K.K., a solar power joint venture, with a wholly owned CSP business opportunities in Italy will provide a subsidiary of Saibu Gas Co., Ltd. in July 2012. foothold for expansion of this business in the Middle Project location Power generation Client (Prefecture) capacity East and North Africa. In this way, Chiyoda will conOmuta solar power plant Fukuoka 1.3MW Operating Nagasaki solar power plant Nagasaki 0.6MW tribute even more to the supply of clean energy. Kitakyushu solar power plant Fukuoka 1.8MW Group CSR Report 2013 9 Group Company Activity Highlights Chiyoda Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (CMSB) http://www.chiyoda.com.my/ Charity Work in Asrama Damai The CMSB Recreation Club organizes charity activities for an orphanage in Asrama Damai, Kuang, Selangor. This program began with the collection of used clothes, books and toys from our staff members. We have also donated a number of necessary items such as washing machines, irons and stationery. On November 10, 2012, we held a charity event at the orphanage. The meaningful half-day event featured some simple outdoor games with the orphans and ended with a prize-giving ceremony and lunch attended by Asrama Damai residents and CMSB members. Chiyoda Singapore (Pte) Limited (CSL) http://www.chiyoda.com.sg/ Nursing Home Visit An important part of our CSR program at CSL is organizing events to assist the community. On October 25, 2012, a group of CSL employees visited Saint Joseph’s Home & Hospice and took part in the event “Feeding the Elderly/Destitute of Saint Joseph’s Home,” which was organized by the Chiyoda Recreation Club of CSL. CSL staff members visited the facility and assisted the residents by helping them with their meals and taking them for walks in the garden. Participating staff members also presented funds raised by CSL employees to the administration team of Saint Joseph’s Home. Chiyoda Kosho Co., Ltd. (CKS) http://www.cks-ykh.co.jp/ Resolution to Eradicate Safety & Quality Problems The senior management of CKS has traditionally begun each year with a New Year address to employees outlining management’s priorities and expectations for the coming year. At the start of 2013, CKS President Yoshiji Kenmotsu took a different approach by declaring his “Resolution to Eradicate Safety & Quality Problems.” This stemmed from management’s judgment that eradicating problems related to safety and quality is absolutely vital for CKS to reliably perform its role in the Chiyoda Group’s global operations as a maintenance engineering specialist, in addition to the particular requirements of shut down maintenance (SDM). The resolution was summarized in three points for execution based on the causes of problems in the past: 1) Maintain good communication to pick up on problems and customer needs, and follow up quickly. 2) Share a “crisis consciousness” among supervisors and personnel engaged in tasks as well as among all executives. 3) Carry out routine work with alertness and a sense of mission. Chiyoda Philippines Corporation (CPh) http://chiyodaphil.com.ph/ Activities for a Greener Community Tree planting is an aspect of habitat conservation and falls under one of the Chiyoda Group’s CSR visions, “Environmental Initiatives.” CPh once again made an effort to promote environmental conservation by organizing a tree planting activity under the theme “Let’s Plant Trees and Promote a Greener Community.” The event was held on September 8, 2012 at Pintong Bukawe, San Mateo Rizal in Manila. A total of 77 CPh employee volunteers planted 500 saplings (rambutan, yakal, molave and kamagong). Tree planting is a great challenge that CPh gladly accepts to continuously support its CSR vision. General Waste Reduction Campaign A healthy and clean working environment is one of CPh’s aspirations for its environmental conservation initiatives. On May 10, 2012, CPh launched the General Waste Reduction Campaign, which aims to promote in every employee a greater commitment to preserving the environment by monitoring the volume of waste generated in the company and providing feedback to employees. This campaign also encourages employees to reduce, reuse and recycle and aims for a more sustainable environment for future generations. 10 CHIYODA CORPORATION Chiyoda U-Tech Co., Ltd. http://www.utc-yokohama.com/ International Contribution through Environmental and Human Resource Development Programs At Chiyoda U-Tech, we conduct many activities internationally as part of our consulting business, mainly through the Japan International Cooperation Agency (JICA). In the field of water treatment, an integral part of the public infrastructure, Chiyoda U-Tech has cooperated in preparatory surveys and detailed engineering for water supply system improvement projects in Paraguay since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2011 in its support work for Kyowa Engineering Consultants Co., Ltd. In the fiscal year ended March 31, 2012, we performed surveys in Vietnam, Indonesia and the Philippines with the Japan Consulting Institute and the then Chiyoda Advanced Solutions Corporation toward the deployment of Japan’s earthquake-proofing technology overseas. In the fiscal year ending March 31, 2014, we plan to team up with Kyowa Engineering Consultants to conduct a similar survey in the city of Coronel Oviedo, Paraguay. In addition, we are cooperating in student training (a government-subsidized international cooperation program of the Japan Cooperation Center, Petroleum initiated by Chiyoda in 1976) at King Fahd University of Petroleum and Minerals in Saudi Arabia. This program helps foster good relations between Saudi Arabia and Japan. Six students were accepted for training in 2012, and we plan to continue the program this year. Chiyoda Almana Engineering LLC (Chiyoda Almana) http://www.chiyoda-almana.com/ Iftar Party 2012 Held In Islam, Ramadan (the month of fasting) is a holy month of daily fasting between sunrise and sunset. Iftar is the evening meal that breaks the fast after sunset, and is typically celebrated with family and friends. To foster unity among its employees and to show respect for Ramadan, Chiyoda Almana invites all employees once a year to share in an Iftar dinner. In 2012, this dinner was held at the Marriott Hotel in Doha on August 15, where senior management thanked all employees for their contributions to the company. Chiyoda (Thailand) Limited (CTL) Portion of Material Storage Site at BV Project Opened to Local Residents At the Byproducts Value Added (BV) Project currently under construction in the Map Ta Phut Industrial Estate in eastern Thailand, Chiyoda (Thailand) Limited is conducting its typical CSR activities of cleaning up neighborhood streets and drainage ditches. But we have also gone a step further with a unique approach of opening a section of the material storage site to temporary food stand operators. While enriching the diets of the approximately 2,000 workers, this initiative also helps to recycle money back into the community. A cafeteria is available at the project site, but we believe that the wider range of meal options contributes to a better working environment. Sanitation and safety were given full consideration when the site was made available, and we conduct weekly inspections to check the safety of the facilities and cooking utensils. Project members have also gained customer understanding by responsibly disposing of food waste after meals. L&T-Chiyoda Limited (LTC) http://www.lntchiyoda.com/ Uttrayan – The Kite Festival L&T-Chiyoda Limited (LTC) celebrated Uttrayan, the kite festival, on January 10, 2013. Uttrayan is one of India’s major traditional national festivals, and is held every year around this time in LTC’s home state of Gujarat to celebrate the imminent arrival of spring. This year, all employees dressed up in colorful new clothes and congregated on a rooftop to fly kites and enjoy a variety of regional foods like undhiyu and jalebi. Competitions and prizes added to the fun of this festive event. Chiyoda System Technologies Corporation (CST) http://www.cst.chiyoda.co.jp/ CST World Café CST was created on October 1, 2012 by the merger of two Chiyoda Group companies. This was a merger between companies in two different industries, with different organizational cultures, business structures and ways of working. The new company needed to leverage the synergies of the two former companies and evolve toward a new era. With that in mind, CST organized the World Café* to unify employees by overcoming their differences. Five sessions have been held so far, and while many people were meeting each other for the first time, a lively exchange of ideas has taken place at each session. *The World Café is a concept originated by Juanita Brown and David Isaacs in 1995. It is a discussion technique based on the idea that knowledge and wisdom are not born in functional meeting rooms, but emerge in café-like spaces where people can converse freely. Group CSR Report 2013 11 1 A report explaining our activities in more depth is available on our website. ▼ http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/csr/en/okyakusama/ CHIYODA Vision 1 Search CSR Vision A Reliable Company Technology Exchange with Business Partners North America CT-121 Users Group Conference Chiyoda has been licensing the Chiyoda Thoroughbred 121 (CT-121) Flue Gas Desulfurization (FGD) Process, its core environmental technology, to North American electric power companies to help them comply with tighter sulfur dioxide regulations that went into effect in 2010. Currently, CT-121 FGD plants are operating smoothly in 29 power plants, equivalent to 18,700MW of capacity. The North American CT-121 Group Users Conference has been held annually since 2006 for the purpose of promoting technology exchange with users in North America. As the technology licensor, Chiyoda provides advice to user companies on any operating problems or other issues they may have. The 8th Annual Users Group Conference was held in Columbus, Ohio in August 2012, and intensive technical discussions were held among the approximately 40 attendees, including members of Chiyoda, its licensee Black & Veatch Corporation, representatives from North American users American Electric Power, Southern Company Services, Dayton Power & Light and Georgia Power Co. (United States) Power South, and for the first time, a company from Denmark, DONG Energy. Plant Bowen Unit 3, CT-121 FGD Plant ChAS Forum 2012: Plant Maintenance in a Changing Social Environment In October 2012, Chiyoda Advanced Solutions Corporation (ChAS) merged with Chiyoda and made a new start as ChAS Project Operations. ChAS Project Operations will continue to hold the ChAS Forum, which took place before the merger, for the purpose of communicating with people outside the Company. In 2012, the event was held in the Chiyoda Global Headquarters lecture hall under the theme “Plant Maintenance in a Changing Social Environment.” Clients showed strong interest in the forum, which attracted over 200 participants, including representatives from more than 30 businesses and organizations and Chiyoda Group companies. Two oil companies that are major business partners, university professors, and Chiyoda Corporation staff presented lectures on topics such as “Business Innovation and Strategy,” “Safe Operation from the Perspective of Accident Prevention,” and “The Advanced Technology Supporting Plant Operation and Maintenance Management.” A lively exchange of ideas followed the lectures. Feedback from the forum questionnaire was positive. The forum helped share Chiyoda’s Project Lifecycle Engineering* concept for providing appropriate and comprehensive solutions in each phase of client projects. * A business model, involving both Chiyoda and the client, for the management of a project throughout its lifecycle including feasibility studies, front-end engineering and design (FEED), detailed engineering, procurement and Then President & CEO Takashi Kubota (present Executive Chairman) delivers a construction (EPC), operation, maintenance, expansion, modification, upgrading, revamping and demolition. speech at the opening of the forum. Pharma Seminar 2013: Exchanging Ideas with Pharmaceutical Manufacturers The pharmaceutical industry faces various challenges in meeting today’s demands. In recent years, biopharmaceuticals have been a focus of attention, particularly therapeutic antibodies. Biopharmaceutical production methods are progressing in step with advances in biotechnology, and approaches to manufacturing have changed rapidly in just the last two to three years. Against this backdrop, Chiyoda’s Pharmaceutical Project Section held Pharma Seminar 2013 together with Group company Chiyoda TechnoAce Co., Ltd. Representatives from Jacobs Consultancy Inc., a leading U.S. engineering firm and Chiyoda technical information services partner, also participated in the seminar, which focused on the latest trends in biotechnology. In addition to the presentation of case studies from the Chiyoda Group, which has over 50 years of experience in executing pharmaceutical plant design and construction projects, and Jacobs, which carries out projects globally for major pharmaceutical companies, the seminar featured a lecture on the latest approaches in biopharmaceutical production facilities. The seminar took place at two venues in Yokohama and Toyama, and was attended by approximately 150 people, mainly from pharmaceutical companies, who engaged in a productive exchange of ideas. The seminar held in Toyama on February 28, 2013 12 CHIYODA CORPORATION 2 A report explaining our activities in more depth is available on our website. ▼ http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/csr/en/kankyo/ CHIYODA Vision 2 Search CSR Vision Environmental Initiativess SPERA HydrogenTM Hydrogen is a clean energy that produces water when it combusts. As such, it is expected to play a key role in the low-carbon society of the future. Chiyoda has developed the world’s first technology that enables the storage and transportation of large quantities of hydrogen energy. Using this technology, hydrogen is fixed to liquid toluene with a hydrogenation reaction as liquid methylcyclohexane (MCH). Since toluene and MCH are in the liquid state under ambient temperature and pressure, it is easy to store hydrogen in large quantities over long periods without loss using ordinary tanks and transport with conventional chemical tankers for long distances without the cryogenic technology that liquefied natural gas and liquid hydrogen require. A test run conducted at a demonstration plant located in Chiyoda’s Koyasu Office & Research Park in Yokohama verified the technology’s expected performance. Chiyoda is now working to create a large-scale hydrogen storage and transportation system to supply large amounts of clean hydrogen energy to users around the world under the The hydrogenation and dehydrogenation reactors (above) and name SPERA HydrogenTM (the “Hydrogen of Hope”). storage tanks (below) ACETICA (Acetic Acid Production Process) Three-phase bubble column loop reactor Chiyoda developed the new green production process* ACETICA, and has worked to promote its Unreacted gas (to recovery process) use. In 2012, Chiyoda signed a license agreement for this process with Petrobras of Brazil. Reaction liquid In ACETICA, the rhodium complex, a commonly used catalyst in methanol carbonylation, was (to separation and fixed on a carrier developed by Chiyoda. The process was made complete by developing an optimal refining process) Down-comer reactor (a three-phase bubble column loop reactor) that utilizes the characteristics of the fixed catalyst. Fixing the catalyst to the carrier eliminates the need to separate the catalyst from the reaction product because the catalyst is contained in the reactor. Moreover, the process precludes the discharge of the environmentally harmful substances in the catalyst, and essentially eliminates loss of Heat exchanger Carbon the expensive catalyst. monoxide Catalyst (solid) + * A production process that minimizes impact on the environment reaction liquid Methanol Carbon monoxide (gas) Liquid recycled from purification system Shuttle Ship Transport and Offshore Injection System for CCS Carbon dioxide (CO2) capture and storage (CCS) is a technology used to developing an integrated CCS system, incorporating the separation and separate and recover CO2 from the flue gases of thermal power plants and recovery method, for contributing to global warming mitigation. other facilities, then ship it to a storage site, and inject it under the seabed. Note : A report on the shuttle ship transport and offshore injection system is available on the GCCSI website: It is one of the most powerful methods for global warming mitigation. http://www.globalccsinstitute.com/publications Three modes of transport – pipeline, ship and truck – are currently being developed and studied as transport methods in CCS. The shuttle ship and offshore injection system for CCS Shuttle ship transport and offshore injection is a new ship-based CCS system. Using grants received over two years from the Global CCS Institute Pick up buoy (GCCSI) established by the Government of Australia, Chiyoda verified technical and economic feasibility of the system with technical guidance from Pick up float Professor Masahiko Ozaki of the University of Tokyo, who originated the concept. In this system, a medium-sized (3,000-ton capacity) shuttle ship is used to transport liquefied CO2 to an unmanned, offshore storage site. Messenger line The liquefied CO2 is injected directly into the bore hole through a flexible riser pipe. The advantages of the system include its functionality over lonFlexible pipe Sinker ger distances and in deeper water than pipeline transport, its adaptability to changes in shipping volume and distance, and its ability to function with smaller onshore and offshore facilities than larger ships. Chiyoda is Pick up wire Group CSR Report 2013 13 3 A report explaining our activities in more depth is available on our website. ▼ http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/csr/en/syakai̲kouken/ CHIYODA Vision 3 Search CSR Vision Social Contributions through Business Activities LNG Project in Papua New Guinea Employs Local Workers A Chiyoda-led joint venture is currently building an LNG plant near Port Moresby in Papua New Guinea for ExxonMobil. The project is expected to have a significant beneficial impact on the country’s economy. Surrounding the LNG plant are four villages. The project employs more than 2,000 people from these villages and is actively engaged in training the local workers to improve their skills. Environmental Class Launched at Junior High Schools Other Activities by Chiyoda Group Companies in the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2013 Chiyoda has conducted environmental classes primarily for Cooperation with university education elementary school students since 2006, with emphasis on (dispatch of instructors) 7 people the importance of conserving water and other resources. Corporate training of teachers 12 people On February 21, 2013, we extended the program to Training of interns 34 people junior high schools with an environmental class for approxiEnvironmental classes 406 people mately 120 first-year students at Imai Junior High School in TABLE FOR TWO Ongoing Kawasaki. Through an experiment in which they made Cleanup campaigns 9 people water clean using filter paper and activated carbon, the students learned that water, a finite Disaster area support 48 people resource, is being used in massive amounts, and they gained a greater appreciation of the imporRegional contribution activities 7 people tance of water. As of March 31, 2013, the cumulative number of students participating in the environmental classes had exceeded 1,700. Visually Impaired People Invited to Japan In-House Sale of Goods Made by Philharmonic Orchestra Concert Challenged People Continuing a program begun in 2011, Chiyoda invited 56 people in 28 pairs from On March 12, 2013, a sale of cookies and handicrafts made at the Yokohama Blind Association to a concert of the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra community workshops by challenged people took place at at Yokohama Minato Mirai Hall on December 27, 2012. Chiyoda Global Headquarters in cooperation with the Yokohama We received a certificate of appreciation for our activities from the Yokohama City Council of Social Welfare. The confectioneries sold out City Council of Social Welfare. The Managing Director of the Yokohama Blind quickly, with rave reviews for the taste of the baked goods Association and one other person attended the presentation ceremony on behalf of and the designs of those invited. “It was a superb performance,” said the managing director. “Live the small handicrafts. music is different from CDs and other media Proceeds from the because you can hear the full range of sounds sales helped support the people who made with your whole body. I want to express our heartthe items. Chiyoda felt thanks for this opportunity.” plans to hold this event Presentation of the Certificate of Appreciation Ms. Hiroe Haga, Managing Director of the Yokohama City Council on a regular basis. of Social Welfare (center) and Mr. Kazuo Obokata, then Senior Vice President in charge of CSR Unit (present Senior Advisor, right) Comments from a Stakeholder I first met with Chiyoda Corporation in October 2011, about six months before the headquarters moved to Minatomirai in Yokohama, to coordinate recipients of the tickets to the Japan Philharmonic Orchestra concert that Chiyoda had offered to donate. After hearing of Chiyoda’s interest in conducting social contribution activities with roots in the local community, I proposed several other ideas. Those ideas have since been implemented, including the in-house sale of goods made at community workshops by challenged people and participation in social contribution events in the Minatomirai district. I think the speed with which Chiyoda acted is a sign of the company’s commitment to giving back to the community and of the high level of awareness among its employees. As a consultation office for corporate social contribution activities, the Yokohama City Council of Social Welfare looks forward to continued cooperation with Chiyoda. Ichiro Kato Manager, Civic Activity Service Section, Community Service Department Yokohama City Council of Social Welfare 14 CHIYODA CORPORATION 4 A report explaining our activities in more depth is available on our website. ▼ http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/csr/en/kakawari/ CHIYODA Vision 4 Search CSR Vision Respect for Human Rights Chiyoda Family Day On August 24, 2012, family members of Chiyoda Group employees gathFinally, participants had the opportunity to see the offices where their ered for “Chiyoda Family Day,” which was held at Chiyoda Global family members worked. The visit to the offices was an interesting experiHeadquarters. The purpose of the event was to promote closer family ties ence for family members and employees alike, with children exchanging and encourage and motivate employees by helping their family members their handmade business cards with employees acting as their coworkers, gain a better understanding of the nature of Chiyoda’s business and work and other amusing experiences. environment. We will continue to plan and implement programs that help to A total of 158 members of 76 families attended the event, which got strengthen relationships with the community and between families, motioff to a lively start. The program was conducted in both Japanese and vate employees and enhance the sense of unity within the company. English for the benefit of non-Japanese family members. The first part of the program was an audio visual introduction of Chiyoda, followed by participation in the project process through a simulated project based on the making of paper airplanes. This mock project was an enjoyable learning experience, especially for the children. The second part of the program centered on an activity corner run by the PR & Recreation Section of Chiyoda Labor Union. Family members interacted with a scale model of a plant, viewed an actual construction site on Google Earth and tried on overalls and a harness like the ones worn onsite. OHSAS 18001 Certification of Occupational Expansion of ISO 14001 Environmental Health and Safety Management System Management System Certification Since the fiscal year ended March 31, 2004, Along with the acquisition of OHSAS 18001 certifiChiyoda has been implementing a self-regulated cation, Chiyoda underwent an audit to expand the occupational health and safety management system scope of its existing ISO 14001 certification. As a based on OHSAS 18001. In February 2013, Chiyoda result, overseas projects were added to the scope of underwent an audit by a certifying body to obtain a certification. third-party evaluation of the system and received OHSAS 18001 certification. OHSAS 18001 ISO 14001 certification certification Career Guidance Program An information session on career guidance was provided at L&T-Chiyoda Limited in India on April 19, 2013. A senior faculty member from the Department of Mechanical Engineering, L&T IT, spoke on career opportunities in engineering. The session was well received by parents and children, who felt it gave them good guidance and direction for their prospective careers. Comments from an Executive Reflecting its commitment to fairness, Chiyoda Singapore (Pte) Limited was awarded a Certificate of Commendation for outstanding commitment and contributions to strong labor-management relations by Singapore Industrial & Services Employees’ Union (SISEU). Management and staff were pleased and honored to be recognized. The certificate was presented by guest of honor Mrs. Josephine Teo, Minister of State, during SISEU’s annual dinner & dance on November 9, 2012. The event was attended by top management from various Mr. Hikaru Morita multinational corporations. Managing Director Chiyoda Singapore (Pte.) Limited (Back row, third from left in photo above and second from right in photo at right) Group CSR Report 2013 15 5 A report explaining our activities in more depth is available on our website. ▼ http://www.chiyoda-corp.com/csr/en/compliance/ CHIYODA Vision 5 Search CSR Vision Commitment to Fairness Compliance Initiatives ■ Enhancing Collaboration with Field Offices and ■ Ongoing Compliance Training and Audits Group Companies in Japan and Overseas In response to the rising global anti-corruption movement in the United In addition to compliance training at overseas Group companies, Chiyoda States, the United Kingdom has incorporated compliance briefings into the meetings of Group company and other coun t r i e s, presidents to directly familiarize those responsible for each site with Chiyoda has taken steps to compliance issues. Moreover, with our participation in the United Nations eradicate careless mistakes, Global Compact we issued the third edition of the CSR Handbook, which strengthen mutual checks contains the Code of Conduct and other guidelines, and distributed it to and balances and further all employees of the Chiyoda Group. increase transparency. Meeting with an executive at an overseas Group company ■ Ensuring Information Security Chiyoda established a department specializing in information security in 2001. We have since worked to make sure that all employees understand that as a plant engineering company, we deal with important technical Meeting of Chiyoda Group company presidents CSR Handbook (3rd edition) information of clients not only in Japan but around the world. We also provide education on compliance with information security rules and conduct ■ Developments in the Supply Chain ongoing compliance monitoring. Our efforts to ensure compliance go beyond the Chiyoda Group. We also involve our business partners, including equipment and material suppliers ■ Raising Awareness of Export Control and the partners we work with in construction projects. As part of our Chiyoda has established and implements an export control system in line efforts to share the importance of compliance, including CSR, we distribwith the goals of international security for prevention of terrorism, uted the CSR Handbook to busiregional conflicts and proliferation of weapons of mass destruction. As ness partners at the annual part of that system, Chiyoda seeks to raise the awareness of all meeting. In addition, we revised employees by providing both general training on the basics of export conour standard contract terms by trol and ongoing industry-specific training that explains export control work in greater detail. inserting a clause on elimination of anti-social forces. Annual meeting of business partners Training Conducted by Chiyoda Corporation in the Fiscal Year Ended March 31, 2013 Compliance CSR Training M Manager compliance training 95 participants Pr Pre-assignment training for site CSR training for new employees 85 participants Ex Executive officer compliance training 22 participants m managers of field offices 22 locations CSR training for mid-career hires 1 time, 14 participants Co Compliance briefings at the meeting of Co Companywide directive Gr Group company presidents 1 time (a (about prevention of sexual harassment) 1 time Co Compliance training at overseas Gr Group companies 4 locations Export Control Co Construction industry law workshop 37 participants Co Companywide directives (export control directives) 4 times Su Subcontract Act workshop 54 participants Ex Export control general training 4 times, 82 participants Fo Foreign corrupt practices prevention w workshop 45 participants Ex Export control specific training 1 time, 32 participants Reports to the Consultation and Reporting Hotline Co Consultation and Reporting IInformation f Security Re Reports related to workplace improvements 5 Ho Hotline staff training 13 participants Information security e-Learning 1 time, 366 participants Re Reports related to compliance with workplace rules 3 Information security training 4 times, 461 participants Re Requests for reminders 1 Companywide directives (various reminders) 15 times Ot Other 4 Comments from an Employee The Consultation andd Reporting Hotline is designed to facilitate the early discovery and correction or prevention of illegal or unethical conduct. Th The he hotline is available to everyone involved in our business. I handle contacts from women on workplace relations issues, and my discussions with them have made me keenly aware of the importance of everyday communication in the workplace. I try to make people feel at ease when talking about their concerns, but I will continue to improve my approach so that issuissues ues can be quickly dealt with and resolved through consultation before they become serious. Hiromi Sugawa HRM Unit Consultation and Rep Reporting porting Hotline Staff 16 CHIYODA CORPORATION Third-Party Opinion The Chiyoda Group receives third-party opinions from experts to raise the objectivity of its CSR Report and identify specific CSR issues. These opinions serve as reference for future reports and help guide CSR initiatives. In reviewing this report, I focused first on the Message from the President. The reason is that the vision that President Shibuya outlined for the Chiyoda Group 10 years from now – a group that has diversified into new business areas, deepened its contribution to local communities in emerging and developing countries, and established an operational framework for managing work globally – is closely related to CSR. The engineering and construction of mega solar power plants, investment in concentrated solar power generation and the development of SPERA HydrogenTM technology that enables hydrogen storage and transportation in large quantities are examples of how the Chiyoda Group’s businesses are directly helping to address social issues such as resource depletion and climate change due to Eiichiro Adachi greenhouse gases. These activities can be considered “strategic CSR.” Counselor Head of ESG Research Center On the other hand, there could be an increase in cases where the Chiyoda Group is involved in The Japan Research Institute, engineering, construction and maintenance of LNG or other plants located in regions of higher Limited environmental and social risk. Chiyoda will need to give more careful consideration to safety and the After graduating from Hitotsubashi environment as it moves into upstream areas such as oil and gas field development surveys and other University in 1986, Mr. Adachi joined the Japan Research Institute, Limited services. In infrastructure projects such as airport construction in developing countries, Chiyoda will (JRI) in 1990. Currently Counselor and have to pay careful attention to the possible impact of large-scale land alterations on the natural Head of ESG Research Center at JRI, he previously served in the environment and nearby residents. It is imperative to strengthen “defensive CSR” by being duly Management Strategy Research Department and Technology Research aware of any negative impacts and taking countermeasures. Department. He specializes in Moreover, contributing to local communities in emerging and developing countries must include industrial research and corporate assessment from the standpoint of consideration for the rights of people in communities surrounding project sites and creation of steady CSR. He also serves as Director of the employment opportunities for them, in addition to the typical charitable activities and events. Efforts in Mitsubishi Corporation Disaster Relief Foundation and has co-authored the name of “secure stable supplies of natural resources” may be met with a mixed reception amid numerous Japanese publications, notably CSR Management and SRI rising resource nationalism. I expect Chiyoda to study and practice “CSR that leads to genuine (Kinzai, 2004), Businesses That Grow community development” through dialogue with stakeholders. Furthermore, I believe that the Chiyoda with Global Warming (Toyo Keizai Inc., 2007) and Introduction to Group’s establishment of an operational framework for managing work globally hinges on the extent to Environmental Management (Nikkei which its management is able to embrace diversity. This is strongly linked with “CSR in labor practices.” Publishing Inc., 2009). The April 2013 establishment of the Crisis Management Unit was another point in the report that caught my attention. I would like to suggest Chiyoda flesh out the various aspects of defensive CSR, CSR that leads to genuine community development and CSR in labor practices in greater depth on its website and in other media. Also, while joining the United Nations Global Compact in November 2012 was a major step forward during the past year, as a member, the company is obliged to prepare and submit a Communication on Progress (COP) every year. Assuming that this report is a COP, I would also suggest adding more mention of the rights of people other than employees on the “Respect for Human Rights” vision page and anti-corruption measures on the “Commitment to Fairness” page. I expect Chiyoda to continue its steady and consistent efforts to provide engineering-based solutions to global issues such as poverty, the environment and the securing of resources, and to build on sustained communication with stakeholders. Mr. Adachi inspecting Chiyoda’s SPERA Hydrogen demonstration plant TM Group CSR Report 2013 17 We consolidate Group strengths in our business operations. Major Group Companies (As of March 31, 2013) Domestic Group Companies Chiyoda System Technologies Corporation Engineering, procurement, construction and maintenance of electrical and instrumentation, and of social infrastructures. Consulting, development and operation for integrated IT systems Chiyoda Kosho Co., Ltd. Engineering, construction and maintenance of various industrial machinery and equipment; insurance agent Overseas Group Companies Chiyoda TechnoAce Co., Ltd. Industrial Machinery and Equipment Engineering and Consulting, design, procurement, construction and test operation services for Construction, Etc. pharmaceutical and other fine chemical plants, and various types of research facilities Chiyoda Philippines Corporation (Philippines) L&T-Chiyoda Limited (India) Arrow Business Consulting Corporation Consulting and business outsourcing services, etc., for finance, accounting and tax Chiyoda Singapore (Pte) Limited (Singapore) Chiyoda-CCC Engineering (Pte) Limited (Singapore) Arrowhead International Corporation Chiyoda International Corporation (United States) Travel agent, air cargo and materials export services, etc. PT. Chiyoda International Indonesia (Indonesia) Chiyoda & Public Works Co., Ltd. (Myanmar) Chiyoda U-Tech Co., Ltd. General consulting on industrial machinery and equipment, regional development, etc.; Chiyoda Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) review services for ISO certification renewal, temporary staffing Chiyoda (Thailand) Limited (Thailand) Chiyoda Almana Engineering LLC (Qatar) Arrow Human Resources Co., Ltd. Temporary staffing, placement consulting, and education and training Chiyoda Nigeria Limited (Nigeria) Chiyoda Sarawak Sdn. Bhd. (Malaysia) Chiyoda Petrostar Ltd. (Saudi Arabia) Recognition by SRI (Socially Responsible Investment) evaluation bodies as a company fulfilling CSR standards (As of August 2013) Selected in FTSE Group’s responsible Included in the Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Index investment index (DJSI Asia Pacific) Minatomirai Grand Central Tower 4-6-2, Minatomirai, Nishi-ku, Yokohama 220-8765, Japan Please direct inquiries about this CSR Report to: CSR Unit Tel: (81) 45-225-7741 Fax: (81) 45-225-7224 Printed with mineral oil-free, non-VOC ink using a waterless process on paper made with wood from forest thinning to support sound forest management. E-mail: csr@ykh.chiyoda.co.jp Printed in Japan
