.RUHD,QWHUQHW 6HFXULW\$JHQF\ .,6$6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW Beautiful .,6$6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUW Internet world 〕〒ⲛッⷨ㎩㔭Ⲕ㈛㋢㇑㏧ⳮ⽅㉥㐍⼎㉜ヸ⹋㇌ㄴⷵⷿ 7KLVUHSRUWZDVSULQWHGRQUHF\FOHGSDSHUZLWKVR\EHDQRLOLQN KISA Sustainability Report 2012 This report is an annual sustainability report published to release economic, social, and environmental accomplishments made by KOREA INTERNET & SECURITY AGENCY to stakeholders. While containing major business accomplishments made by KISA on 2011, this report also introduces its nonfinancial accomplishments, including ethic, social contribution, community culture, and shared growth. By informing what were lacking, which were then later on pursued for improvement, in promoting the sustainable management, this report reflects a promise made by KISA that it will faithfully take on given social responsibilities as a public agency. Beautiful KISA Sustainability Report Internet world KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency About this Report Contents The meaning of publishing this report 02 Intro 56 Organizational Culture This report is the second sustainability management report published by KISA, following the first 02 About this report 57 Realizing systematic organizational culture publication in 2011. This report is designed to publish the sustainability management results of each 04 CEO Message 59 Strengthening ethical culture inside the agency year to stakeholders. Taking one step forward from the first report published in September 2011, 62 Improving the expertise of employees emphasis was put on improving neutrality of the report and strengthening communication with 06 Sustainability Management 64 Cooperative labor-management relations stakeholders. 06 Introduction to KISA 66 Harmony of work and life 08 Management structure Characteristics of the report 10 Sustainability management system 68 Environment Efforts ● H ighlighting key achievements For easier understanding of stakeholders, only key achieve12 Participation of stakeholders 69 Resource use reduction and recycling ments were selected and included. Efforts were made to make the report as people-oriented, 14 Materiality assessment 70 Greenhouse gas reduction efforts using theme pages focusing on achievements and visual effects. ● Provisioning practical information Instead of compiling the information from the perspectives of 16 2011 Business Performances 72 Economic Efforts KISA, practical information selected for stakeholders is provided so that readers can obtain only 16 Creating a safe Internet use environment Key 73 Reasonable budget and distribution necessary information. 20 Strengthening personal information protection Key 76 Implementing government-recommended policies ● Identity expression Specialty of KISA was emphasized to make the report different from the re24 Spreading healthy Internet culture Key ports published by other organizations, while KISA's unique visual identity was also applied. 28 Fostering the information security industry Key 77 Appendix 32 Strengthening the Internet address Key 78 GRI G3.1/ ISO26000 Contents Index Principles of creating the report management system 84 Independent verification report The report was created according to GRI G3.1, the internationally accepted report publishing 35 Strengthening the information security base 86 Award History guideline. In addition, some of the ISO26000 (guidelines for social responsibility) were applied to 38 Taking the lead in developing Internet policies 87 Current Status of KISA’s Networks make the report more substantial. 40 Diffusing new Internet services 89 UN Global Compact 42 Promoting international cooperation 90 Glossary Covering period Basically the reporting period is between January 1, 2011 and December 31, 2011. However, pro44 Social Responsibilities vided they have special implications, some contents reflect data of up to June 2012. This report is 45 Enhancing competitiveness by shared growth published every year. 50 Promoting customer satisfaction management 52 Promoting social contribution as a specialized Internet agency Reporting scope and boundary The reporting scope is limited to KISA's sustainability management activities and its results. The Key : 2011 Key Issue quantitative results were described with time series analysis so that changes can be indicated. The reporting boundary is limited to KISA only, but some contents include information about the superior agency (Korea Communications Commission), related departments, associations, and forum. Report publishing process The priority of reporting topics was determined by reflecting the opinion of various internal and external stakeholders, and by evaluating an importance of the issue. In addition, the Sustainability Working Committee consisting of persons in charge of each area in KISA performed report planning, report data collection, report compilation, and review. Verifying the report This report was verified by the third party (Marcspon, specialized sustainability management consulting firm) to improve the reliability and accuracy of the report details. The report was verified by the principle of importance, completeness, and responsiveness based on AA1000AS (2008). The verification result is covered in page 84 and 85. 2 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful BeautifulInternet World · 3 InternetWorld KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency CEO Message I'm delighted to announce the sustainability management achievements of KISA (Korea Internet & Security Agency) by publishing the second Sustainability Management Report this year. KISA is the only agency specialized in the Internet and information security established in 2009 by merging three agencies KISA(Korea Information & Security Agency), NIDA (National Internet Development Agency), and KIICA (Korea IT International Cooperation Agency). Internet became a part of our daily life and industries to such an extent that we feel uncomfortable if we cannot access the Internet. As a result, various services derived from the Internet are making contributions to improving our quality of life. Particularly, we can accommodate new information quickly and process most of our business over the Internet owing to the recent wide spread of smart-phone and increased use of SNS (Social Network Service). Unfortunately, the more benefits we get from the Internet, the more dysfunction arises. These dysfunctions are damaging people, such as malignant comments, cyber violence, hacking, malicious code infection, and privacy infringement. KISA is making efforts to minimize these Internet dysfunctions and let people use the Internet more safely and wholesomely with a sense of social responsibility. While publishing Sustainability Management Report 2012, the KISA came to understand the expectation of stakeholders and direction that KISA should aim at, instead of only reporting agency achievements. First, in order to lead the sound Internet culture, we will expand and develop the Internet culture movement so that people can more practically participate the movement. We will endeavor to educate the growing generation to have a correct Internet ethical belief, both online and offline, by diffusing the “Making a beautiful Internet world” movement among people and implementing Internet ethics education for various social classes. Second, we will do our best in developing the Internet incident response system and protecting people's privacy. We will strengthen our capabilities to protect the country and people from the cyber-attacks and personal information leakage that are getting increasingly diversified every day. Third, we will nurture the Internet and information security industry systematically, and promote international cooperation. As the Internet industry will play a pivotal role in our economy, we will foster the industry and personnel related to the future Internet, and support domestic enterprises in entering overseas markets so that they can be a core part of the national competitiveness. Lastly, we will pursue constant internal innovation. In order to be reborn as a creative organization, we will change the way of doing our works and strengthen employee’s expertise capabilities by shedding the old practice of public organizations. In addition, smooth communication among employees will be encouraged to improve the business efficiency and make workplaces more pleasant. We hope that many stakeholders will also support and join our dreams and efforts to make the “beautiful Internet world.” Thank you. President of the Korea Internet and Security Agency, Dr. Lee, Ki-joo 4 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 5 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Sustainability Management Ⅰ. Introduction to KISA KOREA INTERNET & SECURITY AGENCY, hereinforth 'KISA', is a quasi-government agency that integrated together 3 organizations, KISA, NIDA, General information (As of September 2012) KIICA, on July 2009. Following the Article 52, Act on promotion of information and communications network utilization and information protection, Item Contents etc., KISA's major tasks are advancing and increasing safety use of the information network, signing international cooperation regarding Organization name Korea Internet and Security Agency broadcasting communication, and supporting advancement into overseas markets. President Dr. Lee, Ki-joo Foundation date July 23, 2009 Safe Internet Environment Establishment and International Cooperative Tasks regarding Broadcasting Communication ● Daedong Office : Dae Dong Building, Garak-dong 79-3, Songpa, Seoul, Korea, 138-803 KISA mainly performs tasks such as countering Internet protection theft, personal information protection, fostering Internet knowledge industry, Address ● ☎118 Office : IT Venture Tower, Garak-dong 78, Songpa, exporting and internally cooperating upon broadcasting communication, ☎118 hotline service, and information communication infrastructure Seoul, Korea 138-950 protection. ● Seocho Office : Seocho-ro 398, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korea 137-857 Number of employees 550 Asset 56.7 billion won (31 billion won liabilities, 25.7 billion won capital) Providing Services Annual budget 130.4 billion won (127.1 billion won in 2011) Government contribution, government subsidy, entrusted project, Income structure ☎118 Hotline Service Internet Policies Planning Internet Ethics internal project Department 2 offices, 2 groups, 1 center, 10 divisions, 46 teams ● Personal information infringement consulting ● Internet/information protection policy R&D ● KISA Academy ● Illegal spam consulting ● Investigative analysis upon Internet/ ● Internet Ethics Class ☎118 Building ● Hacking/virus consulting information protection ● Internet Ethics Self-Evaluation ● Internet consulting ● Legal analysis upon Internet/information ● Cyber Internet History Museum protection History 2009. 7 2009. 11 2010. 1 2010. 3 2010. 12 2011. 10 2012. 5 Launched KISA Established Privacy Established Established KISA Established the Established Established i-PIN (Integrated Korea Disclosure ☎118 Center Academy, integrated control Privacy Protection Clean Center Internet and Security Response Center Knowledge room at the Korea Technology Agency, National Internet Information Security Internet Security Assistance Center Development Agency, Industry Support Center and Korea IT International Center (KISIS) Internet Address Management Internet Incident Response Personal Information Protection Cooperation Agency.) ● National Domain ame System management ● Korean Internet Security Center ● P  ersonal information infringement call center ● National domain management (.kr, .한국) ● Remote inspection service on web ● Personal Information Dispute Mediation Efficiently working organization ● WHOIS search service (domain/IP address) vulnerability Committee KISA comprises 2 offices, 2 groups, 1 center, 10 divisions, and 46 teams. Among them, Public Relations Division and ☎118 Center are operated as a ● IP address/AS number assignment and ● Realtime spam IP block list(KISA RBL) ● Supplying replacements of resident management ● Cyber Curing System registration number (i-PIN) team. Total number of employees is 550, including 264 permanent staffs (290 staffs prescribed), 256 contractors (including 124 indefinite contractors), ● IPv6 conversion expansion ● DDoS Shelter System ● Searching and deleting exposed resident and 30 youth internships. ● Internet address conflict mitigation committee registration number ● Location information(LBS) protection Organizational chart President Information Communication Infrastructure Fostering Internet & Knowledge Exporting & International Cooperation Public Relations Division Internal Audit and Inspection Section Protection Information Protection Industry regarding Broadcasting Communication ● Electronic signature certification management center ● Knowledge information security industry ● Cooperative partnership with global Management International Internet Information Security Korea Internet ●  overnmental protection & management system (ISMS) G support center organizations such as ITU, WB, OECD, etc. Planning Group Cooperation Center Development Group Group Security Center ● Information protection management system by ● BIO recognition information test center ● Supporting information protection technology the e-government (G-ISMS), personal ● Security assessment on information policy consulting for developing countries information protection protection products ● Global association establishment, including management system (PIMS) ● RFID code registration/ international broadcasting communication ManageInternet Industry Internet Korea Personal Personal Public InInternet Internet certification search service professionals invitation and workshops ment Policy DevelopCulture Network InforInforformation ☎118 Incidents Incidents ● Information protection safe ● Global marketing support for the Support Research ment DevelopInformation mation Security Center Prevention Response diagnosis support ICT small-to-middle sized Division Center Division ment mation Protection Security Division Division Division ● Promoting password usage companies Division Center Division Division 6 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 7 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Sustainability Management Ⅱ. Management structure Good corporate governance is important pivot and foundation of sustainability management, which enables the organization to survive in the Performing independent audit activities rapidly-changing management environment. In order to achieve the good corporate governance, KISA has been introducing various mechanisms KISA appoints a non-executive auditor in accordance with Article 20, “Public Agency Operation Act,” and operates the auditor’s office to promote to secure specialty and transparency based on check and balance among organizations and independence of the board of directors. internal auditing. The role of the auditor is to audit KISA’s operation/accounting and submit the comment to the board of directors. To secure independence and expertise of the auditor, the non-executive auditor is recommended by the Director Recommendation Committee, deliberated Securing transparency within operations by the board of directors and decided by the Public Agency Operation Committee, and then finally appointed by the minister of Ministry of Strategy and Finance. KISA stipulates the board of directors as the highest decision-making organization in the articles of association. There are 14 directors in the board, including one president (chairman) who is an inside director, 12 independent outside directors (4 official non-executive directors, 8 appointed Appraisal and remuneration regulations non-executive directors), and 1 non-execute auditor. The number of outside directors (non-executive director) is greater than the number of The executive director (president) receives different incentive amounts depending on the government’s management evaluation results. inside directors to secure the operation transparency of the board of directors and improve the supervision function of the board of directors. The contract annual salary for 2012 is 117,369,000 won. In 2010, 48% of the annual salary was paid, and grade A was received as a result of The president of KISA, the chairman of the board of directors, is appointed by the chairman of the Korea Communications Commission from 3 5 the management evaluation. 24% was paid because grade C was received in 2011. Remuneration for the non-executive director is paid as a candidates recommended by the director recommendation committee. consultancy fee in accordance with the government’s budget and fund operation planning and execution guidelines. For each occasion, 500,000 won consultancy fee was paid to the non-executive director, whereas 300,000 won consultancy fee was paid to the executive director and the Securing the specialty of the board of directors auditor. To secure the expertise of the board of directors, non-executive official directors are composed of experts working for the organizations related to KISA businesses, including the director of Network Policy Department, Korea Communications Commission; information infrastructure policy Process of conflict prevention within the board of directors official of the Ministry of Public Administration and Security; head of the National Cyber Security Center, National Intelligence Service; and director To prevent a conflict of interest inside the board of directors, director meetings and primary meetings have been held. general of the social budget, Ministry of Strategy and Finance. The board meeting was held 7 times in 2011, and the participation rate of the nonexecutive directors (appointed non-executive directors) was 86% (7% increase from the previous year), and total 28 management suggestions were Board of directors’ operation result analysis and feedback implemented in the policy. These achievements were possible because the participation by expert non-executive directors was encouraged and their suggestions were accepted positively. In addition, the scope of non-executive directors’ activities is expanding to policy establishment by the Item 2009 2010 2011 Result analysis and feedback areas of expertise, international activities, and consultancy on project implementation. For more frequent activities of the board of directors, an Number of board meetings 5 times 7 times 7 times The proper number of meetings was held based on the annual plan. (including management organization dedicated for the board of directors is operated, which is supervised by the director of Management Planning Group, and managed In-depth deliberation was induced by keeping the proper number of items by the manger of Planning & Coordination Team. The organization dedicated for the board of directors encourages directors to make management Voted items 13 items 24 items 18 items to vote. suggestions, assist directors in understanding the project better, and evaluate performance results of directors’ duties. Revised voted items (including 3 items The proportion of revised voting was reduced by intensifying preliminary 6 items (45%) 5 items (21%) conditional adoption) (17%) review of the information on the item. Composition of KISA’s board of directors Reported items 7 items 14 items 12 items Maintaining a proper number of reporting items (As of September 2012) Board meeting participation rate 86% 79% 65% The participation rate of official director needs to be increased. Position Name Term Current office Participation rate of non-executive The participation rate of official director is improved compared to the prePresident Dr. Lee, Ki-joo 2012.9.25 ~ 2015.9.24 President of the Korea Internet and Security Agency directors (appointed non-executive 87% 79% 86% vious year. However, continuous improvement efforts are required. director) Park, Jae-mun Director of Network Policy Department, Korea Communications Commission (managing department) Executive Proportion of non-executive Understanding on projects was improved and the statement proportion Jeong, Yun-gi Information infrastructure policy official, the Ministry of Public Administration and Security 59% 60% 81% director director’s statement increased, owing to prior explanation on items, occasional data provision, etc. (official) Not disclosed head of the National Cyber Security Center, National Intelligence Service Cho, Gyeong-gyu Director-general of the social budget, Ministry of Strategy and Finance Lee, Seong-hae 2009.7.23 ~ 2013.7.29 Management advisor, KT Sustainability Management Committee and Working-level Committee Shin, Yong-tae 2009.7.23 ~ 2013.7.29 Professor, department of Computer, Soongsil University; director of the Korea Information Processing Society KISA has organizations to actually promote tasks that were identified by the sustainability management strategy system. The Sustainability Lee, Yeong-eum 2009.7.23 ~ 2013.7.29 Professor, Media Arts & Sciences, Korea National Open University; director of Digital Media Center Management Committee is a decision-making organization that supervises overall sustainability management, and comprises 10 members, Jeong, Professor, College of Information & Communication Engineering, Sungkyunkwan University; president of including the chairman (president), non-executive director, office manager/director of the division, and outside expert. Also, the Sustainability 2009.7.23 ~ 2013.7.29 Tae-myeong the Korea Information Processing Society, vice-chairman of OECD WPISPI Management Working-level Committee was organized, which performs inside/outside communication about sustainability management and acts Nonexecutive Professor, Graduate School of Business Administration, Hanyang University; dean of Hanyang Cyber as a business contact. The Working-level Committee comprises the teams corresponding to 7 key topics of ISO 26000, and plays a practical role Jang, Seok-gwon 2011.7.25 ~ 2013.7.24 University; director of the Office of Planning & Coordination director in firmly establishing the sustainability management system inside the organization as well as making sustainability management as corporate (appointed) Professor, department of Mass Communication, School of Social Sciences, Sungkyunkwan University; culture. Han, Eun-gyeong 2011.7.25 ~ 2013.7.24 president of the Korea Association for Advertising and Public Relations; member of the Korea Advertising Review Board Hwang, Associate professor, College of Law, Hongik University; academic information director of the Korea 2011.7.25 ~ 2013.7.24 Chang-geun Internet Law Association Park, Chun-sik 2012.7.30 ~ 2014.7.29 Professor, department of information security, Seoul Women's University NonProfessor, Department of business administration, Myeongji University; member of the Accounting executive Jeong, Da-mi 2011.8.18 ~ 2013.8.17 System Review Committee, Financial Services Commission; chairman of the sub-committee for women, auditor Korea Accounting Association 8 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 9 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Sustainability Management Ⅲ. Sustainability management system Mission and vision KISA has the mission of “creating healthy and safe Internet environment and promoting international cooperation in broadcasting and Those five objectives are “establishing the world's best information security and incident response system”, “creating healthy Internet culture communication” along with the vision of “becoming the world’s best security agency specializing in Internet and information.” and use environment”, “laying the foundation of the advanced Internet infrastructure and leading the policy”, “establishing the practical global cooperative system”, and “nurturing expert personnel and innovating the management infrastructure.” These five strategic objectives are Core values materialized into 13 strategic tasks and promoted, and represent the sustainability system that should be implemented by KISA as a public agency. KISA selected “professionalism” and “communication” as core values to achieve our vision and mission, and set “passion” and “future-oriented” Besides those strategic objectives and tasks, separate promotion areas and detailed tasks are selected for sustainability management to manage as criteria of employee’s behavior and value judgment which will act as emotional values and lead the organization by carrying out social the overall sustainability management comprehensively. responsibilities. ● Professionalism: When performing a task, we will develop ourselves and make efforts continuously with self-esteem and obligation to be the Making a best in our expertise area. safe Internet environment ● Communication: We will endeavor to understand counterpart’s expectation and desire clearly, and express and transfer our intention in a variety of ways. ● ● ● Future-oriented: We will try to find a way that can be beneficial to the organization from a long-term view instead of settling for the present. Passion: Each and every member will have passion for his/her job. Social responsibility: We will exert ourselves to be an organization that serves people with a sense of responsibility as a public agency. 1 Improving convenience in Internet use 2 3 Creating healthy 5 strategic objectives and 13 strategic tasks Internet culture and creating a KISA established strategic objectives and tasks to achieve our mission and vision. Five mid-to-long term strategic objectives were identified by shared growth environment considering both opportunities and threats of the external environment as well as strengths and weaknesses of the internal environment. 5 strategic objectives and 13 strategic tasks Purpose of foundation Creating a healthy and safe Internet environment and promoting international cooperation in broadcasting and communication Supporting entry into the 4 5 Fostering Becoming the world’s best security agency specializing in Internet and information overseas market Internet/information Vision through international security experts Core Business cooperation values policies World’s best specialized agency Social Sustainability management promotion area and detailed tasks ProfesCommuniFuturePassion responsiA friendly organization trusted by people sionalism cation oriented Promotion area Detailed task Stakeholder Related department bility Happy organization that pursues creativeness and innovation Customer satisfaction Official business performance announcement, Customer Creative Management Team, ☎118 Center management information disclose, civil service Establishing the world's best Human Resource Management Team, Internal Audit and Creating sound Internet Laying the foundation of the Nurturing expert personnel Basic rights at work, and difficulties treatment Inside staff 5 strategic information security and Establishing the practical Inspection Section culture and use advanced Internet infrastrucand innovating the maninfringement response global cooperative system objectives environment ture and leading the policy agement infrastructure system Labor-management cooperation, employee welfare Labor union Human Resource Management Team, Administration Team Shared growth Financial Accounting Team, Internal Audit and Inspection ● Advancing the Internet ● Improving an awareness ● Identifying leading Internet ● Diversifying international ● Improving the expert Fair society, shared growth (purchase, contract) Partner Section, Planning and Coordination Team, Creative incident response system of Internet ethics policies cooperation nurturing system 13 strategic Management Team, business division ● Strengthening the ● Strengthening the ● Laying the foundation ● Substantiating ● Improving the tasks information security information security of diffusing new Internet international cooperation organizational Social contribution Social service activities Local community Public Relations Division infrastructure system services in broadcasting and culture and business Environmental management Energy saving Inside staff Administration Team, Financial Accounting Team ● Fostering the information ● Advancing Internet address communication productivity security industry management system Increasing the KISA Board of directors, governance including internal Planning and Coordination Team, Internal Audit and ● Ethical management Board of directors brand value audit Inspection Section Creativeness & innovation Improving ways of working, quality management Customer, inside staff Creative Management Team 10 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 11 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Sustainability Management Ⅳ. Participation of stakeholders Definition of a stakeholder Sustainability management issues and expectations by stakeholder KISA defines a stakeholder as an employee who produces public services according to KISA’s mission; customer who purchases our services Stakeholder Sustainability management issue Key expectations Related page (governmental departments, IT companies, people); local community and international organization that affect KISA management; and partner that Improving the level of privacy protection Safe information distribution p. 20-23 transfers the management value produced by KISA. KISA implements sustainability management through continuous communication with these Customer Internet culture movement and ethical education Creating healthy Internet culture p. 24-27 Providing transparent management information Transparent management information announcement p. 73-75 stakeholders. Establishing sustainability management/risk system Sustainable growth of KISA p. 10-11 Creating reasonable and smooth communication corporate culture Reasonable organizational culture p. 57 Communication with a stakeholder Employee Improving employee capability Improving employee capability p. 62-63 KISA opened an open communication and free dialog window by establishing various types of communication channels with major stakeholders Reasonable HR/remuneration/welfare system Fair HR/remuneration system p. 66-67 such as customers, employees, local community, partners, and international community. In addition, KISA collects major concerns and opinions Cooperating Shared growth cooperation with partners Shared growth of KISA and partners p. 47-51 companies Establishing a transparent procurement system Establishing a transparent procurement system from stakeholders through active communication, and tries to improve the level of satisfaction by improving shortcomings. In addition, KISA will Improving the level of privacy protection Safe Internet use environment p. 16-19 set a solid foundation for establishing trust about management activities and growing together by transferring our achievements to stakeholder Internet culture movement and ethical education Creating Internet culture p. 24-27 Government effectively. Efficient execution of the government budget Implementing government policies p. 72-76 Advancement and efficient management of public agencies Efficient HR management, function adjustment p. 57-58 Nurturing information security industry and personnel Nurturing related industries p. 28-31 Advancing Internet incident response system Incident prevention and quick response p. 16-19 Internet policy research/governance establishment Smooth information sharing and cooperation p. 38-39 IT industry Stakeholder communication channel Supporting SMB capability Fostering Internet expert p. 45-49 Supporting domestic company’s entry into the overseas market Providing opportunity of overseas entry to private companies p. 42-43 Inducing fare competition Fair policy execution p. 59-61 Supporting developing countries Technology transfer to developing countries Int’l International cooperation in broadcasting and communication Playing a proper role in IT international organizations p. 42-43 organization Strengthening international mutual cooperation Global information security response measures Conforming to the international policy and standard Satisfying international standards V  isit interview  isit interview with related V Resolving digital divide of the alienated IT class Supporting vulnerable security classes p. 53 ● ● Local ● Rectitude ombudsman agencies Solving the youth unemployment problem Preferential recruitment of the talented person living in provincial areas p. 57 community ● Partner meeting ● Operating responsible team Leading healthy Internet culture Building equal digital society p. 24-27 and NGO ● Establishing Internet-shared by governmental department Contributing to the local community Improving the quality of local community residents’ life p. 52-54 growth committee ● Meeting and seminar by advisory committee ●  pen management meeting O Expert interview and CEO meeting ● Participating in int’l meeting and seminar ● Official business performance announcement policy ● Holding a joint int’l workshop Clean Reporting Center Sustainability management strategy suitable for the ● ● Providing inviting training for developing countries ● KISA magazine, Intranet suggestion box ● Periodical labor-management meeting ● Difficulties treatment system characteristics of the organization is needed. I would like to give high scores to the publication of the sustainability management report for two years in ●  reakfast meeting for B a row, even though KISA is a relatively small-sized public agency. I can recognize their efforts to express Business Strategy 2010 ● V  isit interview ● Seminar, meeting social the sustainability management results out of the whole organization based on international standards ● Seminar, forum, and meeting service activities, homepage by advisory committee such as GRI G3.1 and ISO 26000 Guidelines. However, it still leaves an impression that the sustainability ● Visit interview ● Founded Internet Shared Korea Internet Dream Star management strategy is not so much as clearly described. The report needs to describe how the unique ● Growth Consultative Group ● Public hearing projects of KISA, which have characteristics of public interest, affect the growth and development of the ● KISA visit program ● Homepage and KISA SNS Internet industry socially and economically in Korea. Also, the report needs to describe how innovation ● Surveying customer affects sustainable growth inside the organization as well as the characteristics of the social/environmental satisfaction ● Customer advisory group contribution in more details. In addition, the sustainability management report should present both ☎118 Center Ra, Young-jae ● remarkable achievements and shortcomings in a balanced way from the perspective of stakeholders, unlike ● Publishing KISA magazine the business performance evaluation report. The report seems to need improvement in that sense. It would Manager, Public Center Management Evaluation Team, be more effective if KISA establishes the sustainability management strategy that fits into its objectives and Korea Institute of Public Finance business characteristics, and publishes the report based on the strategy. I wish that KISA keeps playing a positive and leading role in the Internet industry area through its sustainability management. 12 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 13 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Sustainability Management Ⅴ. Materiality assessment It is an important part in sustainability management to understand what is important in managing the enterprise, and to solve the issue. KISA Identifying 5 key issues among 41 issues introduced an internal materiality assessment process, and now opens to public all processes of identifying and selecting issues transparently. According to the materiality assessment results, outside stakeholders pointed out KISA’s major business areas (securing new technology and policy development, advancement of the response system against the Internet incident, etc.) as important issues, whereas inside stakeholders placed more importance on the matters related to operations such as reasonable organization operation, organizational culture, working Materiality assessment process conditions, and practices. Finally, five core issues of KISA’s sustainability management were identified, namely: 1) advancing the response system KISA has conducted materiality assessment to identify major concerns of stakeholders and preferentially reflect them in management activities. against the Internet incident; 2) improving the level of privacy protection; 3) fostering industry and personnel regarding information security; First, KISA carried out analyses upon the present management condition and capability, sustainability management trend at home and abroad, 4) advancing the Internet address management system; and 5) international cooperation in broadcasting and communication. and media in order to select important issues in sustainability management. Priority of major issues collected by the analyses was determined based on analyses upon the level of stakeholder’s interest and business impact. Five core issues were extracted and confirmed as the final issues Results of materiality assessment through deliberation by internal staffs and outside experts. Outside (0~100%) 100 A Advancing the response system against the Internet incident Materiality assessment process A B Improving the level of privacy protection C B STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 D C Internet culture movement and ethical education Identifying issues Reviewing social interest Reviewing business impact CSM materiality matrix 80 E F D Fostering industry and personnel regarding information security G Identified 41 issues in total in the H E Securing new technologies and policy development I areas of general sustainability Conducted business impact Analyzed the level of interest in Created KISA’s materiality matrix 60 J K F Advancing the Internet address management system management, business area, analysis upon 22 KISA workingmajor issues among internal staffs level TFT members and considering social interest and society, economy, and environment G Identifying and supporting new Internet business and customers sustainability management experts business impact based on the analyses upon sustainability management trend, H Building up reasonable and smooth communication organizational culture management environment, and 40 media. I International cooperation in broadcasting and communication J Balance between work and life K Supporting the strengthening of capabilities of SMB 20 Major analysis methods for evaluation Various analysis methods were attempted during the phase of issue identification and review upon social interest and business impact. In addition, efforts were made to secure transparency during the evaluation and analysis based on arbitrary interpretation not to select issues that are only wanted by KISA. 0 20 40 60 80 100 Inside (0~100%) ● M  edia analysis: The media analysis solution SPCRM was used to identify the articles and major issues related to KISA’s sustainability management. High priority Medium priority Low priority ● S  ocial interest analysis: A survey was conducted for 317 persons inside and outside KISA. Emphasis was put on obtaining practical answers rather than securing a satisfying number of respondents when selecting the respondents and designing the questionnaire. Total of 195 ● A dvancing the response system against the Internet ● Providing transparent management information ● Systematic and effective movement to the outside of incident ● Reasonable HR/remuneration/ welfare system metropolitan areas employees participated in the employee survey, and questions were evaluated based on a scale of 0 to 7, considering the importance of each ● Improving the level of privacy protection. ● Increasing permanent staffs and reducing non-regular staff ● Observing laws and regulations issue. For this year’s customer survey, 122 key stakeholders (business related agency, partner, etc.) participated the individual survey to evaluate ● Internet culture movement and ethical education ● Corruption prevention and integrity improvement ● Improving employee’s safety and health F  ostering the information security industry and personnel Improving employee capability Human rights protection and consideration on the socially actual interest, while not overlooking the shortcomings from the 2011 survey, in which realistic and effective answers could not be obtained from ● ● ● ● Securing new technologies and policy development ● Inducing fair competition underprivilleged the survey which targeted general customers due to the lack of faithful answers. ● Advancing the Internet address management system ● R especting and protecting the intellectual property right ● Increasing PR activities for KISA ●  usiness impact analysis: 22 members of the internal sustainability management working-level committee and 11 specialized outside social B ● Identifying and supporting new Internet business ● Strengthening the customer satisfaction management system ● Local social contribution activities ● B  uilding up reasonable and smooth communication ● S  ocial contribution activities using the Internet capability ● Reducing wastes and using eco-friendly/recycled products responsibility consultants participated individually in reviewing and analyzing the business impact of each issue. organizational culture ● Establishing a sustainability management system ● Improving employee’s awareness of environment ● International cooperation in broadcasting and ● Establishing a risk management system communication ● Promoting energy efficiency and saving ● Balance between work and life ● Making public agencies advanced and efficient ● Supporting the strengthening of capabilities of SMB ● Securing proper personnel and budget ● Establishing Internet/IT governance ● Supporting overseas entry by domestic companies ● Efficient execution of the government budget ● Improving the customer response service ● Inducing promotion of social responsibility contribution by ● Policy research, survey, and analysis partners and IT industry ● Resolving information deficit within IT-isolated classes ● Leading and spreading the green IT industry 14 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 15 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Ⅰ. Creating a safe Internet use environment We’ve created a safe Internet Operating a security monitoring room to cope with incidents KISA is operating an integrated control room to quickly respond and prevent the Internet incidents that occur use environment! throughout the country. Using this facility, KISA is making efforts to minimize damages to enterprises and people by analyzing vulnerabilities of the new malicious codes and viruses, and issuing security notices and alarms. In addition, the monitoring and incident response system has been improved. For example, the screen in the integrated control room is replaced with the one that allows the actual control operator to recognize and Recently, Internet incidents are diversified and are becoming serious to the extent that national respond to the incident intuitively. security is threatened. To cope with these challenges, KISA is endeavoring to respond to various Internet incidents based on the world’s best wired/wireless network infrastructure. Over 1.8 million domestic web sites are monitored every day to detect hidden malicious codes, and preliminary actions are taken so that Internet users can use the domestic web site without being concerned about malicious code infection. In addition, experts are constantly scanning the domain and IP addresses which are being misused for the cyber-attack (hacking, malicious code, etc.), and block them in advance through cooperation with 8 ISPs (Internet Service Providers) to make the Internet use environment safer. Status of incident response support Category 2009 2010 2011 Number of web sites scanned 200,017 ea. 1,001,661 ea. 1,827,653 ea. to detect a hidden malicious code Number of detected/ 7,352 ea. 6,674 ea. 11,805 ea. corrected web sites Supporting analysis upon 77 times 91times 160 times hacking incident Supporting remote check of user PCs 3,847 times 6,162 times 18,000 times Worm virus 3,107 cases 3,417 cases 3,839 cases New threat Vulnerability 674 cases 743 cases 740 cases assessment Total 3,781 cases 4,160 cases 4,579 cases Number of web sites scanned Number of detected/corrected Supporting hacking to detect hidden malicious web sites (unit : 100) incident analysis (times) codes (unit : 10,000) 182 118 160 16 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 17 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Number of companies that used DDoS Shelter so as to block malicious traffic, while allowing an access by normal users. Shelter in 2011 Incident detection and response system 101 In particular, recurrence of malicious code infection was prevented by taking follw-up measures such Improving Security Developed Malicious code monitoring system detection system as treating and blocking zombie IPs and C&C servers that were secured through defending DDoS companies attacks. DDoS Shelter detected 71,508 zombie PCs (61% of 116,299 infected PCs) during the 3.4 DDoS Comprehensive incident analysis Quick malicious code analysis attack, and provided more than 3,000 free web site vulnerability check service to small business. Quick incident “DDoS Shelter” service provision status detection and response Category 2010 2011 Number of companies using the service 52 companies 101 companies Protecting SMB from the DDoS attack Quick information distribution among people regarding zombie PC treatment Number of cases preventing DDoS attack 25 60 Smart-phone security Establishing Cyber Curring system self-diagnosis App. Establishing DDoS Shelter for infected PC Response to mobile malicious code As the smart-phone becomes popular, a number of malicious codes designed to attack the smartphones are increasing as well. KISA has been preparing the response system by running the “Private Advancing the incident response system and Public Joint Response Team to Protect Smart-Phone Information” since 2010. KISA released Strengthening the monitoring of “Phone Keeper” in September 2011, which is the security self-diagnosis App that allows smart-phone Stagnant monitoring method Improving the response system to anomalies users to check security of their smart-phones by themselves occasionally. As of December 2011, Aged response system cope with new threats Establishing a quick analysis system more than 200,000 downloads were recorded. In addition, a technology which detects the existence of malicious codes in Apps that are being distributed among black markets was discovered, and shared with domestic mobile operators and anti-virus software companies. 3.4 Successful response to the DDoS attack KISA received a lot of praise at home and abroad by successfully defending against the ‘3.4 DDoS Providing public alarm/treatment service to remove zombie PCs attack’ in 2011. The information was quickly shared with related organizations to activate a mutualKISA has developed a cyber curing system for infected PCs open for public. It informs people assistance system, and DDoS Shelter was actively utilized. As a result, the 3.4 DDoS attack could be connecting to the Internet about infection status of PCs in use from malicious codes using a defended without serious damage, which was bigger in scale and more intelligent than the 7.7 DDoS popup window, and provides a computer vaccine program that can remove the malicious code attack in 2009. The attack could be effectively responded because the problems discovered during conveniently and quickly. When the large-scale DDoS incident occurred in March 2011, the DDoS the incident in 2009 were examined from diverse aspects and then significant improvements were attack information was distributed among Internet users, along with removal method and dedicated made. vaccine software. Consequently, those activities played an important part in defending against the DDoS attack without causing any serious damage. In addition, information security was advertised effectively and continuously on TV and representative mass media in order to create an environment Comparison of the response time between 7.7DDoS (2009) and 3.4DDoS (2011) that enables Internet users to protect their own information. Malicious code analysis Information on attacked agencies In 2009, it took 3 hours for 3 professional analysts time and access record collection time to analyze the malicious code during the 7.7 DDoS 12 hours attack, whereas 10 analysts were assigned to reduce the analysis time down to 1 hour during the 3.4 DDoS 3 hours attack in 2011. In addition, the process of collecting the information on attack and connection record took only 1 hour in 1 hours 1 hours 2011, compared to 12 hours in 2009, because DDoS Shelter detects zombie PCs directly instead of receiving log files from the victims. 7.7DDoS 3.4DDoS 7.7DDoS 3.4DDoS Operating DDoS Shelter for small businesses DDoS Shelter was opened in September 2010 for the small businesses and organizations that could not respond to the DDoS (Distributed Denial of Service) attack properly. Total of 101 companies used the DDoS Shelter and 60 attacks were defended in 2011. KISA minimized damages to DDoS victims’ business operation by quickly bypassing traffic to the victimized companies’ homepage to DDoS Internet Incidents Response Divisioin 18 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 19 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Ⅱ. Strengthening personal information protection We’ve strongly protected the Resolving difficulties related to infringements of personal information As the Personal Information Protection Act was put into force on September 30, 2011, targets for law personal information. enforcement were significantly expanded to public sectors, non-profit organization, and individuals (about 3.5 million), while infringement reports caused by infringement of personal information and relief requests have also increased. A quick and simple infrigenment relief system is required for damages caused by personal information infringement, since they spread fast, are difficult to restore into original state, and a large number Damage due to the infringement of personal information such as the disclosure of Resident Registration Number of victims can be affected. KISA is minimizing ingringement caused by infringement of personal information on the Internet is emerging as a major social issue lately. KISA is making efforts to prepare countermeasures to by running the Personal Information Infringement Report Center and Personal Information Dispute Mediation protect personal information in order to minimize potential damages and prevent incidents from the source. Committee. Operating the Personal Information Infringement Report Center The Personal Information Infringement Report Center, founded in April 2000, receives citizens’ infringement of personal information claims raised against business/public agencies, and takes necessary follow-up measures after investigating the relevant facts. Number of reports received by the Personal Information Infringement Report Center Category 2009 2010 2011 Report 2,139 cases 1,788 cases 2,556 cases Consultation 33,028 cases 53,044 cases 119,659 cases Total 35,167 cases 54,832 cases 122,215 cases The number of reports and consultancy requests received by the Personal Information Infringement Report Center is increasing every year (from 35,167 in 2009 to 54,832 in 2010). In 2011, total of 122,215 cases were accepted, which is 123% increase (67,383 cases) over a year ago, because citizens’ complaints and private enterprises’ consultation requests increased due to several cases of personal information leakage incident and enforcement of the Personal Information Protection Act is making multifaceted efforts in coping with the increasing trends, including the policy of handling incident reports by area, assigning experts with Ph. D degree related to laws and technologies, and publication of FAQ information book regarding the Personal Information Protection Act. The Number of web sites that do Search for leaking Resident The Number of case of using the not collect Resident Registration Registration Numbers “Resident Registration Number Numbers or web sites that (unit: 100 pages) Clean Center” (unit: 10,000 cases) introduced i-PIN (unit: 10 sites) 235 1,103 362 20 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 21 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Internet. The revised Act on Protection of Information and Communications Network Utilization and Follow-up measures Information Protection, ETC. was enforced on August 18, 2012, and aims to create a clean Internet environment by 2014, in which no resident registration numbers are required. In addition, KISA will improve user’s awareness about the use of Resident Registration Numbers and monitor how the Difficulty resolution· Improving service Request for administraRequest for service providers collect resident registration numbers and use Resident Registration Numbers so Damage relief provider’s execution tive measure (fine, investigation correction order) that alternative methods can be used more widely. In order to achieve this, KISA opened the “Internet Resident Registration Number Clean Center” on May 11, 2012 to support small businesses having no Personal Information Dispute Mediation Opening ceremony of the Committee sufficient technical personnel and provide technology-related consultation service. “Personal Informtion Security Technology Cancel web site membership, Recommending Requesting administrative meaRequesting an investigation personal information deletion, conformity to the laws sures to the Ministry of Public to the prosecutors office and Support Center” and compensation for damages Administration and Security, police regarding violation of through dispute mediation, etc. Korea Communications Comthe criminal laws Daily average decrease in the number of web pages that expose Resident Registration Numbers mission, etc. 1,503cases Personal Information Dispute Mediation Committee The Personal Information Dispute Mediation Committee was founded in December 2001 in 93.35% decrease The daily average number of pages that accordance with Article 40, Personal Information Protection Act. The committee is a quasi-judicial expose Resident Registration Numbers among organization that accepts disputes between parties related to personal information and solves them domestic web sites dropped from 1,503 cases 581cases through reasonable and smooth mediation. Everyone can apply for the mediation if a dispute arises 5.7% decrease in 2007 to 100 in 2011 (93.35% decrease). This due to personal information issues. Application contents can contain active exercises of rights, 192cases was possible due to the monitoring of the 105cases exposure of Resident Registration Numbers all 100cases including stopping of law offenses, claim for damages, and right to request for retrieval/correction/ year around. deletion of personal information, etc. As the group dispute mediation (if a number of victims of 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 violated right are over 50) is introduced in the Personal Information Protection Act, several cases of dispute can be solved collectively by only one-time mediation. Approximately 500 protection-related disputes have been processed over the last 3 years, and the number of dispute resolution is likely to Promotion of i-PIN use rise more in the future. KISA recommends the use of i-PIN (Personal Identification Number) as an alternative to Resident Registration Numbers to minimize the use of Resident Registration Numbers on the Internet and Application of dispute mediation prevent personal information infringement. KISA has been promoting the self-information protection campaign since 2009 to increase the opportunity of using i-PIN and improve people’s recognition Internet Phone/Fax/E-mail Visit about i-PIN, and improving user’s convenience by reducing the length of procedure necessary for issuing/authentication of i-PIN as well as improving the user interface. As a result, the number of issued i-PINs increased from 640,000 in 2008 to 4,530,000 in 2011. The number of sites that do not Acceptance notice Application and receipt for dispute mediation Case Screening collect Resident Registration Numbers or ones that introduce i-PIN increased from 1,791 in 2010 to 2,345 Complaint resolution / Transfer to other agency, etc. in 2011 (31% increase). Evidence collection, Fact investigation expert data, etc. Personal Information Security Technology Support Center for small businesses Recommending agreement Yes Small businesses, which usually lack the level of recognition, budget, and specialty, have difficulties Agreement before mediation in protecting their personal information although targets of the Personal Information Protection Act application were expanded. KISA provides a variety of support through Mediation and decision-making No Civil suit or waiving the Personal Information Security Technology Support Center founded in October in 2011, including consultation about compulsory security measures in accordance to the Personal Information Protection Act, provision of web vulnerability check End service, security solution distribution (e.g., vaccine), and online education on compulsory security measures. Policy of limiting the collection and use of the Resident Registration Number A legal and systematic policy was prepared to limit the collection and use of the Resident Registration Numbers on the Internet in order to fundamentally solve the problems of illegal use and violation, which is caused by the leakage of Resident Registration Numbers information out on the Personal information protection division / Personal information security division 22 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 23 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Ⅲ. Spreading healthy Internet culture We’ve led the healthy Awareness-raising of Internet ethics KISA created an Internet ethics logo (Todagi), character (Wellie), and jingle song (“Click love! Click Internet culture movement. compliment!”), and produced public service advertisements related to Internet ethics through collaboration with Korea Broadcast Advertising Corporation (KOBACO). The produced advertisements were delivered to public via various media such as movie theatres, convenience stores, outdoor billboards, and cable TV and Internet broadcasting. The Internet Ethics Experience was operated in major cities like Seoul, Daejeon, Busan, and Spreading of healthy Internet culture is urgently needed, as the social problems caused by Internet dysfunction Gwangju, and about 235,000 visitors received experience-purposed Internet ethical education. Also, an Internet such as malicious comments and spread of false information becomes more serious. KISA is making efforts to Ethics Competition Award was held, in which total 1,674 UCCs, catchphrases, posters, and other materials correct unethical behavior on the Internet by implementing continuous Internet cultural movement and ethical were received and the award was given to winners. Through these activities, KISA is trying to improve people’s education. Internet ethics awareness. In addition, Internet ethics self-diagnosis program and education service are provided online to improve people’s Internet ethics awareness. Total 36,770 persons used the service in 2011. 2nd term Korea Internet Dream Star The “Korea Internet Dream Star” was established in 2010, which is an organization comprising primary and middle school students, in order to foster next-generation Internet leaders and guide healthy Internet culture. The Korea Internet Dream Star is contributing to the spread of sound Internet culture by taking part in various Internet-related activities both online and offline, including posting positive comments, reporter group, training, campaign, and social service activities. The 1st term Korea Internet Dream Star was participated with 831 students, and the number of members for the 2nd term in 2011 increased to 2,853. Total 4,929 students participated in 18 areas. Korea Internet Dream Beautiful Internet Internet ethical Star member students World Week participants education participants (unit: 100 students) (unit: 100 persons) (unit: 100 persons) 29 392 668 24 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 25 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Conducting “Creating a Beautiful Internet World in 2011” Campaign Internet ethical education for school parents The “Creating a Beautiful Internet World Week in 2011” declaration ceremony and various campaign KISA implemented Internet ethical education for the school parents who raise children and teenagers. activities were performed in association with “National Alliance for Creating a Beautiful Internet The lectures for the school parents were delivered in association with local autonomous bodies such World(AINSE). About 40,000 persons participated in 37 campaign activities, including online vow as Songpa-gu, Gangnam-gu, and Seongbuk-gu, and total 630 parents participated. In addition, the campaign, Golden Bell ethics class, Beautiful Internet World street campaign, and Internet filial “Internet ethics Golden Bell quiz contest” was held for the school parents, together with the “positive duty ’Hyo’ album presentation ceremony. In particular, “one campaign per one organization” was comments politics group” of the National Assembly, in order to improve school parents’ Internet performed between Beautiful Internet World Pan-national Council and related organizations to ethics awareness. “2011 Making Beautiful Internet World Week” declaration ceremony encourage the participation by every class of the society. Those campaigns were recognized to contribute to propagate healthy Internet use culture and induce pan-national interest and Internet ethical education for teachers “Internet ethics Golden Bell quiz contest” participation. Internet ethical education was implemented for 2,622 teachers throughout the country, including participated by school parents school inspectors, school vice-commissioners, principals, vice-principals, and teachers. The Happy silver world together with IT training program received full marks in the level of satisfaction. KISA helped the IT exhibition and experience events for the silver generation in October 2011 for the first time in Korea, together with SilverNet News and Korea Communications Agency. Beginning with Satisfaction with Intention to recommend Category overall education the course to others “Clean Internet Resolution Rally” to make the Internet world clean at all times, IT culture experience, Education CEO Leadership 100% 96.6% Happy silver world together with IT training, and job information were provided. KISA received favorable responses from the elderly participants by exhibiting the Internet filial duty ‘Hyo’ album system, which shows photos on a TV Teacher Training 97.3% 93.5% monitor sent by their grandchildren using smart-phones. Also, Silver Internet Ethics Experience pavilion and self-diagnosis experience booth were prepared for the participants to experience the Internet ethical education for Internet neglected class harmful Internet environment such as malicious comments and defamation, and diagnose the level The Internet ethical education program was implemented for the vulnerable social classes such of Internet ethics awareness by themselves. as the handicapped youth, infants, and military servicemen. Internet ethical education teaching materials for the handicapped youths were developed and pilot education programs were provided. Internet ethics class after school for teenagers Also, short/long-term Internet ethical education programs for the infants were developed, and public KISA is promoting the Internet ethical education to create healthy Internet use culture. The “Internet participation of kindergartens to receive the education was invited, educating 5,976 children at 100 ethics class after school,” which allows students to create their own UCC to understand desirable kindergartens. The Internet ethical education video for soldiers was produced in association with the Internet use methods, was opened for 7,998 students at 291 schools. Also, the “lecture tour on Internet Defense Agency for Public Information Services, with the help of the Defense Security Command. ethics”, which includes lectures on Internet ethics practice methods, quiz contest, and campaign The education is currently being implemented for 600,000 soldiers. activities, was performed for 10,960 students at 60 schools. In addition, the ““Creative activities on Internet literacy”, which utilizes new Internet services like SNS and UCC, was delivered as regular Designated as an education donation agency class materials for 53 selected schools. The superiority and creativity of KISA’s Internet ethical education programs were recognized by Internet ethics logo and character the Ministry of Education, Science and Technology, and thus designated as an education donation agency and received an educational donation mark (DE). The education donation (DE) institution Logo Jingle song Character is designated by the government for certain companies or universities which implement exemplary experience education for primary, middle, and high school students in order to reinforce the public education with its competitiveness. Click love, click compliment! Beautiful Internet world ● Embodying a hand trumpet that ● An expression that reminds us of ● Symbolizing a whale that defeats spreads a complimentary remark. Internet ethics and beautiful Internet malicious comments and spreads ● Cheering up the people suffering from world, which is funny, lovely, and positive comments by crisscrossing malicious comments by tapping their friendly enough for all people to sing the information ocean “Internet”, and shoulder. along comforts and encourages suffering people with big ideas and generosity Internet Culture Development Division 26 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 27 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Ⅳ. Fostering the information security industry KISA nurtured the information security Reinforcing technical skills of the industry through technology transfer and test lab provision KISA is supporting technical skill reinforcement of the industry through technology transfer and test lab industry and relevant personnel. provision. KISA developed 3 new technologies and applied 29 patents to acquire the copyright, including the “VoIP firewall”, in order to improve the competitiveness of the local security products. In particular, 6 technologies developed by KISA were transferred at a low price, and successfully commercialized. In addition, international standardization is promoted to support the entry of domestic products into the world market. In While the information security market in the world is growing rapidly, the information security market in Korea 2011, 16 international standard contributions were adopted with regards to smart service security, strengthening occupies only 1.8% of the world market shares. In particular, dependence on foreign products in the new product market the information security infrastructure, incident response, and biometrics technology, which exceeded (1,119 area is high, which requires reinforcement within the competitiveness of the information security technology. KISA cases/100 million won) the target (1,063 cases/100 million won). endeavors to foster the information security industry such as strengthening the competitiveness of industry information security technology, supporting for entering the overseas market, and nurturing the expert. Technology development support results in 2011 Item Technology transfer Int’l standard contribution Int’l standard establishment Support results 6 cases 16 papers 5 standards Efforts and achievements of the biometric test/certification service to promote entry into overseas markets Efforts Achievements ● Developed a new biometric (iris, vein) database. The number of provided services increased from 5 in 2010 ●  Secured international public confidence by applying the KOLAS ●  to 7 in 2011. (Korea Laboratory Accreditation Scheme) methodology. ● Laid  the foundation of entering the global market in the ● Improved the test database quality, and promoted automation iris and vein area Test lab-using Increased supply of Nurturing information companies security control personnel security personnel (unit: a company) (unit: person) (unit: person) 126 81 780 28 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 29 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency KISA is reinforcing a nurturing system for the knowledge information security industry by providing Expanding home and overseas markets by supporting overseas market development a test lab, which is equipped with an expensive test environment that cannot be prepared by small As the demand on security personnel is increasing due to the regulation (Article 10.2, National Cyber venture enterprises due to high costs and can be shared by them. In particular, the mobile security Safety Management Regulations) which mandates the outsourced operation of the security control test bed was built in 2011 and opened in 2012, which allows various tests in a mobile environment. center at public agencies, KISA improved the existing manpower training and develoment program The test-bed supported the technology and product development of the SME by providing a 24x7 on the information security are into practical forms of programs such as security control practice operation service and 24 technical documents in 7 areas, including the performance evaluation training by level and visit to the control center, as well as is currently operating the customized index, test methodology, and simulation. As more wireless and mobile devices are becoming popular training course that fits into market demand. In addition, KISA supports overseas market entry by in the government and public agencies like the smart works, KISA developed test scenarios and local companies based on the systematic overseas market development program. Besides, KISA methodologies that fit into the government security specification, to enhance the competitiveness of supported overseas market development and marketing activities for 53 local information security the mobile industry. KISA will expand the national information security market by developing security companies in 2011 by implementing a phased export support project: selecting strategic countries technologies and supporting standardization and product development, which are specialized for the for market development by conducting an enterprise market survey, followed by providing the new convergence services that are rapidly growing such as smart grid and cloud. corresponding market information, developing the overseas market, and finally localization. Effects of using the test lab Supported 66 information security companies’ overseas market development and marketing activities Effects of reducing the product development duration (%) Effects of reducing the product development cost (1,000 won) Number of supported com59.8 Item Results 60 60,000 panies 53.7 56,189 50 50,000 Customized support 8 companies Supported marketing, consulting, and product localization 40 40,000 42,094 Consultation meeting (4 times), Achieved 875% ROI from consultation and exhibition in 2011 (400 58 companies 36.9 35.8 Exhibition (3 times) million won investment vs. 3.5 billion won contracted amount) 30 30,000 25,881 20 20,000 17,550 10 10,000 Phased export support business 0 0 on on uri ty All on on uri ty All nti nti ec tem nti nti ec tem ve tem reve stem ve tem reve stem Export preparation phase Obtaining the overseas market information and supporting PR and marketing pre sys p sy te d s sys pre sys p s y te d s sys io n oS ra ion oS ra rus DD eg rus DD eg Int Int Int Int Supporting participation in famous overseas exhibition (Source: Final report on the analysis of “Knowledge Information Security Industry Holding a business consultation meeting for strategic countries Market development phase Support Center” operation and development measures) Identifying strategic partners, and supporting domestic company networking New convergence of the information security industry, and creating a leading technology development Localization phase Package-typed, customized export support infrastructure ● Increasing test lab operation and supporting Increased test lab operation and technologies for tests In order to foster the knowledge information security expert, KISA selected 780 field engineers and test technology support ● Developing and operating 10G class DDoS test bed implemented trainings to reinforce in-service capabilities by reflecting field demands. Among them, ●  Increased test lab use (103→126 cases) 46 senior engineers were produced by running an employment contract-type Masters course, and Providing the test environ● D  eveloping and operating the mobile security test bed employed in the specialized information security company. As a result, the difference between ●  Providing a mobile App, mobile office, and wireless New converment in the mobile area, and manpower demand and supply was reduced by 31% in the information security industry. traffic test environment gence of the strengthening competitiveness ●  Developing the mobile security test scenarios and information sein the mobile security industry In addition, as the demand on security control experts increases, practical training methodologies curity industry, programs were provided and demand-oriented training courses were organized and and creatProviding expanded biometric tests and certifications ing a leading ● ● Providing fingerprint and face recognition performance operated, such as security control practice training by level and visit to the control Providing the test certificate for technology knowledge information security test and certification (7 cases) center. As a result, 37 and 81 security controllers were supplied to the information ● Developing a new iris, vein, falsification and alteration development products, and expanding the (fingerprint) database (96.000 sheets) security industry market in 2010 and 2011 respectively, which can satisfy the infrastructure scope (biometrics area) ●  Establishing new test and certification methodology demands by 29% assuming that one engineer works for 280 public agencies. such as the product infrastructure and CCTV. ● 16 cases of information security technology development Developing the source security and standardization, including M2M and biometrics. technology for convergence ● 6 cases of developing and distributing (technology services and standardization transfer) information security source technology, such as the VoIP firewall. Industry Development division 30 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 31 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Ⅴ. Strengthening the Internet address management system KISA has advanced the Internet Laying the foundation of the next-generation Internet address resources As the demand on the Internet address system, IP is rapidly growing and IPv4 is being obsolete fast with the address management system. development of Internet and Internet-accessible devices like smart-phones, transition to the next-generation Internet address resource IPv6 is required. KISA established a roadmap to transit to the IPv6 for ISPs (Internet Service Provider) in early stages, and is carrying out the phased implementation strategy. As the new allocation of IPv4, which is the current Internet infrastructure system, was terminated as of April IP address/AS number allocation and member management 2011, distribution of the next-generation address resource IPv6 is urgently required. KISA encourages service KISA allocates IP addresses and Autonomous System(AS) number, and manages members of IP addresses providers to transit to the IPv6 system, and promotes the Internet address market. management agency to provide the IP addresses and AS numbers to domestic ISPs. KISA received the IP addresses and AS number from the APNIC (Asia Pacific Network Information Center), and is allocating them to domestic ISPs. KISA is contributing to the stable supply of the domestic IP addresses by achieving 100% IP addresses allocation ratio compared to the IP addresses application. In addition, 8 ISPs newly secured IPv6 addresses as a result of the KISA’s activities that encourage the ISPs to switch to the IPv6. Consequently, total 57 domestic ISPs (47%) acquired IPv6. IPv6 use diffusion roadmap IANA IPv4 stopped 2013 new allocation 2012 IPv6-based smart 2011 Internet service Applying virtuous development 2010 IPv6 circulation of IPv6 2009 support system ● Supporting commercial IPv6 IPv6 service development  stablishing virtuous E IPv6 application service ● ● Strengthening development circulation system backbone network ● IPv6 action plan competitiveness of the ● Global IPv6 application establishment ● Promoting phased future advanced service ● A  pplying application transition service ● Applying IPv6 to ● Test bed establishment backbone network ●  Applying expanded research network Mission Increased IPV6 application in Korea IP/AS number-securing status in 2011 Number of Newly secured Accumulated Rank for secured Type Secured Remark application address address addresses IPv4 address 68 68 8,753,664 112,201,216 5th in the world 100% compared with application IPv6 address 10 10 10(/32) 5,219(/32) 9th in the world 100% compared with application AS number 1 1 100 1,005 12th in the world KISA secures in advance and allocates later Market Size of National ISP’s IPV6 DNS configuration domain names size Address error ratio (%) (unit: 10,000 domains) securing ratio (%) 131 47 8.82 32 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 33 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency 2011 Business Performances Promoting ccTLD, and supporting the domestic domain industry Ⅵ. Strengthening the information security base Introducing Korean ccTLD ‘.한국’ KISA, as the national registry of internet address resources, has introduced the Internationalized Country-code Domain Names (IDN ccTLD) to the public,. and is pro-actively responding to the policy changes at the national and international level by taking them as new opportunities. First, KISA introduced “.한국” at the Country-code Top Level Domain (ccTLD) level. The “.한국” domain service was launched on May 25, 2011, and 210,623 domain names have been registered. As a result, the ccTLD market size expanded by 20%, from 1 million and 70 thousand domain names in 2010 to 1 KISA is trying to improve the information security capability in the public and private sector in addition to the development of the incident response million and 310 thousand domain names in 2011. system. KISA is doing its best to reinforce the information security infrastructure, such as expanding the information security infrastructure, reinforcing the stability of the public certification service, evaluating information security products, and strengthening the certification infrastructure. Supporting the acquisition of new gTLD management right KISA provided specialized information about the new generic top level domains (gTLDs) to domestic Improving the level of infrastructure facility information security enterprises, and prepared the service provider support plan. According to the results of Internet The “Information and Communication Infrastructure Protection Act” was legislated in 2001 to protect Corporation of Assigned Names and Numbers(ICANN) first round of new gTLD application, 4 domestic important national facilities. The act mandates analysis and assessment upon vulnerabilities and enterprises, including SamsungSDS and Doosan, applied for a new gTLD such as “.samsung” and establishment of protective measures every year. The applicable infrastructure includes information “.doosan.” KISA continuously provides the information on the application progress (e.g. evaluation, and communication infrastructure facilities managed by the government and public agencies, as well objection) and supports system operation for 3 new gTLDs based on the service provider support as the facilities operated and managed by private companies. 12 central administrative agencies, plan. KISA also obtains the list of new gTLDs applied by foreign organizations, provides the related 115 management agencies, and 186 infrastructures were designated as managing facilities in the information, and informs how to raise a claim to the interested parties so that they can protect their fields of national security, administration, national defense, public order, finance, broadcasting and rights (e.g. trademark). communication, transport, and energy. There will erupt a serious impact upon people’s daily lives Workshop about protecting major information and economic stability once the cyber abusing activities is committed within any of those fields. communication infrastructure Implementation of the new Root DNS Server to in Korea KISA and ICANN have agreed to implement the top level Root DNS mirror server to Korea, which Improving e-Government’s civil service connects the domain name to the IP address, during the ICANN meeting in March 2012. KISA has To improve the security of the e-Government’s civil service, KISA performs various duties such as continuously raised the need of implementing the root DNS mirror server for the stability of the supporting the development of e-Government information security management system (G-ISMS), domestic Internet infrastructure, and has arranged interviews with the chairman of the ICANN board checking security vulnerabilities of the e-Government web site, and researching on the actual of directors and CEO of ICANN to discuss about the matter. As a result, the Root DNS mirror server conditions of national cyber safety level. was successfully implemented. 348 Root DNS mirror servers are operated in the world, including A ~ M 13 original servers and replication servers, and as a result of successful implementation on this Supporting the development of e-Government information security management system (The G-ISMSC) occasion, Korea now operates 4 Root DNS mirror servers. As Korea has additional Root DNS mirror Workshop about protecting The G-ISMSC (Government Information Security Management System) was introduced to enhance servers, Internet stability will be strengthened and overseas traffic will be reduced from a long-term e-government information the security of the government agencies’ information system in 2009. The certification target was view, and economic benefits can be obtained by reducing the international line costs of domestic expanded to educational institutes and medical institutions in 2011, and certificates were issued to network service provider. total 22 organizations. Removing security vulnerabilities of the e-Government web site Internet Address Management Center KISA has been carrying out a simulated hacking-based vulnerability disclosure and supporting improvement measures for the web site operated by the central government and local autonomous bodies. In 2011, vulnerability removal support was provided to 1,504 web sites in total, and the security guide was distributed and training was provided for web site administrators at the same time to reinforce response capabilities. 34 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 35 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency 2011 Business Performances 2011 Business Performances Improving e-Government web sites safety vulnerabilities Creating a safe use environment for information security products Since 2010, KISA has been supporting a trial hacking-based vulnerability diagnosis as well as improvement measures for web sites managed by both central and local governments. In 2011, some Evaluation/certification policy for information security product 1,504 web sites were supported with vulnerability improvement, while the measure of distributing The evaluation/certification policy for information security product is designed to verify the safety and educating security guidebook targeting web site operators in order to strengthen their response and reliability of the security function so that users can use with confidence the information security capabilities was taken at the same time. products that were developed by the private companies in accordance with the international standard ISO 15408 (Common Criteria). KISA evaluated 165 information security products by 2011. Research on the actual condition of national cyber safety level The actual condition of national cyber safety level was surveyed for 1,800 public agencies and 6,000 Supporting the small-sized development companies individual Internet users in 2011. The statistical data will be accumulated for comparison on an annual KISA supported small-sized development companies by reducing the evaluation fee for their basis so that the cyber safety level and effects of the related policies in Korea can be measured and information security product by half once every year. Total 36 companies have saved 1 billion won in managed systematically. evaluation fee since the discount program was started in 2008. In addition, KISA held the “Information Security Product Evaluation and Certification Conference” in May 2011 to inform the latest trend of the Electronic signature certification management technologies and policies related to evaluation/certification, as well as to enable security managers As the public certificate applicable area is expanding to new areas such as electronic civil service, of the product purchaser (governmental/public agencies) to see and check the products at a glance. healthcare, education, and electronic contract, the number of public certificate issuance increased to 26.55 million in 2011. As the public certificate application area and issuance frequency increase, and the risk of hacking (disclosure of a public certificate) is also rising, KISA is focusing on reinforcing the security and reliability of electronic signature management. Cl i ck k now l edge Safe operation of the supreme certificate authority, and managing /supervising public certification agency KISA conducted 24x7 non-stop operation of the certification service and fault response exercise at the supreme certificate authority for 8 times to prevent the malfunction of public certification service Forecasting of major 7cyber threats 01. 05. and strengthen the security in 2011. KISA also conducted regular inspection on 5 public certification Cyber-attacks against major national events will Vulnerabilities of the local software having many users agencies with regard to the stable operation of the public certification system, and 62 new increase. will be attacked. registration agents by public certification agency. Besides, the lost public certification report system ● Domestic: Nuclear Security Summit, Yeosu Expo, general Production and diffusion of the malicious code that exploits the ●  was developed in association with 118 Center, and 5,300 lost public certificate reports were handled. election, presidential election, etc. security vulnerabilities of Korean word processor and video/ ● Overseas: U.S. Presidential Election, London Olympic, etc. music player ● Attack type: DDoS, phishing, spam e-mail, etc. 02. 06. Improving the use environment of the public certification service More malicious code will be diffused via web hard Security threats against the cloud service will increase. The trial service was provided, which allows the development of the public certificate use technology and SNS. ● Dimension sharing, service concentration, vulnerability of as a means of protecting the personal information and joining the membership of Civil Petition 24 ●  alicious code distribution using the dedicated web hard M the virtualization technology, etc. Site with a public certificate without the need of using the resident registration numbers. In addition, program and contents ● DDoS against the cloud service, malicious code diffusion, ●  Malicious code distribution in association with popular etc. implementation suitability evaluation was performed for 10 security token products to increase search words and URL shortcut the use of security tokens having the public certificate disclosure prevention function. And, TV commercial campaign regarding the safe use of a public certificate was also promoted. 03. ● The APT attack that hijacks national, corporate, and personal information will persist. A  PT attack using the social engineering technique that 07. DDoS attack threats against the DNS server will increase. ● DDoS attack against homepages: A particular site cannot be accessed. Expanding the basis of using a new electronic certification means deceives people ●  DDoS attack against the DNS: Several sites cannot be KISA performs supreme certificate authority’s encryption certification for governmental and public ● Intelligent malicious code/C&C hiding to reduce a possibility accessed simultaneously. of detection agencies. KISA issued a ECDSA device certificate after reviewing the security status of the Korea Electronic Certification Authority and Korea Information Certificate Authority in 2011. In addition, safety criteria study was conducted for the safe introduction and operation of the electronic certification 04. Realization of security threats due to mobile malicious code ● Increased diffusion through the open private/Google service (e.g. bio, etc.). Android App market ●  Few malicious codes that are sophisticatedly programmed are more threatening than the frequency of appearance 36 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 37 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency 2011 Business Performances Ⅶ. Taking the lead in developing Internet policies Timely policy trend analysis and data provision are required to set up the efficient government policy and business strategy in the private sector in Also, KISA provides a variety of information comprehensively and systematically to the users by response to the changes happening in the global Internet environment. KISA analyzes the policy trend and shares the information in the Internet publishing the whitepaper regarding the latest issues and statistics at home/abroad with regard to area, and contributes to the establishment of the desirable policy direction and strategy. the Internet and information security, and by running the Internet Statistics Information System (ISIS). Law/policy study to promote the Internet and information security Internet policy study Many policy issues have been raised in the information and security area. The risk of incidents on KISA is presenting a desirable policy direction and vision by analyzing the policy trend in the the information and communication network is increasing and the scale of damage has become Internet area, and forecasting Internet development in future society. Recently, the IT area is facing enormous, since the Internet technology and service environment are becoming more intelligent and Smart work law/policy seminar a revolution with the evolving environment, in which the explosively increasing data becomes an converged, as well as more people are recognizing the importance of privacy protection. As a result, economic asset due to the popularization of the mobile Internet, social network service (SNS), the demand on preparing the efficient solution is also increasing to solve those issues. machine to machine (M2M), and cloud service. That is, coming of the age of “big data” is now being materialized. The rapid change among such Internet-related areas, as well as intensified competition KISA actively supported the revised bill “Act on Promotion of Information & Communications Network Internet & Security Issue among global Internet enterprises and entry into the Hyper Connectivity society, requires KISA to Utilization & Information Protection” (abbreviated as “Information and communication network reinforce internal and external capabilities and respond to various social demands with agility. law”), which stipulates the unification of the “Information security and safety diagnosis” and ISMS (Information Security Management System) certification, prior information security check, prohibition Accordingly, KISA provides various Internet policy raw data, including “Weekly Internet Trend” of resident registration number collection as a general rule, and obligatory notification of personal that quickly delivers the new information of the Internet security area, “(Monthly) Internet & information use details. KISA also participated in the preparation of the revised “Enforcement Security Issues” designed to review the new IT trend and lead the policy issues, and “Internet and Ordinance for Privacy Act” to improve the effectiveness of national policies for personal information Information Security (IIS)” Internet policy academic journal. Besides, KISA supports national policy protection. In addition, KISA provided practical supports during the revision of “Electronic Signature establishment such as the development of the mid-to-long term strategies and policies in the Act” and “Information and Communication Infrastructure Protection Law.” Internet field, and takes the lead in establishing the policies in the Internet area. KISA supported legislative proceedings such as the “Malicious Program Diffusion Prevention Act” Survey and analysis upon Internet issue and service that contains the efficient prior/follow-up measures against the DDoS attack by zombie PCs, as the KISA produces and provides various statistics on the Internet and information security area. As of DDoS attack causes large-scale damage throughout the national information and communication 2012, KISA publishes 10 national statistics, which are widely used for the development of related infrastructure, and “Smart Work Promotion Act for Broadcasting and Communication” to introduce policies, business strategy establishment, and academic research. In addition, KISA understands and propagate the smart work in Korea and protect smart workers. Besides, KISA conducted a the trend of international indices and provides the raw data for international index evaluation items research on preparing the draft for “Cloud Computing Development and User Protection Act” to make through the cooperation with international organizations, including the ITU and OECD. a law to promote domestic cloud services in 2012. Status of national statistics preparation in the Internet and information security area In addition, KISA is making efforts to identify the problems of current legal systems and prepare improvements to keep pace with the changes in technology/service in the Internet and information Area Statistics name Statistics type security area. KISA published “Internet law trend” every month, and conducted basic research on Research on the actual condition Designated statistics (No. 12005) improving the overall legal system by running the “Internet law and policy forum,” which contributed of Internet use to the improvement of the specialized capabilities of Internet-related laws and policies in Korea. Research on the actual condition of Additional research on the condition of Internet use by foreigners living in Korea Internet use Internet Research on the actual condition of wireless Internet use General statistics (No. 32902) Additional research on the condition of Research on the actual condition of smart-phone use Internet use Internet infrastructure statistics Report statistics (No. 32901) Research on the actual condition of General statistics (No. 34201) information security (enterprise) Research on the actual condition General statistics (No. 34205) of information security (individuals) Information Research on the actual condition security General statistics (No. 11028) of national cyber safety level Research on the quantity of spams received by mobile phones General statistics (No. 34204) Research on the quantity of spams received by e-mails 38 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 39 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency 2011 Business Performances Ⅷ. Diffusing new Internet services As the future Internet is a global trend that will determine national competitiveness in the 21st century, many countries are now exerting multilateral Strengthening the ecosystem infrastructure for the future Internet efforts, such as reinforcing the future Internet technical competence and securing core technologies. KISA, the representative Internet agency KISA tried to reinforce the industry promotion and ecosystem infrastructure in the future Internet area. in Korea, is also preparing for the future by creating an industrial ecosystem and identifying and supporting a new business model to secure The “Future Internet Promotion Committee” was established in March 2011 to support the policies competitiveness in the future Internet market. of the Korea Communications Commission, and it consolidated the Internet industry development foundation suitable for the development/convergence-type ecosystem environment based on the “Internet development plan to prepare for the future,” which was reported to the VIP in June. During Nurturing Internet service ecosystem the “Global Future Internet Week” held at the end of 2011, 29 CEO-level attendants from the future Laying the foundation of Internet PR distribution Internet field in 11 countries, including the U.S. and EU, were invited and delivered the lectures KISA received comments about difficulties and suggestion from the industries related to the Internet related to the future Internet. In addition, KISA operated the Future internet Operation Committee and mobile advertisement by holding “Internet/Mobile advertisement business network” and “Smart and four working groups, published the future Internet trend (newsletter) and issue analysis report Ad & App networking day”, and reflected them in setting up the policy. In addition, the network among during the quarterly seminar, and distributed them to the industrial, academic, research experts service providers was promoted to share the related information, trend, and continuous development and related institutions. KISA also led the internationalization at home and abroad by identifying the of Internet mobile advertisement business. future Internet standardization task for each working group and announcing the task results for the Inaugural assembly of Korea NFC standardization workshop during the “Global Future Internet Week” event. Standardization Forum Technology development and base establishment for future Internet convergence services KISA implemented two pilot project items through the preliminary demand survey on future Nurturing newly-converged contents business convergence services, and exhibited services that were successfully developed during the “Global Supporting the production of interactive broadcasting contents Future Internet Week” event. In addition, KISA conducted PR and external cooperation activities to KISA has been improving the TV viewing pattern and supporting the production of interactive improve the awareness about the future Internet, such as presenting of the future Internet policy and broadcasting contents, including new business models, by linking together the smart technology and technology vision by holding specialized conference and small-scale seminars regarding the Future two-way broadcasting. In 2011, KISA produced and supported 196 creative interactive broadcasting Internet. contents and broadcasted them using the interactive broadcasting media. In addition, KISA produced 1,810 subtitles for 665 programs using the interactive multilingual subtitle service (Korean, English, Promoting Near Field Communication (NFC) payment and application service Chinese, Japanese, and Vietnamese), and provided two platform services. In order to promote the domestic NFC industry, the “Implementation plan to promote NFC-based mobile smart life services” was established by organizing and operating an expert task force team Supporting the promotion of Internet media services related to NFC, which was joined by the Korea Communications Commission, KISA, ETRI, TTA, and The new type of Internet/mobile advertisement test panel was organized and operated in order MOIBA, and by collecting opinions from NFC-related industries and academic circle. In addition, to achieve the growth of the online advertisement market and promotion of the advertisement 19 organizations, including the Korea Communications Commission, KISA, three mobile operators, application market. In addition, the foundation for market competitiveness reinforcement was laid for credit card companies, and VAN providers, signed MOU to establish the cooperation foundation. the small and medium sized private companies that participated in the project, by providing the raw Also, the “Korea NFC Standardization Forum” was founded to develop and diffuse NFC application data for test App evaluation and improvement. services. The “Myeongdong NFC Zone” was developed, and the demonstration service was provided for three months from November 2011 in the Myeongdong area where many natives and foreigners are passing by. Also, the NFC payment service was applied to some 200 shops, including Cl i ck k now l edge the coffee shops, convenience stores, and fast food restaurants, and various application services were created, including smart ordering, smart post, and access control. Laying the policy foundation to promote the cloud service NFC, a small revolution within a 10cm distance The NFC is an acronym for Near Field Communication, which is the information technology that allows us to establish communication when we KISA is trying to enhance the national competitiveness in the cloud area. In 2011, KISA reinforced the move the device to within the range of 10cm. You may easily understand this technology when you think about how to use a transportation card. cloud cooperation system at home and abroad, by operating a consultative group for cooperation This technology uses a RFID, and supports both read and write. As a result, NFC is usually used for the payment system using the mobile device. In among governmental departments, collecting opinions from the industrial circle, and holding an particular, NFC utilization with smart-phone is increasing in these days because the USIM chip in the smart-phone can contain unique information. Unlike Bluetooth, NFC doesn’t require setting for communication. What if you are concerned about security issues? As NFC is designed for the near international forum among Korea, China, and Japan, as well as a Korea-Japan policy forum. In distance only, it is evaluated that security is relatively strong. You can experience more NFC applications using the smart-phone. If you put your addition, in order to reinforce the cloud service competitiveness, KISA secured the basic statistical smart-phone close to the advertisement media, you can obtain the product information or coupon, or you can get the bust interval information at data needed to establish the cloud service policy by conducting research on actual conditions of the the bus stop. You will receive a customized coupon when you visit a place for date, or can place an order by moving your smart-phone close to the cloud service industry, and supported the establishment of pan-governmental cloud diffusion and menu. competitiveness-strengthening strategy. 40 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 41 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency 2011 Business Performances Ⅸ. Promoting international cooperation Active international cooperation is required to achieve the 200 billion dollar ICT export, which is the governmental target for 2013. In particular, Providing information for exporting broadcasting/communication services new market development is essential because of the small broadcasting market size and growth limitation of the countries where Korean Wave KISA has been operating the overseas broadcasting and communication information system ICT export in 2011 is popular. KISA has been securing multilateral broadcasting/communication cooperation channels among countries and supporting enterprise (CONEX) to support companies intending to cultivate overseas markets so that they can actively business in order to develop the overseas market earlier than other competing countries. respond to the age of broadcasting/communication convergence that is rapidly changing, by providing the information on related polices and market trends to broadcasting/communication service providers. In particular, the number of information provisioning countries was extended 157 billion dollars Diversification of international cooperation from 47 in 2010 to 54 in 2011 by implementing the results from survey regarding supporting strategies Shared growth by supporting the broadcasting/communication policies of developing countries for overseas entry of broadcasting/communication industries as well as the demands from KISA is implementing the Official Development Assistance (ODA) project for the departments enterprises. Besides, the online consultation window was opened to provide customized consulting managing broadcasting and communication in the developing countries as well as decision-makers and information to the companies that want to venture the overseas markets in the broadcasting/ of the related department. In 2011, the scale of the project was expanded to those in cooperation communication area. KISA published “2011 Broadcasting and communication status by country with ITU and World Bank to create synergy effect, and total 439 attendants from 85 countries were 2011”, which compiled information on policy, present condition of the items, and trends of service delivered to 21 courses in total for the invited training program. Each course was composed of the providers, collaborated for each of 54 countries. Invited training_International technology, policy and latest trends/issues related to the broadcasting/communication technology, KISA will provide more information on new promising areas such as LTE, smart TV, and 3D TV, and Telecommunication Union course and many opportunities were given to the attendants, including learning of advanced cases of support customized consultation for the demands of individual enterprise on overseas information Road show in Brazil broadcasting/communication services in Korea, visit to the broadcasting/communication service by promoting the online consultation window function of CONEX. Also, the mobile web for the providers, and sharing of the broadcasting/communication status of each participant’s country. overseas broadcasting/communication information system will be developed to promote user’s convenience and increase overseas advertisement, so that constant usage rate of CONEX can be Enhancing national dignity through cooperation with international organizations increased. In 2012, the mobile web (http://m.conex.or.kr) will be developed in parallel with the age To carry out responsibilities as an advanced broadcasting/communication country for the of smart-phone to support wired/wireless environment, so that the information can be obtained at international society, KISA has been promoting cooperation with international organizations, anytime and anywhere regardless of the accessing environment. including the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD), and Asian and Pacific Centre for Information Communication Technology CONEX information provisioning countries and items Invited training_World Bank course for Development (APCICT). Many cooperation projects were promoted with the ITU, including Target country (54 countries) preparation of the roadmap for digital switching in the developing countries, and holding workshops Target item (10) Item Country name to resolve the difference among the standardization levels. In particular, Korea Exhibit Hall was installed at “ITU Telecom World 2011” in 2011. KISA has been regularly participating in both the Board Countries of Malaysia, Mongolia, Vietnam, India, Indonesia, Japan, China, Cambodia, Smart 4G, Korean style promising Thailand, Philippine, New Zealand, Mexico, U.S., Brazil, Peru, Australia, mobile TV, Internet-based of Directors Meeting of the ITU and the information security working group meeting of the OECD to export Netherland, Norway, Italy, Turkey, France, Russia, Kazakhstan, Poland, TV, broadcasting service, analyze the issues related to information security and Internet, and presenting the opinions of Korea (32 countries) Ghana, South Africa, Egypt, Myanmar, Ecuador, Columbia, Rwanda contents broadband, mobile communication, in international organizations. Experts were dispatched to the APCICT, an UN-affiliated international Countries with wired communication, organization, to support projects designed to develop and propagate information/communication Taiwan, Singapore, Venezuela, Uruguay, Chile, Canada, Paraguay, information security, radio information Germany, Bolivia, Spain, U.K., Finland, Rumania, Uzbekistan, Ukraine, management, Internet technologies in the developing countries of the Asia Pacific region. demand Hungary, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, UAE, Argentina, Switzerland, Serbia. (22 countries) service Substantiation of international cooperation Supporting overseas entry of Korean Wave contents and convergence services Supporting customized consulting services for broadcasting and communication enterprises KISA reinforced global marketing support activities for strategic commodities of Korea with strong KISA is endeavoring to support the small and medium-sized broadcasting/communication competitiveness including WiBro, DMB, IPTV, broadcasting contents, and broadband. The overseas companies that are equipped with international competitiveness regarding technical skills and road show was held 8 times in 2011 in new national markets with high potential such as Brazil, sellable quality but have difficulties in entry into overseas markets due to the lack of experiences Australia, Iran, and Columbia. The buyer consultancy meeting related to local broadcasting/ and experts workforce. KISA supported 76 consulting services in regards to the difficulty in entry into communication services was held 2 times in Kazakhstan and Russia in the first half of 2012. As overseas markets in 2011, and 50 services in 2012 (up to June), by operating the “On/Off-line overseas for the overseas consulting project, impacts of the market environment, technology status, and entry consultation center.” Also, KISA promoted the customized consulting support project through cost-effectiveness on the introduction of technology/service was analyzed and distributed to the one-to-one matching of small and medium-sized companies intending to enter into overseas consulting countries, in order to support the entry of broadcasting/communication and new Internet markets with consulting firms familiar with the overseas countries to enter. KISA designated 45 services into overseas markets. In addition, showcases were held in regions of Eastern Europe, consulting companies in 23 countries in 2012, and supported overseas entry of 17 small and medium Latin America, and Southeastern Asia to improve public recognition of the Korean broadcasting/ size companies in 2011, and 30 companies in 2012. communication convergence service and technologies by diversifying the exporting countries and genre of broadcasting contents that are heavily concentrated on the Korean dramas. 42 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 43 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency SOCIAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Ⅰ. Enhancing competitiveness by shared growth RESPONSIBILITIES Ⅰ. Enhancing competitiveness by shared growth KISA puts forth a multilateral effort into realizing fair society where KISA can prosper with partners. Linking with KISA’s proprietary business areas, KISA supported enhancing capability of small-to-medium-sized businesses, joint R&D, joint market development, and overseas market Ⅱ. Promoting customer satisfaction management development, as well as endeavored to bolster the Internet business ecosystem for co-prosperity. Ⅲ. Promoting social contribution as a specialized Internet agency Establishing the shared growth strategy system based on KISA’s characteristics KISA established the shared growth strategy system in 2011 to push forward shared growth based on KISA’s unique characteristics. With the shared growth vision of “improving competitiveness of Internet industry through shared cooperation with small-to-medium-sized partners for co-prosperity,” the shared growth task force identified and implemented shared growth tasks related to KISA’s unique businesses. In addition, communication activities were carried out 114 times, including the meeting with partners and Networking Day, to reflect voices of the field in the policies. Besides, policies were improved and supporting measures were prepared through continuous monitoring and check in order to increase the effectiveness of shared growth policies. And, shared growth activities were encouraged internally by linking with the performance appraisal system, including awarding of the excellent department. 221 KISA’s implementation system for the shared growth strategy companies Improving Internet industry competitiveness through shared cooperation Vision Supporting joint entry of smallwith small-to-medium-sized partners for co-prosperity to-medium-sized market in 2011 Identifying and pushing forward shared growth tasks in parallel with Strategy KISA’s unique businesses 1,250 Int’l cooperation Shared growth TF (Supervision: Creative Management Team) Internet hours Shared Growth Consultative Employee’s total service hours in 2011 Shared growth committee Group Implementation system Overseas export Policy imCapability reinJoint R&D Joint market entry (sales promotion) provement forcement Supervised by Supervised by Supervised by Supervised by Supervised by Security R&D Internet Business International CoFinancial AcKISA Academy Team Team operation Planning counting Team Team 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step Promotion Consider the purpose Review the asReview shared Confirm detailed task task of agency establishsociation between 5 growth programs by by 5 implementation selection ment, major busistrategic objectives area (entire departareas (Shared Growth ness, and vision and and 13 core promoment) Task Force) mission tion tasks 44 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 45 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Communication with partners Export and sales promotion support Type Date Target Major Contents KISA promoted overseas road show and provided consulting on strategic broadcasting and Meeting with the Directors of 22 Listened to difficulties and suggestions of the information security industry, and shared the communication items, held the knowledge/information security exhibition as well as business MAY/2011 information security industry information security companies status of projects supported by KISA (9 opinions were collected and solutions were reviewed.) meeting, and supported the export strategies suitable for global foreign investment and characteristics Security industry Collected opinions from the industry by visiting the security company and holding a meeting of enterprises. Export consultation for total 30 billion won was provided to 88 companies in 2011 as a JUN/2011 CEO of key security companies CEO meeting regarding difficulties (7 opinions were collected and answered in the field.) part of small-to-medium-sized business support in the broadcasting and communication area. Meeting with the knowledge CEO of 20 related Discussed about the current issues in the knowledge information security industry (20 opinions DEC/2011 information security industry companies, 2 scholars were listened and reflected in project implementation.) Supporting small-to-medium-sized business in entering the overseas market Smart Ad & App JAN/2011 Internet Ad company, related Discussed about cooperation with domestic Internet and mobile advertisement stakeholder for Networking Day JUL, DEC/2011 agency and association co-prosperity (Shared the information on the industry trend and discussed about difficulties.) Business content Major performance Had an interview with the CEO of contracting companies -> Reviewed contracts taking multiple Providing NFC payment and mobile ●  xport consultation for 3.2 billion won export, such as overseas road show E Interview with partners Occasional Contracting company, etc. years to support business continuity and small businesses (DEC/2011) application service (6 countries including Australia and Brazil, 16 member companies), overseas Business detail consulting (3 countries including Mexico, 3 member companies) Capability reinforcement support for small-to-medium-sized businesses Developing Internet business ● Supported 45 companies, such as exhibitions (3 countries including Japan, 27 companies) and business meeting (3 countries including UAE) KISA supported small-to-medium-sized businesses by implementing 24 specialized training courses services and foundation support → Export consultation for 26.8 billion won export related to information security and address management in 4 areas. 5,068 persons completed the Internet win-win report ● Supported the programs of 5 winning teams in TWiST Start-up Contest specialized training in their specialized area. Supporting two-way broadcasting → Supported localization and overseas market development for 2 teams program production (8 companies, 300 million won) Capability reinforcement training for small-to-medium-sized businesses Type Training course Duration Attendees Promoting Internet win-win consultative group Training to foster the personnel specialized 9 courses, including knowledge information The Korea Communications Commission, Internet companies, communication service providers and 370.4 hours 595 persons in knowledge and information security security consulting and digital forensic. manufacturers, and related associations and organizations confirmed their determination for mutual 5 courses, including latest security cooperation on the occasion of “Win-win cooperation declaration ceremony” and officially launched Information security training for technology, response to DDoS attack, lecturing 293 hours 1,585 persons small-to-medium-sized businesses tour on information security course. the “Internet win-win consultative group’” in September 2010. KISA now provides various supportive 5 courses, including general/advanced privacy measures (e.g. reinforcing the private-public cooperation network) to substantially operate the Privacy training and consulting 78 hours 2,528 persons protection, and lecturing tour program, including identifying of joint cooperation business technology sharing among enterprises, Practical address management and operation 5 courses, including DNS operator training and 597 hours 360 persons and nurturing experts. Also, KISA published and distributed “Internet Win-Win Report 2011” for the training for small-to-medium-sized businesses IPv6 introduction consulting. shared growth and mutual cooperation environment of the domestic Internet business industry. Joint R&D support Internet Business Start-up (IBS) program Joint research was conducted with 8 small-to-medium-sized companies for three R&D projects in the Beginning with the pilot project “Web Biz Startup Program” with the Korea Communications information security area in 2011. In addition, as a result of the four R&D projects that were caried forward Commission in 2010, KISA promoted “Internet Biz Startup Program (IBS)” in 2011 to support the market Capability reinforcement (training) area in 2010, core technologies were transferred to 6 small-to-medium-sized businesses to foster small-toentry of small-to-medium-sized venture companies that have creative ideas, such as the singular medium-sized business of the technology innovation-type. 2011 5,068 persons entrepreneurial company. Among 131 new Internet service ideas, 20 teams were selected after 2010 3,817 persons Joint market entry support passing reviews, and various support measures were taken, including granting of the development KISA implemented NFC trial services, Internet business service development and foundation support, subsidy for 5 months (600 thousand won per months), one-to-one mentoring by experts in the Joint research area and production of two-way broadcasting programs, to support the domestic market comprising small technology/business area, Developer Networking Day, and patent application. In addition, 10 and medium sized businesses. Owing to these efforts, the number of joint market entry companies has 2011 3 researches (8) 1.3 billion won Composition of Internet Shared Growth Consultative Group 3 researches (6) increased significantly from 27 companies only in 2010 to 221 companies in 2011 (about a tenfold increase). 2010 1 billion and Internet 140 million won service Joint market entry support projects for small-to-medium-sized businesses Communiproviders Joint market entry cation service Project detail Key achievements providers Providing NFC payment and ●Secured 200 NFC payment service member stores by having a meeting with stakeholder for Composition of the 2011 221 companies 5.1 billion won Internet win-win mobile application service 600 times. → Provided an opportunity of entering new markets to small-to-medium-sized 2010 27companies 2.8 billion won solution providers consultative group Developing Internet business ● 2 0 projects were selected and development was supported through public subscription of Related Overseas entry area services and foundation the innovative Internet business idea (131 ideas) → Provided the company foundation fund organizaManusupport (175 million won) to 10 excellent projects tions facturers 30 billion and 2011 88 companies 20 million won Supporting two-way broad● Supported the production of two-way contents for 37 small and medium sized broadcasting 2010 51 companies 29 billion and casting program production service providers (3.4 billion won) → The accumulated number of viewers in 9 projects (13 830 million won programs) exceeded 16 million 680 thousand viewers. 46 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 47 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES outstanding services were selected and total 175 million won foundation support fund was provided. administrative costs and human resource burden of the partner, which occurs throughout the contracting As a result, 5 teams out of 10 excellent service idea teams started their business or are preparing for procedure such as participating in the tender, signing a contract, and making payment. In addition, foundation (as of July 2012). Some supported teams have already achieved revenue increase and the electronic procurement system that processes the contract online is making a contribution to employment expansion through service alliance with conglomerate companies. the increase of fairness and transparency throughout the business process, in that the possibility of corruption which might happen during the face-to-face meeting with suppliers can be removed. OpenAPI utilization training Demand on capable developers is also rising, as the Internet technology is changing rapidly and Communication with partners IBS 2011 Market Day demand on convergence-type new Internet services is rising. To keep pace with such trend, KISA KISA collects the information on difficulties and suggestions of partners through communication implemented “OpenAPI utilization training” using the OpenAPI (Open Application Programmer with them, and shares our vision and value with partners. Partners can propose their opinions freely Interface) of key portal sites for college students and ordinary people. Making the use of this project, on the “Customer plaza” bulletin board in the home page, and the accepted opinions are quickly developers can receive technical training that can be applied to their business practice directly, while processed. In addition, integrity of KISA employees, compliance with the proper business procedure, small-to-medium-sized businesses can secure their capable developers. In addition, large-sized and customer’s satisfaction with business processing are monitored using the “Clean Call” system. Internet companies like major portals could spread their OpenAPI and increase the use of related Comparison of major shared growth results services. In 2011, training was implemented in 6 areas (Seoul, Busan, Gangwaon, Jeolla, Daejeon, By item 2010 2011 Remark and Gyeonggi) to solve the problem of excessively concentrated training area, and total 417 persons Total SMB product purchase amount (A) 62.2 billion won 41.9 billion won The purchase budget decreased completed the training course. KISA plans to provide training on new technologies like HTML5, SMB product Total purchase budget (B) 72.8 billion won 46.4 billion won due to the reduction of KISA budget, OpenAPI utilization training besides the OpenAPI of key domestic portals. purchase compared with the previous year. A/B 85.44% 90.3% IBS 2011 promotion process Capability reinforcement results (training, consulting, etc.) 3,817 5,068 Joint R&D Number of cases, participating companies 3 cases (6companies) 3 cases (8companies) Public subscription of the service Agreement ceremony and signing a Screening and selection support results Joint R&D budget 1 billion and 140 million won 1.3 billion won idea contract Number of projects 11 6 ● Total 131 ideas were accepted ● 1st (document): 40 ideas were selected. ● Agreement with 20 teams ● 2nd (interview): 20 support target ideas Number of cooperation private were confirmed. Joint market entry 27 221 companies Final evaluation Held “Mentoring Day” Supported service development Project scale 2.8 billion won 5.1 billion won Overseas export (sales Number of support target companies 51 90 ● 1 0 outstanding projects out of 20 develop●  ne-to-one mentoring between developers O ● S  upported 600 thousand won every month promotion) support Consulting amount for export 29 billion and 839 million won 38.8 billion won ment projects were selected. and field experts and mentoring networking ● Supported mentor matching, patent : Two times Mentoring Day events application, and equipment Securing the opportunity of overExpert interview Held “IBS Market Day” Supported foreign investment seas market entry Awarded 10 excellent projects Supported social function of 20 teams Provided a privilege of participating in IT Support is required for shared growth of the Internet ecosystem ● ● ● ● Announced service achievements ● 5 teams participated in the global foreign Venture Launching Conference held in investment event (TWISt) 1 team won San Francisco the prize Fair trade with partners Shared growth and sustainability management are indivisible relation. If you go fast, you have to go alone. KISA is strengthening ethical practice monitoring to improve business efficiency and prevent However, you have to go together if you want to go far. Even the large-sized company with the world’s best corruption and faults in advance. For monitoring, the “Customer plaza” menu was newly opened on competitiveness cannot sustain a long and healthy status by themselves. As a matter of fact, shared growth the home page so that visitors can report corruption and budget waste. Also, clean organizational is more suitable and important to public agencies than private enterprises. Essentially, the achievements of management in private enterprises, which aims to make profits, are determined by individuals and short-term culture was created using the clean contract policy and special terms policy. The report system is results. On the other hand, the management results of public agencies in pursuit of public interest are evaluated advertised mainly during the vulnerable period such as the end of the year and national holidays. based on how the agency has been endeavoring and contributing to the growth of related enterprises. It was An encouragement gift is given to the employee who accepted the prohibited goods but returned found that KISA properly understands the purpose and importance of shared growth, and is making various it, and a bonus point is given to the department where a reporter belongs to. “Clean administration efforts by establishing the shared growth promotion system that fits into their unique business. It is very positive pledge,” which is performed throughout the year, is an effort to create fair and transparent relations that KISA laid the foundation of shared growth by listening to the opinions of partners, sharing the information, with interested partners by conforming to the principle of fair competition as well as related laws Lim, Chae-wun providing specialized training to reinforce capabilities, and supporting joint research and development. It can President of the Korean and regulations (e.g., national contract law), when performing procurement business, including good be highly regarded that KISA is attempting to enter the domestic and overseas markets together with small and Association of Small purchase, construction work, and outsourcing. medium-sized businesses based on these foundations. However, efforts for shared growth must produce the Business Studies results of the growth of small and medium-sized businesses. I expect that small and medium-sized businesses, Professor, Sogang University Electronic procurement system a member of the Internet ecosystem, can grow strongly and steadily, which enables the continuous growth of KISA is running the electronic procurement system to improve fairness and transparency throughout KISA as well, as its existence largely depends on the prosperity of small and medium-sized businesses. the tender and contract business. The system enhanced business efficiency and minimized the 48 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 49 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Ⅱ. Promoting customer satisfaction management KISA will be an agency that impresses customers and trusted by customers, while achieving organization’s mission defined in laws and policies as Customer satisfaction mindset training was implemented for the entire employees. To improve the level of a public agency. In 2011, KISA made efforts to establish the customer satisfaction culture within itself by resetting the vision of customer satisfaction implementation, the results of customer satisfaction activities were reflected in employees’ performance management and strengthening the trainings on customer satisfaction. appraisal, and the customer satisfaction performance index was diversified as well. On the other hand, customers of the project who had shown low Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) in 2011 were selected, and the Focus Group Interview (FGI) was conducted to understand directly the needs of key Customer satisfaction with public agencies in 2011 Setting up the vision and strategic task for customer satisfaction management KISA customers. Then, problems and items to improve were identified and reflected in business operation. KISA newly established customer satisfaction vision in 2011 based on the present condition diagnosis 94.0 points on the operation of the customer satisfaction management system, which was conducted in 2010. The will of KISA’s internal employees for achieving customer satisfaction was clearly expressed to the public by holding a ceremony for customer satisfaction declaration in July 2011, and implemented the Removing inconvenience through the customer satisfaction survey KISA conducts 118 Center Happy Call survey every year to remove inconvenience from the service ☎118 Center processing procedure and results of 118 Center, and increase the level of customer satisfaction. objective and practical feedbacks to business practices by appointing the customer advisory group. According to the Happy Call survey results in 2011, the Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI) was Employee’s COI diagnosis result As for the first phase, the new customer satisfaction system was established and diffused, which 86.8, which is 0.2 point increase from the previous year. In particular, more than half of the survey continues from the integration of three agencies in 2009. For this purpose, various surveys were respondents (60.4%) gave over 90 point CSI. Regarding service details, friendliness was evaluated 2012 68.5 points 2010 60.1 points conducted, including the level of internal staff’s customer orientation, interview with internal staffs, as “very satisfactory (91.3 points)”, followed by accuracy (85.8 points) and promptness (85.1 points). outside customer FGI analysis, level of stakeholder’s satisfaction by team, and 118 Center Happy Call. Regarding the complaints about consultation and items to be improved, “insufficient improvement In 2011, KISA declared customer satisfaction vision, organized the customer advisory group, collected activity for the reported item” and “lack of feedback regarding the follow-up processing results” were Customer satisfaction evaluation results for opinions, and identified customer satisfaction improvement tasks by team to establish the enterprise pointed out. Therefore, KISA is actively improving follow-up service management in 2012. public agencies in 2011 customer satisfaction culture. 2011 94.0 points Road map to promote the customer satisfaction strategy 2010 88.5 points 2012 Strengthening customer satisfaction trainings and implementing feedbacks 2011 Phase 3: Leading the customer Training courses were provided for persons in charge of customer satisfaction as well as other 2010 Phase 2: Establishing the customer satisfaction trend employees, so that they can better understand the newly established vision and strategy, and Phase 1: Diffusing the customer satisfaction culture Spreading the customer satisfaction trends satisfaction system of KISA over other agencies by performing customer satisfaction programs implemented for each department can be conducted smoothly. The Expanding the base of enterprise customer the leading customer satisfaction activities for satisfaction-oriented culture based on customer service and improving the image. in-depth training courses were provided to the persons in charge of customer satisfaction 2 times, Reinforcing the enterprise system for customer short-term achievements, and completing the satisfaction and customer service provision, Quantitative target: PCSI 95.0 points cultural/ institutional supports to fundamentally ● and customer satisfaction practice steering committee was also held. and achieving tangible short-term results innovate customer satisfaction ● Qualitative target: Establishing and ●  uantitative target: PCSI 88.2 points Q spreading the best level of customer (85.3 points in 2009 → 88.5 points in 2010) ● Q  uantitative target: PCSI 90.0 points satisfaction management system among ● Qualitative target: Establishing the customer (88.5 points in 2010 → 94.0 points in 2011) public agencies ●  Qualitative target: Securing customer 2011 CS Vision House satisfaction promotion system satisfaction competitiveness at the level excellent public agency CS Vision Self-diagnosis by employees KISA that impresses customers and trusted by customers KISA performs Customer Oriented Index (COI) self-diagnosis of the employees every other year, and manages customer satisfaction activities throughout the agency or by department. According CS Core Customer satisfaction culture establishment in 2011 to the diagnosis result in 2012, the KISA’s COI was 68.5 points, which is 8.4 points increase from 2010. Core The overall point of all elements has increased. Customer service quality management and leaderCustomer Innovation, Partnership, Success, Trust, Safety ship were evaluated high (71.8 and 69.4 points respectively), whereas the organization/personnel for Value customer satisfaction management and customer satisfaction management result evaluation were Happiness Win-Win KISA Innovation the Intra Trust you & me evaluated low (67.3 points). To accomplish continuous improvement in the level of quality, insufficient through KISA parts will be improved and excellent parts will be developed further. ●  nderstanding cusU ● VOC collection in an ● Reinforcing personnel ● Improving people’s tomer requirements and integrated manner and capability to promote awareness and management system strengthening managecustomer satisfaction organization’s image Strategy establishment ment ● Systemizing the custom● Setting up the civil High evaluation of customer satisfaction with the public agency ●  Strengthening customer er satisfaction promotion service standard direction and ●  Establishing the VOC KISA obtained 94.0 points in “Customer satisfaction survey with the public agency 2011” managed by information provision utilization system organization ● Efficient 118 Center strategic tasks ●  Reinforcing follow-up ●  Establishing the customer ● Creating an atmosphere operation the government, which was 5.5 points increase from the previous year. Reviewing the result by busimanagement services satisfaction evaluation to promote customer ●  Strengthening the system satisfaction ness area, the level of customer satisfaction in “reinforcing the information security system evaluation management of contact ●  Customer satisfaction ● Increasing vertical/horiservice quality result compensation and zontal communication and certification base” and “policy and new business development” was high, including Internet pro●  Customer-oriented establishing the stable policy/Process renovation system motion, accelerating IPv6 switching, promoting country domain, reinforcing the information security system evaluation and certification base, and policy and new business development; whereas the CSM Intra Constant implementation status monitoring level of satisfaction was relatively low in “international broadcasting and communication cooperation projects” and “stable IP address supply and management.” 50 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 51 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Ⅲ. Promoting social contribution as a specialized Internet agency KISA carries out its social responsibility to the fullest as a “corporate citizen” instead of performing public services that are only defined in laws and Promoting differentiated social contribution with TOP strategy policies. KISA is taking the lead in social contribution activities by making use of the characteristics and themes as a specialized Internet agency, and promoting business while keeping cooperative relations with outside professional agencies. T.O.P strategy for social contribution that reflects the organizational characteristics of KISA Social contribution activities are Neighbor caring social activities are Poor environment to use the Internet required for the information alienation needed, such as looking after the Promoting social contribution that fits into the business characteristics of KISA safely class senior citizen who lives alone KISA is contributing to the development of local communities and improving reliability as a public agency by fulfilling its social responsibilities. To develop social contribution programs that can be KISA social contribution welcoming ceremony helpful in practical ways and make employees feel rewarded, rather than formal social contribution T.O.P strategy activities, KISA has established promotion strategies that consider the foundation objectives and Social contribution based on the Social contribution that goes Social contribution led by KISA business characteristics of KISA. characteristics and subject with society Theme Owership Partnership Briquette carriage service KISA carries out social contribution programs based on four strategies 1) social contribution that Utilizing information security Utilizing Internet promotion/cultural Utilizing the capability of performing considers the characteristics of the specialized Internet agency, 2) social contribution that goes capabilities capabilities public interest duties together with local communities, 3) building up social trust as an agency that carries out businesses ● Internet information security Onnuri ● Producing Internet filial piety album ● Visiting the senior citizen who lives of public interest, and 4) sustainable social contributions that are participated voluntarily. The campaign, including PC security for the elderly alone in the community Social Responsibility Management Committee that supervises sustainability management makes a check for free ● IT ethical education contribution ● Shopping at the traditional market in ● Visit to major information security (creative experience room, etc.) the local community decision and provides advices on activity direction by subject, and, while searching for proper social infrastructures like KISC and K-NBTC ● Rice contribution, Briquette carriage service activities, strengthens effectiveness of the activities by identifying actual needs of external ● Lost public certificate reporting service service via 118 Center stakeholders, including local communities, civic groups, and information security college clubs. Business development that considers external demand and organization’s capabilities Theme : Differentiated social contribution using information security capabilities KISA is developing various social contribution programs that can satisfy the needs of local The Internet information security Onnuri campaign is a program that provides the free PC security Information security Onnuri campaign communities and civic groups by using internal capabilities. With the strategy of T.O.P (Theme check service for social welfare organizations and IPTV Study Room, which social groups vulnerable social contribution based on the characteristics and subject, Ownership social contribution led by KISA, and Partnership social contribution that goes with society), KISA is promoting programs that utilize information security capabilities, Internet promotion and cultural capabilities, and public interest to Internet access often use. In particular, this program has been developed as a local community collaboration-type program that combines various programs with Onnuri campaign, by signing a business agreement with Gyeonggi-do Provincial Government and Anhlab. Besides, KISA conducted 44 times duty performing capabilities. To share the purpose of these activities and create an atmosphere of service activities 44 times in 2011 by visiting the welfare facilities as well as college information Visit to the information security infrastructure voluntary participation of the entire employee, the “KISA social contribution welcoming ceremony” security clubs throughout Korea, including Seoul, Busan, and Gyeonggi. KISA will enhance the level was held in May 2011. Social contribution promotion system and monitoring process of Internet use environment and awareness of the alienated class in communities by continuously carrying forward the program. Besides, KISA arranged a field trip for college students (National Defense University, Hoseo 114 times Technical College, etc.) to information security infrastructures such as KISC(Korea Internet Security Considering organization’s foundation objectives and business characteristics Center) and K-NBTC(Korea National Biometric Test Center) 114 times in 2011. Promoting ● S  ocial contribution that considers the characteris● B  uilding up social trust as an agency that carries out strategy tics of the specialized Internet agency businesses of public interest ●  Social contribution that goes together with the ●  Sustainable social contributions that are participated Ownership : Social contribution that leads new Internet culture local community voluntarily KISA is producing and donating the Internet filial piety album to the elderly so that sympathy and Sustainability Practice Sustainability Management communication among different generations can be established via the Internet. This program Committee Committee produces a digital album using old photos of the elderly, and received a positive response from the ● Developing social contribution ●  upervising sustainability S elderly. As a part of this program, KISA visited 4 welfare organizations in Seoul and Gyeonggi in programs to carry out social management and discussing responsibilities and review the about the direction of social 2011, and donated 57 filial piety albums. In addition, KISA implemented Internet ethical education for promotion status contribution activities to fulfill Promotion social responsibilities the infant, youth, and teachers (e.g. creative experience class), and total 60,000 attendants from 404 system schools completed the course. and Department dedicated for monitoring Unit department social contribution Demand ●Dedicated department ● Social contribution leader by Demand Information Local : Public Relations Division department check Participation security community ● Setting up social contribution ● Promoting and participating and civic monitoring college activities and implementation in social contribution group Link Joint club monitoring activities promotion 52 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 53 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Internet filial piety album production Partnership: Social contribution that goes with the local community and donation Expert interview KISA implemented social service activities joined by all employees at the organization level, and 57 albums designated the “Traditional market visit day” following the “Setting up organization-market sisterhood relationship” policy. KISA set up a sisterhood relationship with Seokchon (narrow path) market in October 2011, and purchased 34 million worth Onnuri coupons and encouraged employees to buy necessary items at the market every Saturday. In addition, separate department activities are I hope the “Beautiful Internet World” campaign becomes a pan-national movement. IT training contribution activities ongoing to promote social service activities that are closer to the local community. The fund for 404 service activities is voluntarily raised by employees through “1 person 1 account donation to practice schools love” and “donating small change of the salary” program. 7.2 million won was donated by the “love Q. What made you participate the campaign as the representative of the National Council of Beautiful practice donation” program, and 3 million and 540 thousand won was donated by “small change of Internet World? the salary” program in 2011. I joined the campaign because it has something similar to “Digilog (harmony between digital and analog),” which is the book I’ve published. If the practicality of analog is separated from the cognitive virtual world, the Internet Status of service activities at the organization level can be a disaster. Facebook is quite successful because it combines digital and analog. It’s not a masquerade with anonymity. Instead, the real face of analog appears on the digital plain. Two different faces can converge into Time Contents Remark one face! This is the key of the “Beautiful Internet World” campaign activities. That’s why I joined the campaign ●Surroundings cleaning and food Incheon Geomdan September distribution service (for the alienated class such as because it has something in common with (my thought). ● “Rice of love” donation the senior citizens who live alone) ●Donation for North Korean refugee Q. What is the reason that the “Beautiful Internet World” campaign mainly targets the youth? November Hanulggum School students Lee, Eo-ryeong Unlike the adult, youngsters accept digital as a routine and natural thing. However, aberrance and devastation areas within Sinrim-dong, A chair-professor of Ehwa December ● Briquette sharing for love of Internet languages occur due to insufficient development of egos caused by the lack of analog assets. More Gwangak-gu, Seoul. Women’s University importantly, as one old saying goes, “What is learned in the cradle is carried to the grave”, if we don’t correct the Representative of the abnormal behavior now it can become a habit and cause serious problems. Establishing correct awareness of National Council of Status of social contribution fund raising Internet ethics at an early age is most important. In addition, Korea became an IT country as strong as visited by Beautiful Internet World many countries from the world for benchmarking. If we could promote the movement like the “Beautiful Internet Implementation of continuous social contribution activities World” campaign successfully, other countries will also follow this cultural trend naturally. Purchasing goods for social contribution activities (e.g., rice, briquette, etc.) Q. You have been participating in the “Beautiful Internet World” campaign for 3 years since 2010. What do you and contributing to the social welfare organizations think we need to improve? Most campaigns in our society used to be managed in a short-term view only. The campaigns make some “One person one account donation to practice love” “Donating small change of the salary (smaller than 1,000 won)” progress while the government provides support but once the government policy is changed, those campaigns are terminated soon. The campaign itself should have spontaneous power which will determine whether it will succeed or fail. In that sense, Internet users should actively take part. If the Internet is polluted and devastated, offline will also be affected. Therefore, the campaign should be developed as a pan-national movement based on 535 employees 3 million and 79 employees 7.2 million won the understanding that the problem is not just an issue between people but a legitimate social issue. In particular, participated 540 thousand participated raised won raised parents and teachers in the field who directly affect children and youth groups should have interest in this movement and come forward. Q. What do you expect from KISA to promote the Internet ethics and culture movement? Hands-on workers and leaders with long-term view should be well-balanced. Therefore, even though the campaign doesn’t produce tangible results, we should not judge the effects with simple numbers only. Instead, we should concentrate on sowing seeds. To cultivate ginseng, we should sow seeds for at least 5 years. Likewise, we need to carry forward the campaign with a long-term view. More frequent and continuous events are needed because the “promotion policy” should be implemented steadily with a philosophical foundation. I expect small events every month rather than a large-scale event once a year. 54 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 55 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency ORGANIZATIONAL Organizational Culture Ⅰ. Realizing systematic organizational culture CULTURE Ⅰ. Realizing systematic organizational culture KISA has been endeavoring to become an “entity unified as one organization and one culture” through systematic integration of different employees and organizational culture since the combination of 3 organizations in March 2009. Ⅱ. Strengthening ethical culture inside the agency Ⅲ. Improving the expertise of employees Improving organizational culture Ⅳ. Cooperative labor-management relations KISA has been making consistent efforts to improve the heterogeneous organizational culture since Ⅴ. Harmony of work and life the integration of 3 IT public agencies in 2009. The “TFT to improve the way of performing tasks” was organized in 2011, and identified “KISA Way” to build up new organizational culture. Since then, KISA has been increasing business efficiency by improving the organizational culture and way of performing tasks. As for the detailed activities, a KISA Way manual was published and distributed among the entire employees, improved awareness of the employees, and developed KISA Way, which was designed to improve the ways of thinking with the newly established ways of performing tasks throughout the organization. The newly developed KISA Way was shared and internalized KISA Way Manual through trainings and workshops. In particular, the “TFT to improve the way of performing tasks” was organized by 10 team managers to collect opinions regarding related issues, and provided Type 2009 2010 2011 advices on business efficiency activities. Based on these efforts, KISA’s organizational culture index Resignation 10 persons 10 persons 20 persons increased by 3.4 points (59.5 points) from the previous year. Study 4 persons 4 persons 2 persons Others Employee status (nursing 2 persons 3 persons 5 persons family KISA respects human rights and strictly prohibits discrimination on gender, academic background, member) age, religion, native place, or physical disability in order to ensure equal and well-balanced harmony Total 16 persons 17 persons 27 persons among employees. In particular, KISA is trying to secure various human resources by adopting an open employment policy without discrimination. As of December 2011, KISA hired total 523 employees, including 255 permanent staffs, 133 general contract workers, 7 specialized contract workers, and 128 appointed contract workers. Among them, 162 employees are female, which is 31% 100 times of the entire employee (relatively high female employment ratio). An average age of the employees is 37.6 years old, and continuous service year is 7 years and 6 months, and employee turnover rate is 7%. The proportion of non-regular employees is 51.2% (the number of contract workers is larger than that Lectures by invited expert in 2011 of permanent staffs). KISA makes consistent efforts to increase the number of allocated positions in order to increase the proportion of permanent staffs every year. In 2011, KISA newly hired 146 employees, including 23 young internships, appointed contract workers, general contract workers, 290 and specialized contract workers who amount to 100, and 23 permanent staffs, by actively taking part in the government’s “job sharing” initiative. In addition, jobs for the disabled increased for permanent hours as well as all types of contract workers (7 disabled employees were hired in 2011), which is in parallel with the government’s policy recommending support of socially disadvantaged groups. Total employee training hours in 2011 Detailed activities to build up KISA Way Direct activities to improve the way of Development of the KISA Way manual Compilation of the KISA Way manual performing tasks ● D  istributed the manual to the entire ● Developing the system that realizes ● KISA Way training and internalization employee working principle of the KISA’s president, workshop (All employee workshop in ● Awareness improvement through core values, and vision/mission, by November 2011) monthly meeting/special lecture improving way of performing tasks ● “TF to improve the way of performing ● KISA Way is included in the new throughout the organization tasks” and “Management innovation TF” employee introduction package ● Building up the basic behaviors and activities ways of thinking regarding business ● Business innovation reinforcement performance, business innovation, activities communication, customer response, and organizational lifestyle 56 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 57 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Organizational Culture Ⅱ. Strengthening ethical culture inside the agency Recruitment status in 2011 Annual salary system based on job performance KISA is actively participating in the government’s anti-corruption and integrity safeguarding policy, besides the efforts to realize Internet ethics. Occupational category New recruits The annual salary system based on job performance was implemented for the entire employees KISA has developed an ethical management system based on the Ethics Charter and Code of Conduct, and proactively implements ethical Permanent 23 persons so that performance of the employees can be evaluated and compensated in a fair manner. Due to management. Appointed contract 95 persons the actual salary difference based on capabilities and achievements, proportion of the incentives Specialized contract 5 persons can be different with more than 15% (more than 20% for management). The salary of the newly hired Developing the ethical management system Specialized contract 23 persons employee is 239% of the legal minimum wage, and there are no base pay disparities between male KISA set an ethical management goal called “Clean KISA that carries out social responsibilities to Total 146 persons and female employees. the fullest” and endeavors to settle the policy as an organizational culture in parallel with the ethical management system arrangement. For this, KISA expressed strong intention to realize upright Human right protection for employees management, such as the arrangement of internal regulations for ethical management, and revision Grievance procedure of customer charter and ethics charter. In addition, a dedicated ethical management organization is Increasing the proportion of the incentive KISA assigns two staffs (from labor and management each) for the grievance procedure to effectively currently under operation for effective implementation/improvement of anti-corruption and integrity solve employee’s difficulties or suggestions, and improve human relations and increase employee’s safeguarding, while the “Anti-corruption integrity safeguarding policy task force” acts as a top Annual salary based on achievements morale. One grievance was reported in 2011 due to a dispute over different opinions between decision-making organization. employees but was settled through the arbitration between labor and management. 2011 12.6% 2010 12.2% Targets and mid-to-long term strategy of ethical management Sexual harassment prevention in the office Code of Conduct Article 32 prohibits sexual harassment in the office, and sexual harassment Clean KISA that carries out social responsibilities to the fullest Management evaluation incentive prevention guide was published in August 2009. Total 6 sexual harassment consultants are 2011 6.9% designated (one for each division), and specialized education was commissioned and provided to 2010 5.9% carry out related consultancy and research on actual conditions. In addition, the sexual harassment 2010 2011 2012 grievance review committee was organized to deliberate upon the relevance to truth and whether to Arranging the ethical manageEstablishing the ethical manageMaking ethical management as confirm the validity regarding the reported sexual harassment cases. ment system ment system an organizational culture Elimination of child labor and forced labor KISA conforms to child labor and forced labor prohibition provisions in the Labor Standards Act and Internal ethical management regulations Will to practice integrity the International Labor Organization (ILO), and abides by the regulations related to human rights and ● Employee’s code of conduct ● Pledge of KISA labor conditions in accordance with the collective agreement and regulation of employment. ● Business-related crime reporting guideline ● Customer charter and ethics charter, etc. Payment system operation status Item Base pay Annual salary based on achievements Dedicated organization for ethical management Proportion Management Non-management Management (grade Non-management (grade 1) (grade 2, 3, 4) 1) (grade 2, 3, 4) Anti-corruption integrity safeguarding policy task force 80% 85% 20% 15% ● Deciding promotion strategies and major issues Annual Determination ● Composition: President of KISA, director of offices and salary Accumulated Accumulated Non-accumulated method divisions Differentials Difference by Difference by job Two times different between the top and performance position bottom Internal Audit and Inspection Section Integrity ombudsman appraisal grade (dedicated organization) Grade A B C Others ● Participation of private experts (lawyer, Supervising ethical management and accountant) Job Receiver Office/Division Head of division Team manager Staffs in charge of anti-corruption& integrity safeguarding ● Supporting the application of various position director accounts policy (entire member of Internal Audit and regulations, evaluation of the impact of pay Inspection Section) corruption, etc. 1.2 million won/ 900 thousand won/ 600 thousand won/ 75 thousand won/ Amount month month month month S A B C D Management 132% 116% 100% 83% 66% evaluation Ethics commission Practice promotion team for the antiCorruption impact evaluation team incentive ● E  nacting/Revising code of corruption & integrity safeguarding policy ● Evaluating various regulation and conduct, and developing ethical ● Identifying and monitoring the impact of corruption Other extra Legal benefit, overtime pay, stipend for unused annual leave, sundry allowances, family allowances, pay type management programs improvement tasks pay welfare package, welfare card, and financial aid for educational expenses 58 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 59 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE ORGANIZATIONAL CULTURE Promoting preventive ethical activities to prevent corruption Ethical management monitoring and improvement activities The standard for autonomous policy improvement and ethical conduct has been reinforced to KISA constantly monitors practices of ethical management. Any discovered violation case or strengthen the preventive ethical activities to root out the causes of irregularities from the source. In exemplary case is reflected in the employee training and policy improvement. Also, internal integrity addition, the cooperation system with the private sector has been promoted to eliminate corruption evaluation is performed for employees and outside customers, and results by individual are provided by running the “integrity ombudsman system” that is participated by outside experts. Also, activities as feedback so that employees can reassess themselves with critical minds. According to the result to improve internal integrity have been performed, such as the integrity panel discussion between of the integrity research conducted by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission in 2011, the the president of KISA and managers. level was downgraded to “unsatisfactory” from “normal” in 2010, and follow-up measures are being Employee ethical management education Policy improvement and spreading of the standard of ethical conduct prepared for the items that were pointed out. Accordingly, KISA will supplement the anti-corruption & Item Implementation detail integrity safeguarding policy and reinforce activities that will improve the integrity culture awareness Identified and improved 10 integrity reinforcement tasks twofold increase in 2012. Autonomous policy improvement from 2010 (5 tasks) Implemented improvements to minimize corruption possibilities that are Action items monitoring and improvement activities Implemented various recommended tasks recommended by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission for regulation improvement Item Monitoring items Feedback items → Implemented 46 recommended tasks for improvement (8 tasks in 2010) Monitoring employee’s implementa● Internal training (13 times) Operating corruption impact evaluation team Reviewed internal regulations that can cause corruption (6 times) Code of conduct violation (quarterly) tion of the code of conduct → Educates regarding the code of conGuiding and monitoring the implementation Auditing on corporate credit card Prohibited industry, holiday and midnight duct and proper corporate credit card use Quarterly implementation status monitoring (4 times) ● Policy improvement (2 cases) of the codes of conduct use use, and installment payment (quarterly) → Computerized of outside lecture report, Operating Ethics Quiz Academy Explanation of the problem, such as the violation of the code of conduct (biweekly) Irregularities report center Employee’s irrational behaviors and revised/expanded guidelines about Operating integrity & ethics contents Posted integrity & ethics-related Flash on the Internet (4 months) Budget waste report center Inappropriate budget use behaviors reporting business-related crimes Integrity notice SMS Sent key contents of the code of conduct to the employees (biweekly) Resolution to practice ethics Anti-corruption & integrity pledge, upright conduct practice pledge (September 2011) Improved items pointed out during anti-corruption evaluation by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Increasing ethical management training and improving the audit system Rights Commission KISA is implementing ethical management training for the entire employees by job position in order Improved anti-corruption evaluation results pointed out by the Anti-Corruption and Civil to establish the ethical organizational culture. In particular, 20 hours were allocated to train managers Rights Commission (3 areas): Unsatisfactory (2010) → Excellent (2011) (43% increase from the previous year) to strengthen ethical management leadership. Also, in the aspects of reinforcing specialty, securing independence, and post-audit management, an ethical Level of efforts by the head of organimanagement foundation was laid by preparing comprehensive measures to improve the internal Implementation of the code of conduct Anti-corruption training and PR zation audit system. ● Self-evaluation of integrity for senior ● Introduced 2 excellent cases ● Increased integrity training (1.5 times) Training to practice ethical management officials ● Spread to 5 other agencies ● Integrity role play, workshop ● One strike-out system Training Training target Training method Frequency Remark Code of conduct New recruits Collective training 9 ●  raining hours for managers T training increased by 43% All employees Video (10 types) 2 Managers Workshop, skits about integrity 2 20hours Cl i ck k now l edge Anti-corruption & 14hours All employees Cyber training 1 integrity training All employees Collective training 1 Sexual harassment prevention training All employees Collective training 1 ※F 2010 2011  ourfold of mandatory training hours set by the Anti-Corruption “Welly” Guardian of the Internet world An Internet ethics character was born to safeguard the beautiful Internet world and take the lead in bringing Total 16 times and Civil Rights Commission in the healthy Internet culture. KISA named the Internet ethics character as “Welly,” which was selected from participants of a public award through Internet. The Internet ethics character “Welly” is a guardian Integrity investigation results by the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission (December 2011) that protects the information ocean “Internet”. It implies that Welly preys on malicious comments in the Overall integrity External integrity Internal integrity According to the integrity invesInternet world, and spreads out positive words, including love comments, praise comments, and cheertigation results conducted by the 8.72(normal) 8.58(Ⅳ grade) 8.91(normal) 8.94(Ⅲ grade) Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights up comments. This character is an affable and adorable character that dances when it hears compliments or 8.21(normal) Commission in 2011, external integrity cheer-up comments. Welly is a compound word for “well” and “whale”, and added by “y” which is widely used for nicknames. It 7.60(Ⅴ grade) has risen from 2010 to a certain level, but internal integrity scored low. As has the implication of expanding and reproducing good comments through well-reply, well-reTweet, well-react, well-remember, a result, the level of overall integrity dropped from normal to unsatisfacand well-reminded. KISA will develop “Welly” as the pan-national brand and lead a healthy Internet culture movement. tory. 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 60 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 61 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Organizational Culture Ⅲ. Improving the expertise of employees KISA cultivates employee’s specialty as an agency specialized in the Internet and information security. Based on core values of the organization Training attendants in 2011 and human resources development (HRD), KISA nurtures specialists in each occupational category by providing specialized trainings and running KISA’s employee model and employee nurturing strategy in 2011 (As of December 2011, excluding leave of absence and dispatched employee) educational organizations, so that all employees can show their competence to the maximum extent. KISA’s 144 persons employee Expert in his/her field with upright character and loyalty CoP activity results in 2011 Educational system nurturing talented personnel model Item Contents KISA establishes and operates capability-based HRD implementation strategy to nurture the best 238 persons Core Future-orientaSocial responsiInternet/information security experts who have enthusiasm and specialty. For this purpose, the selfSpecialty Communication Enthusiasm Total 10 departments values tion bility (including one department by Organization office and division, and specialized driven learning organization (CoP, Community of Practice) policy was adopted, and training programs member office) are divided into the common programs, which foster specialized consultants for each occupational HRD Strategic partner inside the organization to secure the best organizational/personnel 136 persons vision competitiveness About 7 months Activity period (June ~ December 2011, biweekly) category, and specialized job training. Training hours in 2011 Total 100 times (total 3,708 Activity results employees have participated) Promoting specializaImproving way of Result-orientation Constant learning 83 hours Level of KISA education system diagram for 2011 tion performing tasks 76.7 points HRD satisfaction Required Optional Appointed strategy Matching business Fostering as an expert Encouraging voluntary Enhancing business Activity 3 excellent CoP were selected and with training in the corresponding learning from the job performance capability improvement 106 hours awarded at the year end Grade 1 Grade 2 Grade 3 Grade 4 efforts field through changes and innovation Senior research Chief research Manager Assistant Researcher (over 19 years of (over 13 years of researcher manager (under 3 years of 101 hours experience) experience) (over 7 years of researcher experience) experience) (under 7 years of All KISA employees should take 15 courses in 4 areas, including leadership and business planning. Permanent employees experience) The specialized courses for each occupational category are composed of 15 courses in 5 areas, General and specialized contract workers Management capability enhancement course for managers including management support and policy development. Customized learning programs are provided Appointed contract workers Leadership with all courses. In particular, the latest learning support service like real time, self-driven e-learning Leadership improvement course for promoted employees development is provided for employees, so that they are not limited by time and space. As a result, the average training CEO special lecture (improving way of performing tasks) completion hours for employees’ annual training (regular employees) in 2011 were 106 hours, whereas Communication skill improvement course those of the general contract workers and specialized contract workers were 101 hours and 83 hours respectively. New recruit introExpert course in major universities duction course Common training programs Specialized job training programs Specialized job capability course (commissioned to the outside educational institute) Job capability Area Course name Target Area Course name Target development IT utilization capability improvement course (OA) Leadership for all employees All employees National assembly response process Person in charge/each team training Leadership Leadership for managers Managers Management Budget compilation process Person in charge/each team KISA Expert Academy planning Customer satisfaction improvement All employees New recruits course New employees CoP course for each division Ethical management All employees Management Problem solving technique All employees Tender and contract practice Person in charge/each team planning Common capability development course (KISA special lecture) Management Security rules All employees International Formality All employees support Sexual harassment/Prostitution prevention All employees Integrity and ethical education cooperation Common Foreign languages All employees Labor management Managers capability Investment techniques All employees Online foreign language course Basic legal knowledge All employees development training Balance reading All employees Laws related to the Internet All employees Education course at home and abroad Policy develHealth management (first aid) All employees Internet promotion laws Person in charge/each team opment KISA humane studies academy General Internet system security laws Person in charge/each team Event photo shooting All employees education Privacy protection laws Person in charge/each team Arts (music) All employees R&D Patent management strategy All employees Communication All employees Information Movie screening on information security All employees Arts (painting) All employees security ※ KISA implements training about protective measures for each personal information phase, according to the internal personal information management plan. 62 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 63 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Organizational Culture Ⅳ. Cooperative labor-management relations KISA has been developing mutual trust among members which is based on win-win labor-management culture, and endeavoring to build up 3 labor-management negotiation directions and 4 negotiation rules Union member status a reasonable labor-management relation through information sharing and diversification of the communication channel. KISA newly set up the Creating a rational and realistic collecstrategy system for an advanced labor-management relation. Realizing 5 core values of KISA Abiding by laws and principles tive bargaining atmosphere 226 employees 58% Specialty capability, communication, Labor-management-related guidelines Sufficient dialog between labor and future orientation, passion, social issued by the Ministry of Strategy and management before negotiation Establishing advanced strategic labor-management system responsibility Finance and Ministry of Labor, Presenting negotiation alternatives KISA is improving labor-management relations and establishing upright internal culture by Labor-related laws and Labor that fit into the KISA’s conditions Standards establishing 3 labor-management advancement implementation strategies and 10 detailed Union member implementation tasks that reflect the management strategy of KISA. 3 implementation strategies Non-union member include an increased opportunity of communication between labor and management for information sharing and disclosure, presenting preemptive alternatives by strengthening labor-management management capabilities, and inducing labor-management practices based on laws and principles. Refraining from forced Establishing trust between Promoting field-oriented Service order establishment compromise caused by 1st labor-management negotiation meeting Also, detailed implementation tasks by strategy were identified and put into practice. In addition, labor-management labor-management relations pressing strife and a sense of responsibility 3 labor-management negotiation directions were established to realize the labor-management ● Establishing mutual trust ● Promoting labor-management ● Response to strife pressure ● Establishing service order within advancement strategy and core values of KISA, and 4 related negotiation rules were newly ● Sufficient information sharing relations focusing on the field of from the labor union regarding the business space and communication each department current labor-management issues ● Increasing the sense of labor established. The management result evaluation result in 2011 pointed out that key performance ● Strengthening capabilities of basing on the principle management responsibility of the administrator and organization ● Finding middle ground through person in charge of labor indicators (KPI) for labor-management are not clearly specified due to the lack of mid-to-long term sufficient dialog and discussion roadmap for future development in the labor-management advancement strategy. Accordingly, KISA established mid-to-long term roadmap to improve labor-management relations, and is now systemizing labor-management KPI. Union member status KISA respects employee’s freedom of association, guarantees formation of the labor unit and representative organization, and respects employees’ right of joining the membership. Also, Article Advancement of 28 of the collective agreement stipulates that major business changes (e.g., dispersion, break-up, or labor-managemerger of the place of business; change of the managing ministry; privatization) should be notified ment relations immediately and mutual discussion should be made. KISA has been holding a labor-management practice meeting more than once a month to espouse the interests of both labor and management and strengthen labor-management relations in the field since the establishment of the labor unit. Strategy 1 Strategy 2 Strategy 3 There have been 30 labor-management practice meetings, 8 preliminary secretary meetings before Increasing the opportunity of Presenting the “preemptive” Inducing labor-management communication between labor and collective bargaining, and 4 joint labor-management operation meetings. Despite such efforts, alternative by strengthening laborpractice based on laws and management for information management handling principles management result evaluation for 2011 pointed out that more practical communication between sharing and disclosure Strategy labor-management is needed. KISA joint labor-management conference will be held at least 4 times Managing the relation in such way that Providing an opportunity of estabLeading the desirable labor-mana year according to the related law. KISA will assign more times and efforts in labor-management various labor-management channels can lishing trust by obeying governmenagement relations (e.g., presenting be linked hierarchically for management tal policies or laws, and minimizing preemptive alternatives) by cultivatcommunication by holding a joint labor-management conference occasionally to discuss about policy and vision sharing (occasional unnecessary disputes between labor ing the labor-management capability various policies of KISA. meeting) and management through continuous education and learning. Major topics of labor-management negotiation in 2011 Realization of transparent manPromoting specialized training Labor-management joint efforts to agement like labor-management related to labor-management improve specialty information sharing Held a round-table conference between labor and management regarding measures 2011. 11. 4 countering digression into rural areas Corporate culture improvement Diverse communication Promotion efforts Advance explanation and discustask 2011. 11. 5 Discussion about organizational and personal performance management system sion before introducing channel the policy Communication between head of Legal and rational wage and the organization and employees signing collective agreement 2011. 11. 8 Discussion between labor and management regarding HR and wage regulations Communication among Labor-management joint employees committee operation 2011. 11. 12 Explanation and discussion about the introduction of the retirement pension system 64 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 65 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Organizational Culture Ⅴ. Harmony of work and life KISA supports various benefit packages and harmony of work and life, so that employees can lead a happy life in the office and at home. As a Efforts to harmonize work with family result of all these efforts, KISA was selected as an exemplary public agency implementing the flexible workplace system in the first half of 2011, and Program Program details selected as an excellent agency that supports female scientists and engineers. Family invitation ● Invited employee families to introduce the organization and have a meeting with the president of events KISA (August 24, 2011) ● Set up “Family Days” every Wednesday to encourage employees to go home earlier (broadcasting “Family Days” Childcare center use status Running various welfare systems to the entire employees) KISA provides various benefit packages that are actually helpful for employee’s daily life, so that ● Operating “Kisarang childcare center” first among public agencies to support stable childrearing of 2012 64persons the employee employees can comfortably settle at both the workplace and home. In particular, the level of Operating workplace 2011 56persons ※O  btained a childcare center evaluation certification from the Ministry for Health, Welfare and 2010 35persons employee’s satisfaction is improved by running the selective benefit package systems that allow childcare facilities Family Affairs on October 18, 2011 ● Number of caring children (number of nursery school children): 2010 (27) → 2011 (39) → 2012 (53) employees to select the welfare items and details of benefits according to their preference and needs. Encouraging Maternity leave use status Two male employees and 12 female employees (100% childbirth employee applied for a maternity ●  leave of absence leave) for childbearing KISA’s benefit package 2011 26 persons Operating flexible workplace that enables employees to adjust office hours autonomously to al●  2010 24 persons leviate the burden of childrearing Basis of payment Contents Basis of payment Operating flexible ●  Operating short work hours for 16 employees, which enables to adjust the work type (half day work workplace The welfare card can be only used for employee’s capability for 5 days a week, or full day work for 3 days) ● Identified works available for mobile and home-office to support remote working (30 employees) development and quality of life improvement (scope of use: medical Selective benefit Welfare card expenses, self-development, leisure activities, health promotion, programs Operating female rest and cultural life expenses) ●  Operated female-only rest room, lactation room, and nap room (14th floor) room and lactation ● Providing a community space for female employees Physical examination for health checkup and stabilization of room Selective benefit Physical examination livelihood (once a year). Applicable employees can select a type and programs institution of physical examination. Financial aid for Admission fee for middle and high school, tuition, school support Increasing the proportion of female employee recruitment Wage regulation schooling expenses fees (within 300 thousand won per month) KISA meets the government policy of gender equality by increasing the proportion of female Supporting examination fee for employees who apply for an employee recruitment. KISA hired 85 female recruits out of 163 new recruits in 2011 (more than half), Certificate acquisiinformation security-related certificates, such as SIS, CISSP, CISA, Wage agreement which results in increasing the total proportion of female workers from 29.3% to 32.8%. The proportion tion support professional engineer, PMP, etc. exceeds the female recruitment ratio recommended by the government, and KISA is making Annual leave, maternity leave, and congratulations and condolence Various leaves Rules of employment contribution to the establishment of the “gender equality” organizational culture. leave Four National Insurance 4 national insurances Insurance, and Industrial Accident Compensation Insurance Law Rules of employment Case study Physical training room, female rest room (lactation room), cafeteria, Welfare facilities (Chapter 11. Safety, condominium, Kisarang childcare center health, and welfare) Supporting up to 200,000 won actual expenses for club activities, Rules of employment Corporate club activity support such as culture, general education, and physical strength enhancement (Chapter 11. Safety, health, and welfare) Training for female leadership improvement KISA has been developing the “gender equality” organizational culture as the quickly as speed of the Internet industry development. By providing an opportunity of education to improve Family friendly management female employee’s leadership capability and promote the female scientists network as well KISA endeavors to create a culture where work and family can be harmonized. Particular attention as the institutional support to solve the childrearing issue, KISA is creating an environment is paid to female workers so that they can concentrate on their work. Employees could improve that both male and female employees can grow and prosper together, instead of simply their quality of life continuously along with the growth of the organization in 2011, by hosting family overcoming sexual differences. As a part of such efforts, training programs for job competence invitation events, setting up “Family Days” every Thursday to encourage employees to go home and leadership improvement have been implemented to find and support the next-generation earlier and spend more time with their families, and by providing flexible workplace system. Every IT female leaders since 2012. In particular, female leaders were invited as a lecturer and their childbirth employees took the maternity leave and two male employees took the paternity leave, successful self-achievement stories were delivered during the first training program held in as they were encouraged to do so. “Kisarang childcare center”, which is a workplace childcare June 2012, so that female employees in KISA could gain confidence and willingness that are facility that could accommodate 56 children in 2011, was opened to employees as well as employees needed to overcome individual/organizational problems in the workplace. KISA will continue of neighboring public agencies and local community residents. This childcare center obtained a to provide the technical training that can be applied in the field, so that female employees can childcare center evaluation certification from the Ministry for Health, Welfare and Family Affairs demonstrate their leadership effectively by overcoming sexual discrimination that is deeply (October) to support stable childrearing of the employee. rooted in our society. 66 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 67 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency ENVIRONMENT Environment Efforts Ⅰ. Resource use reduction and recycling EFFORTS Ⅰ. Resource use reduction and recycling KISA actively copes with global issues such as climate change and energy crisis. KISA is minimizing energy consumption and environmental damage which occurred while operating the organization, by implementing the energy saving campaign and running the process that measures Ⅱ. Greenhouse gas reduction efforts environmental achievements that are related to business. In particular, KISA is sincerely putting into practice various policies, such as energy saving promotion plan, eco-friendly product purchase recommendation policy, etc. Promoting energy saving programs KISA has set up an energy saving promotion plan to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse Use of electricity gas emission, while currently running an energy saving campaign at an organizational level. 2011 2,328,962kWh KISA has adopted and now implements practical energy saving policies, such as limited elevator 2010 2,740,983kWh operation, compulsory implementation of the “no driving on weekdays policy”, assigning of lightweight vehicles as a priority for business purposes, and maintaining right room temperature for offices to save energy. In addition, KISA regularly carries out PR and education to make energy Compulsory purchase of eco-friendly products 15 conservation as a way of life. In association with other agencies under the management of the Korea 2011 96points Communications Commission, the Energy Saving Promotion Committee has been established and 2010 91points % is now under operation. In addition, KISA designated an internal energy saving guard who analyzes Power use reduction status and evaluates energy saving implementation results of KISA, in order to conserve energy throughout Details of electrical bills the organization. 2011 378,773,481 won Energy saving implementation plan 2010 415,749,577 won 56.4 Program Program details Reducing greenhouse gas by 20% until 2015 tCO2eq Building Set proper office cooling/heating temperature (cooling: 28℃, heating: under 18℃) Lights-out during lunchtime (12:00 ~ 13:00) Greenhouse gas emission Reasonable operation of building elevators (stopping on every other floor and no quantity in 2011 Efficient energy saving operation on low floors) Installing heat insulation film on the window outside of the building Vehicle Inducing active operation of “car pool” system Running “No-driving on weekdays policy” (3 strike-out policy for the violator) No car idling, refraining from over-speed and quick braking, and keeping economical speed Equipment Purchasing with priority of the products having the first grade energy efficiency rating (computing devices) Implementation of the green IT environment Reasonable use of electric devices (automatic light sensor and energy-saving bidet) Purchasing with priority of the eco-friendly office supplies Energy saving PR Culture Notice and PR on the bulletin board within the building premise Reducing environmental load All the household wastes from KISA is collected by leased building service companies, and unused communication equipment and PC are recycled using various methods, such as disposal, transfer, and donation, through the governmental goods recycling center managed by the Public Procurement Service. KISA consumed 15% less power compared to the previous year (2,328,962kWh), and purchased green products with E-mark and Good Recycled Product (GR) preferably, following the governmentrecommended policy of “Article 6, Law regarding eco-friendly product purchase promotion.” By increasing the proportion of eco-friendly products among the entire office supplies purchased by the organization, KISA achieved 96% of the eco-friendly product purchase target, which is recommended by the government. 68 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 69 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Environment Efforts Ⅱ. Greenhouse gas reduction efforts KISA is making efforts to reduce greenhouse gas by actively taking part in the government’s “greenhouse gas/energy target management system for the public sector.” The quantity of greenhouse gas is measured every year according to the government’s guidelines, and the reduction target quantity has been set and managed since 2011. KISA will be a public agency that practices greenhouse gas and energy reduction starting from the Cl i ck k now l edge smallest. Legal ground of greenhouse gas/energy tarManaging the quantity of greenhouse gas get management system - Article 42, “Basic law for low carbon green growth” and Article 28 of its enforcement ordinance Act KISA is measuring the quantity of greenhouse gas by participating in the “greenhouse gas/energy target management system for the public sector” that requires public agencies to set the greenhouse Puzzling Internet coined words - “Guidelines for the greenhouse gas/energy target management system for the public sector” (Public notice No. 2012-22, Ministry of Environment, revised on reduction target every year and manage implementation results. In case of the premises among management targets, the target value is calculated by estimating Newbe Pekchi February 6, 2012) A word “Newbe” is shortened from a new beginner, which usually refers A word “Pekchi” means the skirt that is molding to the body. Or, it is the emission quantity based on power/fuel use quantity (MWh•ℓ/m2) per building’s total floor area, to a person who just began his/her activity in the online bulletin board given the building is leased and individual measurement device cannot be installed. (The leased used in association with a word “Jjalchi”, which is a shortened form of or community. Or, it indicates a person with insufficient knowledge in a short skirt. If a skirt is shorter than a short skirt, it is called “ddongchi”. building is excluded from the calculation of emission goal) As KISA leases the building, only direct a particular area compared to the others. Sometimes “kae” prefix is These words become popular among middle and high school students, emission (gasoline, kerosene, and LPG) by vehicle’s fuel consumption is managed as a greenhouse attached to emphasize. as the “student human rights ordinance” has been enforced in Seoul gas emission source. and Gyeonggi area recently. “Don’t you know that? Even a ‘Newbe’ like me The fuel use quantity can be checked using the receipt issued by the gas station, which contains the already knows about it. refueling quantity record as well as the vehicle operation journal. The base emission quantity can “Hair style and accessories are important. But ‘Pekchi’ is the most important of all.” be estimated and calculated using the past fuel consumption quantity by vehicle type, vehicle’s fuel efficiency and mileage, average oil price of the area in the year, and oil expense amount. Jonggyeolja KISA emitted total 56.36 tCO2eq greenhouse gas in 2011, and aims to reduce the emission quantity by 20% until 2015. After setting the reduction target every year, KISA enters it into the system and A “Jonggyeolja” is a person who has absolutely superior capabilities. This word originates from the item called “Mulgogi jonggyeolja of Simnam “Simnam” refers to a man who is quite attractive to draw attention Net Pagle” from the World of Warcraft, a computer game created by submits it to the Korea Communications Commission, in order to take the lead in greenhouse from others. Or, it can be used to mean a boy who draws attention. Blizzard. In China, the movie titled “Terminator” was translated into this emission reduction efforts. word. Sometimes, the “Jonggyeolja” means the person who finishes In this sense, “Simnam” is the previous status of “Somenam (man with something special)”. “Somenam” means a man with personal clean off a work. Implementation plan to achieve greenhouse gas and energy reduction targets acquaintance before having an actual date. “No matter what… movie star XXX is a fashion “I found a ‘Simnam’ but I don’t know whom to 1. No idling for more than 3 minutes with business vehicles, keeping the economical speed, refueling less than 70% of the tank. ‘Jonggyeolja’!” express it.” Reducing 2. Vehicle fuel saving by promoting car pools greenhouse gas 3. Keeping regulation speed emission by 20% 4. Keeping the “no-driving weekday” policy 5. Recommending light-weight vehicle allocation Yongja Daichida Even though a word “Yongja” is used as what it literally means, A different expression of “fight,” or refers to “fighting for one’s life.” sometimes it is used to describe a person who audaciously stands up It can imply the action that causes pain to others for the interests or for trivial things without putting much thought. For example, if nobody due to a conflict without any protective gears or rules. “Daidai” is an dares to buy a product that shows low performance compared to its analogous term, which is a dialect of Gangwondo meaning “fight.” price, and somebody buys it and informs the product information to Trend of greenhouse gas emission quantity Quarterly trend of energy use amounts in 2011 (TJ) others, we say “he is a ‘Yongja’ indeed!” “My mobile phone LCD is broken to pieces while in 2011 (tCO2eq) 14.69 0.22 “Are you watching the music TV program before I ‘Daichida’ with my friend.” 14.26 the examination day? You’re a ‘Yongja!’ ” 0.21 0.21 13.82 13.59 0.20 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 70 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 71 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Economic Efforts ECONOMIC Ⅰ. Reasonable budget and distribution EFFORTS Ⅰ. Reasonable budget and distribution KISA is a commissioned execution-type, quasi-governmental agency. 80 ~ 90% of its income comes from the government contribution and fund. Most of the income is spent for the projects managed by governmental departments, such as the Korea Communications Commission, Ministry of Ⅱ. Implementing government-recommended policies Public Administration and Security, and Ministry of Knowledge and Economy. KISA operates a budget waste report center for transparent budget execution. Budget and distribution Budget monitoring and management programs were established and are currently under operation to Budget in 2011 execute the budget in a reasonable way. Based on these programs, KISA endeavors to maintain the soundness of its financial structure, such as management of projects based on a quarterly budget execution plan, and management of execution results. In 2011, the budget execution ratio was 91% and the total asset was 56.7 billion won, whereas the operating income and net profit were 3.2 billion 127.1 billion won and 3.6 billion won respectively. Major expenditure items include the project implementation cost (81%), personnel cost (13%), ordinary operating expenses (5%), and others (1%). Government’s budget compilation process To set up the national financial operation plan, the Budget Office of the Ministry of Strategy and Finance reviews the mid-term business plan of the entire department, and sets the expenditure limit and mid-term financial plan for each department. KISA also submits the mid-term financial plan after project review, adjustment, and deliberation by the Korea Communications Commission. The submitted budget request for each business is discussed with the managing department and the 91 % Ministry of Strategy and Finance. Then, the budget plan is submitted to the National Assembly, and reviewed and confirmed by the National Assembly Standing Committee and the National Assembly Budget Settlement Committee. Budget execution rate Deliberation by Mid-term financial plan Government budget plan review the National Assembly JAN FEB MAR APR~MAY JUN JUL~SEP OCT NOV DEC DecisionNew Determine Budget Submit Review Review by Project Write budget Project making by the the Budget 90.7 project expenditure plan governby the review request form review Standing Settlement proposal limit review ment plan National Committee Committee Assembly % New Submit project project request form SMB product buying rate proposal KISA Project presentation to Project presentation Project the Ministry of Strategy to the National presentation and Finance Assembly Project Budget review, adjustment adjustment, internal deliberation review Department Submit the midConfirm Submit the Respond to the term financial department government budget plan plan plan budget (plan) Budget (plan) Review the review Ministry mid-term (first third financial plan of Stratreview) egy and Submit the government budget and Finance Determine the fund (plan) plan, Cabinet meeting on expenditure limit September 30, Submit to the National by department Assembly (October 2) 72 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 73 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Economic Efforts Economic Efforts Major budget in 2011 2011 budget (Unit: million won, as of December 31, 2011) Summarized income statement (Unit: million won) Operating the budget waste report center Item Budget Ratio KISA has opened and is now operating the budget waste General accounting contribution 2009 2010 2011 General accounting contribution 84,169 66% Account report center to collect the opinions of stakeholders former) KISA former) NIDA former) KIICA Integrated KISA KISA KISA 84.2 regarding budget waste. KISA investigates the reported Broadcasting development fund project 11,758 9% Operating revenue 32,160 20,577 9,312 55,016 118,500 110,271 detail and takes corrective measures against any undebillion won ICT development fund project 2,165 2% sirable practices in order to secure budget transparency. Operating expenses 31,556 20,753 9,330 57,175 113,623 107,065 Income Outside commissioned project 7,426 6% Operating income 604 -176 -18 -2,159 4,877 3,206 Internal project revenue 15,329 12% Broadcasting development fund project Non-operating Miscellaneous income and carry-over 6,205 5% 274 740 43 551 1,268 1,067 income 11.8 Total 127,052 100% Non-operating 9 6 817 1 Project expenses 102,863 81% expenses billion won 1. General accounting project 61,248 48% Corporate tax 502 267 698 717 2. Broadcasting development fund project 11,758 9% Gross income 32,434 21,317 9,355 55,567 119,768 111,338 ICT development fund project 3. ICT development fund project 2,165 2% Gross cost 351,565 21,261 10,147 57,443 114,321 107,782 2.2 4. Outside commissioned project 7,426 6% Net income 869 56 -792 -1,876 5,447 3,556 Expenses 5. Internal project revenue 20,266 16% billion won Personnel expenses 16,342 13% ※ 2009 integrated KISA: As of December 31, 2009.12.31 Ordinary operating expenses 6,947 5% ※ 2009 former) KISA, former) NIDA, former) KIICA: As of July 22, 2009 2010~2012 budget comparison Reserve fund 900 1% (Unit: million won) Total 127,052 100% Financial status (Unit: million won) (Unit: million won) 2012 128,726 Total asset Settlement of accounts in 2011 (Unit: million won, as of December 31, 2011) Average annual 2011 127,052 5 strategic objectives 13 strategic tasks 2011 2012 2013 2014 increase 2010 154,011 2011 56,703 Revenue Expenditure 1-1. A dvancing the Internet 17,300 19,832 29,000 30,000 20.1% 2010 55,447 Gov’t support Investment Personnel expenses 16,342 Establishing the world’s incident response system ※ Reason for budget reduction in 2010: The 2011 budget Contribution 89,069 Project expenses 101,863 best information 1-2. S trengthening the information was reduced from 2010 because the budget was 11,190 12,403 12,753 13,129 5.5% increased temporarily due to July 7th DDoS incident in security and incident security infrastructure Total liabilities Assistance 1. Jurisdiction of the Korea 45,116 2009. (Unit: million won) response system 1-3. F ostering the information 2. Jurisdiction of the Ministry of Public 15,606 16,045 16,673 17,105 3.1% Trust 11,532 security industry 2011 31,007 Administration and Security 2010 33,307 3. Jurisdiction of the Ministry of 2-1. Improving the sense of Others 16,449 4,600 Creating healthy 4,368 3,414 4,664 4,664 2.2% Knowledge and Economy Internet ethics Internet culture and use Internal revenue Domain commission, etc. 15,329 4. IT Development Fund 2,165 2-2. S trengthening the information Total capital environment 12,303 12,666 13,289 13,944 4.3% security system 5. B roadcasting development fund project 11,758 3-1. Identifying leading Internet 2011 25,696 6. Outside commissioned project 7,426 2,979 2,637 2,637 2,637 -4.0% Laying the foundation of policies 2010 22,140 7. Internal project Incentive reserve fund, 19,266 the advanced Internet 3-2. Laying foundation for diffusCarry-over 6,205 8,353 8,675 9,735 9,801 5.5% etc. Ordinary operating expenses 6,947 infrastructure and leading ing new Internet services the policy 3-3. Advancing Internet address Corporate tax 1,000 10,518 10,865 11,203 11,559 3.2% management system Reserve fund 900 Establishing the Total 127,052 Total 127,052 4. D  iversifying international practical global 9,653 10,017 10,201 10,310 2.3% cooperation cooperative system ※ Integrated KISA in 2009: As of December 31, 2009 Nurturing expert ※ 2009 former) KISA, former) NIDA, former) KIICA: As of July 22, 2009 5. Improving organizational personnel and innovat(Unit: million won) culture and business 1,895 1,895 1,895 1,895 0.0% Summarized financial statements ing the management productivity infrastructure 2009 2010 2011 Total 94,165 98,449 112,050 115,044 6.9% classification former) KISA former) NIDA former) KIICA Integrated KISA KISA KISA Current asset 20,461 21,765 5,394 40,921 41,677 42,730 labor cost, current expenses, Non-current asset 2,151 8,785 14,039 13,770 13,973 Management Field move to local area, reserved 32,867 31,575 32,315 33,078 0.2% funds, etc. Total assets 22,612 30,550 5,394 54,960 55,447 56,703 Total 127,032 130,024 144,366 148,121 5.3% Current liabilities 14,760 10,517 4,432 32,095 26,372 24,731 Non-current liabilities 5,550 415 242 6,172 6,935 6,276 Total liabilities 20,310 10,932 4,674 38,267 33,307 31,007 Capital 2,150 18,468 1 13,067 10,318 13,067 Others 152 1,150 719 3,626 11,822 12,629 Total caital 2,302 19,618 720 16,693 22,140 25,696 74 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 75 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Economic Efforts Ⅱ. Implementing government-recommended policies KISA is trying to achieve the government’s recommended policy objectives, which is the legal compulsory measures, to contribute to the realization of a fair society. The government’s recommended policies are the measurement index used to evaluate the level of implementation, which is designed to promote the purchase of products manufactured by the small-to-medium sized business, female-owned business, and social enterprise. After establishing the management plan for the government’s recommended policy in January 2011, SMB product purchase ratio KISA is performing proactive activities to implement government-recommended policies, including: hiring the unemployed youths, handicapped (by law), men of national merit (preferred); purchase with priority of the products manufactured by the small-to-medium sized business and severely disabled person; and purchase of Onnuri gift voucher that can be used in traditional markets. 90.37 % (About 5% increase from the previous year) APPENDIX GRI G3.1/ ISO26000 Contents Index Implementation result (purchase) (Unit: million won) Independent verification report 2010 2011 Award History Item Purchase Purchase Purchase Purchase Current Status of KISA’s Networks SMB products 85.4% 62,197 90.37% 41,950 UN Global Compact Technology development 315 Glossary 1.1% 268 3.95% products Female owned-company 2,293 4.6% 3,348 4.94% products Social enterprise product 0.15% 103 1.25% 582 Eco-friendly product 90.1% 1,119 90.6% 700 Products of severely dis622 0.38% 275 1.34% abled persons Products of self-support 0.04% 0.5 0.6% 2.6 war veteran Onnuri gift voucher for 0.18% 12 0.5% 35 traditional markets Implementation result (employment) 2010 2011 Type Recruitment ratio Persons Recruitment ratio Persons Men of national merit 5.6% 28 5.7% 30 Handicapped 2.7% 12 3% 16 Key achievements in 2011 SMB product Technical development Hiring men of Hiring purchase products purchase national merit the handicapped (Unit: million won) (Unit: million won) (Unit: persons) (Unit: persons) 62,197 315 16 30 268 28 12 41,950 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 2010 2011 76 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 77 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency GRI G3.1 / ISO26000 Contents Index ● Full report ◐ Partial report ○ No report ◇ Not applicable ● Full report ◐ Partial report ○ No report ◇ Not applicable Item Report Item Report GRI index Description ISO 26000 Clauses Page GRI index Description ISO 26000 Clauses Page code Rate code Rate Profile For organizations that have a unitary board structure, the number of members of the highest 4.3 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members shall be stated. 6.2 ● 8-9 Statement from the most senior decision makers of the organization (e.g., CEO, chair, or Vision and 1.1 members of equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organi6.2 ● 4-5 Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to zation and its strategy. 4.4 the highest governance body. 6.2 ◐ 64-65 Strategy 1.2 Description of major impacts, risks, and opportunities. ● 4-5, 10-11, 12-13 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, 4.5 senior managers, executives (including departure arrangements) and the organization's 6.2 ● 8-9 2.1 Name of the organization. ● 6-7 performance (including social/environmental performance). 2.2 Representative brands, products, and/or services. ● 6-7 4.6 Processes in place for the highest governance body to prevent conflicts of interest 6.2 ● 8-9 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of 2.3 subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 6.2 ● 6-7 4.7 committee in order to support economical/environmental/social strategies 6.2 ● 8-9 2.4 Location of organization's headquarters. ● 6-7 Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major 4.8 relevant to economic/environmental/social performance and the status of their implementa6.2 ● 10-11 Organizational 2.5 operations or specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. ◇ No office abroad tion. Profile Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization's identification 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form. ● 8-9 and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant Governing struc4.9 risks and opportunities, and adherence to or compliance with internationally agreed stan6.2 ● 8-9, 10-11 Target markets (including geographical breakdown, project field, and types of customers/ 2.7 beneficiaries). ● 6-7 ture, responsibildards, codes of conduct, and principles. ity, engagement Processes for evaluating the highest governance body's own performance, particularly with 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. ● 6-7, 73-75 4.10 6.2 ● 8-9, respect to economic, environmental, and social performance. None 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership ◇ occurred 16-19, Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the 20-23, 2.10 Awards received in the reporting period ● 86 4.11 organization. 6.2 ● 35-37, 59-61, 69, 73-75 3.1 Reporting period (e.g., fiscal/calendar year) for information provided. ● 2 Economic/environmental/social charters, principles, or other initiatives developed from 4.12 outside, to which the organization subscribes or endorses. 6.2 ● 87-88, 89 3.2 Date of the most recent previous report. ● 2 Memberships in associations as the following (e.g., industry association) and/or national/ 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) ● 2 4.13 international advocacy organizations. 6.2 ● 87-88, 89 3.4 Contacts for questions regarding the report or its contents. ● Folding paper 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 6.2 ● 12-13 3.5 Process of defining report content. (Determining level of importance/priority, estimating ● 12-13, 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 6.2 ● 12-13 possible stakeholders) 14-15 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and 12-13, Report boundary (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, 4.16 6.2 ● 3.6 suppliers). ● 2 stakeholder group. 14-15 Major topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 12-13, 3.7 Specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. ● 2 4.17 the organization has responded to those Major topics and concerns. 6.2 ● 14-15 Variables of Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, Report Economic Performance Indicators methods 3.8 and other entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or ● 2 between organizations. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, 52-54, Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and EC1 employee compensation, donations and other community investments, retained earnings, 6.8/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 ● 73-75, 76 3.9 techniques which underlie estimations applied to the compilation of the Indicators and other ● By report theme payments to capital providers and governments. information in the report. Economic PerforFinancial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization's activities in Explanation of the effect of any restatements of information provided in earlier reports, mance EC2 relation to climate change. 6.5.5 ◐ 69, 70 3.10 and the reasons for such re-statement (e.g., mergers/acquisitions, change of base years/ ◇ No change periods, nature of business, measurement methods). EC3 Coverage of the organization's defined benefit plan obligations. 6.4.4/6.8 ● 66-67 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measure3.11 ment methods applied in the report. ● 2 EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. ● 73-75 Range of ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage at significant 3.12 Table identifying the location of the Standard Disclosures in the report. ● 78-83 EC5 locations of operation. 6.4.4/6.8 ● 58 Policies regarding verification from outside, current activities, verifying scope and standard, Market Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locally-based suppliers at significant loca3.13 relation between reporting organization and verifying organization 7.5.3 ● 2, 84-85 Presence EC6 tions of operation. 6.6.6/6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 ◐ 76 Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest goverProcedures for local hiring and proportion of senior management hired from the local Single business Governing 4.1 nance body responsible for specific tasks such as setting strategy or organizational oversight 6.2 ● 8-9 EC7 community at locations of significant operation. 6.8/6.8.5/6.8.7 ◇ place structure, responsibility, 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.3/6.8. Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (If so, their function Indirect Supporting activities for and impact of infrastructure investments and services that are 16-43, engagement 4.2 within the organization's management and reasons for this appointment shall be indicated) 6.2 ● 8-9 Economic Impacts EC8 provided primarily for public benefit (including support-type division). 4/6.8.5/6.8.6/6.8.7/ ● 52-54 6.8.9 78 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 79 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency ● Full report ◐ Partial report ○ No report ◇ Not applicable ● Full report ◐ Partial report ○ No report ◇ Not applicable Item Report Item Report GRI index Description ISO 26000 Clauses Page GRI index Description ISO 26000 Clauses Page code Rate code Rate 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/ Processed as the Indirect Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts (including the extent of 16-43, Economic Impacts EC9 impacts). 6.7.8/6.8/6.8.5/ ● 44-49 EN22 Total weight of wastes by type and disposal method. 6.5/6.5.3 ○ maintenance 6.8.6/6.8.7/6.8.9 cost of the leased building Environment Performance Indicators Not applicable EN23 Total number and volume of significant toxic chemical leakage. ◇ No leak incident EN1 Materials used by weight or volume. ◇ due to business characteristics Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste considered hazardous under Collective Materials Not applicable Emissions, EffluEN24 the terms of the Basel Convention Annex Ⅰ, Ⅱ, Ⅲ, and Ⅳ, and percentage of transported ◇ sewage treatEN2 Percentage of use of recycled materials. ◇ due to business ents, and Waste waste shipped internationally. ment plant characteristics EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. ● 68-70 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats EN25 significantly affected by the reporting organization's discharges of waste water. 6.5/6.5.4/6.5.6 ◇ Not applicable EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source. ● 68-70 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and achieved perforEN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements. ● 68-70 EN26 mance. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6/6.7.5 ● 68-70 Energy Products and Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy-based products/services, and Services Not applicable EN6 reduction in energy requirements as a result of such initiatives. 6.5/6.5.4 ◐ 68-70 EN27 Percentage of sold products and rate of recycling of the packaging materials 6.5/6.5.4/6.7.5 ◇ due to business characteristics EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and achieved reduction amount. ● 68-70 Monetary values of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for No violation Processed as the Compliance EN28 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. 6.5 ◇ case reported EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. ○ maintenance cost of the leased building Significant environmental impacts of transporting products, other goods, materials used for Transport EN29 the organization's operations, and members of the workforce. 6.5/6.5.4/6.6.6 ◐ 68-70 Not applicable Water EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. ◇ due to business Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type. 6.5 ◐ 69 characteristics Social Performance Indicators Not applicable EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. ◇ due to business LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region 6.4/6.4.3 ● 7, 57 characteristics Not applicable LA2 Total number and rate of hires and employee turnover (by age group, gender, and region). 6.4/6.4.3 ○ 57 Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to protected areas and EmployEN11 areas of a high biodiversity value outside protected areas. ◇ due to business ment Benefits provided to full-time employees which are not provided to temporary or part time characteristics LA3 employees (by major operation location). 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4 ● 66-67 Not applicable EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in ◇ due to business LA15 Rates of return to work and retention of the position after parental leave (by gender). ◐ 66-67 protected areas and areas of a high biodiversity value outside protected areas. characteristics 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/ Labor/ LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 6.4.5/6.3.10 ● 65 Not applicable Management Biodiversity EN13 Habitats protected or restored. 6.5/6.5.6 ◇ due to business Relations LA5 Minimum notice period(s) regarding changes in operation, including whether it is specified in 6.4/6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5 ◐ 65 characteristics collective agreements. Not applicable Percentage of total workforce represented by the joint management-worker health and EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing impacts on biodiversity. ◇ due to business LA6 safety committees 6.4/6.4.6 ○ Labor characteristics ondiRates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of Not applicable Occupational LA7 work-related fatalities (by region). ○ Number and extinction risk level of species from both IUCN Red List and national preservations EN15 tion list with habitats in areas affected by business operations ◇ due to business and its Health characteristics and Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist 6.4/6.4.6/6.8/6.8.3/ current Safety LA8 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. 6.8.4/6.8.8 ○ EN16 Total direct / indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. ● 70 status Not applicable LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. 6.4/6.4.6 ○ EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight. 6.5/6.5.5 ◇ due to business characteristics LA10 Average hours of annual training by employee category. 6.4/6.4.7 ● 62-63 Training Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support continuous employment EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and achieved performance. ● 70 and LA11 6.4/6.4.7/6.8.5 ● 62-63 Education and assist them in managing career endings. Emissions, Not applicable Effluents, and EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. ◇ due to business LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews. 6.4/6.4.7 ○ Waste characteristics Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees according to gender, age Not applicable Diversity LA13 group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. 6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/6.4.3 ● 7-8, 67, 76 EN20 NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. ◇ due to business and Equal characteristics Opportu6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4/ Processed as the nity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category. 6.4.3/6.4.4 ◐ 58 EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. ○ maintenance cost of the leased building 80 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 81 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency ● Full report ◐ Partial report ○ No report ◇ Not applicable ● Full report ◐ Partial report ○ No report ◇ Not applicable Item Report Item Report GRI index Description ISO 26000 Clauses Page GRI index Description ISO 26000 Clauses Page code Rate code Rate Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements and contracts that either Customer Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes Not applicable 6.3/6.3.3/ Observed related 6.3.9/6.6.6/ HR1 include clauses incorporating human rights concerns or have undergone human rights screen6.3.5/6.6.6 ○ laws Health and PR2 concerning health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle (by 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5 ◇ due to business ing. Safety type of outcomes). characteristics Investment and Percentage of significant suppliers, contractors, and other business partners that have 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.5/ Observed related Not applicable Procurement HR2 undergone human rights screening. 6.4.3/6.6.6 ○ laws Type of product and service information required by procedure, and percentage of 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7. Practices PR3 significant products and services subject to such information requirements. 5/6.7.6/6.7.9 ◇ due to business characteristics Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human HR3 rights that are relevant to operations (including the percentage of employees trained). 6.3/6.3.5 ● 60 Product and Service Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes 6.7/6.7.3/6.7.4/6.7. Labeling PR4 concerning product and service information and labeling (by type of outcomes). 5/6.7.6/6.7.9 ● Not occurred Non6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ Discrimination HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. 6.3.10/6.4.3 ◇ Not occurred Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results of surveys measuring customer 6.7/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.7. PR5 satisfaction. 6/6.7.8/6.7.9 ● 50-51 Freedom of Association 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3.5 Product Operations identified in that the right to exercise freedom of association and collective Complied with and HR5 bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support such rights. /6.3.8/6.3.10/6.4.3/ ● 64-65 ResponCollective 6.4.5 sibility the government’ Bargaining Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing Human PR6 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. ● s advertisement Rights Marketing implementation Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures 6.3/6.3.3/6.3.4/6.3. Child Labor HR6 taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor. 5/6.3.7/6.3.10 ● 58 Communications regulations Total number of incidents of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary codes Forced and Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and Compulsory HR7 ● 58 PR7 concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship ● Not occurred Labor measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. by type of outcomes. Security Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization's policies or procedures 6.3/6.3.5/6.4.3/ Customer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer protection and Practices HR8 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. 6.6.6 ○ Privacy PR8 losses of customer data. 6.7/6.7.7 ● Not occurred Indigenous Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions 6.3/6.3.6/6.3.7/ Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations Rights HR9 taken. 6.3.8/6.6.7 ◇ Not occurred Compliance PR9 concerning the provision and use of products and services. 6.7/6.7.6 ● Not occurred Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews Assessment HR10 and/or impact assessments. ◇ Not occurred ※ GRI Sector Supplement for Public Agencies Number of grievances related to human rights field that are addressed/treated/resolved Remediation HR11 through formal grievance mechanisms. ● 58 Item Description Report Page code Rate Characteristics, scope and effectiveness of the programs that evaluate/manage the level Describe the relationship to other governments or public authorities and the position of the agency within its immediate 6.3.9/6.8/6.8.5/ PA1 ● 6-7 SO1 of impact upon local communities at the beginning/operation/finishing stage of operational 6.8.7/6.6.7 ● 52-54 governmental structures. activities. Define the sustainable development used by the public agency, and identify any statements or principles adapted Local PA2 to guide sustainable development polices. ● Communities SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities. ◇ Not occurred 10-11, Preventive/mitigating measures actually taken to operation sites which were either potentially PA3 Identify the aspects for which the organization has established sustainable development policies. ● 45-49, S10 or actually causing significantly negative impacts on local communities. ◇ Not occurred 50-51, PA4 Identify specific goals of the organization for each aspect listed in PA3, and identify short, mid, and long-term goals ● 52-54, 59-61, SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. 6.6/6.6.3 ● 59-61 PA5 Describe the process by which the aspects and goals in both PA3 and PA4 were set. ● 62-63, 68-70 Corruption SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization's anti-corruption policies and procedures. ● 59-61 Implementation measures, results of assessments before implementation, key indicators, measures for improvement, results of PA6 assessments after implementation, future goals. ● Society SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption. ● 61 PA7 Roles and participation of stakeholders (in respect to PA3~PA6 aforementioned). ● 12-13 SO5 Position on public policy and participation in public policy development and lobbying. 6.6/6.6.4/6.8.3 ● 38-39, 76 PA8 Gross expenditures broken down by type of payment. ● 72-76 Public Policy Total value of financial/commodity contributions to political parties, politicians, and related SO6 institutions by country. ◇ Not occurred PA9 Gross expenditures broken down by financial classification. ● 73-75 Illegitimate Not applicable PA10 Capital expenditures by financial classification. ● 73-76 Total number of legal actions for illegitimate competitive behavior and monopoly practices, Competitive SO7 and their outcomes. 6.6/6.6.5/6.6.7 ◇ due to business Behavior characteristics PA11 Describe procurement policy of the public agency related to sustainable development. ● 54, 76 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for nonPA12 Economic, environmental and social criteria that apply to expenditures and financial commitments. ● 76 Compliance SO8 compliance with laws and regulations. 6.6/6.6.7/6.8.7 ● Not occurred PA13 Relations between the public agency’s procurement practices and its public policy priorities. ● 76 Product Customer Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed Not applicable 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.7/ Not applicable ResponHealth and PR1 for improvement, and percentage of significant products and services categories subject to 6.7.4/6.7.5 ◇ due to business PA14 Percentage of the total value of purchased goods that were registered with voluntary environmental or social labels and/ ◇ due to business sibility Safety such procedures. characteristics or certification programs, broken down by type. characteristics 82 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 83 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Independent Verification Report Verification scope and objectives Korea Internet & Security Agency (hereafter “KISA”) has requested third party verification of their 2011 Sustainability Management Report to marcspon Museong, professor of Soongsil University, and Lee Mungyu, professor of Yonsei University) and reflecting them in the report seem to contribute to the (hereafter “verifier”). marcspon is a verification agency officially certified by the standard establishment organization Accountability in the U.K. The period reinforcement of the report’s both objectivity and specialty. of verification was set from January 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011, which is same as the “KISA Accountability Management Report” period. The report mainly describes efforts about environmental achievements, including social responsibility achievements and financial responsibility achievements. Inclusiveness: Principle of guaranteeing stakeholder’s participation using responsible responsive measures for sustainability However, the financial information and greenhouse gas-related data presented in the report were not included in this verification scope. Verification The verifier made certain that KISA clearly defined different types of stakeholders, such as customers, government, IT industry, employees, local was performed according to the global standard AA1000AS, while conformity to the GRI G3.1 Guidelines and ISO26000 Standards was ascertained. The community, NGO, international organization, and partner, and systematically manage them. KISA established various online/offline channels to open up verifier observed the basic principles of the AA1000AS Inclusiveness, Materiality, and Responsiveness and utilized the information quality principle of the management information transparently, and actively reflects stakeholder’s opinions in setting up the business strategy and implementation tasks. the GRI as the criteria of performance evaluation. In particular, KISA developed and provides SNS and mobile application service to collect comments from customers and enable active communication, and developed the customer relationship management (CRM) system that integrated the comprehensive customer information management Verification responsibility system, campaign management system, and VOC system. It was also verified that KISA reflects opinions gleaned from the field in improvement and KISA takes full responsibility for information collection, analysis, compilation for report writing, and all assertions in the report. The verifier’s sole establishment of policies through diverse channels like a joint labor-management conference and “blue board (youth board of directors),” and actively responsibility is to present report verification to the KISA management team. The verifier has not in any way engaged in the report writing process, and collects opinions from the government, related experts, and partners through a conference, meetings and T/F. does not have any interest for profits except providing the third party verification service on the report. The verifier checked whether any critical error or prejudice exists in the report, checked for normal operation of the information collection system, and presented opinions for report quality improvement Materiality: Major issues by which stakeholders can judge KISA’s present conditions as well as its social, economical, and environmental influence by identifying sustainability management issues and reviewing the process. The verifier confirms that, as a result of performing verification activities, there were no important issues that were not covered by KISA in the report. For this year’s materiality assessment, more stakeholders have participated and the data of analysis targets was increased compared to the previous year. Verification procedure However, KISA needs to officially establish the materiality assessment methodologies, criteria for determining the level of importance, and procedures The verifier has evaluated facts in report contents, reported data, and the internal process for report writing, as described below. of reporting to the management team and review. It is recommended to reflect as many opinions of stakeholders as possible by increasing the number ● Reviewed the methodology and processes used to extract the data. of outside participants (e.g., questionnaire). In addition, efforts to understand important environment-related issues (e.g., energy saving) is insufficient ● Reviewed the reference document and data that are related to key assertions in the report compared to economical and social achievements. If more attention is paid to the environmental issues, a more balanced materiality analysis process ● Activities during the report period and interview with performance-related stakeholders may be established. ● Evaluated the process to select issues that can affect overall KISA management and are deemed important by stakeholders. Responsiveness: Principle about the scope in which the organization responds to stakeholder’s issues ● Contents and quality compliance in accordance with the GRI G3.1 Guidelines The verifier could not find any case in which activities for issues of stakeholders in relation to KISA were described in an inappropriate manner in the report. In 2011 report, KISA described background of major issues, strategic system, mid-to-long term road map, and key achievements. Compared to Verification results the previous year, key achievements of KISA were described easier and more understandable, which is expected to produce positive effect on better The verifier reviewed the report draft and presented opinions, and the report was modified, if necessary. The verifier could not find any incorrect understanding of stakeholders. information or inappropriate description of achievements in the 2011 Sustainability Management Report of KISA during the verification process. In addition, with regard to data accuracy, no item was found that may lead us to judge the data collection through an inappropriate process, and no data KISA has completed the process of self-checking their management system and understanding the expectation level of stakeholders by publishing the error was found that may significantly affect the report significantly. The verifier confirms that the level of GRI G3.1 application with respect to the internal second Sustainability Management Report. Even though there were some improvements in the aspect of balance, it is recommended to guarantee welldeclaration corresponds to “A+” regarding sustainability management achievements. balanced report on both positive and negative results in order to obtain trust and empathy from employees and stakeholders regarding KISA’s efforts. In addition, as many enterprises are considering online publication of the report in these days to solve the environmental problems associated with printing Verification opinions out the paper reports, and improve practical utilization of the reports, it is recommended that KISA, which endeavors to act as a specialized Internet The verifier presents the following opinions, providing that the opinions do not affect verification results. The verifier has evaluated the sustainability agency and so diffuse the sound Internet culture, publish Sustainability Management Report online (paperless) and take the lead among IT enterprises. management achievements of KISA for 2 consecutive years since 2010 report verification, and had various interviews with management team, handsIt is recommended to establish a communication path with stakeholders using the improved report methods, basing on current changes among today’s on workers in the concerned business area, and stakeholders. The result shows that internal/external awareness of KISA regarding sustainability issues society. has been improved from the previous year. It is a positive sign that a working-level organization which writes the report and discusses about concrete future direction was promoted from the last year’s “Sustainability Management T/F” to “Sustainability Management Practice Committee” this year. Participants were more active than last year, and acknowledged more deeply the necessity of sustainability management. However, most participants from the last year’s report were replaced with new personnel. As a result, in-depth consideration upon changes in achievements or problematic September 2012 Representative consultant, issues and offering suggestions were not carried out. The verifier expects that 2012 Sustainability Management Report will be improved if the term marcspon of participation in the Practice Committee is extended to 2 years for the purpose of fostering the internal experts as an early phase of sustainability management. In addition, there remain few things in need of improvement: an integrated management system, which can systemize the sustainability management implementation plan and mid-to-long term objectives, and understand the achievement trend of each area, has not been established yet since the previous year; and the Sustainability Management Committee that was scheduled to be held during the verification process was eventually not held, as substituted by the review opinions reported by each member. However, collecting review opinions from outside members (e.g., Jeong 84 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 85 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Award History Current Status of KISA’s Networks Awarded Organization Agency Name Award Title Details Managing Agency Purpose of Foundation (Major Activities) Roles of KISA Managing Agency Date Name Selected as an integrity agency as for creating the clean public service Ministry of Information Academic Association 2006.12.28 Integrity Agency Certificate atmosphere and executing fair duties. and Communication Korea Institute of I Online stock exchange and electronic civil service document system were Promoting academic researches related to information Promoting academic researches related to informaKorea Communications 2007.3.12 Asia PKI Best Practice Award Asia PKI Forum nformation Security selected as an excellent PKI case in Asia. security, technology promotion, and R&D project tion security, technology promotion, and R&D project Commission and Cryptology Selected as an integrity agency as for creating the clean public service Ministry of Information IT technology research and standardization, IT expert IT technology research and standardization, IT expert Korea Communications 2007.4.21 Integrity Agency Certificate Open atmosphere and executing fair duties. and Communication nurturing, and cooperation with related association nurturing, and cooperation with related association Commission 2007.9.14 Peter Drucker Innovation Award Leading innovation by creative management Peter Drucker Society Standards and Internet Contribution to the development of the communication field by makContribution to the development of the communication Korea Communications Association ing communication science theoretically systemized and universal field by making communication science theoretically Commission Selected as an excellent integrity agency among affiliated agencies by the Korea Communications Korean Institute of 2007.12.7 Integrity Agency Certification Korea Communications Commission in 2007 (Ministry of Information and Sharing knowledge and technologies regarding information Sharing knowledge and technologies regarding Ministry of Knowledge Commission Communications and ((Former) Communication) processing information processing and Economy Information Sciences Korea Excellent Trust Management Trust management improving organizational culture and expanding Kyeonghyang 2008.5.15 Korea Information Academic research on the development of theories and Academic research on the development of theories Ministry of Knowledge Information Agency in Korea management disclosure Newspaper Security Processing Society practices that are related to IT services and practices that are related to IT services and Economy Future Pioneer Innovative CEO leadership (introduction of 6 Sigma and employee capability Agency 2008.5.29 Herald Economy Korea Society of Contribution to academic/technical promotion with regard to Contribution to academic/technical promotion with Ministry of Knowledge Enterprise enhancement, etc.) IT Services electronic information communication regard to electronic information communication and Economy Korea Contents Promotion Korea Contents 2008.5.30 Academic promotion and technical advancement in the digital contents area Institute of Electronics Contribution to the development and promotion of Contribution to the development and promotion of Ministry of Knowledge Award Association Engineers of Korea technologies regarding information science technologies regarding information science and Economy 2009.5.21 New Quality Award (Global System) Linked with ISO9001 Certification New Quality Forum Korean Institute of Contribution to the development of Internet broadInternational certification for the quality management system in the Korean Foundation for Contribution to the development of Internet broadcasting, Korea Communications 2007~2009 ISO9001 Certificate Information Scientists casting, Internet TV, and broadcasting/communicainformation security area Quality Internet TV, and broadcasting/communication network Commission and Engineers tion network Contribution to security enhancement in the private sector, and international National Intelligence 2009.1 Agency Award Institute of Webcasting, cooperation Service Contribution to the development and policy setup regarding Contribution to the development and policy setup Korea Communications Internet and Telecomthe information and communication area regarding the information and communication area Commission Excellent Management Received the Minister Award from the Ministry of Strategy and Finance by Ministry of Strategy and munication 2009.6 Evaluation Agency obtaining grade A for management evaluation in 2008 Finance Korea Information and Contribution to the academic and technical development Contribution to the academic and technical develKorea Communications Korea Management Communication Policy Korea Efficiency Innovation Contribution to the society by creating a new management paradigm with regarding the Internet information system opment regarding the Internet information system Commission 2007.5.10 Association RegistraAssociation Management Award management innovation and leadership tions & Assessments Korean Society for Systematic professional academic research on forensics, and Systematic professional academic research on Ministry of Knowledge Ministry of Commerce, Internet Information expert nurturing forensics, and expert nurturing and Economy Industry and Energy, Korea Beautiful Enterprise Pursuing balance between economic achievements and social/ Forum/Conference 2007.8.23 Korea Chamber of Award environmental responsibilities through strategic social contribution activities (Former) Commerce ＆Industry, Chairman of the secretariat's board of directors Ministry of Public National etc. Korea PKI Forum PKI use promotion, business environment base establishment (president of KISA), secretary-general (Lim JaemyAdministration and Internet Korea Creative Management Contribution to the development of related industries with excellent eong, director) Security Development 2008.5.1 NewsPeople Award management capability and technical skills Diffusion of mobile RFID, market development, and leading Committee member (Ju Yonggwan, director), chairman Korea Communications Agency of Mobile RFID Forum Leading the Internet culture and contributing to the development of related domestic standard development of the sub-committee (Lee Seungjae, team manager) Commission Korea (NIDA) Kyunghyang 2008.5.15 Korea Trust Management Award industries in consideration of changes and innovation made in the 21st Standardization of USN and monitoring of technology trend, Korea Communications Newspaper USN Forum Committee member (Ju Yonggwan, director) century and analysis on market/service Commission Korea Cultural Management Contribution to the development of the cultural industry by representing the Korea Communications 2008.7.24 Hankook Newspaper Award (Ethical Management Part) knowledge-based industries in the 21st century Creating a smart work environment, model identification, Vice chairman (president of KISA), operation memCommission, Ministry Smart Work Forum Conforming to international standards regarding the information security International Standard promotion, etc. ber (Won Yujae, director) of Public Administration 2006~2009 ISO27001 Certification management system for Internet address resources Organization and Security International certification for the quality management system in the Korean Foundation for Exchange of information and technology on Information secuKorea Communications 2010~현재 ISO9001 Certificate CONsortium of CERTs Regular member information security service provisioning area Quality rity, joint response to the incident, etc. Commission Received the Internet Promotion Award , as was acknowledged as a public Ministry of Public Internet Grand Prize Presenting a role model for CSO (Chief Security Office), and 2010.6 Internet Grand Prize agency that contributed to Internet service promotion and copes with Korea CSO Forum Special member Administration and Review Committee improving its position hacking and virus Security Minister's Award of Knowledge Ministry of Public Received the Minister's Award of Knowledge and Economy, and selected as Strengthening autonomous regulation of private service proand Economy, Family FriendliMinistry of Knowledge Korea COP Forum KISA-related business Administration and 2010.9 an Excellent Productivity Improvement Agency by the minister of viders related to privacy protection KISA ness Area, National Productivity and Economy Security Knowledge and Economy. Award Korean Council on the Strengthening autonomous regulation of privacy protection Ministry of Public Received the grand prize, as was acknowledged for minimizing damages Protection of Personal and promoting policy cooperation regarding government/ KISA-related business Administration and Hankyung Business 2011.3 e-Biz Brand Innovation Award from the DDoS attack and reducing the response time to one-third by taking Information private sector Security Weekly preemptive measures, such as Cyber Shelter and cyber treatment system. Future Internet Forum Providing the information and knowledge about future Internet Korea Communications KISA-related business (FIF) issues Commission Contribution Award from Korea Contribution to the development of the Internet information technology, Korea Society for 2011.6.24 Future Network 2020 Presenting necessity of the future Internet, and proposing viKorea Communications Society for Internet Information Internet industry, and convergence field like IPTV. Internet Information KISA-related business Forum sion and policies Commission 86 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 87 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency UN Global Compact Organization Purpose of Foundation (Major Activities) Roles of KISA Managing Agency Name Association Korea Cloud Service Information sharing between government, academic circle and Korea Communications Association industry regarding cloud computing and application service Vice-president Commission Ten Principles for UN Global Compact Korea Association of Promoting RFID/USN introduction, preparing fitting environMinistry of Knowledge RFID/USN Vice-president ment, developing policies, etc. and Economy Convergence National Intelligence ㆍThe Declaration of Human Rights Promoting industries in relation to intelligent communication Vice-president of board of directors Korea Communications Communication service, H/W, S/W, and parts (president of KISA) Commission ㆍDeclaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, International Labor Enterprise Association Organization (ILO)' Korea Biotechnology Vitalizing biometrics industry and promoting cooperative Ministry of Knowledge Secretariat Industry Association exchanges between industry-academic-research areas and Economy ㆍThe Rio Declaration on Environment and Development ㆍUNCAC (United Nations Convention against Corruption) Korea Association for User protection business for development of the broadcasting/ Korea Communications Joint management agency ICT Promotion communication industry, and personnel fostering. Commission Korea Association of Technology development and cooperation in promoting the Korea Communications Global Compact requires enterprises to support, adopt, and enact core values in four areas Joint management agency Smart Home smart home industry Commission human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. Forming a cooperative system between mobile operators, Korea Mobile Internet Sponsor agency Korea Communications terminal manufacturers, contents providers, and solution Business Association (Awarding by the president of KISA) Commission providers. Korea Information R&D and marketing support for the development of the knowlMinistry of Knowledge Security Industry KISA-related business Businesses should: edge information security industry and Economy Association Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Korea Internet Human Promoting of internet industry and enterprise, developing Korea Communications Rights Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Corporations KISA-related business policies, etc. Commission Association Businesses should uphold: National Intelligence Communication Promoting industries in relation to intelligent communication KISA-related business Korea Communications Labor Principle 3: the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; service, H/W, S/W, and parts Commission Standards Enterprise Association Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Press Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation. The most popular daily newspaper in the IT and Ministry of Knowledge Electronic Times Sponsor agency electronics industry and Economy Businesses should: Ministry of Public Boan News Internet news related to information security Sponsor agency Administration and Principle 7: support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Security Environment Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. AntiCorruption Korea Internet & Security Agency has joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC), which is an international agreement stipulating the social responsibilities of the global enterprise, and declared that it will sincerely implement ten principles in four areas human rights, labor standards, environment, and anti-corruption. 88 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 89 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency Glossary Term Description Term Description A root certification authority in Korea which was established inside KIDA with the enforcement of the “Electronic Signature Law” An educational institute established by KISA to promote the nurturing of domestic Internet/information security expert through in 1999. The function and role of the KCAC is to create an environment in which the electronic signature can be used safely and systematic training. KISA Academy opens training courses in the digital forensic/knowledge/information security consulting reliably, and manage public certification agencies efficiently. Major duties include public certificate issuance/management for the areas by; conducting surveys on personnel and technical training demand of the knowledge/information security companies; Korea Certification Authority Central (KCAC) KISA Academy pubic certification agencies, practical review and regular inspection of public certification agencies, development and distribution improving information security awareness; supporting specialized technical training for the ordinary people/enterprise security of the electronic signature-related technologies, study on the electronic signature-related policies, and international support manager; opening a general/advanced information security educational course; conducting invitation training of experts in the (www.rootca.or.kr). broadcasting/communication area; and supporting internet international cooperation training like the IPv6 diffusion training. A systematic and continuous process improvement activity based on risk management, which protects information assets from An invited training program for overseas broadcasting/communication experts (broadcasting/communication policy makers and various threats so that businesses of organizations may secure continuity. KISA is running a business that evaluates and certifies KOALP(Korea Overseas Advanced Learning experts in developing countries), which was implemented as a part of the Korea Communications Commission’s broadcasting/ the ISMS in both private and public sector. The Government Information Security Management System (G-ISMS) is applied to Program on Broadcasting & Communications) communication policy support project for developing countries. Total 261 invited training courses were opened between 1998 and Information Security Management System the public sector, which is designed in accordance with the “certification of the e-Government information security management August 2011, and total 3,786 overseas broadcasting/communication experts from 129 countries have completed the course. (ISMS) system” procedure published by the Ministry of Public Administration and Security. For the private sector, the Personal Information Management System (PIMS) was developed, which presents the measure system and criteria, so that private enterprises can perform privacy protection at the enterprise level. A service that provides various daily life information, such as navigation, personal location information, and lost terminal tracking, LBS (Location Based Service,) based on the customer’s location information obtained from the mobile communication network or Global Positioning System (GPS). Cloud computing A method of using IT resources (H/W and S/W) over the Internet by lease and paying the usage fee for the used hours. The next-generation recognition technology that can manage various object information, such as food, animal, and objects, via the IC chip and wireless communication. KISA has developed the mobile RFID code and selected it as the standard in the Mobile A youth group for primary and middle school students, which is organized to lead the proper Internet use culture and realize RFID code registration/search service Korea Internet Dream Star RFID Forum. The mobile RFID service was attempted for the first time in the world, and requires various types of code systems to public values through creative Internet utilization. satisfy various service models. Asian and Pacific Training Centre for Information and Communications Technology for Development. The specialized ICT A domain that uses the code to indicate a country or a name of independent area in accordance with the ISO3166-1 Standard as country code Top Level Domain (ccTLD) education and training institute designed to remove digital division among UN ESCAP member countries and promote socioan address. ccTLD of Korea is “.kr” (English) and “.한국” (Korean) APCICT economic development. The main duties include ICT education and training, and consulting on education and training. 66th UN Economic & Social Commission for Asia Pacific in 2010 decides permanent establishment of the APCICT. A technology that keeps, acquires, or analyzes digital evidence based on the digital data saved in the information device, which Digital forensic enables to clarify the fact relevance. A cyber-attack that disturbs normal services by generating overload within networks and systems. An attacker (hacker) sends a DDoS (Distributed Denial Of Service) attack large quantity of harmful traffic to a specific system using many PCs infected by malicious code. An environment that provides an optimal service without interruption, and fits into individual’s characteristic and context at anytime and anywhere, because communication, broadcasting, computing, and sensor networks are all converted. It is a Future Internet technology and service model that can accommodate new convergence services and other various services by resolving the Internet key infrastructure that converts the IP address recognized by the computer (e.g., 203.254.110.20) into the domain name structural limitations of the current Internet. DNS (Domain Name System) (e.g., www.kcc.go.kr) that people can easily recognize, or vice versa. A technology that identifies an individual using the physical characteristics (e.g., fingerprint or face) or individual’s unique An organization established by the CERES and UNEP in 1997 as a joint venture, GRI aims to lay the foundation of standardized Biometrics behavioral characteristics (e.g., signature action or gait), such as fingerprint, face, iris, vein, voice, signature, gait, DNA GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) sustainability report through worldwide and autonomous participation of multiple stakeholders. Since the first guideline in 2000, recognition, etc. the current GRI G3 Guidelines were released in 2006 after revision in 2002. A shelter to support the sites attacked by DDoS, using DDoS Defense System. DDoS Cyber Shelter is a type of security that Cyber Shelter ICANN (Internet Corporation for Assigned A non-profit organization established in 1998 as a private world Internet address resource management organization that blocks an attack by changing the IP address of the attacked sites. Names and Numbers) manages the Internet domain name (.com, .net, etc.), allocates the IP address, and manages the root DNS. A future-oriented business environment, where people can work conveniently and efficiently at any time and any place on the Smart Work move, instead of the office or designated work space. A technology that provides two-way service to viewers by sending multimedia over the Internet, such as the HD video, voice, IPTV (Internet Protocol Television) text, and data. It is also a type of digital convergence in that the Internet and television are converged. A system that portals and enterprises block an e-mail sent from a particular IP in real time by referring to the spam e-mail sender IP list. Real-time Blocking List (RBL) A new IP address system developed to improve the shortcomings of the IPv4, which is an IP address system currently in use. IPv6 ※ KISA analyzes the spam information received from the domestic/overseas specialized institutes, and generates a spammer IP IPv6 (Internet Protocol version 6) is a next-generation 128 bit address system (fourfold of the existing 32 bit IPv4) that provides almost indefinite address space and list and provides it to portals and enterprises. various additional functions (encryption, authentication, quality control, etc.) A generic name of the executable code designed for the malicious purpose. The malicious code is classified into a virus, worm, Malicious code or Trojan Horse, depending on the self-replication capability and infection target availability. A method of ID/password-based individual identification, which can identify a user on the internet by replacing the resident i-PIN (Internet Personal Identification Number) registration number that can be easily used illegally on the Internet where face-to-face verification is difficult. Open API (Open Application Programmer InterAn API opened to Internet users, so that users can develop their own applications and services, instead of receiving web search face) results and user interface unilaterally. As the open API is easy to access, it is used for various services like map service. International standard that defines social responsibility of the enterprise which was established by the International Standardization Organization (ISO) in November 2010. ISO26000 is composed of 7 key subjects and 36 issues, such as A cyber terror response organization that was established in KISA in 2003 in order to cope with the Internet incident at the national ISO26000 governance, human rights, labor, environment, fair operation practice, consumer issue, community participation, and level. KrCERT detects the hacking or virus information in the private information communication network in advance, issues an development. Even though ISO2006 doesn’t have any legal binding, it is expected to be the important criteria of evaluation on Korea Internet Security Center (KrCERT) early forecasting/warning to prevent damage, and provides the recovery-related technologies. In addition, KrCERT acts as a enterprise operation as one of the major standards of judgment in the international community. sole channel to respond to the international incidents by establishing the unified cooperation system for the network operation agencies and others. 90 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 91 KISA Sustainability Report 2012 Korea Internet & Security Agency A variety of information is available at KISA’s homepage, including ringtone for your mobiles, desktop wallpapers, and more. Term Description An independent dispute mediation committee established to arbitrate various types of disputes related to the Internet address Internet Address Dispute Resolution Commitresource in accordance with Article 16, “Law regarding Internet Address Resources” enacted in 2004. Experts in the related field tee (IDRC) are appointed as arbitration members for quick resolution of dispute resolution using their specialized knowledge and experience. A service that remotely checks information security vulnerabilities of web sites. Korea Internet Security Center provides this Remote web vulnerability check service service with free of charge to small-to-medium-sized business or non-profit organization that lacks specialized information security knowledge or server management personnel. (http://toolbox.krcert.or.kr) gTLD is short for “generic Top Level Domain.” The top level domain indicates the organization category and country of the domain, and is divided into gTLD (generic Top Level Domain) and ccTLD (country code Top Level Domain). There are 23 gTLD types, such gTLD as com, net, and org. The number of gTLD is expected to increase up to hundreds or thousands after 2013, according to the gTLD creation open policy of the ICANN. The Elliptic Curve Digital Signature Algorithm (ECDSA) is a variant of the Digital Signature Algorithm (DSA) which uses elliptic curve cryptography. As ECDSA provides fast processing speed with safety equal to the RSA (Rivest-Shamir-Adelmen) type, ECDSA ECDSA is widely used for mobile terminals. Together with DSA and RSA, ECDSA is included in the DSS (Digital Signature Standard) and approved as the Federal Information Processing Standard (FIPS) 186-2. A large-sized, formal/informal data set that exceeds the data collection, storage, management, and analysis capability of the existing database management tool. It is also a technology that extracts values from data and analysis result. The characteristics of the big data are generation, collection, analysis, and expression of various types of large-size data. The big data realizes Big data the technology that was impossible in the past, operates the diversified modern society more efficiently by forecasting more accurately, and allows provision, management, and analysis of the customized information for each individualized modern society member. The development of the big data technologies provides the value information to the society and mankind throughout all areas, including politics, society, economics, culture, science, and technology. M2M implies an evolution to the future broadcasting and communication convergence ICT infrastructure that enables the intelligent communication service between people and object as well as object and object safely and conveniently in real time M2M (Machine-to-Machine) at anytime and anywhere. Strength of M2M is that a machine performs works that are dangerous, time-consuming, or related to security for the convenience of people. (Application area: Telematics, sports, navigation, smart measurer, vending machine, security service, etc.) A term that describes the phenomenon of the connection between all objects and people as well as data generation, as the IT technology has deeply integrated into our daily life. With the development of sensor technologies and data processing Hyper connection technologies, the age of hyper-connectivity age is expected to develop into a state where connection among individuals becomes denser, such as smart city and smart building, by going beyond the social network service (SNS) and augmented reality. A non-contact communication technology and one of the RFID technologies that use 13.56MHz frequency band. NFC is one of the attractive next-generation LAN technologies, because security is relatively strong, thanks to a short communication distance, Report Feedback and Additional Information NFC and the price is low. It is convenient to use the NFC because no dongle (reader) is required to use the RFID, and both read and Feedbacks on the report can be registered through various methods, write functions can be used. Even though NFC is similar to the existing LAN technologies like Bluetooth, NFC has a strength that no settings between devices are required. including mail, email, website, etc. For additional information or any inquiry, please contact below: The world’s largest contents exhibition held in Cannes, a resort in France, every year. In 2011, 4,120 companies from 104 countries participated in the event. The main purpose is to advertise broadcasting contents and related home appliances. Total 22 Korean Creative Management Team, Management Planning Department, MIPCOM companies participated in 2011, including terrestrial broadcasting companies like KBS Media, MBC, SBS Contents Hub, and EBS, as well as CJ E&M and Arirang TV, and made a great appeal confirming the Korean Wave again. (The export contract amount of Korea Internet & Security Agency. Korean broadcasting programs increased by 45%, compared to the previous year, reaching over 14 million dollars) Daedong Building, 109 Jungdae-ro (79-3 Garak-dong), Songpa-gu, Seoul Postal code 138-803 It refers to a newly established company. This word was invented in the late 1990’s when there was a company foundation boom Startup at Silicon Valley in the U.S. due to Dot-com bubble. It generally implies a newly founded company with innovative technology and Tel +82-2-405-6384 idea. It is different from a word “venture company” in that massive funds are still needed. Fax +82-2-405-5119 Homepage http://www.kisa.or.kr E-mail csr@kisa.or.kr Publishing Date September 2012 Publisher Dr. Lee, Ki-joo 92 · Beautiful Internet World Beautiful Internet World · 93
