2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Main Indicators Consolidated financial information Results (R$ million) 2011 2012 Gross revenue 3,268.68 3,173.90 Net revenue 2,900.80 2,818.99 Gross profit 1,577.39 1,568.42 EBITDA 1,454.56 1,471.93 Net income 915.26 843.48 Net value added 2,062.52 2,144.20 Margin (%) EBITDA margin 50.14 52.21 Net margin 31.55 29.92 Financial indicators Total assets 8,409.49 9,836.58 Shareholders` equity 4,539.43 5,078.23 Net debt 2,564,10 3,265.25 Net debt/EBITDA (x) 1.76 2.22 Market indicators Number of shares outstanding (`000) 31,823.90 31,823.90 Financial trading volume (R$ `000) 1,795,974 3,589,365 Closing price (preferr./PN) (R$) 57.99 32.99 Earnings per share (R$/`000 shares) 6.03 5.53 Market capitalization (R$ `000) 8,549,759 5,778,521 Shareholder remuneration (dividends and interest on equity IOE) (R$ `000) 789,020 275,282 Sustainability indicators Environmental protection expenditures (R$ `000) 4.3 Number of injuries 2.00 Average training hours per employee 52.56 68.75 Training hours on sustainability 1,240 2 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report 4 Message from Management 6 About CTEEP 12 About this Report 14 Corporate Governance 20 Competitiveness and Management 30 Operational Performance 32 Economic and Financial Performance 37 Social Performance 55 Environmental Performance 63 Annual Social Balance / 2012 65 GRI Summary 73 Examination Statement of the Application Level by the GRI 74 Corporate information and credits 75 Glossary Message from Management In 2012, consolidated investments totaled R$ 952, 2 million. GRI 1.1, 1.2 The year 2012 was a particularly challenging period, primarily in charge of managing its transmission assets for a further 30due to the changes in the Brazilian electric power sector. As such, year term, thus giving way to a broader scope for our operCTEEP Management exerted considerable efforts in assessing ations, in the light of new paradigms, while maintaining our the effects from provisional executive orders 579 and 591, in adsearch for operational efficiency and service excellence, as well dition to preparing studies and evaluation reports aimed to supas our commitment to all stakeholders. port the deliberation to be taken at the Shareholders’ Meeting, regarding the extension of the concession agreement 059/2001, The Company`s economic and financial performance results rewhile at the same time striving to ensure and enhance both the flect the success of our management geared towards the creation creation of value and the preservation of business sustainability. of sustainable value, which is grounded on financial discipline and compliance with our operational strategy. In 2012, our net The Brazilian government proposed the extension of the conoperating revenue remained stable and amounted to R$ 2,819.0 cession agreements scheduled to expire between 2015 and million, versus R$ 2,900.8 million in 2011. EBITDA also remained 2017, with a view to bolstering competitiveness within the doflat at R$ 1,471.9 million in 2012, with a 52.2% EBITDA margin, mestic manufacturing industry and benefiting the population versus R$ 1,454.6 million in 2011, with a 50.1% margin. through the cut in electric energy costs. This measure ended up triggering a complex process that brought about a severe Consistent operational performance is one of CTEEP’s remarkfinancial impact on share prices on the equity market. During able features. In this regard, we may highlight the maintenance the second half, CTEEP’s preferred shares (TRPL4) showed hisof the best index of non-supplied energy in 2012, as well as torically atypical oscillations and closed the year priced at R$ the higher additional Allowed Annual Revenue (RAP) granted 32.99, representing a 43.11% decline year-over-year. by the Brazilian Electric Power Agency (ANEEL) to companies recording the highest asset availability. The new rules recently set out by the government, effective as of 2013, has laid down a new regulatory framework for the In 2012, consolidated capital expenditures amounted to R$ 952.2 electric power industry, with a significant impact on our operamillion, mainly in reinforcement, modernization and improvetions. This new arrangement will enable the Company to remain ment in existing assets, as well as in investments in both work4 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Message from Management force and subsidiaries. We have also started up 60 new business mitment to the Global Compact, of which we have been signaventures, consisting in projects that evidence CTEEP`s endeavor tories since 2011, by promoting practical initiatives in support to strengthen its operations, while maintaining the credibility and of Human Rights, Labor Rights, Environmental protection and high quality of its electric power transmission services. Anti-Corruption measures. Moreover, CTEEP`s acquisition of Evrecy has enabled our stronIn 2013, CTEEP shall embark in a new path within the Brazilian ger presence in Minas Gerais State and broadened our footprint electric power transmission industry. We are convinced that our to 16 Brazilian states, following our start-up operations in Esdiscipline in carrying out investments; our continuous quest for pírito Santo State. productivity improvement coupled with excellence and steady progress in operational performance; plus our focus on human Notwithstanding the scenario marked by uncertainties in 2012, capital and on financial soundness; should jointly enable us to we have reiterated our belief that the human capital is a determitigate the effects from the changes in the sector environment. mining factor in the achievement of success in an organization, Thus, we will be able to move forward with our plans for the fuon account of the determination and competence of our team ture growth of the Company, always excelling in our commitment of professionals, who have supported and contributed to our to our stakeholders, with particular emphasis on sustainability at decision-making processes. In the technical area alone, in 2012, all times, which will pave the way for the perpetuity of our busiCTEEP invested nearly R$ 1.3 million in training and developness, along with the attainment of long-term positive results. ment of its employees, through programs intended to technical and behavioral development. The Company Management would like to reiterate its sincere gratitude to all customers and suppliers, for their continuous Sustainability also consists in a concept embedded amidst the contribution to the quest for excellence; to our employees, for Company’s core values, and thus we also place emphasis in their dedication and competence, essential attributes to allow investments and long-term initiatives related to social-envifor the achievement of positive results; to our shareholders ronmental issues. In 2012, we implemented the environmental and investors, for their trust in our management of operations, management system in all substations, and we consider the ISO in every instance based on the principles of transparency, and 26000 standard guidelines as one of our relationship directives to the society in general, for their trust in the public utility towards the stakeholders. We have also reaffirmed our comservices that we provide. 5 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About CTEEP Headquartered in São Paulo, CTEEP is present in 16 states. GRI EU4 CTEEP (Companhia de Transmissão de Energia Elétrica PaulisCTEEP is a publicly-held company, controlled by ISA, which ta) is responsible for the transmission of 30% of Brazil`s overall in turn holds, through its investment vehicle ISA Capital do annual electric power generation, and 60% of the electric enBrasil, a 37.81% stake in the Company`s capital stock. The ergy consumed in the Southeast region. The Company is one of remaining is held by Eletrobrás (35.23%), the São Paulo State the leading electric power transmission concessionaires in the Government (6.12%), as well as by over 61,000 shareholders, country, focusing on innovation and consistent improvement both individuals and corporate organizations. In 2012, one of intended to ensure the quality and credibility of its operations. CTEEP`s shareholders, Vinci Equities Gestora de Recursos Ltda (GRI 2.1, 2.2, 2.5, 2.7) (an asset management company) raised its share in preferred ISA ISA is one of the largest electric power transmission groups in Latin America, with 40,665 km of high-tension circuits and installed capacity of 74,040 MVA. The Group operates in Colombia, Chile, Peru, Bolivia, Ecuador, Argentina and Central America, as well as in Brazil, through CTEEP. ISA`s segments of operations include electric power transportation, telecommunications, toll road concessions and real-time intelligent vision systems. At the close of FY 2012, ISA`s consolidated financial statements reported total assets in the amount of US$ 14.6 billion, and US$ 2.4 billion in revenues. Eletrobras Eletrobras` operations focus on electric power generation, transmission and distribution. It is controlled by the Brazilian Federal Government, and it is the largest company operating in the electric power sector in Latin America, comprising 162 hydroelectric, thermoelectric, wind farms and thermonuclear plants, in addition to over 50% of the Brazilian transmission lines and six distribution companies. 6 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About CTEEP stock to 7.22%, accounting for 4.17% of the Company`s total Length of transmission capital stock. (GRI 2.6) lines by voltage category km 440 kV 6,504.32 CTEEP is headquartered in the city of São Paulo, and it is present in 16 Brazilian states through its own operational assets, 345 kV 725.75 subsidiaries and equity interests. The Company holds five Regional Offices located in cities of São Paulo State (Cabreúva, 230 kV 1,452.36 Taubaté, Bauru, Jupiá and São Paulo), one Transmission Operation Center (COT) in Jundiaí, and one Backend Operation 138 kV 9,023.84 Center (COR) in Cabreúva. Furthermore, it has 106 substations 88 kV 1,480.71 located in the state of São Paulo, with voltage of up to 550 kV and 30,273 transmission towers. (GRI 2.3, 2.4, 2.8) 69 kV 2.03 In 2012, a total of 143,473 GWh of energy was carried along TOTAL 19,189.01 CTEEP’s assets, a network made up of 13,723 km of transmission lines, 19,189 km of circuits, 2,488 km of fiber optic cables and 106 substations with voltage of up to 550 kV, with a total Length of transmission installed capacity of 45,317 MVA. This network interlinks conlines by construction type km nection points of both power-generating companies and other transmission companies, feeding into free clients and electric Overhead 13,690.00 power distributors’ network, which are in charge of delivering Underground 33.00 electricity to end consumers. (GRI 2.8) TOTAL 13,723.00 7 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About CTEEP National presence MA PB PI PE AL RO TO MT GO DF MG ES MS SP At the close of FY 2012, CTEEP had 1,593 employees, whose joint effort contributed to the attainment of net operating revenues in the amount of R$ 2,819.0 billion, and a net income PR of R$ 843.54 million for the period. This performance enabled the Company to invest R$ 952.2 million in reinforcement, modSC ernization and improvement of existing assets, in addition to investments in workforce and capital increase in subsidiaries. RS New 30-year cycle GRI 1.2 In December 2012, CTEEP signed the extension of the term for tion scheme for electric power transmission companies remain the the Concession Agreement No 059/2001 with ANEEL (the Brasame, subject to ANEEL`s periodic review of revenue. The Allowed zilian Electric Power Agency), leading the Company to start a Annual Revenue (RAP), as of January 2013, will remunerate adminnew cycle for its operations. istrative, operation and maintenance services. Within this scenario, CTEEP reiterates its purpose of keeping ahead of the electric power The new rules set out in 2012 by the Brazilian Federal Governtransmission segment, by excelling as an outstanding service proment have impacted the regulatory framework for the electric vider to the society, alongside a sound economic and financial conpower industry in the country, giving way to a broader scope dition that ensures a suitable return to the shareholders, in addition for the Company`s operations. The existing remunerato providing a safe and trustworthy operational environment. 8 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About CTEEP In order to provide support to its decision, the Company hired Interligação Elétrica de Minas Gerais (IEMG) independent experts to conduct an economic and financial asLocation: state of Minas Gerais sessment, which involved a study of the economic and financial Transmission lines: LT 500 kV Neves 1 – Mesquita model, by taking into account a number of parameters, such as Length: 172.5 km financial leverage, capital expenditures, contractual obligations and personnel planning, in addition to probable future scenarios. Interligação Elétrica Norte e Nordeste (IENNE) During the same period, two other consulting companies carried Locations: states of Tocantins, Maranhão and Piauí out analyses considering corporate, regulatory and legal aspects. Transmission lines: LT 500 kV Colinas – Ribeiro Gonçalves C2 and LT 500 kV Ribeiro Gonçalves – São João do Piauí C2 At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on December 3, Length: 720 km 2012, the Company’s shareholders unanimously approved extension of the concession agreement No. 059/2001, based on Interligação Elétrica Pinheiros (Pinheiros) the results of studies conducted and in the light of the growth Location: state of São Paulo potential of the Brazilian economy, as well as on the ability of Substations: SE 345/138-88 kV Piratininga II, SE 440/138 kV the Company`s professional team to become engaged in proMirassol II, SE 440/138 kV Getulina, SE 440/138 kV Araras and cesses of change, with commitment and dedication. SE 345/138 kV Atibaia II and SE 345/88 kV Itapeti Transmission lines: LT 345 kV Interlagos – Piratininga II (1.5 km) With the purpose of keeping its stakeholders abreast of the unSection Switches: LT Araraquara – Santo Angelo 440 kV folding events related to the question of concessions, during (2km); LT Jupiá – Bauru 440 kV (0.5 km); LT Poços de Caldas 2012, CTEEP maintained a communication taskforce aimed to – Mogi das Cruzes 345 kV (1 km) and LT Jupiá – Araraquara publish notices and material announcements throughout the 440 kV (0.5 km) different stages of the negotiation process. Thus, the Company Transforming capacity: 3,100 MVA has reinforced its commitment to a transparent, ethical and reLength: 5.9 km sponsible management. Interligação Elétrica Sul (IESul) In light of this new scenario, CTEEP has been seeking to adapt to Locations: states of Rio Grande do Sul, Santa Catarina and Paraná the changing requirements, while at the same time maintaining Substations: SE 230/138 kV Scharlau and SE 230/69 kV both the high level of quality and effectiveness of its operations, Forquilhinha as well as preserving its commitment to all its stakeholders. Transmission lines: LT 230 kV Nova Santa Rita – Scharlau (23 km), LT 230 kV Joinville Norte – Curitiba (100 km) (start-up operations expected for June 2013) and LT 230 kV Jorge Lacerda Subsidiaries and Joint Ventures B – Siderópolis (50 km) GRI 2.2, 2.3, 2.7, 2.8, 2.9, EU4 Section Switches: LT 230 kV Siderópolis – Lajeado Grande (12 km) Transforming capacity: 750 MVA At present, CTEEP owns shareholding control or holds equity Length: 185 km investments in eight electric power transmission companies, whose purpose is to exploit the utility concession for electric Interligação Elétrica Serra do Japi (Serra do Japi) power transmission in Brazil, by means of construction, operaLocation: state of São Paulo tion and maintenance of both substations and transmission lines. Substations: SE 440/138-88 kV Salto and SE 440/138-88 kV Jandira Section Switches: LT Embu Guaçu – Gerdau 440 kV (10.9 km) Such subsidiaries and joint ventures (or affiliates) are privateand LT Bauru Cabreúva 440 kV (0.9 km) ly-held companies and operate in line with the growth strateTransforming capacity: 1,600 MVA gies set out by the Company. Length: 10.9 km 9 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About CTEEP Interligação Elétrica Garanhuns (IEGaranhuns) Rectifier Station: Porto Velho No. 2, 500k VCA/±600k VCC – Locations: states of Pernambuco, Paraíba and Alagoas 3,150 MW SE Garanhuns 500/230 kV (600 MVA) and SE Pau Ferro Inverter Station: Araraquara No. 2, ±600k VCC/500k VCA – 500/230 kV (1,500 MVA) 2,950 MW Transmission lines: 500 kV Luis Gonzaga – Garanhuns (224 km), Transforming capacity: 6,100 MVA LT 500 kV Garanhuns Pau Ferro (239 km), LT 500 kV GaLength: 2,375 km ranhuns Campina Grande III (190 km), LT 230 kV Garanhuns Angelim I (13 km) Evrecy Participações Ltda Section Switches: LT 230 kV Paulo Afonso III C4 Angelim In 2012, CTEEP acquired 100% of the capital stock of Evrecy I (0.7 km), LT 230 kV Paulo Afonso III C2 and C3 Angelim I Participações Ltda., a subsidiary of EDP – Energias do Brasil (0.7 km), T 500 kV Luiz Gonzaga Angelim II (0.7 km) and LT S.A. that provides electric power transmission services. This 500 kV Angelim II Recife II (83 km) transaction involved investments of R$ 63 million and RAP of Transforming capacity: 2,100 MVA R$ 9.4 million. Length: 751.1 km This business organization comprises the transmission lines: 230 Interligação Elétrica do Madeira (IEMadeira) kV Aimorés – Mascarenhas (circuit 1), 230 kV Governador Va(Start-up operations expected for December 2013) ladares – Conselheiro Pena and 230 kV Conselheiro Pena – AiLocation: states of Roraima, Mato Grosso, Goiás, Minas Gerais morés, which together total 154 km, plus the substation 230/138 and São Paulo kV Mascarenhas (450 MVA). CTEEP`s acquisition of Evrecy will Transmission line: ±600k VCC Coletora Porto Velho–Ara‑ enable the Company to start operating also in the state of Espírito raquara-2 Santo, thus expanding its geographical coverage in the country. CTEEP’s participation in subsidiaries 100% 25% 50% 100% 51% 100% 51% 100% IEMG PINHEIROS 10 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About CTEEP Mission and Values GRI 4.8 Mission Values: To expand, operate and maintain electric power transmission Ethics systems, with excellence in the rendering of services, customer To seek consistency between words and actions, by expresssatisfaction, environmental sustainability, while seeking to deing transparent attitudes and initiatives, which are fundaliver a suitable return to shareholders and contributing to the mental practices to pave the way towards building long-lastcommunities` economic and social development. ing relationships with all stakeholders. Social Responsibility To continuously pursue sustainable development, in line with the commitment undertaken towards the stakeholders. Innovation To create and incorporate new practices or improvements that contribute to achieving the Organization`s goals. Excellence To assure quality standards throughout the Organization, with a view to be acknowledged by the market and to add value to the business. 11 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About this Report This is the fifth consecutive year that the company has been using the GRI guidelines. GRI 3.5 This report covers financial, operational and socio-environmental odology applied to any performance indicators, as well as on results for the operations performed by CTEEP and its subsidiaries the effect of any re-statement of data provided in the 2011 Reduring the period from January 1 to December 31, 2012. For the port. (GRI 3.5, 3.6, 3.7, 3.8, 3.9, 3.10, 3.11) fifth year running, the Company has prepared its Annual Sustainability Report in accordance with the guidelines of the Global ReFor the preparation of this report, Management has also taken porting Initiative (GRI) reporting framework. Moreover, for the first into account the applicable GRI Sector Supplement indicators for time, we have compiled the report so as to meet the criteria set the electric power sector, coupled with the recommendations laid out in the GRI Application Level Check methodology, which certidown by ANEEL (the Brazilian Electric Power Agency) to assist the fies whether the application of the GRI guidelines have been comreport preparers operating in the electric power industry to complied with, in addition to assuring coverage of the set of disclosure pile an annual sustainability report. The definition of the set of items required for the application level adopted and self-declared topics covered herein was based on the survey conducted in 2011 by the report preparer (Level B). The application of GRI guidelines that compiled the input from a wide range of stakeholders. Moreaims at enhancing the quality and transparency of the Company`s over, the preparation of this report also considered the criteria reporting practices as regards its performance and management laid down by ABRASCA (the Brazilian Publicly-Held Companies` approach, in its quest for a positive and comprehensive impact on Association), the Communication Policy established by the United its operations, in addition to reinforcing the consistent approach Nations Global Compact – of which CTEEP has been a signatory to transparency most valued by the Company. (GRI 3.1, 3.2, 3.3) since 2011, as well as the Social Balance Statement of IBASE (the Brazilian Social and Economic Analyses Institute). (GRI 4.12) Performance indicators presented in this report concern data for CTEEP and its regional offices, and do not include those of The data presented herein have been recorded and monitored subsidiaries and joint ventures, except where indicated otherby means of integrated software platform that provides supwise. There are no specific limitations on the scope or boundary port to the planning of corporate and human resources, in applied to this report. Throughout the course of this document, addition to other tools, analyses of internal documents, as wherever appropriate, there shall be information concerning well as the conduction of interviews with the Organization`s changes as to the scope, boundary or the measurement methexecutive officers. 12 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index About this Report The consolidated financial statements are presented in local curThe topics considered to be of utmost relevance were: rency (R$) and have been audited by the external company Ernst . Strategy & Young Auditores Independentes S.S., in accordance with both . Information related to the market, sector and operations the accounting practices adopted in Brazil and those laid down by . Stakeholders` engagement in decision-making processes and the IFRS (International Financial Accounting Standards). (GRI 3.13) management of impacts and displacements . Remuneration and benefits The process of development and content definition of this report have . Career management been supervised by the areas of Communication and Strategic Management, as well as by the Financial and Investor Relations Division. The Other aspects also considered to be of high relevance: final version is subject to validation by the CEO, as well as by other offi. Corporate governance model cers, directors and managers. The compilation of information also relies . Risk management on the participation of employees from different areas and positions. . Economic & financial performance and financial indicators . Investments in the business . Investments and expenditures on environmental protection Materiality Matrix . Training and development GRI 4.14, 4.15, 4.16, 4.17 . Management of outsourced workforce . Impact on communities The topics addressed in this report were based on the materiality . Fight against corruption matrix, which was defined and disclosed in the 2011 Annual Report. . System efficiency . Service quality and customer satisfaction The matrix was initially developed by considering four major . Emergency measures groups of stakeholders: customers, suppliers, employees and shareholders, who were requested to answer a questionnaire conOver the next years, the Company plans to move forward in sisting of nine questions, which tackled relevant issues, such as sobuilding up the Materiality Matrix, by targeting other groups cial, economic, environmental and corporate governance aspects. of stakeholders. 13 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Corporate Governance CTEEP was the first electric power company, in the State of São Paulo, to join the Level 1 of Corporate Governance of BM & F Bovespa. In line with the best market practices, the Company has always stocks at BM&FBOVESPA. Furthermore, CTEEP has ADRs invested in the enhancement of its management processes Rule 144 listed in the United States. and control systems. In September 2002, CTEEP was the first company of the electric power sector in the state of São Paulo The Material Act or Fact Disclosure Policy establishes rules to join BM&FBOVESPA´s Level 1 of Corporate Governance. for disclosing material information and keeping confidentiality over relevant insider information. Along with the SeFurthermore, the Company meets higher criteria set up by the curities Trading Policy, the Code of Corporate Governance stock exchange, such as the formation of its Board of Direclays down guidelines that govern the relationship between tors, which is made up of ten members, of which one is the shareholders, the Board of Directors, the Audit Committee employees` representative. The financial statements are transand the Executive Board. (GRI 4.6) lated into English and made available in the Company`s website, which consists in a requirement only entailed by the rules All the aforementioned efforts exerted by the Company to set out by the listing segments of Level 2 and Novo Mercado. meet the best market practices reflect CTEEP`s commitment to an efficient and transparent corporate governance. CTEEP`s preferred shares (TRPL4) take part in the formation of Ibovespa, the most important stock exchange index that measures the average performance of stock prices in the Organization Chart Brazilian market. Moreover, the Company stock also makes GRI 4.1 up the BM&FBOVESPA`s Corporate Governance Index (IGC), which encompasses the companies that enjoy distinguished The corporate governance structure adopted by CTEEP corporate governance standards and outstanding relationincludes a Board of Directors, an Audit Committee, as ship with stakeholders; in addition to composing the IBrX – well as a Remuneration Committee and an Internal Audit Índice Brasil, an index that gathers the most actively traded Committee, as shown in the organization chart below. 14 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Corporate Governance Shareholders’ Meeting Audit Committee Board of Directors Remuneration Internal Committee Audit Committee Chief Executive Officer Chief Financial Chief Operations Chief Administrative Chief Projects and Investor Officer Officer Officer Relations Officer Résumés for the members of the Board of Directors, Comfor electing the officers of the Executive Board, and monitoring the mittees, and the Executive Board, as well as their experience business management; evaluating the Management`s Report, the in relation to socio-environmental issues, can be found in Financial Statements and the Executive Board accounts; approving the Reference Form that is available on the Brazilian Securibusiness plans, financial and project execution budgets; as well as ties and Exchange Commission (CVM) website (www.cvm. selecting and dismissing Independent Auditors. The Board does gov.br), as well as on the Company`s Investor Relations webnot have any self-evaluation model, and the Chairman does not site (www.cteep.com.br/ri). take part in the Company`s Executive Board. (GRI 4.2, 4.10) The selection of the members of both the Board of Directors International standards and corporate principles, such as the and the Audit Committee complies with the rules laid down in Code of Ethics, Global Compact, as well as the best operationLaw 6404/76. Those professionals are appointed by shareholdal procedure practices, are also followed by the Board, which ers and elected at a General Shareholders` Meeting. (GRI 4.7) relies on the support provided by the Audit Committee, whose makeup also includes some of the Board members. Board of Directors The Company`s economic and financial performance is evaluated by the Board on a regular basis (six times a year), whose members CTEEP`s Board of Directors is composed of ten members with a conduct the assessment of the main financial indicators used in one-year mandate each, who are elected at the Shareholders` the Balanced Scorecard and in other strategic analysis tools, in Meeting, being one Chairman, one Deputy Chairman, one indeaddition to the evaluation of intrinsic risks and market opportupendent member, one representative from the minority sharenities, as well as the preparation of reports that may tackle the holders and another representative from the team of employees. Company`s socio-environmental performance. (GRI 4.9) The Board of Directors is the central forum for decision making Board of Directors meetings are held on a regular basis, on dates and determination of the general directives that shall guide the set out in an annual agenda that is approved at the first meeting conduction of the Company`s operations. The Board is responsible of each fiscal year, and may be held extraordinarily whenever 15 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Corporate Governance called by the Chairman, or upon request by the majority of its Members members. In 2012, the Board met 18 times, of which seven were Antonio Luiz de Campos Gurgel, Celso Clemente Giacometti, in-person meetings and the remainder through electronic comEgidio Schoenberger, and Rosangela da Silva munication media. Alternates Composition of the Board of Directors Jean Jacques Salim, João Vicente Amato Torres, Josino de Almeida Fonseca, Luís Carlos Guedes Pinto, and Luíz Flávio As at December 31, 2012, the Board of Directors was composed Cordeiro da Silva as follows: In 2012, eight Audit Committee meetings were held, of which Chairman four were in-person meetings and four were conducted through Luis Fernando Alarcón Mantilla electronic communication. Deputy Chairman Fernando Augusto Rojas Pinto Board of Executive Officers GRI 2.9 Members Fernando Maida Dall’Acqua (independent); Isaac Yanovich CTEEP`s Board of Executive Officers is composed of five memFarbaiarz, Juan Ricardo Ortega López, Julián Darío Cadavid bers, being one CEO and four officers, who are elected by the Velásquez, Luisa Fernanda Lafaurie Rivera, Orlando José Cabrales Board of Directors for a 3-year term of office. The Executive Martinez e Sinval Zaidan Gama (minority shareholders` represenBoard is responsible for the management of the business and tative) e Valdivino Ferreira dos Anjos (employees` representative). the performance of the activities required assuring the smooth (GRI 4.3, 4.4) functioning and operational daily routine of the Organization, in addition to acting as an important channel of recommendations to the Board of Directors. Audit Committee Among other assignments, it is also the Executive Board’s reCTEEP`s Audit Committee comprises from three to five sitting sponsibility to: submit proposals of capital increase and changes members, with an equal number of alternates, appointed for in the Company`s Bylaws to the Board of Directors; recommend a one-year mandate each, who are elected the General Shareacquisition, sale or encumbrance of assets, raising of additional holders` Meeting, with re-election being permitted, from whom funding or financing, whenever the transaction exceeds 2% of two members are appointed by minority shareholders. the Company`s capital stock; present the financial statements for the fiscal year to the Board as well as annual and multi-anThe Audit Committee, of a permanent status, is responsible for nual financial and project execution plans and budgets. monitoring the management of the Company’s business by the Executive Officers and ensuring compliance with their legal and Chief Executive Officer statutory duties; providing their opinion on the management`s César Augusto Ramírez Rojas annual report; evaluating the interim financial statements that are regularly prepared by the Company; in addition to examinChief Projects Officer ing and providing their opinion on the financial statements for Jorge Rodriguez Ortiz the fiscal year. Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer Chairman Marcio Almeida up to 05/25/2012, and Reynaldo Passanezi FilManuel Domingues de Jesus e Pinho ho as of 07/23/2012 16 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Corporate Governance Chief Administrative Officer Orlando José Cabrales (up to 05/21/2012), and Isaac Yanovich Pío Adolfo Bárcena Villarreal Farbaiarz (as of 05/21/2012) Chief Operations Officer Celso Sebastião Cerchiari Our Corporate Guidelines GRI 4.6 Committees Since 2002, CTEEP has adopted an “Act or Material Fact DisGRI 2.9 closure Policy”, approved by the Board of Directors, aimed at assuring security and confidentiality over internal relevant inInternal Audit Committee formation. In 2010, the Company had strengthened its corporate approach by adopting the Code of Ethics and the Code The Internal Audit Committee is made up of four members of the of Corporate Governance, both having also been approved by Board of Directors and one corporate auditor from ISA Group. The the Board. This set of corporate practices aim to reinforce manpurpose of this Committee is to strengthen the internal control agement transparency, add value to the Company’s institutional system, risk management and corporate governance practices. image and enhance the investors` access to its capital stock. The committee is also is assigned to increase the effectiveness of internal auditing, to monitor and evaluate the work of indeDirectives pendent auditors, to approve the Annual Internal Audit Plan, to GRI 4.12, 4.13 supervise the enforcement and ensure implementation of the improvements recommended by both internal and external auditors. In line with market requirements, and based on a responsible approach, CTEEP follows, on a voluntary basis, a set of direcCTEEP has an Internal Audit Plan for a three-year cycle, during tives related to both national and international reference guidwhich 100% of the units (regional units and headquarters) are ing principles, such as: audited. This plan covers the assessment of risks in processes, including the risk of corruption. (GRI SO2) Global Compact Composition: CTEEP has been a signatory to the United Nations Global ComFernando Maida Dall’aqua, Sinval Zaidan Gama, Isaac pact since 2011. This decision reflects the Company`s commitYanovich Farbaiarz, Julián Darío Cadavid Velásquez, and John ment to support and disseminate within its sphere of influence Jairo Vásquez López the Ten Principles of the Global Compact, which encompass the areas of Human Rights, Labor Relations, Environment, and CorRemuneration Committee ruption Combat, under all aspects. This committee, composed of three members from the Board of A fundamental requirement for a company to keep its status as a Directors, is responsible for monitoring, analyzing and presentparticipant of the Global Compact network consists in meeting ing proposals related to the remuneration of officers and Board the commitment to issue an annual public accountability report members, in addition to appointing Executive Board members, named Communication on Progress (COP). In this sense, CTEEP positions and salaries, remuneration policy, variable remunerapublished, in 2012, its 2011 Annual and Sustainability Report, tion, profit sharing and collective bargaining agreements. which has also been made available on the Global Compact`s website (http://www.unglobalcompact.org/participant/14976). Composition: Remuneration Committee Furthermore, in 2012, CTEEP signed an agreement of “Corporate Luis Fernando Alarcón Mantilla, Luisa Fernanda Lafaurie Rivera, Contribution to Promoting a Green and Inclusive Economy”, which 17 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Corporate Governance consists in the formal collective commitment undertaken by the This tool enables the company to carry out a self-diagnosis proGlobal Compact`s signatories in Brazil, in respect to the sustainabilcedure, by means of the application of a questionnaire focused ity challenging issues during the Rio+20 Summit. The agreement on seven themes: 1) Values, Transparency and Governance; 2) was signed by over 200 organizations and it consists of ten comInternal Public; 3) Environment; 4) Suppliers; 5) Consumers and mitments aimed to support green economy, in addition to underlincustomers; 6) Community; and 7) Government and Society. ing the key role played by corporations with regard to sustainability. This system enables the company to prepare a Diagnosis Report, In line with such commitments, in May 2012, CTEEP attended whose resulting insights help structure the action planning with SMARS – V, the Brazilian Environmental and Social Responsibility emphasis on sustainability. This report shows the company`s Seminar for the Electric Power Sector, during which the Company adperformance with relation to each indicator, including average dressed themes related to the “Environmental Education for Sustainmetrics that include all the companies that applied the common ability Program”, as well as to CTEEP`s commitment to human rights. reference questionnaire, in addition to informing the group of top ten ranking companies. Furthermore, such a system reveals International Standard ISO 26000 the set of synergies with other initiatives, such as the guidelines put forward by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), the Global International Standard ISO 26000 guidelines on social responCompact, the United Nations Millennium Development Goals, sibility have been a key reference for CTEEP as regards its and by both the standards ISO 26000 and SA 8000. management approach to this theme. The Company started following such directives in 2011, when ISA Group proposed an In 2012, with the purpose to capitalize on the application of this action plan based on the alignment between Corporate Social tool, CTEEP joined two Workshops, covering the topics of ProResponsibility (CSR) and standard ISO 26000, beginning with cess and Applicability – with a focus on the review of the Third the conduction of a self-diagnosis procedure. Following the Generation of Ethos Indicators. These workshops aim at proevaluation of the results from that first step thereafter, we creatmoting the sharing of knowledge, with a view to institutionalize ed an action plan based on the identification of major potentials the new generation of metrics, both domestically and abroad, and frailties, which was performed during the course of 2012. alongside with the consolidation of the corporate management nature of this model. During 2013, the Company plans to enThis action plan was further discussed during a CSR Workshop gage in these workshops, by means of both in-person meetings hosted by ISA with the companies belonging to the Group. The and the study of the material sent by the Institute. results from both the ongoing action plan and from a new self-diagnosis procedure (covering a broader scope containing 336 Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade questions) were presented and discussed, with emphasis on the (Exame Sustainability Guide) core themes laid down in the international standard in question. Always aware of market benchmarks and tools that may add to Following the compilation of the results and due to the importance CTEEP`s sustainability management, the Company participated, of this issue for the Organization, CTEEP has reviewed the action for the fifth year running (since 2008) of the information collecplan for 2013, which is expected to bolster even further advances tion process related to Guia Exame de Sustentabilidade. in the management of the matters considered by the Company while exercising the socialand environmental-related actions. Prior to enrolling, the companies are required to fill out a questionnaire prepared by the Centro de Estudos em SustentabiliEthos Corporate Social Responsibility Indicators dade (Sustainability Study Center) of Fundação Getulio Vargas (GVCes), containing nearly 140 questions related to the appliSince 2007, CTEEP has been using the Ethos Corporate Social cants` commitment to sustainability, transparency, corporate Responsibility Indicators to assess its management capacity governance, in addition to the economic and financial perforfrom the perspective of sustainability and social responsibility. mance and to social and environmental capabilities. 18 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Corporate Governance At the end of the process, the company receives a report conDiversity – Awareness of the fact that differences between taining the scores attributed to each topic, organized by themes, people contribute to an environment of respect and enrich the criteria and indicators, as well as the average metrics for the Organization in all locations and cultures where it has a footprint. benchmarking group of Top 20 ranking companies. This material consists in an important self-evaluation tool that enables the comCommitment – It is the employees` duty to fulfill their repany to identify opportunities for improvement in several areas. sponsibilities, with a view to help meet the goals laid down in the Organization`s mission. This implies performing with care CIER and dedication the respective tasks and duties assigned to each one of them. The Regional Energy Integration Commission (CIER) is a nonprofit organization, aimed at promoting and fostering the integraThe Code management is performed by the Internal Ethics Comtion of regional electric power operators. CTEEP, as a CIER parmittee, whose purpose is to monitor individual manifestations ticipant, develops a number of initiatives to bolster, among other and to carry out the necessary measures in the event of non-comaspects, efficiency within this sector; technical assistance and pliance. In 2012, no events regarding either discrimination or corcooperation; sharing of both knowledge and experiences; reruption were registered in the Company. (GRI SO4, HR4) search and development; as well as the regional consumption of electric power, with a special emphasis on environmental issues. Anticorruption GRI SO2, SO4 Code of Ethics Historically, there is no record on corruption incidents at CTEEP, CTEEP`s Code of Ethics translates the Company’s philosophy and and this situation remained unchanged in 2012. Within the Comcorporate values, intended to strengthen its corporate identity and pany`s Integrated Risk Management Policy (IRM), one of the asinstitutional integrity. The Company`s Code of Ethics is aligned pects that represents a corruption situation consists in the risk of with the ethical principles endorsed by ISA and its subsidiaries. “favoring employees and/or outsourced workers for unethical or illegal activities”, which explains the emphasis on the need for This document sets out standards of conduct and behavior to be confidentiality of information, particularly in any event involving followed by all employees, board members, officers, directors, people in a situation of conflict of interests. managers, outsourced service providers and temporary workers, as regards their professional relationship with the Company’s stakeMoreover, CTEEP adopts an Internal Control Policy, which covers the holders, on the grounds of ethical principles, alongside with the processes that are used to assure the effective control of its operahonest, constructive, upstanding and socially-responsible conduct. tions, including surveillance mechanisms based on risk assessment, as well as on the standpoints of monitoring, information and comFor CTEEP, ethical attributes should include: munication. Transparency – To behave in such a way considered to be The ongoing controls aimed at mitigating such risk include the reliable, accessible, clear and honest. creation and dissemination of the Code of Ethics to all stakeholders; the availability of the Ethics Line (a tool intended to enable Reciprocity – To pay respect to the dignity of those with whom the forwarding of doubts, critics and accusations related to unethiCompany relates, within an environment of mutual acknowledgecal and anticorruption issues, accessible to all of the Company`s ment of the rights and obligations applicable to the related parties. stakeholders), requirement of confidentiality clauses for specific contracts; in addition to a Crisis Management Plan. Responsibility – Commitment to deliver what has been promised and to comply with the Organization’s parameters, policies In 2012, CTEEP did not carry out any specific training on anticorand standards. ruption policies and procedures. (GRI SO3) 19 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management In 2012, 60 projects for reinforcements, improvements and modernizations were completed and put into operation. Strategy Strategic Map Sustainable growth with emphasis on business perpetuity Based on the Corporate Reference Framework tool, which and consistent creation of value sum up the essential pillars covers all the strategic components – Vision, Mission, Values, that underline the Company’s business strategy. In order to Goal Map, Indicators, Targets and Projects – CTEEP adopts a face up to the forthcoming growth challenges, CTEEP invests well-structured and integrated strategic management model, in the enhancement of the existing assets through reinforceaimed at attaining the most efficient assessment on the outment and new connections, alongside with the maintenance reach of the Organization’s business strategy, strongly contribof a consistent discipline as regards the assessment of acuting to the decision-making process. quisition opportunities, by taking part in auctions of transmission lines. The Company uses the Balanced Scorecard (BSC) methodology in its management model, with a strategic map and different levels of indicators, so as to include all departments and have everyone cooperating to fulfill the Company’s strategic goals. The management model also uses regular Strategic Assessment Meetings (RAE) focused on monitoring the projects that ensure the execution of the outlined strategy, in addition to disseminating the knowledge of the strategy and building awareness of everyone’s role in the fulfillment of CTEEP`s mission. 20 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management Strategic Map To ensure perpetuity and to add value to business Financial To ensure competitive To pursue revenue growth operating, administrative To preserve existing revenue with focus on profitability and financial costs To attain expertise Market To provide a reliable and technology To be a sustainable company and safe service on power transmission Sustainability/ Growth Operational Excellence Business Perpetuity To strengthen relationship To pursue with stakeholders To grow via acquisitions, excellence in To manage To ensure efficacy Internal Processes actions, reinforcement operations and connections projects and and opportunity of power To act proactively within the assets effectively transmission in maintenance regulatory framework systems To promote actions geared towards society and the envitonment To ensure safety and health To be effective and To strengthen in the workplace, along with To enhance the internal innovative when structuring business technologies high world standards in control and risk business and funding business processes management environment Training and Professional To ensure attractivess, To preserve, share and To live our Values To maximize the use of Development retention and professional develop knowledge and key Excellence / Inovation / support technologies to development of personnel competences Ethics / Social Responsability ensure productivity 21 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management Risk Management In this sense, the Company has developed an Emergency Service GRI 1.2, 4.11 Plan, which includes logistics information and resources for the recovery of Transmission Lines, thus ensuring their smooth operCorporate Risk Management is an essential aspect of CTEEP`s ation. The goal is to cause the least impact on the electric power management model and is subject to continuous improvement For system, as well as to ensure employees` safety. this reason, the Company keeps a formal risk management policy that entails the collection of information from different areas, with The Company provides periodic training to the maintenance staff, the purpose to enable mapping, monitoring and anticipating the which covers the set of measures to be taken in the event of an set of risks that may interfere in the smooth management of opemergency involving the community, authorities and industrial erations, with an adverse impact on results or impairment of the clients. During 2012, six training programs were offered in the Company’s operational efficiency. In 2008, CTEEP created a Risk area of risk management culture, totaling 48 hours and involving Committee formed by six members, who meet four times a year. 58 employees from different areas and hierarchic positions. The Company adopts the Integrated Risk Management (IRM) Within the scope of financial risk analysis, the company makes tool, a system intended to assess and monitor risks and the inuse of exchange rate hedging instruments (swap derivatives), ternal process control environment, based on the international which aim at neutralizing forex risks deriving from foreign curmethodology named Enterprise Risk Management (ERM). This rency-denominated loans and financing. tool enables the identification of potential risks, so as to provide recommendation of actions to manage such risks throughout With a view to pursue both updating and ongoing evolution of all corporate processes. CTEEP’s model aims at tackling themes risk management tools, in 2012, the Risk Committee reviewed such as participation in transmission auctions, corporate govthe risk scenario with regard to the issue involving noncompliernance and the Company`s relationship with its subsidiaries. ant suppliers, alongside with the preparation of quarterly reports containing information on top priority risks. The review CTEEP has currently mapped 38 risk scenarios that are contincarried out by the Committee led to recommendations for imuously monitored and prioritized according to the degree of exprovement, which were put into effect during the course of the posure and potential occurrence. The risks of greater relevance year, with special mention to: measured by CTEEP are: . Growth-related; Monthly monitoring of 30 suppliers, to be conducted by a specialized firm . Delays in projects due to contractual default; . Legal issues; Pre-registration of suppliers . Regulatory risks; . Natural hazard risks; Pre-evaluation of suppliers, with regard . Human or procedure failures; and to their ability to deliver the service . Accidents involving employees or outsourced workers. Training of all managers The Company has developed four risk matrices, which enable management of the potential occurrence and the likely impact from each scenario based on four key resources: financial, huAlso in 2012, a new strategic map was structured and disman, information and image. In addition, the IRM tool is assoclosed, which provides a better alignment of the IRM tool to ciated to internal controls, coupled with the monitoring of scethe issues of sustainability and business perpetuity of both the narios, which enables the early identification of the probability Company and the ISA Group, considered to be a key corporate of failure occurrence. management tool. 22 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management In the last quarter of the year, CTEEP held the Annual Meeting aimed at minimizing the impact on the electric power system, as of Risk Management Teams at ISA. During the event, different well as assuring employees` safety and health. themes were discussed, such as the enhancement of the IRM methodology, integration of the information provided by the With the purpose to ensure refreshing and updating of the EmerInternal Audit, IRM and Process Management and the future gency Response Plan, the Company offers regular training to creation of ISA Captive Reinsurance. the maintenance teams, including the necessary procedures as regards the communities, authorities and industrial customers. Climate Change-related Risks CTEEP also keeps the public authorities and regulatory bodies inGRI 1.2, EC2 formed on the details of such events, as well as on the restoration schedules, so as to receive their approval and enable them to monitor CTEEP`s top management remains alert as to the risks and imthe progress of the preventive or corrective action plans. Disclosure pacts that climate change may bring about to the Company, in of such information is provided by the press relations agency to the line with the guidelines set out by the ISA Group. The Organization various communication media and posted on the Company`s website. assesses the likely changes in business management stemming from environmental aspects, as well as the incorporation of strictMoreover, the Emergency Response Plan covers the events of envier environmental and social criteria within the regulatory scope, ronmental nature, by means of a system for the registration of octhe configuration of the energy matrix and demands from society. currences. Such events are generally restrained within the boundaries of the substations and do not imply risks to the surroundings. In addition to climatic events that may directly affect the Company’s operations, the possibility of generating energy from cheaper and more efficient residential generators is another asTechnology Planning and Innovation pect that may have an impact on CTEEP’s business and strategy GRI EU8 in the upcoming years. Within the ever-changing environment experienced by the BraIn this sense, the Company performs its activities in line with zilian electric power sector, CTEEP finds itself confronted with a the agreement signed with the United Nations Development number of challenges, among which are the diversification of enerProgram (UNDP), by developing programs that promote its gy sources; the introduction of renewable energy sources into the employees` education, with the purpose to minimize risks and system; the constant evolution of management concepts; develindentifying opportunities to cope with the climatic changes. In opment of more intelligent management techniques; coupled with addition to investing in projects geared towards the efficiency both the expansion of energy grids and the introduction of new of procedures, the Company focuses on the opportunity to offer intelligent grid concepts. In order to tackle this issue, the Company new technologies and services to the society, thus strengthenhas been striving to become well structured and to prove capable ing its competitive advantages within the market. of transforming difficulties into opportunities towards innovation, in a sustainable and socially responsible manner. Emergency Response Plan Within the context of CTEEP`s Research & Development Program, GRI EU21 and in accordance with Law 9991/2000, which establishes that a fixed percentage of Net Operating Revenues be allocated to innoCTEEP maintains an Emergency Response Plan applicable to vative projects, in 2012, the Company examined and structured a transmission lines in the event of collapsing metallic structures number of projects considered to be strategic for the consolidation and failure in the electric system. This Plan entails logistics inof an innovative environment, and aligned with the Company`s formation and procedures for restoration of transmission lines, values. In 2012, four new projects were implemented, namely: 23 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management  evelopment of a methodology aimed to identify D electrical and electromagnetic transients; controlling perand minimize the causes of leakage and deterioraformance; and operations in meshed network systems and tion of sealing materials used in SF6 gas-insulated multi-terminals. This new modeling will enable an easier comequipment parison between the technologies of line-commutated conThis project is intended to identify the leading causes of SF6 verters (LCC) and VSC, in addition to foster the use of meshed emissions at the Company, considering the general losses transmission grids and through direct current, which should along the system, the losses deriving from leakage, losses support the integration of solar parks and wind farms. during maintenance, as well as losses from gas cylinders. This Operational partner: J2 Consultoria project also aims at developing a methodology intended to analyze the deterioration of sealing materials on service, with P rofile of Multi-Chip Integrated Circuits (MCPs) for the the purpose to help prevent and repair leakage detected in SF6 Brazilian Transmission Market for Host System Application gas-insulated equipment and to determine the specification of This project aims at determining a model for the integration of sealing materials applicable to such equipment. existing and future electric power transmission system manOperational partners: Diagno and Universidade Regional agement in Brazil. CTEEP has built up a vast knowledge on de Blumenau asset management and codified a major portion of this expertise into several computer programs, to meet the sequencing D  evelopment of a Pilot System for Automatic Assteps of business processes within this complex environment, sessment of Dynamic Performance of the Electrical featuring a strong interaction between the geographical scatSystem, based on Synchronized Phasor Measurement tered teams and diverse technical expertise. This project aims In 2012, the Company started to develop a pilot system for at developing tools that will act as platforms of existing or automatic assessment of dynamic safety, intended to provide future system connections that CTEEP may acquire or develop. support to real-time decision making, by taking into account Operational partners: InForma Software and Universidade buffer zones and synchronized phasor measurement data. Federal de Pernambuco Thus, this initiative is expected to lead to prospecting of strategic resources concerning voltage control, and therefore In 2012, investments in new and ongoing projects amounted to prevent from resorting to unnecessary procedures; speed up R$ 12,952,112.42. This amount represents part of the total investand help restore the grid components, by providing real-time ment of R$ 46 million in 22 projects, of which two cover Strategic determination of maximum angles for the shut-down of rings, themes proposed by ANEEL. in addition to providing suggestions for re-dispatching measures; to provide support, within a very short-term time periInvestments carried out in 2012 are related to the following onod, the assessment of the need to apply emergency-response going projects: interventions in the grid equipment, based on real-time data; to pursue enhancement of performance, aimed at mitigating Identification of Potential Green Shield Areas, as an the risk of producing any impact on major load centers of alternative to mowing areas not suitable for agriculneighboring states. These results are expected to contribute ture and Permanent Preservation Areas (PPA) under to improve the quality of the electric public utility services. the Transmission Lines (Green Shield) Operational partners: Universidade Federal de Santa CataThis project initiated in 2009, aimed at developing a technique rina and HPPA Consultoria that allows for occupation of Permanent Preservation Areas (PPAs) with small native species. This initiative contributes to reD  evelopment of Voltage Sourced Converter (VSC) duce maintenance carried out by trimming or mowing and help modeling for interconnected High-Voltage Direct mitigate the risks of accidents and fires, in addition to bringing Current (HVDC) grids environmental benefits, such as the interconnection of forest Started in 2012, this project involves development of VSC fragments, by means of the formation of ecological corridors, technology, intended for application in power flow studies; preservation of water resources, as well as protection of the local 24 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management fauna and flora diversity. The development of this project led to type of relays, and thereafter providing support to the maintethe preparation of a Manual of Recovery of Riparian Forests unnance management of teleprotection systems. der Electric Power Transmission Lines, in addition to the creation Operational partner: Fundação para o Desenvolvimento Tecof a workshop to be attended by transmission line technicians, nológico da Engenharia with a view to disseminate the technology. Operational partner: Escola Superior de Agricultura Luiz de Interactive System intended for Diagnosis of equipQueirós – USP ment malfunction, by means of Bayesian Networks This project aims at developing an innovative methodology to U  se of new methodologies to track oil spills in OF cables support to expansion planning, provision of preliminary inputs Since 2009, this project has developed a local technology, and assistance to the identification of causes for failure in subbased on the use of perfluorocarbon (PFC) gas traits to help station equipment and transmission lines. tracking oil spills in OF cables, within the fastest time span posOperational partners: Universidade Federal de Santa Catarisible, without the need to shut down the line, without hinderna and Instituto Tecnológico de Pesquisa da Baixada Santista ing power supply. At present, this methodology is being used along the CTEEP`s XAV-BAN Line (Xavantes – Bandeirantes). S trategic integrated reliability concerning cable conOperational partner: AJOL Engenharia nections of overhead high-voltage lines. This study aims at developing a methodology to enable enD  evelopment of Methodology and Computer Intelligence hancement of Reliability in Electric Power Transmission SysTools to support Automatic Assessment of Occurrences tems, particularly as concerns the line splices, as well as to The development of this project aimed to automate of the help programming preventive inspections and maintenance, process of assessing occurrences along the electric power with a view to perfecting the quality of processes related to transmission system, based on application of computer intelthe execution of such splices. ligence models, with the purpose of enhancing the quality of Operational partner: PRINSIS Engenharia the electric public utility services. Operational partners: Asotech and Enacom E fficient Methodology for an optimal Coordination of directional overcurrent releases in Meshed Electrical evelopment of a Specialized Diagnosis System D Systems based on on-line monitoring of noise level produced This projects aims at seeking development of an advanced and by transmission transformers, allowing for identificainnovative methodology, which can enable practical and safe tion of internal electrical malfunctions solutions concerning the problem of adjustment of directional This project is geared towards developing an automated speovercurrent releases in protection systems installed in electric cialized system that provides support to decision-making, power transmission grids, with the purpose of assuring elecaimed at assisting the maintenance area in identifying and trical system stability. tracking malfunction in transmission transformers, by providOperational partner: Fundação Para o Desenvolvimento de ing accurate diagnoses as to the most suitable type of mainteBauru – FUNDEB nance, whether predictive, preventive or corrective. Operational partners: Escola de Engenharia de São Carlos Intelligent system intended to electric power trans– USP and Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP) – Baurú mission asset management, by means of tracking partial discharges.  evelopment of a Management System to monitor transD Partial discharges from any equipment are responsible mission line teleprotection and protection commands for the majority of failures in extra-high and high-voltage The objective is to develop a management system to monitor equipment services, in addition to being considered hardly transmission line teleprotection and protection commands, detectable on site. This project aims to develop an intellibased on the information related to the functioning of this gent system dedicated to detection, analysis and tracking of 25 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management equipment partial discharges, involving an automated inter onstruction of an integrated meteorological lightC pretation of the electric discharges identification, taking into ning, rain, temperature and wind sensor, which will account the statistics measured under both laboratory and enable real-time transmission of data, to be installed on-site conditions. in a WEBGIS platform provided with an early warning Operational partner: IEE – Instituto de Eletrotécnica e Ensystem in case of severe weather phenomena ergia/USP GRI EC2 Initiated in 2011, this project comprises the construction of an  pplication of FACTS Technologies in Transmission SysA integrated meteorological sensor dedicated to measure and pertems aimed to enhance Electrical System Performance form real-time transmission of data related to lightning strikes, Initiated in 2011, this project is intended to assess the applitemperature, wind and rain, installed in a WEBGIS platform, for cation of FACTS equipment in the transmission grid, particuthe purpose of providing short-term weather forecast, provided larly in the Brazilian electric power industry’s Basic Grid. The with an early warning system that may allow for a more efficient expected result is to attain an improvement in voltage control, risk management in power transmission. At present, there is not damping of occasional oscillation in the system, alleviation of any sensor carrying such features available in the market. short circuit current, tighter control of the network compoOperational partners: Climatempo and XMobots nents load, thus reducing the incidence of blackouts. Operational partners: Marangon Engenharia and UniversiS ystem to provide adequate monitoring data on the dade Federal de Itajubá Concentration of PCBs (polychlorinated biphenyl) in insulating liquid materials used in High-Voltage ElecR  eal Time Adaptive Islanding System (AIS) Based on trical Equipment Monitoring the Stability of the Brazilian InterconThis project started in December 2011, with the purpose of nected System developing a system consisting of a chromatograph, methodSince 2011, CTEEP has been engaged in the construction of ology and software, aimed at determining the concentration an online real-time computer system intended to detect risk of PCBs in insulating liquid materials used in electrical equipsituations in the Company`s transmission system. When the ment, such as power transformers. The presence of this subBrazilian Interconnected System is found to have a likely risky stance represents a toxicological concern to both the environsituation, the AIS determines and automatically starts the necment and human health. In this sense, the Company remains essary procedures to maintain power supply to certain areas alert to accurately monitor the concentration of PCBs in the during the period of power network disturbances. This is made insulating liquid material in its equipment, so as to assure a possible by the separation of transmission stretches, thus preresponsible approach towards its operations. venting from economic and safety impacts on the population. Operational partner: LACTEC Operational partner: CHOICE Technologies Intelligent Tools intended to Provide Diagnosis in  evelopment of physic-chemical and dielectric methD Power Transmission Transformers Exposed to Extreme odologies, aimed at assessing the condition of oil-paElectromagnetic Fields. per insulating systems in the equipment located in This project aims at developing intelligent tools integrated to the Company`s substations decision-making supporting systems, which will enable a comCTEEP has been developing, since 2011, physic-chemical and plete diagnosis of damages found in power transmission transdielectric methodologies, aimed at assessing the condition of formers exposed to extreme electromagnetic fields. This projoil-paper insulating systems in the equipment located in the ect also entails the performance of exhaustive testing and trials Company`s substations. The expected result is to develop a that will allow for the assessment of the progress achieved and predictive maintenance tool intended to mitigate the probapromote initiatives that should foster its improvement. bility of failure in this type of equipment. Operational partners: Escola de Engenharia de São Carlos Operational partner: LACTEC – USP and Universidade Estadual Paulista (UNESP) – Bauru 26 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management Two projects connected with ANEEL`s Strategic Themes are in The scope of this strategic project entails, among other asprogress, namely: pects, the installation of a photovoltaic solar energy plant of 525 kWp, as well as a solarimetric station, in addition to a  NEEL Call No. 6: Supercable Project – Development of A study and evaluation of the impact from the photovoltaic genHigh-temperature Superconductor (HTS) Technology for eration on the distribution system. Electrical Power Systems Partnerships: CESP and the Permanent Program for the This project aims at narrowing the technological distance between Efficient Use of Energy (USP) and Instituto de Eletrotécnica the technical teams of the Brazilian concessionaires as compared to e Energia – IEE/USP (project executors) their international peers, which have already invested in and currently make use of the Superconductor Technology. This study encomTechnology Prospecting passes the project, simulation, construction and laboratory trial of a three-phase Superconductor Cable 5-meter long prototype, by using The second round of the Technology Prospecting Workshop second-generation superconducting tapes. The project also entails held by CTEEP included a Maintenance Specialists Panel, the installation of a prototype in a substation yet to be determined, which was attended by Brazilian and international professionprovided with a cryogenic cooling system and a monitoring system. als to discuss the technological trends for the electric power Partnerships: Cemig (applicant), ECATE, NovaTrans Energia, sector. In 2012, the highlight was the theme Maintenance Transmissora Aliança and Universidade Federal Rural do Rio Technologies applied in the Electric Power Transmission Sysde Janeiro – UFRRJ (project executor). tems, which comprised three major aspects: maintenance of substation equipment, maintenance of overhead and underC  all nº 13 – Development of skills and evaluation of ground lines, telecommunication controls and commands, technical and commercial arrangements in distribtaking into account not only the current issues, but also the uted generation by photovoltaic systems connected outlook for the next 10 years. to the network Present and future The Technology Prospecting Workshop provided an overview of the present situation and the outlook for the future: Where we stand... ... what the future holds Demand for electric energy continues to grow, Transportation of large energy blocks for long distances should become usual – which will and thus credibility is more important than ever. lead to a change in the design and maintenance of the current equipment, in addition to Professional development and knowledge manresorting to new technologies. agement are crucial for the evolution and busiDue to growing integration of processes and operations, the profile of professionals is ness perpetuity for the companies operating in expected to undergo a considerable change, from single-subject experts to professionals this sector. presenting a wider variety of specializations. The physical space available for large projects, The introduction of new materials shall be a solution for the potential increase in power such as substations and transmission lines, has transmission – an essential prospect, considering the shortage of space. One example is become scarce. Nomex, a synthetic fiber used as an insulating material, which withstands higher temperaTechnological advances have been leading to tures. Consequently, certain equipment such as transformers will require a lower volume great changes as regards equipment and proof material in its composition, thus resulting in smaller dimensions. cesses, as a consequence of the migration from Software shall withstand management of larger databases, providing more nimble and analogical to digital technology. comprehensive analyses. This is expected to influence the design, operation and maintenance of equipment. 27 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management The Electric Power Sector riod and the Expansion and Reinforcement Plan (PAR), outlined GRI EU6 for the next three years. The PET Program results form the joint efforts of all electric power-related undertakings by each region According to the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MME), the Brazilin the country, whereas the PAR Program is developed by the ian electric power system comprises the Brazilian Interconnected Brazilian Electric System Operator (ONS), considering the outSystem (SIN), which integrates the South, Southeast/Mid-West, look for the short and medium-term horizon, on the grounds of North and Northeast subsystems and some isolated systems the Brazilian Interconnected System (SIN)`s analysis. (GRI EU19) that together cater for over 98% of the Brazilian population. The coordination and operational control of the SIN generation and The consensus solutions laid down by these groups provide suptransmission facilities are under the responsibility of the Brazilian port for the determination of the infrastructure works required Operator of the Electrical System (ONS) and are inspected and for the expansion of the electric power system in the country, regulated by the Brazilian Electric Power Agency (ANEEL). which thereafter are put forward in the document “Consolidation of Works”, published by the Ministry of Mines and Energy This sector had its regulatory framework consolidated by Law (MME). Further information may be found in both the EPE and No. 9427/1995, amended by Law No. 10.848/2004, which set MME websites (www.epe.gov.br and www.mme.gov.br ). out the operation rules for the generation, transmission, distribution and commercialization of electric power. Growth It is the role of the Brazilian Federal Government – directly or GRI EU6 through concession, authorization or license to third parties – to exploit electric power-related utility services and facilities and CTEEP has played a key role as regards the country`s developthe hydroelectric use of watercourses. It is also their responment, by providing a major contribution to the growth of the sibility to set out the criteria to grant the right to research and SIN, through investments in substations and transmission lines exploit water resources, as well as to register, follow up and that have been set up over the past years. inspect such concessions and to legislate on watercourses and electric power matters. The expansion of the Company’s business keeps pace with the growth of its own transmission system, acquisition of existing asCurrently, according to the MME, the service of transportasets and its participation in auctions of available transmission astion of large energy blocks for long distances in Brazil is persets. In 2012, the Company participated, without success, of two formed through 106,676 kilometers of transmission lines. This energy transmission auctions held by ANEEL. In the same period, extension includes the basic grid, connections between power investments made by CTEEP in reinforcements, modernization plants, international interconnections and 550.6 kilometers in and improvement of existing assets, investment in workforce the isolated systems. Up to 2014, a further 13,338 kilometers is and capital increase in subsidiaries totaled R$ 952.2 million. planned to be implemented. In 2012, a total number of 60 reinforcement, improvement and The expansion planning for the Brazilian electric power system modernization projects were completed and put to operation, is based on the 10-year Plan for Energy Expansion, coordinatincluding the Basic Grid and other Transmission System Facilities ed by Empresa de Pesquisa Energética (EPE) (Energy Research (DITs), which accounted for a further R$ 29 million added to the Company), whose purpose is to provide market research staAllowed Annual Revenue (RAP) granted to the Company, with tistics and reports aimed at feeding information to the energy investments in the amount of R$ 202 million. sector planning. Based on the 10-year Plan for Energy Expansion prepared by EPE, it is made possible to develop both the These projects contributed a 283.75 MVA increase in CTEEP`s Transmission Expansion Program (PET) covering a five-year petransformation capacity and enabled the construction and res28 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Competitiveness and Management toration of 150.6 km of transmission lines. Moreover, it was tional, and the 230 kV Joinville Norte – Curitiba C2 line, whose made feasible the installation of 207 current transformers, 203 construction is in progress. This construction results from the section switches, 98 voltage transformers, 75 circuit breakers increased demand for electric power in the South region of Sanand 28 choke coils. ta Catarina State, deriving from the fiscal incentives intended to boost investments in installations of industrial complexes in that In light of the Government`s incentive to foster development region. These projects added a further length of 47 km and 113 of alternative and renewable sources of electric power generatower structures to the system. tion, and considering the social and environmental impact from both the construction and expansion of Hydroelectric Power Pinheiros Plants, it should be noted that there is an increasing number In 2012, the construction of the SE 345/138 kV Atibaia II was of thermoelectric plants using biomass in the country (especialcompleted, a 400 MVA transformation substation, involving the ly from sugarcane). This trend is expected to be intensified in construction of two 345 kV transmission line stretches, in two the upcoming years, particularly in the Southeast region, and simple circuits, whose length consists in nearly 1.4 km in each it is worth mentioning that CTEEP is particularly watchful as line stretch. regards this further demand. Furthermore, approval was also granted to the reinforcement To that end, the Company has been striving to promote the inof Piratininga II substation, which entails the installation of tegration of this new source of energy into the Brazilian electric two grounding transformers of 88/13.8 kV and 36.3 MVA, in power system through its transmission system network. In 2012, addition to the installation of the respective 88 kV connection five connections of biomass power plants were set up, through modules for both grounding devices. an investment of R$ 1.2 million and RAP of R$ 10 million. The expansion of the 440/138 kV substation Mirassol II has also In 2012, the Company obtained authorization from the Brazilian been authorized, with the installation of the second bank of Electric Power Agency to carry out 58 projects concerning re300 MVA transformers. inforcement of the transmission system, which will yield further revenues estimated at R$ 13 million. Serra do Japi Substations Jandira e Salto, located in the state of São Paulo, Subsidiaries: were put into commercial operations, totaling 1,600 MVA of installed capacity. These projects will allow for a reinforced enIESUL ergy supply to the West and Northeast regions of the Greater In 2012, one more project belonging to Lot I of Interligação São Paulo, an area that features a major industrial activity. Elétrica Sul – IESUL was put to commercial operations: the 230 kV Jorge Lacerda B transmission line – Siderópolis C3, located in the state of Santa Catarina. This concession agreement also 1 Future revenues consider expansion or reinforcement in the electric power includes the 230/69 kV Forquilhinha substation, already operasystem, which will start generating revenues when completed. 29 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Operational Performance Losses in power transmission by the Company are estimated very low. GRI PR1, EU6 For CTEEP, the quality of the electric energy transmission to enhance efficiency and quality as regards its transmission supplied to its customers consists in a major commitment services, since the Company`s operating revenues are directthat has always guided the Company’s operational efficiency ly connected with the availability of its assets (transmission strategy. This can be evidenced by the fact that, for the fourth lines, transformers, reactive power compensation equipment, year running, the Company received an additional RAP in the etc.). In this context, CTEEP has also developed the Asset amount of R$ 3,867,618.34, related to the 2011/2012 Cycle, Optimization Plan (AOP) and the Transmission Improvement granted by ANEEL because of the high availability of its assets Program (TIP), being both geared towards the consistent en(99.9664%). This amount is 15% higher than the discount conhancement of its equipment and systems. cerning the Variable Deduction for Unavailability (PVI) recorded during the same period. The Company is also aware that it is fundamental to ensure the safety of its employees, equipment and systems, by mitigating Moreover, the assumptions regarding energy supply estimated any likelihood of occurrence of accidents involving its personnel, for 2014, when the World Cup will be hosted in Brazil, has or malfunction that may lead to power shortages, or that may been underlining the Company`s investments, thus contributbring about any impact on the Brazilian Interconnect System. ing to increasing credibility towards the Brazilian electric power transmission system. CTEEP maintains a very close relationship with the Energy Research Company (EPE) and with the Brazilian Operator In order to meet this increasingly more demanding scenario, of the Electrical System (ONS), so as to ensure that both its the Company has consistently invested in the application of planning and execution of its operations are aligned with the new technologies that are assured to bring added value to system requirements, as well as in tune with the needs of the its network, with special emphasis on operations and maingeneration, distribution and consumers connected with the tenance activities. This management approach is intended Company`s network. 30 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Operational Performance Frequency and duration of Interruptions CTEEP also uses the Operator Training Simulator (OTS), so as to GRI EU12, EU28, EU29 enable the team of professionals to cope with any situation, by learning in details the power system behavior under any type of With a view to ensuring the proper management of the syscircumstances, including the operational functions, such as matem, CTEEP keeps a consistent monitoring of the Equivalent neuver execution and operation routines. Thus, after the qualFrequency of Interruptions (FREQ), an indicator that measures ification of the team of professionals, the safety in operations the number of times that maximum demand experiences intershould become more solid. ruption during the monitoring period, as well as the Equivalent Duration of Interruptions (DREQ), which reflects the equivalent Other projects that apply advanced technologies aimed to entime of interruption in the maximum demand measured during hance the Company`s operational performance have already the monitoring period. been mentioned in the topic on Research and Development in this report. The Company`s losses from power transmission are very low, estimated at 1%. In 2012, the ratio of frequency interruptions showed a decline, whereas duration resulted slightly higher, Digital Substations year-over-year, as shown in the table below: Following the advanced technology applied in the automated substation systems, coupled with the adoption of the standards DREQ FREQ laid down in IEC 61850, CTEEP started implementing a digiYear CTEEP CTEEP talization program in substations, which covered, in the initial 2010 3,4350 0,1859 stage, the substations of Mongaguá, Jaguari, Porto Ferreira, 2011 3,3417 0,2554 Mairiporã and Edgar de Souza. 2012 3,9757 0,2169 The substations of Mongaguá, located in the shoreline of São Paulo State, was the first to be fully digitalized in early 2009. The digitalization of the substations of Jaguari, Porto Ferreira Advanced Technology and Mairiporã, received investments of R$ 12 million. At present, the digitalization of the SE Edgard de Souza substation is The majority of large-scale disturbances that occur in electric in progress, expected to be completed during the first half of power systems derive from events and operational circumstanc2014, which will absorb investments of R$ 20 million. es that are difficult to predict. This observation coupled with the increasing degree of complexity involved in this operation reveal This solution happens to meet all functions required by the evidence that it is essential to focus on development of more substation`s protection and automation system, conferring updated and effective tools aimed at monitoring and controlling interoperability with equipment from other manufacturers, electrical systems with real-time visibility. further enabling a more intelligent and economic maintenance. In the event of malfunction, this system allows for In this sense, the Company uses, for example, the RTDS (Rea more accurate and nimbler assessment, thus ensuring a al-Time Digital Simulator) to carry out simulations of electrical shorter period of unavailability of the electric system. Morephenomena such as failures and disturbances, and provide diover, the architecture model used has proved to be safe agnosis on the malfunction in the protection system. Thus, it as regards the transmission of information throughout the is possible to obtain more data for the diagnosis and handling communication network, thus allowing for increased relireal problems, in addition to analyzing the problems that have ability as concerns the data integrity required for the subalready occurred in the past. station operation. 31 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Economic and Financial Performance In the year, EBITDA and EBITDA margin were higher than those recorded in 2011. Within an economic environment of 0.9% growth in the BraCTEEP`s revenues originates from the following sources: (i) conzilian GDP in 2012, the domestic electric power consumption struction services; (ii) operation and maintenance of electric powrose by 3.5% year-over-year, to an overall volume of 448,293 er transmission lines; (iii) financial income; and (iv) other revenues. gigawatt-hours. In 2012, the Company`s construction revenues totaled R$ 976.7 Power consumption by the industry sector, the largest weight million, down 11.5% from 2011. Construction revenues in 2012 one, remained virtually flat in relation to 2011, whereas in the had a positive impact from the progress of the IEMadeira works, commerce sector, power consumption grew by 7.9% and by along with the start of IEGaranhuns; on the other hand, such 5.0% in the residential segment year-over-year. revenues were negatively affected by the start-up operations of the subsidiaries Pinheiros (substations of Getulina, Mirassol As a consequence of a competent management, committed and Piratininga II), along with Serra do Japi, whose works were to its shareholders, in 2012, CTEEP`s results remained stable concluded during the fourth quarter of 2011 and first quarter in relation to the previous year, notwithstanding the market of 2012 respectively; coupled with the completion of the works framework was rather challenging. In 2012, EBITDA and EBITrelated to reinforcement and new connections in the existing DA margin exceeded the 2011 figures by 1.2% and 2.1 percentassets of CTEEP (Parent Company). age points respectively. Furthermore, CTEEP`s remuneration to shareholders amounted to R$ 275.3 million in FY 2012. Revenues from maintenance and operation totaled R$ 594.7 million in 2012, representing a 7.1% growth as compared to the R$ 555.1 million attained in 2011. This performance reflects the Revenues 4.26% increase in the IGP-M inflation index, which is used to adGRI 2.8 just the RAP of the Parent Company`s largest concession contract (059/2001), the 4.98% increase in the IPCA inflation index, which In 2012, consolidated gross operating revenue came to R$ is used to adjust the RAPs of the subsidiaries for the 2012/2013 3,173.9 million, down 2.9% from the amount of R$ 3,268.7 cycle, as well as the receipt of O&M revenue from the new enermillion in FY 2011. gized reinforcements carried out during the course of 2012. 32 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Economic and Financial Performance In 2012, financial income came to R$ 1,584.8 million, flat in in headcount; increase in costs and expenses from third-party relation to the amount of R$ 1,590.0 million reported in 2011, services, deriving from the ongoing construction works in the as a result of the change in the financial flow expected for realsubsidiary IEMadeira, whose amount declines proportionally to ization of construction and reversal. the change in the construction work revenue; increase in contingency expenses, which were subject to review, due to expecFinancial income is recognized when potential future economic tations of loss concerning some legal disputes, coupled with a benefits are likely to flow to the Company and the amount of successful outcome in a labor lawsuit, whose amount of R$ 27.6 revenue can be accurately measured. Interest income is recogmillion was recognized in 2011o; offset by the decrease in costs nized by the linear method, based on the time frame and effecof materials, which vary in line with construction revenues, and tive interest rates applicable to the outstanding amount of the reflected the start-up operations of the subsidiary Serra do Japi, principal. The effective interest rate is the one used to discount following the completion of works during the first half of 2012. the expected future amount of receivables for the estimated maturity term of the financial asset in relation to the original net accounting value of the asset in question. EBITDA and EBITDA Margin The impact of the readjustment of the RAP is related to the FiResulting from the events mentioned above, CTEEP recorded nancial Income, since the future cash inflow is bound to be readan EBITDA of R$ 1,471.9 million in 2012, up 1.2% from the R$ justed, as a result of the new value determined by the regulatory 1,454.6 million registered in 2011. EBITDA margin was 52.2%, body (ANEEL). Thus, the future cash flow is readjusted considrepresenting a 2.1 percentage-point rise year-over-year. ering the new RAP amount, up until the end of the concession period. The new present value of this readjusted flow will consist in the basis for remuneration of the financial assets (accounts Other Net Operating Income (Expenses) receivable) for the next cycle by the same effective interest rate. Other net operating income (expenses) resulted in “other net The Company`s other revenues relate to leasing to a fixed line operating income” in the amount of R$ 57.9 million, and pritelephone company and services concerning maintenance and marily result from the recognition of impacts resulting from extechnical analysis services provided to third parties. tension of concession agreement No. 059/2001, pursuant to MP 579/2012 and MP 591/2012, in the amount of: As a result of the factors mentioned above, CTEEP`s consolidated net operating revenue stood at R$ 2,819.0 million in 2012, (i) R$ 4,444.5 million, related to the VNR updating concernrepresenting a decrease of 2.8% when compared with the R$ ing accounts receivable for compensation of investments 2,900.8 million registered in the previous year. (GRI 2.8) realized and not amortized – Existing Service (SE) and New Investments (NI); Operating Costs and Expenses GRI EC1 (ii) R$ 2,724.6 million, related to the write-off of estimated accounts receivable from construction considering estimated revenues of In 2012, operating costs and expenses remained virtually flat up to July 2015, upon expiration of the concession agreement in relation with 2011, totaling R$ 1,438.7 million, versus R$ in effect prior to Provisional Executive Order (MP) 579 and 591; 1,450.4 in the previous year. (iii) R$ 1,535.3 million, concerning the provision for adjustment The change in the amount of costs and expenses recorded in of investment cost – SE; 2012 mainly reflects the increase in personnel expenses, arising from the collective bargaining agreement, which resulted in a (iv) R$ 87.1 million, relating to the write-off of the amount 6.0% increase granted in July 2012, coupled with the increase booked as replenishment of inventories. 33 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Economic and Financial Performance Financial Result Approximately 85.0% of CTEEP`s debt is pegged to CDI and TJLP rates, being BNDES largest creditor of the Company, acThe financial result registered in 2012 was a net financial excounting for 39.1% of the total debt. pense of R$ 211.4 million, representing a 5.4% increase over the net financial expense of R$ 200.5 million in 2011, due to the Company`s increased volume of debt. As at December Debt Breakdown 31, 2012, the debt balance was R$ 3,694.5 million, versus R$ 2,771.4 million at the close of FY 2011. Moreover, income from 1% monetary adjustment and interests in the amount of R$ 57.8 16.6% million were recognized in 2012, and readjusted by the IPCA + WACC (5.59%) from accounts receivable, on accounts of reversal, pursuant to Interministerial Order 580. 12.4% 39.1% Income Tax and Social Contribution BNDES Debentures Overheads with income tax and social contribution increased Banks 30.4% by 26.8%, amounting to R$ 383.2 million in 2012, versus R$ PNs 303.8 million at the end of 2011. The effective rate of income Others tax and social contribution increased by 31.2% in 2012, versus 24.9% in 2011, the change reflecting the reduced use of the tax benefit arising from the payment of interest on shareholders’ equity in 2012, as well as the reversal of the provision for the maintenance of the integrity of shareholders’ equity. Debt Service Charges 1.9% Net Income 13.7% The increase in the rate bracket for income tax and social contribution had an adverse effect on the Company`s net income for 45.3% the period, which came to R$ 843.5 million, down 7.8% from the 2011 net earnings of R$ 915.3 million. CDI 39.1% Debt TJLP IPCA Others Consolidated gross debt as at December 31, 2012 amounted to R$ 3,694.5 million, representing a 27.3% increase in relation to the close of FY 2011, chiefly due to additional fund raising carried out during the course of the period, namely: the 6th issue of promissory notes effected in the first quarter of 2012; the At the close of 2012, CTEEP`s net debt amounted to R$ 3,265.2 2nd issue of debentures, in a single series, in July 2012; and the million, up 27.3% year-over-year. The Company`s indebtedness 3rd issue of promissory notes by IEMadeira in September 2012 ratio stood at 63.9% in 2012. 34 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Economic and Financial Performance Loans and Financing Consolidated (R$ million) 2011 2012 Gross Debt 2,771.4 3,694.5 Short Term 1,397.5 1,302.2 Long Term 1,373.9 2,392.2 Highly-Liquid Assets 207.3 429.2 Cash & Cash Equivalents 207.3 429.2 Net Debt 2,564.1 3,265.2 As a contractual obligation set out in its financing agreeStatement of Added Value ments, the Company must meet quarterly and yearly financial GRI EC1 covenants, based on both quarterly information and annual financial statements for the corresponding fiscal periods, which In 2012, CTEEP`s added value totaled R$ 2,290.8, up 4.3% are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accountfrom 2011. From this total, R$ 275.3 million was distributed to ing practices in Brazil. The Company’s main covenant is the shareholders in the form of dividends and interest on equity, R$ Net Debt/EBITDA ratio, which must be less than or equal to 804.2 million was channeled to the payment of federal, state 3.5 times. At the close of FY 2012, CTEEP`s Net Debt/EBITDA and municipal taxes, fees and social contributions; R$ 239.9 ratio stood at 2.2 times. million was spent on payroll and fringe benefits; R$ 403.3 million was spent on debt service charges; whereas R$ 568.2 million was allocated to retained earnings. Capital Structure Added Value Breakdown 51.7% 54.0% 28% 11% 33% 48.3% Government 13% 46.0% 3rd Party Funds Employees Own Funds Shareholders 3rd parties 15% Retained earnings 2011 2012 35 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Economic and Financial Performance Capital Markets BOVESPA TICKERS: TRPL3 and TRPL4 respectively) closed the year priced at R$ 44.50 and R$ 32.99 respectively, showing The year 2012 was once again marked by investors` caution with drops of 17.6% and 43.1% year-over-year. regards to the equity market. The European crisis, alongside with China`s economic downturn and the sluggish recovery in As a result, CTEEP`s market capitalization at the close of FY the US economy, jointly contributed to hamper a positive evolu2012 amounted to R$ 5.8 billion. tion in the global stock markets in general. The financial daily trading volume of CTEEP stock in BM&FIn the domestic equity market, the Ibovespa index began showing BOVESPA averaged R$ 14.5 million in 2012, whereas the total signs of reversal in the downtrend by offsetting the losses of up to amount reached R$ 3.6 billion over the same period, with spe7.5% during the first half, and closed the year up 7.4%. As regards cial emphasis on the second half of the year. the electric power companies, Provisional Executive Order (MP) 570 of September 2012, which relates to the renewal of generation, Since 2009, CTEEP has also listed Level 1 American Depositary transmission and distribution of electric power, whose expiration Receipts (ADR) in the NYSE, backed by the Company’s underlying dates fall between 2015 and 2017, caused stock prices to plunge. common and preferred stock at the ratio of 1 Depositary Receipt for each share of both types. The Company`s securities are traded The Electric Power Stock Index (IEE) was devalued by 11.7% in on the US OTC market, and payment of dividends or interest on 2012, whereas CTEEP`s common and preferred shares (BM&Fequity connected to the ADRs are effected in US Dollars. MP 579 interministerial ordinances 579 and 580 MP 591 140.00 120.00 7,40% 100.00 -11,72% -17,59% 80.00 60.00 -43,11% 40.00 Jan/12 Feb/12 Mar/12 Apr/12 May/12 Jun/12 Jul/12 Aug/12 Sep/12 Oct/12 Nov/12 Dec/12 TRPL3 TRPL4 IBOVESPA IEE 36 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance CTEEP’s Relations with their public are guided by ethics,with transparent dialogues, integrity in their relationships and concern for the environment. GRI 4.14, 4.15, 4.16 CTEEP considers “social responsibility” as one of its core values, Commitments with Interest Groups which means that the Company has pledged to continuously pursue sustainable development, while honoring the commitment undertaken towards all stakeholders (social actions with common or similar interests that affect or are affected by the Company’s activities). CTEEP`s relationships are grounded on ethical principles, transparent dialogues, integrity and concern Shareholders Customers & Investors: with the environment. Long-lasting relationships, quality Growth with focus on profitability and competitive costs, in addition to Employees, government, clients, shareholders and investors, and generation of value trustworthy communication suppliers and society are the stakeholders with which the Company keeps relationships. The engagement with such stakeholders is made possible by means of the availability of comSuppliers Employees munication channels and assistance, research development, To build up relationships of credibility participation in public hearings and events, disclosure of results and transparency through fairness To contribute to full development of its and corporate social responsibility projects, thus strengthening of information and clear rules for the employees and praise their contribution procurement of goods and services its guidelines towards a strategic performance, involving longterm projects and initiatives. State Society To respect the Human Rights, provide quality and efficient services, To respect and promote the Rule of Law disclose information of public interest and contribute to sustainable development and social welfare 37 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance Employees CTEEP employees are predominantly concentrated in the SouthGRI 2.8, LA1, LA13 east region, all of which are registered under the CLT. In addition to contributing to the reinforcement of the Brazilian Own Employees by year electric power system, benefiting society as a whole, CTEEP seeks to acknowledge their talents and promote the development of its employees. To that end, the Company’s people management guidelines represent an aspect of great relevance, therefore reiterating important aspects such as trust, accountability and teamwork. In recognition of the employees` efforts, CTEEP hosted a ceremony named “Mérito Transmissão” (Transmission Merit) to honor 142 employees who have completed in 2012 15, 20, 25, 30 and 35 years of devotion to the company. 1,443 1,506 1,418 CTEEP closed the year 2012 with a workforce of 1,593 employees, of which 1,506 are workers registered under the CLT (the Consolidated Labor Law), whereas the remainder are represented by Board members, executive officers and interns. The Company adopts the practice of the local selection of applicants, seeking to hire candidates from the neighboring regions surrounding their operational units. (GRI EC7) 2010 2011 2012 38 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance Employees by full-time or part-time work scheme Contract for indeterminate Contract for determinate Full-time or part-time Subtotal time or permanent time or temporary Full-time 1,493 25 1,518 Part-time 0 75 75 Subtotal 1,493 100 1,593 Employees by gender Contract for indeterminate Contract for determinate Gender Subtotal time or permanent time or temporary Male 1,344 79 1,423 Female 149 21 170 Subtotal 1,493 100 1,593 Employees by age group Contract for indeterminate Contract for determinate Age group Subtotal time or permanent time or temporary > 50 253 19 272 30 to 50 1,005 6 1,011 < 30 235 75 310 Subtotal 1,493 100 1,593 Employees by functional category Age group Gender Functional category Subtotal People with disabilities >50 30 to 50 <30 Male Female Board members 20 16 4 0 17 3 0 CEO 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 Officers 4 2 2 0 4 0 0 Managers 26 11 15 0 21 5 0 Supervisors 84 28 56 0 74 10 0 Administrative 288 51 163 74 165 123 59 Operational Tech. 1,095 163 770 162 1,084 11 4 Interns 62 0 1 61 50 12 0 Apprentices 13 0 0 13 7 6 0 Subtotal 1,593 272 1,011 310 1,423 170 63 Note: The treatment of information of employees by functional category, CTEEP does not include subdivisions by ethnic categories. 39 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance Outsourced workers by category GRI EU17 Category Number Percentage Customer service/consumers and users 145 6% Maintenance, cleaning, security and conservation 658 26% Construction workers (Work Mgmt Dpt.) 1,313 52% Other administrative activities 52 2% Other maintenance activities 373 15% Total number of outsourced workers 2,541 100% Note.: The figures above represent the total number of outsourced workers, who provided services to CTEEP during 2012, regardless of the time period related to the contract or service. The number of working days that lasted the outsourced workers` services is not available. Turnover Turnover ratio2 considering GRI LA2 own employees, by age group 2011 2012 In 2012, the turnover ratio of CTEEP`s employees declined to Group 4.29% p.a., excluding CEO, Executive Officers, Board Members, Dismissed % Dismissed % interns and apprentices. > 50 20 10.26 11 4.35 Turnover ratio2 considering 30 to 50 35 3.34 37 3.55 own employees, by gender <30 13 7.39 16 8.04 2011 2012 Gender Dismissed Turnover Dismissed Turnover Remuneration and Benefits ratio ratio Male 53 4.19 44 3.27 CTEEP keeps a competitive wage policy based on the employees’ performance, applied according to a methodology recognized and practiced on the market, including the fact that no employees are Female 15 9.74 20 13.42 remunerated only based on the Brazilian minimum wage. The lowest salary practiced by the Company in 2012 was R$ 1,598, or 2.57 Total 68 4.80 64 4.29 times higher than the local minimum wage (R$ 622). (GRI EC5) The Executive Officers and other executives, including managers, receive an annual bonus calculated according to their achieve2 Turnover ratio is calculated based on the number of dismissed workers dividment of the performance indicator targets set out by CTEEP and ed by the number of employees at the end of the period covered by the report. ISA. The remuneration of the members of the Board of Directors 40 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance is not connected with the Company’s performance. The OrgaRelationship with Labor Unions nization applies the Balanced ScoreCard (BSC) methodology to assess the strategic performance, including economic, social and All 1,506 employees’ contracts ruled by the Consolidated Labor environmental metrics. The indicators dashboard, named InteLaw regime are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The gral Management Dashboard, as well as the weight for each indiCode of Ethics, the Human Management Policy and the Labor Colcator, are subject to approval by the Board of Directors. (GRI 4.5) lective Agreement are the instruments used by the Company to guarantee that principles such as freedom of negotiation and asAll employees hired under the CLT (the Consolidated Labor Law) sociation are observed in the whole value chain. (GRI LA4, HR5) for indeterminate time, hired according to the Brazilian Labor Law, for undetermined period, as well as the statutory officers, To tackle the chief occupational hazards and risks related to are eligible to receive the following fringe benefits: medical and its operations, the Company maintains a joint committee with dental assistance (extended to their dependants), meal vouchthe participation of the unions that represent the category, ers or food allowances, staple foods baskets (for wages up to for assessing and discussing health and safety matters withR$ 4,836.00), transportation voucher, discounts on products in the Organization, that may affect both own employees and granted by some drugstore chains that hold an agreement with outsourced workers. Formal agreements established with the the health plan, vacation bonuses above the rate established by unions cover many issues, such as allowing employees over 50 CLT, and participation in training programs. In addition, mothyears of age to broke down their vacation time into various peers are offered daycare or baby sitter support and employees riods, maintenance of dental exams as part of the periodical who have children with special needs and require full time atmedical exam, and maintenance of an employee salary that is in tention receive a special daycare benefit. (GRI LA3) functional re-adaptation as a result of occupational accident. In the event of a suspension of longer than 15 days, resulting from Temporary workers (young apprentices and trainees) receive meal work or non-work related illness, employees have a regressive vouchers or food allowances, staple foods baskets, transportasupplement salary system. (GRI LA9) tion voucher, medical assistance and life insurance. (GRI LA3) CTEEP conducts an ongoing organizational restructuring and The Company also offers a Retirement and Pension Supplemenoperational change process preceded by a thorough assesstary Plan based on pre-established values, with contribution ment. Several aspects are analyzed, such as the feasibility of from the employees and the Company. The adhesion is volunthe implementation proposed and discussed between the top tary and all employees are eligible. In 2012, CTEEP allocated R$ management and the areas involved, be it in terms of econom3,859,200.00 to this plan. (GRI EC3) ic, financial or human questions. In general, the processes are carried out through a pilot project within a suitable time in Employees eligible for retirement by functional advance so as to ensure that the involved parties are duly incategory. (next 10-year timeframe) formed and minimally affected. (GRI LA5) GRI EU15 Professional Development Employees by gender GRI LA11, EU14 Functional category % For the purpose of preparing its human capital to cope with Workers in lines and connections 4% the challenges of the Brazilian power transmission sector, the Substation operators 12% Company carries out various training, educational, professionEngineers 7% al development and qualification events for its team of emMaintenance mechanics 3% ployees. Nearly R$ 3 million was invested in 2012, of which R$ Others 20% 1.3 million was allocated in programs to the regional technical 41 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance teams and R$ 1.7 million in training courses to employees of and Controls, Transmission lines and Equipment, took part in other areas (operations center, engineering, administrative, the 84 training groups organized in 2012. The instructors of the financial, legal, among other areas). training courses apply an evaluation system both before and after the conclusion of the course, aimed at assessing the parIn 2012, the Corporate Education area set out the goal to carry ticipants` learning progress. out 60 hours of training per employee and reached the result of 68.75 hours, deriving from a significant rise in the budget In 2012, 317 training groups were organized, with the particconcerning professional development. This investment allowed ipation of 2,322 people, covering topics geared towards the for a significant increase in the number of training hours in skills required to perform their activities, health and safety in comparison with the previous year. Among all training formats the workplace, and requirements driven by legislation. (in-person, distance learning and training in the workplace), 926 groups were trained, totaling 106,523 hours/class involving The Company also promoted the participation of its employees 6,821 participants. (GRI LA10) in the 2012 edition of the Technical Panel, which serves as a forum to exchange knowledge between professionals of both The Company also offers financial subsidies for education, inCTEEP and ISA Group, a workshop that is held on a yearly basis. cluding undergraduate and technical courses, post-graduation A number of 136 works were selected to be presented, of which programs and language courses, which absorbed total invest23 were prepared by CTEEP`s professionals. ments of R$ 941,000 during the year. The financial subsidy to fund these initiatives currently benefits 243 employees, of Education for Sustainability which 144 consists in new participants who engaged in the GRI HR3 program during 2012. From the total number of beneficiaries, 150 are registered in undergraduate and technical courses, 60 The Education for Sustainability Program aims at promoting in language classes and 33 in post-graduation programs, from training courses, seminars and other events related to Corporate which four are fully paid by CTEEP in specialization programs Social Responsibility. The main purpose is to raise the profesoffered by the “Industry Research and Assistance Foundation” sionals` degree of awareness about CTEEP`s corporate strategy (FUPAI). The company also runs partnerships with educational related to this matter, with special emphasis on the application institutions aimed at granting discounts to its employees. of the Company`s commitments in the employees` daily routine. Average training hours per employee Within the scope of this program, the Company offers trainAdministrative, ing courses via e-learning mode, by tackling issues such as an CEO, Officers, Operational overview of sustainability both in Brazil and in the rest of the Managers and Total Technicians Supervisors world; combating against child labor, forced labor or similar to and Interns slave work; fight against corruption; equal distribution of in2010 8.01 60.51 68.52 come; eradication of poverty; diversity; violence; environmental 2011 3.76 48.8 52.56 management; corporate sustainability within the electric power transmission sector and the Company`s standpoint on these 2012 4.16 64.59 68.75 matters. All of the content is presented in an interactive way, through audiovisual media, in a recreational and playful way. In the Regional Units, customized training courses were offered, such as: reading and comprehension of technical drawings, This training is intended to all hierarchical positions, as well as to electric power system protection, batteries and rectifiers, teamall areas of the Company, and in 2012, it was held with the parwork, among others. Altogether, 1,145 employees who operate ticipation of 620 employees (39% of the Company`s overall headin Substations/Installations, Telecommunications, Commands count), and summed up 1,240 hours of development workshops. 42 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance Professional Training Certification Young Apprentice In 2012, the Company took part in this program, whereby 13 apprenTo ensure the quality of service provided, the Company protices were engaged in distinct areas, who were granted the opportumotes, through specific training, the Professional Training Cernity to develop their professional competencies in the corporate world, tification for Power System Operators, Substation Technicians and thus prepare themselves for the challenges of the labor market. and Technician’s Assistants, and Installation Technicians. In 2012, 17 employees were evaluated, considering aspects such The apprentices are given transport vouchers, meal vouchers or as technical, psychological and physical, in accordance with the food allowances, basic staple baskets, medical and dental care, guidelines laid down by the Brazilian Electrical System Operator. as well as vacation bonuses. All participants receive the Certification, evidencing their skill in performing their functions within the Organization. Young Professionals With the purpose of retaining qualified professionals, in 2012 Career Development CTEEP introduced the Young Professionals Program, focused on GRI LA12 the development of future engineers to work in key areas of the Operations Division (Commands and Controls, Operations CTEEP`s competency management model provides support for Center and Maintenance). In 2012, 11 professionals were hired, the employees to achieve the desired results and assist them who will have the opportunity, during the period covered by the to develop the best possible career pathways. This guidance program, to experience working with a highly qualified team is shared with the Company, which determines specific criteof professionals, and consequently have access to the technical ria and conveys the best opportunities to enable the employee knowledge required for their positions. to fulfill his professional development. It consists in a people management tool based on development the professional`s The program is geared towards new graduates who have hold strengths, aimed at guiding the employee`s contribution to the bachelor degrees for at least two years in Electrical Engineering, success of the Organization. Electro-technical Engineering, Energy Engineering and Computer Engineering. To assure the development of these employees, The Assessment of Performance, already in its 4th cycle, conTo make sure these professionals are properly developed, the sists in a process of determining result targets and individual Company also provides technical training intended to the specifdevelopment, in addition to helping narrow the feedback culic needs of each area, as well as behavioral training. ture between managers and the professional evaluated. Thus, it is possible to assess the contribution of each professional to the Internship Program Company`s business, and focus the individual efforts towards a With the purpose of developing potential talents in the Brazilian career development in a strategic manner. labor market, CTEEP maintains an Internship Program for students from university and technical levels. In 2012, 97 interns were seIn 2012, 84.31% of CTEEP employees were given formal assesslected to take part in the program, of which 51 came from a techment and follow-up on performance for the period. nical level and 46 at the level of higher education. The program includes technical and behavioral training, as well as practical activities in each area of specialization. An evidence of the success Development of Young Professionals of the Program, 19 interns were hired by the Company in 2012. GRI LA11, EU14 The Internship Program includes presentation of individual projCTEEP recognizes the potential of its employees and invests in ects developed by the interns, aimed at providing the Company their professional development. In 2012, the Company engaged with innovative solutions, developing and recognizing profesin the following programs: sional talents. In 2012, 49 projects were presented. 43 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance Partnership with SENAI Sustainability Committee In 2012, a partnership between CTEEP and SENAI resulted in the creation of an apprenticeship program to provide profesIn December 2011, CTEEP created the Internal Sustainability sional experience in the field of Electro-electronics Technology, Committee to promote the alignment and integration of all with duration of 2 years. With this initiative, the Company conactivities that contribute to sustainability, considering economtributes to train technical labor force for the Brazilian electric ical, social and environmental aspects. The Company aims at sector and promotes social inclusion through in-house theoretiidentifying opportunities for management improvement from a cal and practical education. sustainable point of view; implementing, assessing, analyzing and following up on business sustainable initiatives by the use In addition to SENAI technical training, CTEEP complements the of market references and tools (e.g.: Global Compact, GRI, ISO educational program by providing specific training in the area 26000, Ethos Indicators, ISA Group Internal Indicators); supof electric power transmission. A number of 22 students take porting and disseminating sustainability-related actions; conpart in this program. tributing to the preparation of the Annual and Sustainability Report; among other aspects. Knowledge Management and Innovation The group is composed of approximately 20 participants, with CTEEP strives to foster an organizational culture geared towards representatives from different areas of the Company, such as innovation, and thus it has been exerting efforts to bolster the the Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), Communications, generation and dissemination of knowledge to create a suitable Investor Relations, Human Resources (including Training and environment for knowledge sharing, cooperation and creativity. Based on this purpose, the Company introduced, in 2009, the Innovation and Knowledge Management Project. In 2012, with the purpose of allowing the participation of all employees in this project, CTEEP launched the Knowledge Portal, consisting in a virtual workspace to foster the exchange of experiences and knowledge, which groups together all Knowledge Management tools. One of them, the Idea Channel, has already received the input of over 500 suggestions of improvement to boost innovation, while optimizing processes and activities in the Organization. Altogether, 107 employees submitted proposals during the last year and 25 ideas have been implemented. The Professional Connections tool also promotes the exchanging of knowledge and experiences among employees. Through their profiles, they can identify professionals connected with critical themes and specific areas of knowledge, facilitating the contact between the Company’s professionals. In addition, the Lessons Learned and Virtual Library tools are used by the employees to exchange experiences and documents, aimed at generating continuous learning, enhancing processes and generating good work practices. 44 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance Development, Health and Safety in the workplace, OrgaDiversity nizational Climate, Remuneration and Benefits), EngineeGRI LA14 ing, Maintenance, Supplies and Administrative Division. The Strategic Management Head is responsible for the areas of With the objective to value, promote and manage diversity, CTEEP CSR, Strategic Guidance, Technological and Innovation Planadopted the Diversity Program, with special emphasis on people ning, and reports directly to the CEO. In 2012, this Commitwith disabilities, which exceeds by far the mere compliance with tee met five times, of which one had an extraordinary status. the legislation in force, with a focus on respecting, welcoming and valuing the diversities, in line with the values conducted by Communication Channels the ISA Group. In 2012, 63 people integrated the workforce. With the purpose of opening spaces for dialogues, so as to The Company has also adopted the principle of equality in pay keep the staff abreast of the Company`s strategic decisions, for same value positions, without distinction between men and in addition to narrowing the communication between the top women. In 2012, the average pay for women was R$ 5,506.00, management and employees, CTEEP makes use of a number of whereas the average pay for men was R$ 4,846.00. This difcommunication tools and relationship with its employees. ference was due to the fact that the operational workforce is predominantly occupied by men, whose average salary is lower. One of the most effective channels of communication between Company management and employees is the CTEEP Circuit, Occupational Health and Safety launched in 2007. The Circuit promotes visits of the directors to GRI LA8, PR1, EU16 the Company`s units, who make presentations, respond to employees` questions on various topics such as strategy, growth, CTEEP follows the ISA Group`s Health and Safety Policy, based operations and human resources. on the principles of prevention, personal care, participation, responsibility and permanent learning. CTEEP carries out trainThe 2012 edition of the CTEEP Circuit registered the participaing projects involving own employees and outsourced workers tion of 639 employees. During the seven rounds held during about this theme, and has a Social and Environmental Awarethe year, 96% of the employees stated to be satisfied or very ness Manual available to those involved in works, including satisfied about the event. themes such as environmental protection, health and safety in the workplace and proper social relationship with the people In addition to the CTEEP Circuit, the communication among living in surrounding areas and work colleagues. employees is also carried out through other channels and meetings, such as the Primeira Linha (First Line) magazine, a In 2012, CTEEP maintained conduction of the process of diagTransnet (intranet), quarterly management meetings, among nosing and implementing OHSAS Standard 18001:2007, aimed at other opportunities. implementing and maintaining an occupational health and safety management system (OHSMS), and achieved significant advances Climate Survey as regards the control of processes and installation infrastructure. CTEEP carries out a Climate Survey, which monitors factors such Health and Quality of Life as resources, autonomy, upper management, immediate superThere are no incidences of specific illnesses in CTEEP activities. visor and attraction and retention of talents. Thus, the Company maintains a Quality of Life Program for its employees, focusing on preventive initiatives, which include The survey is conducted via internet, and registered an adhesion campaigns to incentive to practice physical activities prevention of 96%, with a favorability rate of 62% in 2012, representing an of diseases. In some cases, such as the prevention of cancer of increase by five percentage points over the previous year. the lips and skin among employees whose jobs expose them to 45 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance the sun, the Company adopts specific guidelines, such as the inphysiotherapy, nutrition, physical conditioning, social assistance clusion of sunscreen into the set of protection materials, as well and financial advisory, including the conduction of lectures and as the conduction of regular monitoring health examinations. initiatives of permanent communication. Safety in Electrical Installations The service is carried out individually, guaranteeing the confiThe Organization provides “step by step” procedures to techdentiality of the call. This program also involves the preparanical and operational workers while performing their activities. tion of a report, containing the frequency of calls by subject, These procedures include safety instructions, required resources which enables the Company to propose solutions for the most and preventive conditions. frequently asked questions. A Specific Instruction on Occupational Safety is also made availThis service is free of charge and is available from Monday able to workers that are exposed to Equipment and Installations through Friday, from 8:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m., and also provides of CTEEP`s Electric Power System, aimed at ensuring the workassistance to emergency calls 24 hours a day. ers` preservation of health and physical integrity, by providing training and development programs. Projeto Mais (More Project) Outsourced Workers The Projeto Mais was launched by CTEEP in 2012 to raise GRI EU18 awareness of its team of professional with regards to the imIn the case of outsourced workers, CTEEP holds an internal stanportance of safe behaviors in the workplace. The pilot project dard to monitor such workers, both hired and outsourced, in implemented in the Sao Paulo regional unit included seminars, compliance with the Regulatory Standards (NR) from the Ministry training programs and a communication campaign concerning of Labor and Employment for the sector. Moreover, outsourced relevant guidance on this issue. workers must attend an orientation meeting, where they oriented and trained by contract managers on the risks to which they With the support provided by a specialized consulting company, will be exposed. In 2012, 760 integration meetings were held. this project adopted the concepts of the Behavior Based Safety (BBS) methodology, which is grounded on the encouragement The workers responsible for the work fronts also take develto adequate postures to lead to the reduction of risks in daily opment training prior to beginning their activities, by attendroutine in the workplace. ing a training program of Internal Instructions focused on Health and Safety. IN 2012, 322 leaders of hired teams were An essential stage of the project consists in the observation protrained. This training program covers Occupational Safety cess, through which an employee watches a colleague during in handling Equipment and Installations of CTEEP`s Electric his performance of a task, so as to evaluate the positive aspects Power System, which accounts for 12.67% of CTEEP`s team and points of improvement concerning the activities. A positive of outsourced workers, of which 210 work in construction return is stimulated, by focusing in possibilities of improvement, activities and 112 in maintenance. as opposed to criticism, which may be carried out, if necessary, in a confidential manner. A previous authorization by the professional being watched is also necessary. Programa Viva Melhor (Live Better Program) GRI LA8 Internal Accident Prevention Committee GRI LA6 This program offers to the Company`s employees and their families a specialized phone service to provide advice and guidance In compliance with Regulatory Standards from the Ministry of in eight areas: psychology, legal matters, educational methods, Labor and Employment, CTEEP monitors health and safety in46 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance dicators in order to enhance the Company`s performance and Also in 2012, seven Internal Accident Prevention Weeks (SIPAT) prevent accidents from occurring. were held, one in each regional unit and one in the headquarters, including seminars and activities related to this matter. Whenever operational employees or third parties are hired, technical training on Regulatory Standard 10 is required, which Due to such initiatives carried out in 2012, CTEEP recorded a very contains the minimal conditions and requirements for ensuring positive performance, reporting a 155% reduction in the rate of the safety and health of workers that come into contact with Accidents with Temporary Absence, notwithstanding there was a electrical facilities and services with electricity. fatal event, which occurred due to negligence in relation to compliance with safety procedures. The Company conducts the polThe Company also encourages the employees` participation icy of sharing the information on likely accidents, so as to guide in Occupational Health and Safety Committees, and holds the employees with regard to the importance of complying with 18 Internal Accident Prevention Committees (CIPAs), spread safety procedures during their performance of professional tasks. throughout the Regional Departments, Operations Department and Corporate Headquarters, composed of employees in techniThere was also a reduction in the number of injuries, as well as cal-operational positions, administrative and supervisors, who in the rate of absence. The introduction of the automated monattended, in 2012, 216 monthly regular meetings, in addition to itoring of absenteeism rate was completed in 2012, and thereplenary meetings including all interested employees. fore there is no means of comparison with the previous years. Rate of accidents with injuries, absenteeism, Suppliers lost days and deaths3 GRI LA7 CTEEP places great value on having a transparent, ethical trustbased relationship with its 2,082 current suppliers. 2010 2011 2012 As a result, the Company has the CTEEP Supplier Program, Rate of Injuries (RI) 3.550 3.530 0.550 which involves selecting, managing and evaluating suppliers on an ongoing basis by focusing on accurate information and clear Number of Injuries 12 12 2 rules for the hiring process, as well as including contract clauses with Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and Human Rights Number of Lost Days 147 125 14 criteria. (GRI HR1, HR2) Rate of Lost Days (LDR) 43.520 36.770 3.88 Before a supplier is contracted, an online system searches, examines and identifies any possible economic, financial and techRate of Absenteeism 0.95 nical risks, thus making the process more reliable. In 2012, CTEEP worked with 678 suppliers of goods and 704 Man-hours worked 3,824,100 suppliers of services. In addition, it hired 2,782 new employees, 637 of whom for strategic positions as far as the Company’s Deaths 0 1 1 business is concerned. CTEEP holds regular contract evaluation meetings–at which 3 T he rates of injuries, occupational illness, lost days and absenteeism, are calculated on the basis of the number of workers registered under results, demands and future projects are presented–with conthe CLT, who total 1,506. tract Managers in order to strengthen the relationship with its 47 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance strategic suppliers. It also promotes the development of local This project is a major risk prevention initiative that has benefitsuppliers, which accounted for 2.75% of the total amount of ed 8,089 students and 549 teachers at 40 schools in 30 cities all contracts, always considering efficiency and competitiveness and towns in São Paulo State. in the market in which the Regional Departments are located. The whole process is decentralized, so each regional office is One of the communication tools used in the project is the hotresponsible for contracting local suppliers. (GRI EC6) site Amigos da Energia ( http://amigosdaenergia.ideiaeconceito. com.br/), which features content about the topics discussed in Even though CTEEP’s activities involve low risk of child labor or the talks; games, animated infographics explaining the route of poor working conditions, the Company includes Human Rights proelectric power; and information about the Company, its sustainvisions banning child and forced labor in all its supplier agreements. ability activities and initiatives. No suppliers or contractors were found to be in breach of the Circuito Cultural CTEEP agreement in this respect in 2012. (GRI HR6, HR7) Since 2010, the Company has been organizing Circuito CulSociety tural CTEEP [CTEEP Cultural Circuit], geared to children and GRI SO1 teenagers from public schools. The project is intended to raise awareness of environmental preservation, transmission line CTEEP seeks to contribute to sustainable development and somaintenance, sustainable development, social responsibility, cial inclusion through initiatives and projects geared to the comcitizenship, education and culture by making videos, among munities in the vicinity of its transmission lines and operations. other cultural activities. It, therefore, complements the Primary These projects are funded by the Company itself and sponsored Education curriculum. by third parties through the incentive laws. Sponsorship deals are closed after thorough transparent examination of the proIn 2012, 2,400 students from 60 schools in six cities participatposal submitted, in line with the Company’s CSR guidelines. ed in the project. Overall, 480 workshops were held, totaling 1,200 hours. In addition, the participants put on 60 recitals and In 2012, R$3.2 million was invested in socio-cultural proj12 theater plays, and made six short films. Overall, the program ects, R$2,556,240.00 of which through incentive laws and reached 7,468 people, who participated in the activities and R$652,258.32 from the Company’s own funds. These projects attended the performances and presentations. benefited 14,761 people directly and up to 70,000 indirectly (considering everyone that watched or visited the Company’s projects). The project is sponsored by CTEEP, with the support of the Ministry of Culture, and organized by H. Melillo Grupo de ArAmigos da Energia ticulação Social. The Amigos da Energia [Friends of Energy] project, launched in Musical Groups 2012, was developed to create a closer relationship between the Company and the communities in the vicinity of its facilities and Guri Santa Marcelina Children’s and Teenagers’ Groups help them live near transmission lines safely. The activities include Since 2010, CTEEP has supported Projeto Guri [Child Project], talks given at schools, neighborhood associations and other comorganized by Associação de Cultura, Educação e Assistência munity spaces, about topics like: the importance of the energy Social Santa Marcelina [Santa Marcelina Cultural, Educational transmission business; safety zones beneath transmission lines; and Social Assistance Association], which provides music literarisks related to kites, air balloons and unauthorized burning; and cy and opportunities for social inclusion for children and youth instruction for waste and debris disposal and for recycling. (8 to 19 years of age) from São Paulo City. 48 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance The organizers create educational centers in the project areas, Grupos Artísticos Emesp selected based on criteria like youth vulnerability, exposure to In 2012, CTEEP sponsored the creation of Grupos Artísticos urban violence, academic level and teenage pregnancy. The Emesp [EMESP (Escola de Música do Estado de São Paulo, participants then have social assistance services and have acor São Paulo State Music School) Arts Groups], intended to cess to social networks, theme workshops, tutoring classes and increase the opportunities for the students from Associação job training for people with special needs. de Cultura, Educação e Assistência Social Santa Marcelina to improve their repertoire practice. There are 15 groups playing In 2012, 303 students participated in seven groups, which put different instruments. Their repertoire comprises both classical on 43 performances that drew an audience of 10,530 people. and popular music. The project offered the students many educational activities, such as rehearsals, classes and masterclasses, in addition to the The EMESP Arts Groups consisted of 206 permanent memclasses that they already took at the regional educational cenbers, as well as 1,009 guest members in 2012. They put on 30 ters of Projeto Guri. performances to audience of 5,686 at different venues, such as Museu da Casa Brasileira, Fundação Maria Luisa e Oscar Americano, Teatro Fecap and Mosteiro de São Bento. Grupos Jovens do Estado The 2012 concert season of Grupos Jovens do Estado [State Youth Groups] featured conductors and soloists of prestige both in Brazil and worldwide, and included special trips and projects. It drew an audience of 16,245. The three musical groups of 120 grant recipients gave 51 concerts, 38 of which with the support of CTEEP, which has sponsored the project since 2009 to make quality music more accessible. The project is also coordinated by Associação de Cultura, Educação e Assistência Social Santa Marcelina. Trabalhando a deficiência Projeto Trabalhando a Deficiência [Working on Disability Project], developed by Santa Marcelina Cultura, offers the professionals from Projeto Guri Santa Marcelina job training focused on including children and teenagers with special needs and providing equal opportunities for them. These job training programs are open to professionals who deal directly with the students, such as: the monitors of each location, support agents, teachers, social assistants and the employees who manage the program. The project also involves examining and proposing the production and/or adaptation of communication and/or educational materials to eliminate the obstacles to the participation of children and teenagers with special needs in the Guri Santa Marcelina educational program. 49 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance The project created 16 groups in 2012 and benefited 90 people 16 organizations were received about 2,900 donated toys and (61 teachers and 29 students) directly. In addition, 255 profesarticles of winter clothing. sionals (comprising support agents, social assistants, monitors and other professionals from the Guri and EMESP groups) were Fundação ABRINQ [Foundation of the Brazilian Association of given job training when the groups were created. Toy Manufacturers] participated in the Christmas Drive through Programa Nossas Crianças [Our Children Program]. Film Production Incantive In 2012, CTEEP sponsored two film projects connected with Projeto Vila Nilo the electric sector, under the terms of the cultural incentive GRI EC8 laws. The movies were “Fragmentos de Paixão” [Passion CTEEP continued Projeto Vila Nilo [Vila Nilo Project], which inFragments], produce by INPE [Instituto Nacional de Pesquisas volves restoring the safety zone of a transmission line located Espaciais, or Brazilian National Institute for Space Research] between the cities of São Paulo and Guarulhos. There were and “Na Trilha da Energia” [On the Trail of Energy], produced illegal settlements and debris was dumped in the area, thus by Instituto Acende Brasil [“Light Up Brazil Institute”]. Both jeopardizing safety and affecting the Company’s services. productions are scheduled to be shown in 2013. After the area was repossessed and cleaned up, CTEEP hired The documentary “Na Trilha da Energia”, made by Canal Azul a company to devise a project for a bike lane to be used by Consultoria Audiovisual LTDA., shows in a simple manner how the local population. The project was submitted in 2012. The electric power reaches consumers’ homes, from generation next step is to reevaluate the means to implement it, taking through transmission to distribution. It also focuses on eninto account the current situation of the electric sector among vironmental and social concerns during the construction and other factors. operation of facilities. Community-based risk management “Fragmentos de Paixão”, in turn, is a docudrama about lightGRI PR1, EU20 ning in the History of Brazil, including its impact on the electric sector and the context of climate change. The film traces the Since CTEEP has an extensive transmission grid, it has to underjourney of a scientist who investigates six lives affected by take a series of efficient guidance, inspection and prevention lightning in different ways, thus showing how science and culinitiatives, among other measures, to ensure the safety of local ture have viewed lightning from the discovery of Brazil to the communities and monitor service quality. future. Executive producer and director Iara Cardoso’s project will also give visibility to a lightning protection campaign One of the main points in this regard is to create safety zones through educational events and exhibitions. beneath transmission lines. These are delimited areas of an appropriate width safe for the construction, operation, mainEnergia Solidária tenance and inspection of power lines, based on factors like Programa Energia Solidária [Solidary Energy Program] was the swinging of wires due to wind, the electrical effects on implemented in 2009 to promote volunteering among CTpeople, the size and position of the structures. The use of EEP’s professionals. Employees who do volunteer work share safety zones is restricted so that there is no risk to the popuinformation and experiences to promote volunteer initiatives lation’s physical integrity in case of incidents. There are safety in the Company. signs and, when necessary, other devices, such as fences, to prevent trespassing. (GRI PR3) In 2012, the Program focused on the Winter Clothes Collection Drive and the Christmas Drive, with donations from employees In addition, transmission lines are inspected regularly as in the Company’s Headquarters and Regional Offices. A total of part of the maintenance routine. These inspections allow 50 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance detecting inappropriate use of safety zones (for example, Indirect economic impact on society for dumping waste), as well as illegal settlements, or unGRI EC9 authorized (total or partial) use of safety zones. Whenever an illegal settlement is found, CTEEP follows certain steps. In addition to the direct influence that electric energy transmisFirst, it notifies squatters formally and warns them about sion has on the economy, this service also has a series of indithe risks of remaining in the area. If the squatters refuse to rect economic impacts. Electric energy is connected with the leave the area voluntarily, the Company maps the settlement, development of society. Currently, it plays a more and more immakes a record of its features (with drawings, pictures and portant role in people’s everyday lives. The manufacturing and accounts), and sends the material to the Legal Department service industries are heavily dependent on the use of electric for analysis. Only if no agreement is reached out of court power. For final consumers, it provides a major improvement in does the Company file a repossession lawsuit. In these cases, life quality and comfort, often in connection with the possibility CTEEP makes plans, taking into account the characteristics of using a wide range of household appliances and electronics. of the local population. It checks, for example, if there are children, pregnant women, elderly people or people with Therefore, it is safe to say that electricity transmission services special needs. The Company then coordinates actions with boost the economy, allow technological progress in different the State and local governments, the Police department, the fields, facilitate communication and provide entertainment, Fire department, the São Paulo Traffic Engineering Company among other direct and indirect effects. (CET), among other bodies, so that the dislocated families will be included in the Government’s housing programs and Besides being part of this enormous complex web of influencthe resources needed to carry out the eviction order (such as es, CTEEP also contributes to the development of the areas in ambulances, social assistants and police force) are available. which it is present. It creates jobs, boosts the local economy CTEEP has a partner to coordinate these actions and relocate by increasing the local demand, promotes improvements in the the people and their goods. local infrastructure indirectly, hires services and buys goods locally, pays taxes, etc. In 2012, the Company filed 16 repossession suits that required relocating people. Two of these suits were settled in the same The Company is aware of its potential for influence, but does year. Except in the case of repossession suits, the Company disnot have any specific processes or procedures to identify and placed no-one to perform its services. It is worth noting that no assess the significant indirect economic impacts of its activities, suits led to death or accidents with users of CTEEP’s services or as well as the extent of these impacts. equipment in the year. (GRI EU22, EU25) In addition to complying with the requirements and safety rules Communication Channels applicable to electrical facilities, CTEEP has a major educational GRI PR3 project, Amigos da Energia (Friends of Energy), which focuses on relationship building and risk prevention (further information Information about CTEEP is available through different commuin the Society section in this report). nication channels accessible to all stakeholders. Corporate information can be found on the Company’s website (www.cteep. The social communication initiatives with the population in the com.br). Financial information is available in the annual financial vicinity of new transmission lines and/or substations are part statements. Contents about corporate governance, economic of the Environmental Management projects of each enterprise, and financial performance, operational performance, corporate under the responsibility of a specialized consulting firm, and social responsibility and environmental performance initiatives include electric shock signaling in all the Company’s units, in are described in the Annual and Sustainability Report, also availcompliance with the legislation. able on the Company’s website. The Company’s concession con51 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance tract, which describes the parties’ procedures, rights and duties, ing Self-Regulation Council] Code and other the electric sector can be found on the ANEEL (Brazilian Electric Energy Agency) rules. As a result, there were no incidents of non-compliance website (www.aneel.gov.br). with regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Linha Ética [Ethical Line] – This communication channel in 2012. (GRI SO7, PR8) answers questions and receives complaints related to the Company’s Code of Ethics. Information is secret and monitored by Nevertheless, the Company is expecting a decision on an adCTEEP’s CEO’s Office. (GRI SO4) ministrative appeal filed on 02.27.2012 in response to a tax delinquency notice issued by the Federal Revenue Department Disque CTEEP [Dial CTEEP] – The hotline 0800 11 87 13 is in connection with tax-like social contributions by reason of the communication channel to report transmission line disconthe non-cumulative system of PIS [Social Integration Program] nections caused by vegetation burning. and COFINS [Tax for Social Security Financing], in 2009 and 2010. (GRI SO8) Ombudsman’s Office – This is CTEEP’s channel that deals with issues that the other communication channels were not As far as products and services are concerned, the Company able to settle properly. The Ombudsman’s Office can be acreceived the following notices from ANEEL in 2012: cessed through the Company’s website. 1)  Administrative Proceeding 48500.005093/2011-15, Fale Conosco [Talk to Us] – This channel receives reInfringement Notice 082/2012-SFE quests, suggestions, complaints and questions. It can be acThis administrative proceeding is related to the outage of cessed on CTEEP’s website (www. cteep.com.br) or by e-mail about 870 MW of the Eletropaulo Metropolitana Eletricidade at cteep@cteep.com.br. de São Paulo S.A. load, resulting from an incident at Milton Fornasaro Substation in 2011. The infringement notice imposes a fine of R$1,250,336.26. In April 2012, CTEEP filed an Compliance Administrative Appeal that is pending consideration. The Company respects and applies all regulatory frameworks, as 2)  Administrative Proceeding 48500.003216/2011-83, well as all international agreements and treaties relevant to its busiInfringement Notice 090/2012-SFE ness. As a result, there were no incidents of non-compliance with In 2012, the Company paid a fine related to the administrative rules, regulations and voluntary codes concerning health, safety, proceeding for irregularities in the operations and maintenance disclosure of information about the Company’s facilities and serof Jupiá and Salto Substations, which are part of CTEEP’s 2011 vices (labeling) in the period covered by the report. (GRI PR2, PR4) concession. The initial amount of R$384,304.46 was reduced to R$139,508.89 after an appeal filed by the Company. The same goes for communication. CTEEP’s Communication Policy is based on the CONAR [the Brazilian National Advertis3)  Administrative Proceeding 48500.000037/2012-75, ing Self-Regulation Council] Code and other the electric sector Infringement Notice 122/2012-SFE/ANEEL rules. As a result, there were no incidents of non-compliance CTEEP received a fine in connection with service quality with regulations and voluntary codes related to marketing comand failure to provide transmission services, in accordance munications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship with Articles 32 and 33 of Normative Resolution 270 bein 2012. (GRI PR6, PR7) tween June 2010 and May 2011. The infringement notice imposes a fine of R$416,167.00. In September 2012, CTEEP The same goes for communication. CTEEP’s Communication filed an Administrative Appeal that is pending considerPolicy is based on the CONAR [the Brazilian National Advertisation. (GRI PR9) 52 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance State Since it does not become involved in the Brazilian political GRI 4.13, PR6 scene, CTEEP engaged in no lobbying activities and made no financial or in-kind contributions to any political parties, camCTEEP participates actively in forums and institutions intended paigns or institutions in 2012. (GRI SO5, SO6) to develop Brazil’s electric sector and has an intense relationship with the main government bodies. In 2012, it played a key The Company received no financial assistance received from the role in the discussion about the renewal of the electric sector government in 2012 in addition to financing lines from public concession contracts, thus showing its firm commitment to soinstitutions, R&D grants and investment grants for cultural acciety’s interests and the sustainability of its business. tivities, as explained in the Management Report. (GRI EC4) The Company also makes contributions to organizations that represent it in negotiations about issues relevant to the development of the electric sector and CTEEP’s business. It has representatives in the Board of Directors, Committees and Commissions of the following government bodies and trade associations: ONS (Brazilian Operator of the Electrical System) A  BRATE (Brazilian Large Electric Power Transmission Companies Association)  BDIB (Brazilian Infrastructure and Basic Industry AssociaA tion) ABCE (Brazilian Electric Power Concessionaires Association) CEPEL (Electric Power Research Center) CierBracier (CIER Brazilian Committee)  igré Brasil (Brazilian Electric Power Production and TransC mission Committee) São Paulo State Department of Sanitation and Energy 53 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Social Performance Clients online communication channels, such as the Transmission Grid Access System, which allows agents to access the transmission Building sustainable relationships with its clients and delivering system. Agents can register on the CTEEP website to have acquality, efficient and cost-effective services is one of CTEEP’s key cess to the Transmission Grid Access Manual and the Criteria concerns. The Company has a Quality Management System based and Procedures for Connection in CTEEP DITs. In addition, it is on the ISO 9001:2000 standard to be recognized by its clients for possible to monitor the progress of CTEEP’s construction works providing excellent electricity transmission services. and projects relevant to clients. In 2012, CTEEP’s client base included 16 distributors, 32 generators, 12 transmission companies and 7 free consumers and Shareholders and Investors self-producers, stakeholders with which the Company has a close GRI 4.4 relationship so that it will get to know their needs, going beyond the provisions in their connection contracts and operator agreeCTEEP follows the rules and recommendations of CVM [the ments. The Company has also encouraged the integration of free Brazilian Securities and Exchange Committee] and BM&Fconsumers to the energy grid by offering operation and mainteBOVESPA [the São Paulo Securities, Commodities and Futures nance services tailored to their needs (GRI EU3) Exchange], on which the Company’s preferred shares are listed, on Level 1 of Corporate Governance. The Company always gathers and posts material information to meet the market’s Client Management demands, thus offering a permanent communication channel between the Company and its shareholders, investors and The Company regularly conducts a Client Satisfaction Survey other stakeholders. To that end, it organizes and participates designed to help it improve client management. The survey is in meetings, conferences and different events. In addition, it carried out with uneven periodicity since it is connected with has a calendar of earnings calls and provides any information company and market issues. It was last conducted in 2010. requested as soon as possible, thus ensuring a transparent (GRI PR5) and ethical relationship with these stakeholders. CTEEP also organizes the APIMEC (Association of Capital In 2012, the Company organized a workshop for managers and Market Investment Analysts and Professionals) earnings meetheads of departments involved in Client Management to deings. As a result, it earned the 11-Year Gold APIMEC Seal of velop improvement plans based on clients’ expectations, needs Attendance in 2012. and concerns identified by the latest survey. In order to strengthen its relationship with the market, the Company also organized conferences with investors, roadOne of the client management tools that the Company uses shows, meetings at Company headquarters and replied to is the Client Management Improvement Plan, which involves over 2,100 e-mails and phone calls in 2012. 54 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Relatório da Administração Environmental Performance The conservation and sustainable use of natural resources are expressed in CTEEP’s Mission and its Environmental Policy. Environamental Management integrate service providers into the environmental management and Investments system and monitor them; and measure and dispose of waste in compliance with the environmental legislation. The preservation and sustainable use of natural resources are part of CTEEP’s Environmental Policy and Mission. These conIn 2012, CTEEP invested R$4.3 million in environmental initiacepts pervade all CTEEP’s activities and processes, in line with tives, a considerable rise in relation to 2011 due to changes in the Company’s values. the criteria for assessing information. (GRI EN30) CTEEP continued the maintenance works on the environmental CTEEP’s information assessment criteria are broken down into: management system at 99 substations and one transmission line, in addition to extending the system to one more transmission  isposal of class I waste and the PCB disposal contract (further D line (TL), the 308-km 440kV Água Vermelha Araraquara TL, details in the “waste management” section) which crosses 25 cities and towns in São Paulo State. This TL Awareness-Raising and Prevention Initiatives (monitoring and received the environmental certification by the ABNT NBR ISO promotion of the Cuca Project, in São Paulo City), the Urban 14001:2004 standard, thus becoming part of the group of 31 Orchard and the Burn Prevention Campaign. substations and one transmission line certified in previous years. Environmental management connected with license renewals, inspection visits, certification auditing and construction of In order to maintain and extend the environmental managetemporary waste storage facilities. ment system, the Company has to comply with over 320 federal, Remediation related to construction works, in connection with state and local legal requirements and standards, train the envithe execution of an instrument of commitment for environronmental emergency teams with simulations of real situations; mental recovery and a consent decree. 55 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Environmental Performance Environmental Expenditures Type of expenditure Amount % Waste disposal 2,870,000 65.7 Treatment of emissions 0 0.00 Remediation costs 231,666 5.3 Prevention costs 1,058,489 24.23 Environmental Management 208,075 4.76 All environmental incidents were recorded in EMS (Environmenpany to recover the affected area, dispose of waste in the cortal Management System), including spills of insulating mineral rect manner and take any other action required by environmenoil from electrical equipment in operation at substations. These tal emergencies. incidents were examined and dealt which as determined by EMS and the environmental legislation, and described in detail in the Materials EMS critical analysis reports. These environmental incidents GRI EN1, EN2 were limited to the area of the substations, so there is no evidence and/or report of environmental impacts in the vicinity of Material consumption is carefully managed by the supplies dethe facilities. (GRI EN23) partment, in line with the policies and practices of the Company, which defined a group of materials considered essential CTEEP’s maintenance procedures include equipment inspecfor its business based on its demand for them and the amount tions and prevention of leakages and spills, as well as containspent on them. The changes in this list of materials from year to ment and remediation (in case of leakages or spills). year are related to the Company’s operational demands, rather In the event of major incidents, CTEEP hires a specialized comthan to any specific project. 56 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Environmental Performance Non-renewable materials Type of material Unit of measurement 2011 2012 Bushings Unit 196 70 Command and control cables* Meters 280,000 262,320 Connectors Unit 3,312 4,001 Circuit breakers Unit 734 75 Structures* Metric ton 2 214 Gas* Cubic meters 240 788 Insulators Unit 13,412 28,004 Oil* Liter 5,000 4,801 Lightning rods Unit 263 327 Reactors Unit 2,886 2,903 Relays Unit 554 988 Rectifiers Unit 38 0 Section switches Unit 273 50 Transformers Unit 471 228 * These figures are approximations since different units of measurement are used in purchases. Concerning material recycling, 3,209 500-sheet packs of A4 reThe total amount of insulating mineral oil in operational cycled paper were purchased. In addition, 1,720 kg of paper were equipment in CTEEP’s Transmission System is estimated at recycled. 25,000,000 liters. Waste Disposal About 1.5% of this amount is slightly contaminated with PCB GRI EN2, EN22 (Polychlorinated biphenyls), products classified internationally under “Persistent Organic Pollutants” since it is bio-cumulative, CTEEP’s Transmission System equipment with combined bacteriostatic and non-biodegradable. solid/liquid insulation systems uses insulating mineral oil, a petroleum by-product. The great advantage is that the oil The Brazilian legislation allows using equipment with PCB-concan be fully regenerated and reused with the same useful taminated insulating mineral oil to the end of its useful life life as new oil. normally. Once this equipment is taken out of operation, the Company must see to the proper final disposal of this insulatTherefore, CTEEP is proactive in regenerating the insulating mineral oil ing material, which has to be considered Class I waste. used in its transformers and reactors by using its mobile regeneration and treatment unit, which allows restoring the original physical and CTEEP has mapped all the PCB-contaminated insulating mineral chemical features of the oil, thus making it possible to reuse it safely. oil in use in its Transmission System. When contaminated equip57 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Environmental Performance ment is taken out of operation, the Company adopts a specific In 2012, CTEEP built three new temporary storage facilities for procedure approved by environmental bodies to dispose of the other types of waste generated regularly by its maintenance insulating material. services. As a result, it now has five of these facilities (one in each Regional Department). This allows separating waste for In 2012, CTEEP hired a specialized, licensed company to be in final disposal in different lots, which is done by a specialized, charge of the final disposal of PCB-contaminated waste belicensed company hired for this purpose. The final process of tween 2013 and 2015. Therefore, CTEEP is going to take out disposal will be concluded in 2013. of operation and see to the final disposal of the last pieces of equipment with PCB insulation systems and of all the PCB-conIn 2012, no final waste disposal was made; therefore, no waste taminated insulating oil. was transported. No PCB-contaminated waste was disposed of either. (GRI EN24) Disposal of Waste by type Material Quantity – 2011 Quantity – 2012 Disposal Materials contaminated with oil or paint 8,807.94 Kg 9,247.35 Kg co-processing Lubricant oil and insulating oil (oil, sludge, sediments) 9,169.7 Kg 9,627.45 Kg co-processing Asbestos – Material waste comprised of asbestos ce1,710 Kg 1,795.00 Kg Class 1 landfill ment (shingles, water tanks, etc.) Herbicide and insecticide packaging 126 Kg 132.30 Kg incineration Chemical products for cleaning parts 16,403 Kg 16,803.00 Kg incineration Rubber and tire scrap 765 Kg 841 Kg co-processing Metal halide, sodium, mixed, 9,995 units 9,595 units recycling mercury and fluorescent light bulbs Nickel/cadmium batteries 260 units 286 units incineration Dry battery/batteries 885 units 974 units incineration Light bulb reactor scrap 349 units 383 units co-processing Incandescent light bulbs 70 units 80 units recycling The residues of glass insulators, polypropylene foam and cartridges are still being monitored, however, no new volumes were found in 2012. 58 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Environmental Performance Water Resources The Company does not calculate the amount of recycle or reGRI EN8, EN10, EN21 used water systematically. However, a pilot rainwater harvesting project led to estimated savings of 40,000 liters of water in Water use was monitored and consolidated in the Company’s 2012. The collected water was used to wash electrical equip47 substations, as well as in the Administrative Headquarters in ment for at the Registro substation, in São Paulo State. São Paulo City, in the 12 months of 2012. During the year, 40 m3 of effluents from septic tanks (bioThese substations used 37,025.92 m of water in the year, 3 logical sludge) in CTEEP facilities was discharged in places 22,843.43 m3 from artesian wells and 14,182.49 m3 from local where operations are being conducted, in accordance with or state public water supply systems. In turn, 4,963 m3 was the legal environmental requirements, usually sent to saniused in the Administrative Headquarters. tation utilities. Total Water Withdrawal by Source, in m³ GHG Emissions GRI EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20 2010 2011 20124 In 2012, CTEEP found opportunities to improve GHG emission Groundwater 15,940.00 23,011.00 22,843.43 management based on a survey conducted by the ISA Group about the Company’s emissions in 2011. The Company is goMunicipal water supply or 14,664.00 ing to focus on implementing procedures for using, measur14,808.00 19,145.49 other water utilities ing and monitoring SF6 and cooling gases. Although it does not measure all its greenhouse gas emissions, the Company Total 30,604.00 37,819.00 41,988.92 monitors the emissions from its vehicle fleet and the emissions connected with the use of electric power, which are describe below. CTEEP has no industrial processes requiring water use and discharges. Its water consumption is limited to the personal use It is worth adding that 306.47 kg of R22 (HCFC-22) gas was by employees, some refrigeration systems and occasionally anused in air conditioning systems in the year. SOx and NOx are ti-fire activities in its facilities. not emitted in energy transmission operations. Direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions (partially monitored) Electric energy consumption * (Scope 2 – direct emissions) Metric tons of CO2e Electricity–Headquarters 91.68 Electricity–Substations 1,355.34 Fuel consumption by the vehicle fleet * (Scope 1–direct emissions) Metric tons of CO2e Gasoline (489,554.89 liters) 1,127.69 Ethanol (25,068.41 liters) 37.75 Diesel oil (357,959.02 liters) 939.86 4 The comparison of the water consumption of 2011 versus 2012 is not suitable, due to a change in basis of comparison between the two years, which considered water consumption in areas that had not been previously monitored. * Data compiled by converting kWh and liters to CO2e 59 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Environmental Performance Energy To reduce electric power consumption, CTEEP has a proGRI EN3, EN4 gram to replace incandescent light bulbs by LED bulbs in synoptic panels (used to indicate whether the equipment Energy consumption is monitored by the Company’s environat a substations is energized or not) and air conditioning mental management system. In 2012, power supply to CTEEP’s systems by more efficient options at the substations. In adsubstations came from the electrical system itself. Consumpdition, it organizes awareness-raising initiatives and talks tion, monitored at 45 facilities, amounted to 76,237.88 gigaabout the rational use of energy geared to staff and conjoules. This is an average increase of 13.32% year-over-year, tractors. (GRI EN5, EN7) largely due to enlargement and maintenance works in the electrical system performed by the Company. Biodiversity GRI EN11, EN12, EN13, EU13 The Company’s substations use diesel-powered equipment when there is a power outage. The Company presently has no Biodiversity management in CTEEP’s service area is conductsystematic records of diesel use. ed jointly with the environmental body. Transmission lines crossing Environmental Protection Areas are clearly identified; In turn, 5,156.84 gigajoules from non-renewable sources was however, studies about the conditions of these areas are conconsumed at the Company’s Administrative Headquarters, in ducted only on request of the environmental body, in conSão Paulo, in 2012. nection with a new project, repowering or reconductoring of the existing transmission line, which may involve a biodiversity Indirect energy Consumption by source, GJ: survey of the area affected by the Company’s facilities, among 2010 2011 20124 other procedures. Renewable (Substations) 58,394.35 67,274.74 76,237.88 In 2012, CTEEP concluded the environmental compensation project at the Balatas State Forest, which involved replanting Non-Renewable 5,156.84 a total of 33 hectares and forest densification in 7.46 hectares. Headquarters) This initiative was undertaken in compliance with an environmental consent decree signed in 2002, which determined the The Company has used an indicator system provided by a specialtotal recovery of 272.9 hectares, in areas managed by the Instiized company since 2011 and recorded performance data (such tuto Florestal (an organization connected with the Department as the costs of a vehicle per km, fuel use and the ranking of the of the Environment). Replanting started in 2007, in line with most efficient cars) to monitor the emissions and fuel consumpthe recovery plan designed jointly with FEALQ (Luiz de Quetion of its vehicle fleet. iroz Foundation for Agricultural Studies), which involves total Amount of direct primary energy replanting in 129.01 hectares and densification and natural reconsumed by the organization in GL: generation in 143.98 hectares. 2010 The environmental commitment also included compensations at Non-Renewable: the Experimental Stations of Mogi Guaçu (96.01 ha), ItapetininDiesel oil 12,482.03 ga (39.95 ha), Buri (49.83 ha) and Assis (46.74 ha), concluded in December 2010. Gasoline 17,036.51 Renewable: After 2002, the mitigations of environmental impacts from new projects were determined by an instrument of commitment to Ethanol 660.05 environmental recovery. 60 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Environmental Performance Location, biome and size of Environmental Protection Areas affected by the transmission line Environmental Protection Name of the Voltage Area Location Areas affected by the transmission line (kV) (ha) transmission line (km2) LT Bauru – Cabreúva 440 Pederneiras Experimental Station 17.38 0.174 LT Ribeirão Preto – 440 São Simão Reserve 2.95 0.029 Sta. Bárbara D'Oeste LT Embu Guaçu – Sto. Ângelo 440 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 46.81 0.468 LT Embu Guaçu – Sul 345 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 58.11 0.581 LT Baixada Santista – Tijuco 345 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 12.13 0.121 Preto C1-C2 LT Baixada Santista – Tijuco 345 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 15.24 0.152 Preto C3 LT Baixada Santista – Sul 345 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 12.33 0.123 LT Assis – Chavantes 230 Horto Florestal de Palmital 2.95 0.029 LT Henry Borden – Baixada 230 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 0.85 0.008 Santista LT Ramal Guarulhos (LT 345 230 Cantareira State Park 12.02 0.12 kV anhanguera-Guarulhos) LT Henry Borden – 230 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 22.04 0.22 Piratininga LT Capão Bonito – Registro 138 Carlos Botelho State Park 5.8 0.058 LT Cabreúva – Mairiporã 138 Juquery State Park 15.48 0.154 LT Porto Ferreira – Limoeiro 138 Casa Branca Experimental Station Reserve 4.5 0.045 LT Rib. Preto – Porto Ferreira 138 São Simão Reserve 2.06 0.02 LT São Carlos – Rio Claro I 138 Itirapina Ecological Station 2.92 0.029 LT Bertioga II – Serra do Mar State Park, 138 48.65 0.486 São Sebastião S. Sebastião center Serra do Mar State Park in 4 stretches LT Caraguatatuba – Ubatuba 138 of the Caraguatatuba center 19.35 0.1935 Rio Pardo – São Sebastião 138 Serra do Mar State Park, S. Sebastião center 40.21 LT Sto. Ângelo – Bertioga II 138 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 12.92 0.129 LT Santo Ângelo – Rio Pardo 138 Serra do Mar State Park, S. Sebastião center 77.18 0.771 LT São Sebastião – 138 Serra do Mar State Park, S. Sebastião center 8.65 0.086 Caraguatatuba LT Bertioga II – 138 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 3.18 0.031 Vic. de Carvalho C1-C2 LT Bertioga II – 138 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 7.4 0.074 Vic. de Carvalho C3-C4 LT Baixada Santista – 138 Serra do Mar State Park, Cubatão center 5.66 0.056 Vic. De Carvalho LT Capão Bonito – Registro 138 Carlos Botelho State Park 12.11 0.121 LT Embu Guaçu – Peruíbe 138 Serra do Mar State Park, Curucutu center 33.66 0.336 LT Paraibuna – Serra do Mar State Park, 88 31.61 0.316 Caraguatatuba Caraguatatuba center LT Chavantes – Botucatu 88 Manduri State Forest 5.31 0.053 LT Pres. Prudente – Assis 88 Assis State Forest 8.76 0.087 61 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Environmental Performance Compliance with environmental The number of incidents and outages related to vegetation fire laws and regulations remained virtually stable year-over-year in 2012. The Company GRI EN28 recorded 12 incidents of vegetation fire near transmission lines, causing 16 outages. CTEEP received no significant fines and/or non-monetary sanctions and was a party to any arbitration proceedings related Cuca Project to environmental issues. In 2012, the Company received some The Cuca Project is developed by Cantareira State Park jointly notifications to provide explanations and take action in connecwith the Instituto Guatambu NGO. Supporting the program was tion with environmental issues; however, these notifications led one of the conditions for CTEEP to obtain the installation license to no type of punishment. for the Guarulhos-Anhanguera transmission line. The project was designed to promote development and environMain projects mental education and includes initiatives for students and the GRI EN14, EN26 community in the vicinity of the Company’s facilities, inside and outside conservation units. Developing specific projects in different fields, through environmental education or new technologies, is one of the The project includes informative talks at schools and guided visstrategies that the Company uses to disseminate environits to the Park, focusing on the importance of the conservation mentally responsible practices that benefit the community. unit, biodiversity, the role of transmission lines in the developIn this regard, CTTEP invests in innovative solutions for the ment of Brazil, citizenship and other issues related to the enviindustry, such as the Green Shield Project and the SF6 Gas ronmental impact of practices like illegal waste disposal, poachProject, described in the “Research and Development” secing, unauthorized vegetation fires, wildfires and trespassing. tion of this report. CTEEP produced pamphlets for the target audience of the projBurn Prevention Campaign ect, containing the history of the Cantareira State Park, preserEvery year, CTEEP runs a Burn Prevention Campaign designed vation tips, information about CTEEP, educational games and to raise awareness among stakeholders (plant personnel, rural other contents connected with environmental issues. In 2012, workers, farmers, society and employees) about the risks of unproject activities reached an audience of over 12,000 people. authorized burning in areas close to transmission towers. This practice may lead to outages, wildfires and risks to population Urban Orchard safety and the environment. Through a media campaign, initiaGRI EC8 tives to build closer relationships with communities and inforCTEEP is one of the supporters of the Urban Orchard Project, an mative talks, this project is intended to educate the population initiative of the São Paulo State Department of the Environment, in the vicinity of transmission towers. jointly with public and private sector companies, to promote the environmental and landscape recovery along the banks of the PinEach year, the campaign is run in three areas, each of which heiros River (São Paulo City), in addition to job training and envicomprising eight to ten cities or towns. The areas are deterronmental education programs. Whereas the Government sets and mined by CTEEP based on the incidents recorded in the previous monitors parameters to ensure that the river banks are effectively years. The campaign lasts four months, between April and July, recovered, the other partners hire employees to maintain the area. which is the beginning of the dry season. According to the official project website, 26 km of both banks In 2012, the Company invested R$270,000.00 in the 12th edihave been recovered, an effort involving 21 partners. So far, tion of the campaign, which involved 2,125 in 42 cities and over 300,000 seedlings have been planted. CTEEP is responsitowns, chosen according to the risk of burning in the area. ble for maintaining an 800-m stretch of the river banks. 62 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Annual Social Balance / 2012 1 Basis of Calculation 2012 (R$ `000) 2011 (R$ `000) Net Operating Revenue (NOR) 1,888,432 2,025,847 1,188,425 Operating Income (OI) Earnings before income tax (In the 2011 Report, this amount did not include 1,183,240 and social contribution social charges, and thus it has been re-stated as shown above) Gross Payroll (GP) 188,052 170,442 2 Internal Social Indicators Amount (`000) % over GP % over NOR Amount (`000) % over GP % over NOR Meals 14,405 7.66% 0.76% 11,858 6.96% 0.59% Compulsory social charges 49,186 26.16% 2.60% 44,317 26.00% 2.19% Private pension 3,859 2.05% 0.20% 3,311 1.94% 0.16% Health 13,475 7.17% 0.71% 12,393 7.27% 0.61% Occupational health and safety 1,943 1.03% 0.10% 2,128 1.25% 0.11% Education 900 0.48% 0.05% 841 0.49% 0.04% Culture 0 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% Professional training and development 2,260 1.20% 0.12% 1,448 0.85% 0.07% Daycare or daycare assistance 223 0.12% 0.01% 195 0.11% 0.01% Profit sharing 11,500 6.12% 0.61% 12,230 7.18% 0.60% Others Total Internal social indicators 97,751 51.98% 5.18% 88,721 52.05% 4.38% 3 External Social Indicators Amount (`000) % over GP % over NOR Amount (`000) % over GP % over NOR Education (Amigos da Energia Project) 245 0.02% 0.01% 0 0.00% 0.00% Culture (Including own funds and sponsorship through fiscal incentive laws, such as: Guri Santa Marcelina, Grupos Jovens, Circuito Cultural CTEEP, 2,937 0.25% 0.16% 2,200 0.19% 0.11% Trabalhando a Deficiência, movie Na Trilha da Energia, movie Fragmentos de Paixão) Health and sanitation Sports Combat against hunger and food safety Others (The figure for 2012 includes the Energia Solidária Program. The amount paid to apprentices in 25 0.00% 0.00% 0 0.00% 0.00% 2011 entered in this field in the previous report – was used from this indicator, as it has been in Gross Payroll.) Total contributions to society 3,207 0.27% 0.17% 2,200 0.19% 0.11% Taxes (excluding social charges) 321 0.03% 0.02% 400 0.03% 0.02% (This includes IRPJ, CSLL, PIS, Cofins and ISS) Total External social indicators 3,528 0.30% 0.19% 2,600 0.22% 0.13% 4 Environmental Indicators Amount (`000) % over GP % over NOR Amount (`000) % over GP % over NOR Investments related to production / Company`s operations (Covers investments related to waste disposal 3,078 0.26% 0.16% 1,539 0.13% 0.08% and environmental management) Investments in external programs and/or projects (In 2012, there was a change of criteria to measure the indicator, which became more comprehensive, staring to involve costs with prevention Cuca 1,290 0.11% 0.07% 171 0.01% 0.01% Project, central waste storage construction, Urban Orchard, Fires Campaign and remediation TAC and TCRAs . See GRI EN30) Total investments in environmental protection 4,368 0.37% 0.23% 1,710 0.14% 0.08% Regarding the establishment of “annual targets” for ( x ) no goals ( x ) no goals minimizing waste, general consumption in produc( ) meets from 51 to 75% ( ) meets from 51 to 75% tion/operation and increasing efficacy in the use of ( ) meets from 0 to 50% ( ) meets from 0 to 50% natural resources, the company: ( ) meets from 76 to 100% ( ) meets from 76 to 100% 63 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Annual Social Balance / 2012 5 Workforce Indicators 2012 2011 Nº employees at the end of period 1,506 1,418 Nº hirings during the period 126 111 2,541 (Considered the sum of outsourced 1,083 Nº outsourced employees workers who provided services to CTEEP (Considered outsourced administrative workers throughout 2012, regardless of how long from headquarters and regional units) the contract or service lasted) Nº interns 62 53 Nº employees over 45 575 499 Nº women working at the company 155 154 % management positions occupied by women 1.00% 1.00% Nº of black people working at the company % of supervisory positions occupied by black people Nº of disabled people or people with special needs 63 65 6-R  elevant Information regarding 2012 2011 the Exercise of Corporate Citizenship Ratio between the highest and lowest pay (The criteria between the highest and lowest pay 17 43 changed from 2011 to 2012, and build on the nº of CAGED, which covers only CLT employees.) Total number of occupational accidents 2 12 Social and environmental projects developed ( ) (x) ( ) ( ) (x) ( ) by the company were defined by: directors directors and all employees directors directors and all employees management management Safety and health standards in the workplace (x) ( ) ( ) (x) ( ) ( ) were defined by: directors and all employees all + Cipa directors and all employees all + Cipa management management Regarding union freedom, the right to collective ( ) ( ) (x) ( ) ( ) (x) bargaining and internal representation of workers, does not follows ILO encourages will not engage will follow ILO will encourage the company: engage standards and follows ILO standards and follow ILO standards standards ( ) ( ) (x) ( ) ( ) (x) Private pension covers: directors directors and all employees directors directors and all employees management management ( ) ( ) (x) ( ) ( ) (x ) Profit sharing includes: directors directors and all employees directors directors and all em ployees management management In selecting suppliers, the same standards of ethics ( ) (x) ( ) ( ) (x) ( ) and social and environmental responsibility adopted are not are suggested are required are not are suggested are required by the company: considered considered Regarding employee participation in volunteer work ( ) (x) ( ) ( ) (x) ( ) programs, the company: does not supports organizes and does not supports organizes and involve itself encourages involve itself encourages Total number of complaints and criticisms from At the at Procon: In the Courts: At the at Procon: In the Courts: consumers: Company: 0 0 0 Company:0 0 0 At the At the at Procon: In the Court: at Procon: In the Courts: % of complaints and criticisms resolved: Company: Company: did not have did not have did not have did not have did not have did not have Total added value to distributed (in thousands of In 2012: In 2011: BRL): 2.061.349 2.009.616 33% government 30% government 11% employees 10% employees Distribution of Added Value (DAV): 13% shareholders 40% shareholders 15% third parties 14% third parties 28% withheld 6% withheld 64 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary GRI 3.12 Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of 1.1 the organization about the relevance of sustainability 4 Answered to the organization and its strategy 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities 4, 8 e 22 Answered Organizational Profile 2.1 Name of the organization 6 Answered 2.2 Primary brands, products, and/or services 6 Answered Operational structure of the organization, including main divi6e7 2.3 Answered sions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures 2.4 Location of organization’s headquarters 6e7 Answered Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major operations 6 2.5 Answered or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form 6 Answered 2.7 Markets served 6 Answered 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization. 6, 7, 9, 33 e 38 Answered Significant changes during the reporting period 2.9 9 e 15 Answered regarding size, structure, or ownership 2.1O Awards received in the reporting period 54 Answered Report parameters Report Profile Answered 3.1 Reporting period for information provided 12 Answered 3.2 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 12 Answered 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.) 12 Answered Contact point for questions regarding 3.4 74 Answered the report or its contents Report Scope and Boundary 3.5 Process for defining report content 12 Answered 3.6 Boundary of the report 12 Answered State any specific limitations on the scope 3.7 12 Answered or boundary of the report Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other entities that 3.8 12 Answered can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations 65 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations 12 Answered Explanation of the effect of any re-statements 3.10 of information provided in earlier reports, 12 Answered and the reasons for such re-statement Significant changes from previous reporting 3.11 periods in the scope, boundary, or 12 Answered measurement methods applied in the report Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index Table identifying the location of the 3.12 65 Answered Standard Disclosures in the report Assurance Policy and current practice with regard to 3.13 12 Answered seeking external assurance for the report Governance, commitments, and engagement Governance 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 14 Answered Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body 4.2 15 Answered is also an executive officer For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state 4.3 the number of members of the highest governance body 15 Answered that are independent and/or non-executive members Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide rec4.4 15 Answered ommendations or direction to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation for members 4.5 f the highest governance body, senior managers, and 41 Answered executives and the organization’s performance Processes in place for the highest governance body 4.6 14 e 17 Answered to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance body 4.7 14 Answered for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 4.8 11 Answered to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing 4.9 the organization’s identification and management of eco15 Partially Answered nomic, environmental, and social performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s 4.10 own performance, particularly with respect to economic, 14 e 15 Answered environmental, and social performance Commitments to External Initiatives Explanation of whether and how the precautionary ap4.11 22 Answered proach or principle is addressed by the organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social 4.12 charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the orga12 e 17 Answered nization subscribes or endorses 66 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy organizations in which the organization: Has positions in 4.13 17 e 53 Answered governance bodies; Participates in projects or committees; Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; or views membership as strategic Stakeholder Engagement 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 13, 37 e 53 Answered Basis for identification and selection of 4.15 13 e 37 Answered stakeholders with whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including fre4.16 13, 41, 52 e 54 Answered quency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.17 stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 13 Answered responded to those key topics and concerns Management Approach and Performance Indicators Economic Performance Indicators EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 33 e 35 Answered Financial implications and other risks and opportunities EC2 23 e 26 Answered for the organization’s activities due to climate change Coverage of the organization’s defined EC3 41 Answered benefit plan obligations EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government 53 Answered Range of ratios of standard entry-level wage compared to EC5 40 6 Answered local minimum wage at significant locations of operation Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on localEC6 48 Answered ly-based suppliers at significant locations of operation Procedures for local hiring and proportion of EC7 senior management hired from the local 38 6 Partially Answered community at locations of significant operation Development and impact of infrastructure investments EC8 and services provided primarily for public benefit through 50 e 62 Answered commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement Understanding and describing significant indirect EC9 51 Partially Answered economic impacts, including the extent of impacts Environmental Performance Indicators EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 56 Answered Percentage of materials used that are EN2 56 e 57 Answered recycled input materials EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source 60 8 Answered EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary source 60 8 Answered Energy saved due to conservation EN5 60 8,9 Partially Answered and efficiency improvements 67 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes CTEEP is a transmission company and its product Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy is energy, so there is no EN6 based products and services, and reductions in energy 8,9 way to offer products or requirements as a result of these initiatives services with low power consumption Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and EN7 60 Partially Answered reductions achieved EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 59 8 Answered EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Not Applicable EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 59 Partially Answered Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, EN11 or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 60 8 Answered biodiversity value outside protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, EN12 and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas 60 8 Answered of high biodiversity value outside protected areas EN13 Habitats protected or restored 60 8 Answered Strategies, current actions, and future plans EN14 62 7, 8 Answered for managing impacts on biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national EN15 conservation list species with habitats in areas affected 8 Not Applicable by operations, by level of extinction risk EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 59 8 Partially Answered EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 59 8 Partially Answered Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions EN18 59 7, 8,9 Partially Answered and reductions achieved EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight 59 Answered NO, SO, and other significant air emissions EN20 59 8 Answered by type and weight EN21 Total water discharge by quality and destination. 59 Answered EN22 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. 57 8 Answered EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills. 55 8 Answered Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel EN24 8 Not Applicable Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of waEN25 ter bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the Not Applicable reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products EN26 62 Answered and services, and extent of impact mitigation Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials EN27 Not Applicable that are reclaimed by category Monetary value of significant fines and total number EN28 of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with 62 Answered environmental laws and regulations 68 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes Significant environmental impacts of transporting products CTEEP’s logistics EN29 and other goods and materials used for the organization’s network does not incur operations, and transporting members of the workforce significant impacts Total environmental protection EN30 55 e 63 Answered expenditures and investments by type Social Performance Indicators Labor Practices and Decent Work Total workforce by employment type, LA1 38 Partially Answered employment contract, and region Total number and rate of employee turnover LA2 40 6 Partially Answered by age group, gender, and region. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not providLA3 41 Answered ed to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations Percentage of employees covered by LA4 41 1,3 Answered collective bargaining agreements Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational changes, LA5 41 Answered including whether it is specified in collective agreements Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety LA6 46 1, 3 Answered committees that help monitor and advice on occupational health and safety programs Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and abLA7 46 Answered senteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control LA8 programs in place to assist workforce members, their fami45 Answered lies, or community members regarding serious diseases Health and safety topics covered in LA9 41 Answered formal agreements with trade unions Average hours of training per year per LA10 42 Answered employee-by-employee category Programs for skills management and lifelong learning LA11 that support the continued employability of employees 42 e 43 Answered and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance LA12 43 Answered and career development reviews Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of emLA13 ployees per category according to gender, age group, mi38 1,6 Answered nority group membership, and other indicators of diversity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 45 1,6 Answered Human Rights Percentage and total number of significant investment HR1 agreements that include human rights clauses or that 47 Answered have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that have HR2 47 Partially Answered undergone screening on human rights and actions taken 69 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures HR3 concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to 42 Answered operations, including the percentage of employees trained HR4 Total number of incidents of discrimination and actions taken 19 1, 6 Answered Operations identified in which the right to exercise freeHR5 dom of association and collective bargaining may be at 41 1, 3 Answered significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Operations identified as having significant risk for HR6 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute 48 1, 2, 5 Answered to the elimination of child labor Operations identified as having significant risk for HR7 incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to 48 1, 2,4 Answered contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor Not Answered for not Percentage of security personnel trained in the being considered a HR8 organization’s policies or procedures concerning aspects material indicator, by the of human rights that are relevant to operations materiality matrix CTEEP does not operate Total number of incidents of violations involving rights HR9 1 within indigenous land. of indigenous people and actions taken. Not applicable Society Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and pracSO1 tices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on 48 Answered communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Percentage and total number of business units SO2 19 Answered analyzed for risks related to corruption Percentage of employees trained in organization’s SO3 19 Answered anti-corruption policies and procedures SO4 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption 19 10 Answered Public policy positions and participation in SO5 53 10 Answered public policy development and lobbying Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to politiDidn’t have SO6 10 Answered cal parties, politicians, and related institutions by country any Total number of legal actions for anticompetitive behavior, SO7 52 Answered anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Monetary value of significant fines and total SO8 number of non-monetary sanctions 52 Answered or noncompliance with laws and regulations Product Responsibility Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement, and PR1 30, 45 e 50 Answered percentage of significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and PR2 52 Answered safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes 70 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes Type of product and service information required by PR3 procedures, and percentage of significant products and 52 8 Answered services subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with PR4 regulations and voluntary codes concerning product and 52 Answered service information and labeling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including PR5 54 Answered results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary PR6 codes related to marketing communications, including 52 e 53 Answered advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 52 Answered marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Total number of substantiated complaints regarding PR8 52 Answered breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data Monetary value of significant fines for noncompliance PR9 with laws and regulations concerning 53 Answered the provisionand use of products and services Sector Supplement – Electric Utilities Installed capacity, broken down by primary Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU1 energy source and by regulatory regime a transmission Company Net energy output broken down by primary Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU2 energy source and by regulatory regime a transmission Company Number of residential, industrial, institutional EU3 54 Answered and commercial customer accounts Length of above and underground transmission and distriEU4 6e9 Answered bution lines by regulatory regime. CTEEP does not participate in the Market of carbon credits (projects CDM Allocation of CO2e emissions allowances or equivalent, EU5 Clean Development broken down by carbon trading framework. Mechanism) and does not count with projects that enable crediting. Management approach to ensure short and EU6 28 e 30 1, 2 Answered long-term electricity availability and reliability Demand-side management programs including residenNot Applicable. CTEEP is EU7 tial, commercial, institutional and industrial programs a transmission Company Research and development activity and expenditure EU8 aimed at providing reliable electricity 23 1, 2, 7, 8 Answered and promoting sustainable development Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU9 Provisions for decommissioning of nuclear power sites a transmission Company Planned capacity against projected electricity Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU10 demand over the long term, broken down by a transmission Company energy source and regulatory regime 71 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index GRI Summary Principles of the Global Indicator Profile Page Compact Notes Average generation efficiency of thermal plants Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU11 by energy source and regulatory regime a transmission Company Transmission and distribution losses EU12 30 Answered as a percentage of total energy Biodiversity of offset habitats compared EU13 60 Answered to the biodiversity of the affected areas Programs and processes to ensure the EU14 42 Answered availability of a skilled workforce Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and EU15 41 Answered 10 years broken down by job category and by region. Policies and requirements regarding health EU16 and safety of employees and employees 45 Answered of contractors and subcontractors Days worked by contractor and subcontractor Partially Answered. EU17 employees involved in construction, 40 e 46 There is not measureoperation and maintenance activities ment per days Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees EU18 45 e 46 Answered that have undergone relevant health and safety training. Stakeholder participation in the decision making process EU19 28 Answered related to energy planning and infrastructure development EU20 Approach to managing the impacts of displacement 50 1, 2 Answered Contingency planning measures, disaster/emergency management plan and training EU21 23 1, 2 Answered programs, and recovery/restoration plans Number of people physically or economically displaced EU 22 51 1, 2 Partially Answered and compensation, broken down by type of project Programs, including those in partnership Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU 23 with government, to improve or maintain access a transmission Company to electricity and customer support services Practices to address language, cultural, low literacy and Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU 24 disability related barriers to accessing and safely using a transmission Company electricity and customer support services Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving EU25 company assets, including legal judgments, settlements 50 1, 2 Answered and pending legal cases of diseases Percentage of population not served in Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU26 licensed distribution or service areas a transmission Company Number of residential disconnections for Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU27 non-payment, broken down by duration of a transmission Company disconnection and by regulatory regime EU28 Power outage frequency 30 Answered EU29 Average power outage duration 30 Answered Average plant availability factor by Not Applicable. CTEEP is EU30 energy source and by regulatory regime a transmission Company 72 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Statement GRI Application Level Check GRI hereby states that CTEEP has presented its report “Annual and Sustainability Report 2012” to GRI’s Report Services which have concluded that the report fulfills the requirement of Application Level B. GRI Application Levels communicate the extent to which the content of the G3 Guidelines has been used in the submitted sustainability reporting. The Check confirms that the required set and number of disclosures for that Application Level have been addressed in the reporting and that the GRI Content Index demonstrates a valid representation of the required disclosures, as described in the GRI G3 Guidelines. For methodology, see www.globalreporting.org/SiteCollectionDocuments/ALCMethodology.pdf Application Levels do not provide an opinion on the sustainability performance of the reporter nor the quality of the information in the report. Amsterdam, 22 April 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 2013 Nelmara Arbex 2013 2013 2013 2013 Deputy Chief Executive Global Reporting Initiative The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is a network-based organization that has pioneered the development of the world’s most widely used sustainability reporting framework and is committed to its continuous improvement and application worldwide. The GRI Guidelines set out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and report their economic, environmental, and social performance. www.globalreporting.org Disclaimer: Where the relevant sustainability reporting includes external links, including to audio visual material, this statement only concerns material submitted to GRI at the time of the Check on 15 April 2013. GRI explicitly excludes the statement being applied to any later changes to such material. 73 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Corporate information CTEEP – Headquarters Contacts Investor Relations GRI 2.4 GRI 3.4 www.cteep.com.br/ri Rua Casa do Ator, 1155 – 9th Floor Further information and clarification related ri@cteep.com.br Vila Olímpia – São Paulo to this report can be requested through the +55 (11) 3138-7557 Zip Code 04546-004 following communication channels: www.cteep.com.br cteep@cteep.com.br +55 (11) 3138-7205 Credits General coordination Cleide da Silva Maria de Fátima Aloia Communication Department Cristiano Rodrigues Podboy Garcia Mario Carlos Andreoli Danielle Evelyne Barros Maia Matheus Carlos de Araújo Junior Coordination of GRI Doralice Fernandes Ferro Maureen Teresa Rose Fitzgibbon Pereira indicators compilation Elaine Aparecida Guinante Ferreira Mauricio Augusto Souza Lopes Strategic Management Department Elizabeth Campos Odair Ribeiro Monteiro Enzo Brigante Paulo Cesar de Oliveira Teixeira GRI consulting Everton Paulino dos Santos Ricardo Capozzi Neves Visão Sustentável Fernanda Santos Patrícia Torres Francisco Dias Romero Rogério Lavandoscki Team responsible for Gabriel Geraldo Junqueira Silvio Luis de Souza collection and compilation of Heloísa Patucci Martin Simone Alessandra Araujo Menezes GRI and IBASE indicators Isair Vander dos Santos Simone Ribeiro Paiva Alexandre Domingues Ivanilda Silva Lopes Tadeu Augusto Porto Andrea Freitas de Oliveira José Mario Dionizio Thais Vido de Moura Antonio Carlos Teixeira Diogo Karen Hideko Hirata Watanabe Thiago Lopes da Silva Caetano Cezário Neto Luciana dos Santos Silva Carisa Santos Portela Cristal José Renato Duda de Assis Graphic and online project Carlos Eduardo Arteze Luis Antonio Escarabello S+G Comunicação Carlos Phillipe Kelency Luiz York Giro Carlos Ribeiro Marcelo Defacio Leal Photos Cassio Corazza da Silva Marcos Livio Bevilaqua Meloni Alexandre Wittboldt Claudio Jose de Barros Lara Maria Claudia de Lucca Acervo CTEEP 74 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Glossary Abbeviations of the Company’s fields of operations: EPE: Energy Research Company AS: Supplies Department ERM: Enterprise Risk Management EE: Engineering Department FREQ: Equivalent Frequency of Interruptions EO: Works Management Department GAEs: Emergency Assistance Groups EP: Expansion Planning Department GIR: Integrated Risk Management FC: Accounting Department GRI: Global Reporting Initiative OB: Bauru Regional Unit Department GVO: Large Oil Volume OC: Cabreúva Regional Unit Department GWh: Gigawatt-hour OJ: Jupiá Regional Unit Department IEMADEIRA: Madeira Electrical Interconnection OMM: Maintenance Management Division IEMG: Minas Gerais Electrical Interconnection OPO: Operations Analysis Division IENNE: North and Northeast Electrical Interconnection OS: São Paulo Regional Unit Department IESUL: South Electrical Interconnection OT: Taubaté Regional Unit Department IF: São Paulo State Forest Institution PJ: Legal Department IFRS: International Financial Accounting Standards IGC: Corporate Governance Index Other Abbreviations: km: Kilometer ABCE: Brazilian Electric Power Concessionaires Association kV: Kilovolts ABDIB: Brazilian Infrastructure and Basic Industry Association LT: Transmission Line ABRASCA: Brazilian Publicly-Held Companies` Association MCC: Reliability Centered Maintenance ABRATE: Brazilian Large Electric Power Transmission Companies AsMME: Ministry of Mines and Energy sociation MV: Megavolts ADR: American Depositary Receipts MVA: Megavolt Ampere ANEEL: Brazilian Electric Power Agency MWh: Megawatt-hour APIMEC: Capital Market Investment Analysts and Professionals AsOMM: Maintenance Management Division sociation ONS: Brazilian Operator of the Electrical System BSC: Balanced ScoreCard ONU: United Nations CEPEL: Electric Power Research Center PAR: Expansion and Reinforcement Plan CHESF: São Francisco Hydroelectric Company PET: Transmission Expansion Program CierBracier: (CIER Brazilian Committee) PG: Global Compact Cigré Brasil: (Brazilian Electric Power Production and Transmission PLR: Profit Sharing Program Committee) PV: Variable Portion CIPA: Internal Accident Prevention Committee RAP: Allowed Annual Revenue Coso: Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway ComRTDS: Real-Time Digital Simulator mission Semasa: Santo André Municipal Environmental Secretariat CTEEP: Companhia de Transmissão de Energia Elétrica Paulista SF6: Sulfur Hexafluoride DCR: Regulatory Accounting Financial Statements SGSST: Occupational Health and Safety Management System DITs: Other Transmission Installations SIESP: São Paulo State Energy Industry Union DRE: Fiscal Year Financial Statements SIN: Brazilian Interconnected System DREQ: Equivalent Duration of Interruptions STO: Operator Training Simulator DRRE: Regulatory Accounting Financial Statements T: Transmission Tower EBITDA: Earning Before Interests, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization TWh: Terawatt-hour ENS: Non-Supplied Energy Wh: Watt-hour 75 2012 Annual and Sustainability Report Back to Index Rua Casa do Ator, 1.155 São Paulo – SP – Brasil CEP 04546-004 Tel.: (11) 3138-7000 www.cteep.com.br
