Waveneys, tel +44 (0)1379 674412 Station Road, fax +44 (0)1379 674316 Tivetshall St Margaret, web www.waveneys.co.uk Norwich. NR15 2EB. UK email info@waveneys.co.uk Subject: Global Compact COP General: Period covered by your communication on Progress (COP) From : 01/08/2013 – 30/08/2014 Statement of continued support by the Managing Director I am pleased to confirm that Waveney Pumps t/as Waveneys reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We have implemented policies and procedures which are reviewed and revised annually to ensure the four key areas are addressed. • Health and Safety Policy • Environmental Policy • Quality Policy • Sustainability Policy • Drug and Alcohol Policy • Anti-Bribery and Fraud Policy • Equal Opportunity and Dignity at Work Policy Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Waveneys commitment to equality and fairness in all aspects of business and employment is not new and prior to signing the Compact, we already had in place a number of policies that reflected the principles in the Global Compact. To continue the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, we have a number of policies to promote equality of opportunity regardless of race, colour, gender, religion or creed. Waveneys have zero tolerance for prejudice, harassment or discrimination on the basis of race, religion, gender, colour, creed, age, disability, sexual orientation, socio-economic background or status as a parent. Waveneys target for 2014 is to ensure that each employee has the same opportunity for job specific training and personal development. Registered Office: Waveney Pumps, Station Road, Tivetshall St Margaret, Norwich. Norfolk. NR15 2EB. UK VAT Reg. No. 595 424903 Registered in England No. 2623145 Waveneys, tel +44 (0)1379 674412 Station Road, fax +44 (0)1379 674316 Tivetshall St Margaret, web www.waveneys.co.uk Norwich. NR15 2EB. UK email info@waveneys.co.uk Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Waveneys employees are paid according to our wage structure and hold an employment contract in line with UK employment law. During 2014 we aim to roll out a staff handbook to each employee containing a full complement of our policies. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Waveneys environmental policy and management systems aims to ensure any threats to pollution from its activities are identified and prevented, eliminated or effectively controlled. The UKAS ISO14001 and external environmental audit completed by The Health and Safety People considers our legal obligations and responsibilities. Measuring our carbon footprint and aiming to reduce Co2 emissions by 1% per annum producing a published disclosure statement. Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We operate a zero tolerance to corruption, bribery and extortion. Our Antibribery policy is communicated across our clients, suppliers and employees. We are audited externally in accordance with our accreditation ISO9001:2008 Yours Sincerely, Marc Eastick Managing Director. Registered Office: Waveney Pumps, Station Road, Tivetshall St Margaret, Norwich. Norfolk. NR15 2EB. UK VAT Reg. No. 595 424903 Registered in England No. 2623145
