The World Internet Security Company Corporate Responsibility Report Communication on Progress 2012 WISeKey S.A World Trade Center II 29, route de Pré-Bois CP 853 1215 Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 594 30 00 Fax: +41 22 594 30 01 e-mail: info@wisekey.com www.wisekey.com The World Internet Security Company Contents Introduction................................................................................................................................ 3 About WISeKey ........................................................................................................................... 4 Message from Carlos Moreira .................................................................................................... 5 Annex 1 Position Statement WSIS Forum 2012 ..................................................................... 26 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 2 The World Internet Security Company Introduction WISeKey shares the view that the Global Compact presents a unique strategic platform for participants to advance their commitments to sustainability and corporate citizenship and to value creation in its more profound sense: making a positive difference in society. WISeKey’s Chief Executive Officer and Board are committed to making reality an ethical engagement that is embedded in the company’s business plan: expand the use of digital certification. WISeKey is driven by its commitment to bring security to the Internet and create the trust that is needed for e-commerce, e-business, e-government. WISeKey’s progress report, presented in the form of a log-frame, seeks to illustrate WISeKey’s compliance with the Global Compact 10 principles. The following UN publications have been used as reference:  Guiding principles on business and human rights. Implementing the United Nations “Protect, Respect and Remedy” Framework. UN Human Rights. Office of the High Commissioner  The Labour Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. A guide for Business. ILO  Environmental stewardship strategy. Overview and Resource for Corporate Leaders. Duke University  Corporate sustainability with integrity: organizational change to collective action. United Nations Global Compact. The report also contains one annex:  Position statement subscribed by WISeKey and OISTE after the WSIS Forum 2012 Paragraphs in blue show the activities that are of direct relevance to the Global Compact. The main version of this document is electronic, since it allows access to additional information through a series of hyperlinks. Thanking you for your kind attention and looking forward to receiving your feedback. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 3 The World Internet Security Company About WISeKey WISeKey SA is a leading information security and digital identity management company. We provide solutions to respond to business, government and individual digital security needs, from Mobile Services to Digital Brand Management and Online Trusted Solutions. Our solutions are used worldwide to secure mobile, home and office data, transactions and communications, as well as being used to provide you or your brand with a personalized digital identity to secure you against fraud and counterfeiting. Through our partnership with the OISTE Foundation, under Swiss law, we can ensure geopolitical neutrality for data and communications that are secured by WISeKey. WISeKey’s digital identity management and information security is used to address a variety of day to day digital security needs, such as:  Secure electronic data exchange and storage online and locally  Secure mobile communications – voice, SMS, email  Secure mobile data  Secure financial transactions from computers and mobile phones  Distinguish authentic from counterfeit goods, anytime, anywhere (even over the internet)  Protect your customers’ data and identities when they trust your site with their information  Ensure privacy and security e-government citizen services  Securely log on to social networks  Manage all your log on details from a single, encrypted place  Leave evidence of a communication or transaction (using WISeKey’s e-notary services)  Reduce your carbon footprint with a paper-free environment and legally valid digital signatures WISeKey is a dynamic and innovative company that embraces change to stay ahead of the digital security threats and to protect its current and future clients. WISeKey’s facilitation of the mass-use of secure digital identities in everyday life allows us to promise that the millions of users around the world can trust WISeKey secured information and objects and protect their privacy. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 4 The World Internet Security Company Message from Carlos Moreira This year WISeKey has refined and redefined its spheres of influence in order to be able to best serve our current and future consumers in the everdeveloping market. The digital age means that people are carrying out more and more business and social activities online, through networks, and with mobile devices. With this shift away from face-toface interaction, trust becomes essential for individuals and businesses alike, who need to ensure that the person they are dealing with remotely is legitimate, and that the data they are accessing or receiving is secure and trustworthy. Data protection is becoming an item that is very high on the agenda for banks, governments and corporations, as we realize that our data, identities, and digital interactions are not as safe as they should be. WISeKey’s relationship with the OISTE Foundation allows us to guarantee geo-political neutrality for our clients’ data and communications, setting us apart from other companies in the domain. WISeKey is dedicated to securing mobile data, online data and communications in order to protect people’s rights. We are also committed to using our technology to fight counterfeiting, and also to help others and ourselves work in a greener environment. This includes our work on e-Governments, replacing the traditional paper-based processes with electronic ones, giving citizens the possibility of conducting their requests and filling in their forms online, as well as following the whole process online, thus replacing lengthy paper-based processes and saving time and money. WISeKey has also signed commitments towards the Clinton Global Initiative in order to bring mobile banking to underbanked and unbanked areas of the world. WISeKey continues to work towards the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact through initiatives such as this. The UN Global Compact has allowed us to highlight areas of our business where improvement is recommended, as well as to hone our solutions and business practices to be better aligned with the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. We look forward to another year of responsible opportunity in line with the 10 principles. Carlos Moreira CEO and founder WISeKey WISeKey S.A World Trade Center II 29, route de Pré-Bois CP 853 1215 Geneva, Switzerland Tel: +41 22 594 30 00 Fax: +41 22 594 30 01 e-mail: info@wisekey.com www.wisekey.com The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Progress Report – Global Compact 2012 Objective: implement the 10 principles proclaimed by the UN Global Compact Goals – Human Rights Principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey is committed with the protection of WISeKey’s engagement with The company’s Corporate Governance Rules The company’s internationally proclaimed human rights the protection of human and Code of Conduct enforce the respect of business is rights is publicly recognized human rights economically Quoting from the above mentioned document. sustainable WISeKey is not complicit in human rights abuses WISeKey abstains from “WISeKey’s most valuable asset is its doing business with countries reputation for integrity and fair dealing”. The Appropriate level or companies responsible of Corporate Governance Rules deal with the of information proven human rights abuses overall functioning of the company, its respect regarding of law, including a whistle blow provision for business’ partners internal denunciations of practices that human rights’ constitute a violation of the company’s ethical records principles. Publicly known WISeKey is recognized as a role model for cases of human innovative cyber-security technology and for rights abuses on its efforts to protect individuals, businesses, behalf of potential and governments on the Internet. Its business’ partners nomination as a WEF Global Growth and/or providers Company (GGC) over 350 companies from over 60 countries had been admitted to the GGC Communityis a proof of it. WISeKey belongs to the companies The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 6 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 recognized as Trailblazers, Shapers and Innovators… See…World Economic Forum, Trailblazers, Shapers and Innovators The company’s upper management publically embraces the promotion and respect of human rights WISeKey endorses the APC Internet Rights Charter, established by the Association for Progressive Communications (APC) in February 2001. The APC states that the ability to share information and communicate freely using the internet is vital to the realisation of human rights as enshrined in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women. The company deploys activities that have a positive impact on the respect of human rights. WISeKey campaigns for a system of digital identity management that will be respectful of the fundamental right to privacy. As stated in Article 12 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights: “No one shall be subjected to arbitrary interference with his privacy, family, home or correspondence, nor to attacks upon his honour and reputation. Everyone has the right to the protection of the law against such The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 7 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 interference or attacks”. One example of advocacy on this respect is Carlos Moreira’s interview by CNBC about “the right to disappear online” http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=yFxlir4J6b A. More recently, in association with the OISTE Foundation, WISeKey launched the campaign: “The Right to Disappear on Line” (http://www.oiste.org/r2c) WISeKey’s active engagement with the World Economic Forum (WEF) is expressed through Carlos Moreira’s vice-chairmanship of the Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade. The WEF Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade includes a wide range of topics of direct relevance to human rights such as Human Trafficking; Drug trafficking; Counterfeiting; Arms Trafficking. WISeKey is also active on the complex implications of data sovereignty in the migration towards cloud computing services (a contemporary trend). WISeKey advocates that the principle of political neutrality should be considered, together with other security criteria when choosing a cloud computing service. There are legal issues involved, such as the extraterritoriality of numerical assets, when the cloud computing user is a government. WISeKey has raised the issue in different forums. See for instance The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 8 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 http://esecurityblog.blogspot.ch/2012/11/virtua lly-present.html Contracts signed / MoUs signed / Deals under study / Deals concluded / Pipeline of products / Products under development – As reported by the company’s “WISeKey Annual Report 2011 – June 2012”…” the company concluded deals with Hublot, Dior Watches, Le Guin Eyewear and Bancorp, companies that are respectful of human rights. The share of the WISeAuthentic branch of products, which is built upon strong ethical principles of brand protection, kept expanding within the company. The company’s CEO is a strong public campaigner against illicit trade, which includes human trafficking. Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey actively participates in awareness-raising about WISeKey is actively Participation in ITU and WSIS meetings: human rights issues involved with the (1) Child Protection online, Participation at International ITU’s working group meeting on the 7th of WISeKey is engaged in multilateral institutions Telecommunications Union October 2011 through the WISeKey – OISTE addressing the issue of human-rights protection (ITU) and the World Summit collaboration. OISTE and WISeKey of the Information Society underlined that progress on digital identity (WSIS) management could be immediately translated into more effective child protection online; WISeKey is actively (2) During the WSIS Forum 2012, OISTE and involved with the World WISeKey convened a thematic workshop Economic Forum (WEF) under the title: “Matching the speed of the running code – public awareness and digital WISeKey is paramount in identity management”. A high-profile round creating awareness about the table was coordinated by Carlos Moreira, CEO The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 9 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 risks to the human right to and Chairman of WISeKey. A position privacy in Internet statement was circulated after the meeting (Annex 1). A whole report of the workshop is available on-line http://www.oiste.org/wpcontent/uploads/2012/07/OISTE_IdM_WSIS_ 2012.pdf). Public statements / Press releases / Participation in specialized events / Products developed and marketed that improve security and privacy for individual users in Internet / Services offered to companies and countries to improve security and confidentiality in data management WISeKey campaigns for a system of digital identity management that will be respectful of the fundamental right to privacy. See above. WISeKey’s actively supports the work of the Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade set up by the WEF, see above. WISeKey endorses the APC Internet Rights Charter, established by the Association for Progressive Communications (APC) in February 2001, see above. Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions Four product lines being offered and permanently Availability of new software Applications developed by WISeKey as improved via new software development New services being offered support to human-rights enhancing initiatives:  WISeID New contracts signed  WISeID Cinema for Peace 2012 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 10 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012  WISeAuthentic New clients added  WISeID Generation C for the Global  WISePhone Competitiveness Forum 2012  WISeKey OTP (One Time Password)  NYC Africa  WISeID Students  Should I buy it? (all these applications can be downloaded from the Apple Store) Launching events organized In 2012, as part of its brand-protection marketing campaign, WISeKey sponsored the WatchTour and the GTE (Geneva Time Exhibition). Joint-ventures with the OISTE Foundation (Organisation Documents outlining the plus The document Globally Verifiable eInternationale pour la Sécurité des Transactions value offered by OISTE and Identification Card (GV-IC) and Services Eléctroniques), Interpol and the Association for its partners: Interpol and the Platform for Overseas Workers Concept International Mobility (AIM) AIM (Association for Note (2011) was produced in collaboration International Mobility) with with AIM and Interpol.  Globally Verifiable Identity Document (GV-ID) regard to protecting and  Seafarers enhancing the rights of The document Globally Verifiable  Moroccan Migrants migrants. Seafarers’ Identity Document (GV-SID)  Migrants in Russia and the Commonwealth of and Services Platform Concept Note – Independent States (CIS) drafted by Rebecca Katherine, from  Migrant remittances: exploring new possibilities Interpol with some comments from AIM, with the World Bank WISeKey and OISTE focuses the identity solution on the situation of seafarers falling under the ILO convention n° 185 from 2003. Publicity on WISeKey’s web page + promotional material available Please refer to the company’s web The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 11 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 page…http://www.wisekey.com/EN/PROJEC TS/Pages/default.aspx showing the linkages between the company and various publicinterest endeavors: Digital Mediterranean Space Geneva Security Forum Global Competitiveness Forum HighTrusted Communities Hub Valenciano Málaga Valley NetCarbonOffset.com YouTourist.net Reviews by peers Alan Gelb from the World Bank made comments en extenso and provided positive feedback of the concept paper Globally Verifiable e-Identification Card (GV-IC) and Services Platform for Overseas Workers (2011), produced in collaboration with AIM and Interpol Business meetings with Russian authorities 13 June 2012, Brunson McKinley, presents the concept of the Globally Verifiable Digital Identity (GV-ID) to the heads of the CIS migration services at a gathering in Moscow, at the invitation of Mr. Konstantin O. Romodanovsky, Head of the Russian Federation Migration Service. 24th July meeting with representatives from AIM, Interpol, WISeKey and OISTE with The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 12 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Vladimir Pligin, Russian Senator and Nikolay Alisov, Russian campaigner for migrants’ rights. Business meetings with the World Bank 17 April 2012, representatives from WISeKey, OISTE, Interpol and the AIM met with a team of experts on the theme of migrations and migrant remittances at the World Bank in Washington. M. Alan Gelb and Dilip Ratha, World Bank experts contributed with written comments after the meeting. Business meetings with Interpol and the AIM 24 July 2012, 2 October 2012 Activities Process Indicators Means of verification Assumptions 20 Jan 12 Nominated as a 2012-13 Press releases and news posted in WISeKey’s WISeKey Launches WISeID Generation C at the Sixth New Champion by the World website. Global Competitiveness Forum in Riyadh Economic Forum 26 Jan 12 16 May 2012 WISeKey in Focus at Davos as the World Economic Nominated as a Vice Chair of Carlos Moreira chairs the thematic Workshop Forum Names Cyber-security a Top Global Risk the World Economic on Public Awareness and Digital Identity 10 Feb 12 Forum’s Global Agenda Awareness organized by the OISTE WISeKey Upgrades WISeID, the Swiss Knife of Digital Council 2012 Foundation at the WSIS 2012 Forum Safety, with Secure Identities and Encrypted Facebook Geneva… more > Messaging Commitment holder at the 12 Mar 12 2012-13 Global Clinton 18 Jul 2012 WISeKey brings its Anti-Counterfeiting NFC Initiative On MobileWISeKey Releases WISeID 4.0 Accountable Technology to BaselWorld to lead the fight against Banking and digital Identity with Face Recognition to Stay Counterfeit Luxury Goods identification for poverty Digital Safe 04 Apr 12 alleviation WISeKey's WISePhone Voice Encryption Service 12 Sep 2012 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 13 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Awarded Telecom Service Status by Swiss Federal WISeKey signs an agreement with FC Office of Communications Barcelona to launch a special edition of 24 Apr 12 WISeID targeting their large social media ID WISeKey Leads at the Intersection of Security and the ecosystem Social Web to Pioneer the Social Media Security Graph 01 May 12 12 Oct 2012 Biscay Provincial Authority WISeKey and The Geneva Watchmaking Biscay Tik CSP Video Grand Prix (GPHG) are partnering for a 16 May 2012 special edition of the WISeKey WISeID App The OISTE Foundation Coordinates a Thematic Workshop on Public Awareness and Digital Identity 19 Oct 2012 Awareness at the WSIS 2012 Forum Geneva. OISTE led Official Launch Le Guin: EYEWEAR the workshop titled Matching the speed of the running BRAND PROTECTION BY WISEKEY code: public awareness and digital identity management , intended to create awareness among Internet users about 17 Dec 2012 the risks of the present environment and the threats to HYT Watches implements the WISeAuthentic individual privacy rights. more > Service 03 July 2012 Edited transcription of the round-table “Matching the speed of the running code: public awareness and digital identity management” Workshop overview in PDF format. Download >. Access the full discussion in PDF format. Download > 4 June 2012 World Economic Forum, Trailblazers, Shapers and Innovators Model of Success from the Community of Global Growth Companies 07 June 12 WISeKey and Appin Technology Labs Partner to Provide WISeID for 100,000 Students Across Training Labs in India and Other Countries The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 14 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 11 Jun 12 WISeKey Signs a Strategic Partnership with Bright Oceans Corporation BOCO Inter-Telecom to deploy WISeID in China 12 Jul 12 WISeID for Students 12 Jul 12 WISeKey and Qwant Sign Partnership Agreement to Develop Next Generation Social ID-based Search Goals – Labour principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey upholds the freedom of association and the WISeKey’s reputation as Management team meetings The company effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining a fair employer is firmly The management team meets once a week or stays in business established any time that business requires it. WISeKey upholds the elimination of all forms of forced and Pressing priorities compulsory labour Respect of Swiss Civil Pension fund staff representatives meetings and staff travel Code & international 4 December 2012: the group met to choose the allow time for the WISeKey upholds the effective abolition of child labour labour law pension fund plan presented by SwissLife. management team Employees’ representatives are elected meetings WISeKey upholds the elimination of discrimination in WISeKey employs multithrough a democratic, participatory process. respect of employment and occupation. cultural staff. WISeKey’s staff is gender balanced. WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules – last updated January 2011, based on the WISeKey’s pension fund “Swiss Code of Best Practice for Corporate is decisions are taken by a Governance” offer guarantees of lawful and group with employee’s fair labour practices. As shown on the letter representation. from the Chief Financial Officer in WISeKey’s Annual Report 2011 – June 2012 WISeKey makes sure that …”Management started to bring the cost business partners or structure back in line with the revenue streams suppliers do not employ that could be foreseen, whilst trying to ensure The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 15 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 child labour that any growth potential was not stifled, so a number of positions (including senior management) were restructured and an intense cost control regime was introduced…” head count was reduced from 28 at the end of June 2011 to 20 and the end of June 2012…” in doing so, the company respected all its legal engagements. Means to monitor performance – Legal and Ethics Committee appointed by the Board of Directors (seven shareholder representatives with at least 3 non-executive directors) There are no open processes against WISeKey before labour courts in Geneva. WISeKey’s personnel appreciate contractual conditions: working hours, holidays, maternity protection, occupational safety, training opportunities. The document Globally Verifiable Seafarers’ Identity Document (GV-SID) and Services Platform Concept Note – drafted by Rebecca Katherine, from Interpol with some comments from AIM, WISeKey and OISTE focuses the identity solution on the situation of seafarers falling under the ILO convention n° 185 from 2003 and constitutes a means to enforcing seafarers’ rights. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 16 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey complies with the Global Compact criteria on Positive review by the Feed-back to corporate responsibility report labour principles Global Compact Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey’s Board of Directors oversees the respect of WISeKey’s management Company’s productivity and personnel WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules by management. upholds the company’s motivation are high. In spite of the difficulties Corporate Governance experienced by the company in 2012, Management team makes a positive contribution to Rules summarized by the Chief Financial Officer …. WISeKey’s business. “On his letter to shareholders: ”Management Management team made started to bring the cost structure back in line The pension fund plan chosen provides the best possible important contributions in with the revenue streams that could be advantages for employees. contracts signed with foreseen, whilst trying to ensure that any Hublot, Dior Watches, Le growth potential was not stifled, so a number Guin eyewear and of positions (including senior management) Bancorp. were restructured and an intense cost control regime was introduced…” head count was Management team made reduced from 28 at the end of June 2011 to 20 valuable contributions in and the end of June 2012…” the development of the following applications:  WISeID  WISeAuthentic  WISePhone  WISeKey OTP (One Time Password)  WISeID Cinema for Peace 2012  WISeID Generation C for the Global Competitiveness Forum 2012 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 17 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012  NYC Africa  WISeID Students  Should I buy it? Activities Process Indicators Means of verification Board meetings: Board meetings’ minutes Board meetings: 20 January 2012, 10 May 2012, 12 June 2012, 5 July 2012, 20 January 2012, 10 May 2012, 12 June 2012, 29 August 2012, 4 September 2012, 2 October 2012, 31 Management team 5 July 2012, 29 August 2012, 4 September October 2012, 9 November 2012, 21 December 2012 meetings 2012, 2 October 2012, 31 October 2012, 9 November 2012, 21 December 2012 Meetings of staff representatives to the 4 December 2012 meeting of the staff pension fund representatives to decide on matters concerning the pension fund Goals – Environmental principles Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey supports a precautionary approach to WISeKey develops Number of smart-cards produced and shipped WISeKey’s environmental challenges means to measure the Packaging and shipping methods used. business require environmental footprint WISeAuthentic has a low environmental international WISeKey undertakes initiatives to promote greater of its products and impact. WISeKey is not responsible to ship mobility and environmental responsibility services smartcards to clients individually. Watch travelling manufacturers are responsible. Smartcards are WISeKey encourages the development and diffusion of WISeKey develops a purchased abroad, Both the cards and the chip Cost efficiency is environmentally friendly technologies holistic and that goes with it are manufactures abroad. balanced against comprehensive strategy, Manufacturers seek cost efficiency environmental recognising the linkage impact among various Impact on Green House Gas emissions (GHG. environmental issues The volume of the company’s business is not big enough to follow up on WISeKey’s impact WISeKey successfuly on Green House Gas emissions (GHG). Apart embeds environmental from international travelling, the impact seems stewardship in the to be average for a small ICT company. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 18 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 company’s strategy and management Control of public utilities’ bills. WISeKey’s data center is energy intensive. With regard to The cooling system employs important environmental quantities of water. From the electricity protection, WISeKey consumption side it is difficult to reduce the balances short-term bill when the company operation grows; targets and long-term however, there is a favorable trend thanks to goals, diffuse best the reduction of physical servers, in exchange practices and translates for virtual servers. The processing capacity best practices into increases, but energy consumption remains the processes same. Purchase of new equipment New equipment purchasing decisions are weighted considering its environmental impact. Energy efficiency is a criteria when deciding on the purchase of new equipment. Obsolete equipment is disposed respecting Swiss and European safe-disposal directives: Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment Directive (WEEE) Company’s recycling facilities WISeKey endeavors to reduce physical mail and paper use. The company recycles paper, ink toners and PET on-site. Control on international travelling In order to reduce travelling: (1) WISeKey encourages the use of teleconferencing; (2) The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 19 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 WISeKey implements teleworking arrangements in certain cases. WISeKey engages the services of foreign software developers in Southeast Asia. WISeKey’s meeting rooms are fitted to offer state of the art technological facilities for tele + video conferencing. All personnel use Skype for video conferencing often. Nature of the company’s products and services The dematerialization of processes plays an important role in the company’s business strategy. Dematerialization means less paper consumption. WISeKey’s clients have a positive environmental impact thanks to reduced transport and the simplifications of energy consumption processes. WISeKey has a positive impact because its business model implies an increase in the consumption of virtual rather than tangible products. Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 20 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 WISeKey’s successful strategy is translated into an increase Sales increases Statistics showing sales’ increases quoted in of online businesses and services using dematerialized the company’s activity report. In spite of the processes, thus having a positive impact on the environment difficult business environment that the company faced in the period 2011 – 2012, “recorded another year of significantly increased revenues and reduced losses”, writes the Chief Financial Officer in his letter to shareholders. And he concludes: “The increase in the period was mainly due to increased volumes of our WISeAuthentic product line to the luxury watch industry”. Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions Energy bills are carefully monitored in WISeKey’s offices Measures taken to Discussions with the owner / manager of Control of the reduce energy WISeKey’s premises public utilities consumption in The cooling system for the data centre is a bit systems is on the WISeKey’s offices out-dated. There are more energy-efficient hands of the cooling machines in the market; however, the premises’ owner / WISeKey’s operations fall under the category of information Contract with Bancorp decision to change the equipment is not manager & communications technology services that simplify people’s Bancorp/WISeCorp.CO directly on the hands of the company but on mobility – offers trusted identities the hands of the building’s owner / managing to customers, enable company. The matter has been discussed with them to complete online them, however there is a financial issue to transactions with resolve, since changing the cooling system confidence, trust the implies a significant investment. As mentioned identities of others and before, the company has opted for increasing the identities of the the data processing capacity via new infrastructure on which processing technologies which do not the transactions run represent an increase in energy consumption. Marketing of WISeAuthentic creates an electronic WISeAuthentic products certificate containing the product’s unique and services identity code. A non-duplicable digital The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 21 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 certificate, containing the product’s identity is stored on a cryptographic smart chip embedded into a branded SmartCArd or into the product itself. At any time the customer can verify the item authenticity over the Internet with the highest level of security. Marketing of WISeFans WISeID FCB enables fans to stay in touch products and services with their favourite players, providing them with real time updates on their social posts, , commentaries and the latest pictures and videos of the team. Sport clubs with strong team brands recognize that fans are their main asset. FCB WISeID creates a collective identity shared by both supporters and players that allows a wide range of on-line interactions with our without commercial goals. Goals – Implement anti-corruption practices Impact indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeKey works against corruption in all its forms, including Digital certification Applications developed. extortion and bribery. contributes to reduce “Should I buy it”, an application being illicit trade and fight developed by WISeKey, uses lawcorruption enforcement mechanisms developed by Interpol, i.e. the Global Register. “The INTERPOL Global Register is a project under development to counteract illicit trade by enabling people to scan and verify the legitimacy of a product from their mobile device. Users – consumers, manufacturers, distributors, retailers, law enforcement and government officials – will be able to use an The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 22 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 Internet-based application on a mobile phone or other Internet-connected device to scan and receive information on a product to verify whether the product is being legitimately sold, access product information and see what safety features are in place.” Meetings and conference-calls in 2012 related to curbing illicit trade. Within WISeKey’s engagement with the WEF Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade, the following conference calls took place: Tuesday, 10 January 2012; Thursday, 15 March 2012; Wednesday 31 October, 2012; Monday 3 December, 2012 WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules include a “Whistle blow act”… reporting on violations of the law, rules, regulations and the company’s Code of Conduct are contemplated and protected… These rules explicitly state: “it is forbidden to demand or accept payments or other advantages for themselves or others from third parties, nor may they grant third parties unlawful advantages…” WISeKey’s Corporate Governance Rules also include clauses contemplating the disclosure of conflict of interest Outcomes Outcome indicators Means of verification Assumptions An extended use of digital certification reduces illicit trade and WISeKey’s More companies and governments use The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 23 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 contributes to fighting corruption worldwide. WISeAuthentic products WISeKey’s digital certification services as a have a positive impact in means to curb illicit trade and fight brand protection and corruption. reduce counterfeiting Outputs Output indicators Means of verification Assumptions WISeAuthentic products marketed to the luxury industry Clients’ satisfaction. Contracts signed: in the period 2011 – 2012. Jean-Claude Biver, As reported by the company’s “WISeKey Hublot’s CEO : Annual Report 2011 – June 2012”… the “The technology consists company concluded deals with Hublot, Dior of creating an electronic Watches, Le Guin Eyewear and Bancorp. guarantee certificate with The share of the WISeAuthentic branch of an algorithm...Hublot products expanded further within the sales outlets and clients company. are able to use the SmartCard to check instantly online if the watch is genuine. This combination provides a fail-safe solution, impossible to replicate, at a fraction of the amount lost in sales due to counterfeits. …” Activities Process indicators Means of verification Assumptions 26 Jan 12 New security solutions Press releases / board meetings WISeKey in Focus at Davos as the World Economic Forum developed The following conference calls of the WEF’s Names Cyber-security a Top Global Risk Global Agenda Council on Illicit Trade took 10 Feb 12 place: Tuesday, 10 January 2012; Thursday, WISeKey Upgrades WISeID, the Swiss Knife of Digital 15 March 2012; Wednesday 31 October, Safety, with Secure Identities and Encrypted Facebook 2012; Monday 3 December, 2012 Messaging 12 Mar 12 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 24 The World Internet Security Company UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2012 WISeKey brings its Anti-Counterfeiting NFC Technology to BaselWorld to lead the fight against Counterfeit Luxury Goods 12 Oct 12 WISeKey and The Geneva Watchmaking Grand Prix (GPHG) are partnering for a special edition of the WISeKey WISeID App The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 25 Annex 1 Position Statement WSIS Forum 2012 In line with its previous engagements at the World Summit of the Information Society (WSIS), and building on the experience of the collaboration with the ITU within the initiative Electronic Commerce for Developing Countries (EC-DC); WISeKey and the International Secure Electronic Transactions Organization, OISTE, convened a workshop during the WSIS Forum 2012 under the title “Matching the speed of the running code: public awareness and digital identity management”. By doing so, WISeKey and OISTE contribute towards the implementation of ECOSOC’s resolution 2010/2 and the Declaration of Principles of the Geneva and Tunis summits which state that “Strengthening the trust framework, including information security and network security, authentication, privacy and consumer protection, is a prerequisite for the development of the Information Society and for building confidence among users of ICTs“. Strengthening the trust framework WISeKey and OISTE recognize the importance of showing improvements in Agenda Action Lines 5, Building confidence and security in the use of ICTs and 7, the development of ICT applications to e-government, e-health, e-education, e-business, e-agriculture, but wishes to emphasize that this will not be possible unless all stakeholders succeed in introducing secure, interoperable and reliable methods of digital identity management. Furthermore, WISeKey and OISTE remind all stakeholders that finding workable solutions to digital identity management is a precondition for establishing a global culture of cybersecurity. The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 26 In this sense, WISeKey and OISTE stress the importance of:  Addressing the hard issues linked to the use of cryptography and Public Key Infrastructures (PKI), which constitute the foundation for providing robust and authoritative digital identities: i.e the lack of interoperability; the automatic recognition by the web-browser and the barriers linked to local law;  Considering the convenience of establishing an International Clearing House that will deal with the problems listed above, upon which all stakeholders will confer the authority to create a secure Identity Ecosystem. The main function of this International Clearing House is promoting collaboration between the private and the public sector;  Agreeing on the need of a binding international legal framework for the protection of privacy, personal identifiable information and personal data;  Prioritizing the adoption of improved methods of digital identity management for effective child protection over the Internet;  Encouraging the development of low assurance solutions to digital identity management and educating the public about when and where these solutions are appropriate. Geneva, 16th May 2012 The Global Compact – Communication on Progress © Copyright WISeKey 2013 27
