2012 Corporate Responsibility Report Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Contents To Our Stakeholders 3 About This Report 4 Reporting Methodology Profile and Governance 5 Vision Company Profile Financial Indicators Organization and Governance Our Responsibility 15 Corporate Responsibility Approach Dialogue with Stakeholders Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive Aspects Our Stakeholders 22 Clients Employees Shareholders Suppliers Environment Community Annexes 54 Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table 2 VUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles Statement of External Verifier Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes To Our Stakeholders Dear stakeholders, the pillars of our business are built on forthcomingness. A forthcoming approach to all our stakeholders, whether employees, clients or suppliers, is what makes For Community For already five years, we have been cooperating with the Good Angel non-prous an award-reaping bank. In the public Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) voting, fitable organization, for which we have we received The Most Forthcoming Bank award. This award shows that we have been issuing unique charity payment skilled experts working at our branches, but mainly that their approach to clients cards. During this period, we inspired is humane and they are willing to help. The Central and Eastern Europe’s Safest more than 28,000 clients to become good Bank recognition (6th place) from the prestigious financial magazine Global Finanangels as well. The card’s principle consists ce is yet another piece of evidence that our clients can trust us. in donating one percentage of performed payments to oncological patients and families with gravely sick children. This perWhat was 2012 like? centage is not donated by the cardholder, We managed to sustain our stable strong position among the market leaders and but it is donated by the Bank of his/her also our growth potential. The approach to our set up and priorities has not chanbehalf. An important anniversary expecged. What did change were the external factors impacting our business. The Bank ting us in 2013 is the 10th anniversary of had to deal with a shaky macroeconomic situation throughout Europe, general VUB Foundation’s establishment. During the 10 years, the Foundation supported trends in banking, ratings and also the additionally imposed bank levy in Slovakia. hundreds of projects of non-profitable organizations, contributed to restoration Nevertheless, we continued in the set direction concentrating predominantly on of tens of cultural monuments and helped discover young talents in the field of quality in all respects. We have been reaching one of the highest capital adequacy art and economic science. ratios in Slovakia, at the level of 16%, which helps us to continually support our clients from households and the corporate sector alike. Plan for 2013 Looking forward, the year 2013 will be very demanding. Due to a decrease Listening to Clients of foreign demand in the countries of Slovakia’s most significant business Our vision is “to be the best bank in Slovakia for customer satisfaction, while partners, as well as legislative changes adopted by the government, the real maintaining excellence in profitability and operating efficiency“. If we are talking economy outlooks are gradually deteriorating. Tax increases for individuals about satisfaction and quality, these are the key areas bringing, from a long-term and legal entities, changes in contributions and other measures affecting the perspective, a significant value added mainly in today’s turbulent period in the labour market and last but not least the growth of banking levy are factors financial sector. The fact that client satisfaction comes for us first not only locally the banks must face this year. Also in this environment, VUB is prepared to but also in the context of the whole Intesa Sanpaolo is confirmed by the effort offer its clients convenient products and services. Within the retail banking, our parent company invests into satisfaction and detailed surveys carried out on a we would like to focus on boosting volumes of secured and unsecured loans, regular basis. In 2012, a survey showed a small decrease in the customer satisfacas well as growth of deposits via interesting offers and simplified application tion index measurement. Even though the differences are statistically minimal, the processing. In corporate banking, we are targeting also some new sectors. trend indicates that we have to still exert more effort taking into consideration in Besides our clients, we will continue concentrating also on measures to preeach our action our vision and direction. serve adequate liquidity and capital adequacy, in order to remain one of the soundest banks in the region. Measures for Employees Our Bank counts among companies with a significant representation of women In Bratislava, April 2, 2013 among staff – as much as 74%. By means of a special survey, we tried to find out how women managed their careers and families. Suggestions provided in the survey formed the basis for measures in the area of work and personal life harmonization introduced in 2012. For example, these include a possibility to reduce one’s contract work hours during the first months after returning from maternity leave, reduction of working time by one hour on Fridays or sharing a working position by Ignacio Jaquotot several employees. At selected branches, we created children’s play areas, which Chairman of Management Board and Chief Executive Officer in case of need serve not only for the children of our clients but also for the ones Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. of our employees. 3 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes About This Report VUB Bank is issuing already its sixth annual corporate responsibility report in a row compiled under the G3 version of the international identity, governance system, mission, values and the Our Responsibility chapter is focused on corporate responsibility management and implementation of its principles. Global Reporting Initiative (“GRI”) guidelines. The Report informs on VUB’s performance in the financial, social and environmental areas. The The second part of the report consists of chapters dedicated to individual stakeholder report submitted contains qualitative data for the calendar and simultacategories, i.e. those entities that are significantly impacted by VUB Bank’s activity neously the financial year of 2012. They are comparable with the previous and towards which we feel the greatest responsibility. These are clients, employees, financial periods. Similarly to the last year, the report is distributed to shareholders, suppliers and community. In a separate chapter, we also deal with our VUB’s stakeholders along with the financial annual report. It is published at impact on the environment. When identifying these categories, we took into considew w w. v u b . s k / e n / a b o u t u s / v a l u e s p r i n c i p l e s / s o c i a l r e s p o n s i b i l i t y. ration the corporate responsibility strategy of our parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo, which In the interest of saving the natural resources, we are issuing the report in used the methodology under the AA1000 principles (in particular the AA1000 SES electronic version only. You can send your reactions and questions to csr@vub.sk standard) issued by the London-based Accountability Institute. The report documents or mslezakova@vub.sk. the results which the Bank achieved with respect to the objectives set out within its business plan. All data had been collected and processed by the members of the VUB Overview of Corporate Responsibility Reports Issued corporate responsibility working group and the Corporate Social Responsibility Staff Unit. The report documents exclusively the activities of VUB Bank, whereas the actiIssue Date Level of Reporting Unvities of its subsidiaries are not included. The only partial exception is the area of our der GRI Methodology responsibility towards the community, where the information and data related to the 2012 Report 02/04/2013 B+, audited activities of VUB Foundation overlap. This procedure was chosen in case of activities 2011 Report 02/04/2012 B+, audited that VUB Bank and its foundation performed and financed jointly. Annex to the report is an overview processed under the GRI guidelines containing the publishing of 2010 Report 31/03/2011 B+, audited profile, management approach for all indicator categories and the list of performance indicators. 2009 Report 31/03/2010 B+, audited 2008 Report 31/03/2009 B+, audited Compliance with Global 2007 Report 20/08/2008 B+, audited Reporting Initiative Guidelines The content was compiled under the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Reporting Methodology third edition of the Global Reporting Initiative Edition. Reported is the profile, management approach and 50 indicators. The annex contains a transparent table Structure and Content listing the reported indicators and management approach for each indicator caThe report is divided into several chapters mapping individual areas of our impact on tegory. Compliance with the GRI guidelines was verified by the external verifier individual stakeholder categories. The whole content is split into two main parts. The the Pontis Foundation, which is an organizational stakeholder of GRI in the Slovak first part contains the Profile and Governance chapter describing VUB Group’s profile, Republic. The verifier’s statement is contained in the annex to this report. The verifier did not deal with verification of quantitative or qualitative data contained in this report. Pursuant to the GRI C C+ B B+ A A+ guidelines Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Mandatory Self Declared Third Party Checked Optional GRI Checked 4 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Profile and Governance Vision To be the Best Bank in Slovakia for customer satisfaction, while maintaining excellence in profitability and operating efficiency. Mission Conscious of the value of our activity, we promote a style of growth that is attentive to sustainable results and the creation of a process based on trust deriving from customer and shareholder satisfaction, a sense of belonging on the part of our employees and close monitoring of the needs of the community and the local area. We compete on the market with a sense of fair play and are ready to cooperate with other economic entities both private and public whenever necessary to reinforce the overall capacity for growth of Slovakia. Values We provide our clients with bank and financial services on a high level. At the same time, by means of our services, we create and activate the tools for development of the economic system of Slovakia. Our aim is to build a relation with clients and shareholders based on trust and satisfaction, solidarity of our employees and closeness to the actual needs of the whole society. Therefore, VUB’s corporate culture and Code of Ethics contain the values that help us be successful and accomplish the expected results. Values direct our behaviour in situations when we must choose from among several paths. They form the basis for our success at work as individuals and also as a bank. They are published on page www.vub.sk/en/about-us/values-principles. SEDEM HODNÔT NAŠEJ SPOLOéNOSTI 5 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Company Profile VUB Group Provides a Wide Range of Services Key Indicators Financial 2012 2011 2010 Loans to customers in euro 7.1 billion 6.8 billion 5.6 billion Banking Leasing Factoring Customer deposits in euro 7.8 billion 7.3 billion 6.7 billion Share capital in mil. euro 430.82 430.82 430.82 Number of clients 1,252,931 1,255,997 1,257,033 Number of sales points 246 249 249 Percentage of local suppliers 90 90 91 Customer Asset Pension Social Finance Management Saving Number of employees without the Prague branch and management 3,497 3,520 3,465 board members thereof women 2,565 2,606 2,591 thereof with disability 36 26 17 VUB Shareholder Structure Turnover percentage 13.7 12.2 12.0 Number of injuries 7 6 8 Value of Shares By Shareholder Type Stake in % in thous. €* Support to non-profit organizations 295 274 108 (in EUR thous.) Intesa Sanpaolo Holding International S.A. 417,219 96.84 Environmental – majority shareholder Energy consumption per employee 9,440.5 9,767.6 11,434.9 Other legal entities 3,887 0.90 (kWh) Individuals 9,713 2.26 Paper consumption per employee 129.5 148.0 177.3 TOTAL (kg per year) 430,819 100.00 (Share capital of VUB) Water consumption per employee 37 65.5 59.2 (litres per day) By Shareholder’s Value of Shares Stake in % Citizenship in thous. € * VUB Bank was established on January 1, 1990 by spinning off commercial activities for corporate clients in the territory of the Slovak Republic from the CzeIntesa Sanpaolo Holding Interchoslovak State Bank. VUB Bank is a public joint-stock company operating in the national S.A. 417,219 96.84 – majority shareholder Slovak and Czech Republics. A break-through for our activities was the year 2001, when a significant Italian banking group IntesaBci (nowadays Intesa Sanpaolo) Local shareholders 11,718 2.72 acquired a majority stake in VUB Bank. VUB Bank is currently the second largest Other foreign shareholders 1,882 0.44 bank in Slovakia. It administers deposits amounting to EUR 7.8 billion and loans TOTAL worth EUR 7.1 billion. The Bank’s portfolio holds currently more than 1 million (Share capital of VUB) 430,819 100.00 retail clients, 90 thousand sole traders, 9 thousand small and medium enterprises and 600 large corporations. VUB has been one of the most profitable banks in The data is valid as at 31/12/2012. Slovakia in recent years. 6 * Value of VUB shares in € means the value of owned shares of VUB expressed in nominal value in euro multiplied by the number of shares owned. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes As at December 31, 2012, the shares of VUB were held by 39,585 shareholders. Foreign shareholders come from the following countries: Luxemburg (96.843 %), Czech Republic (0.140 %), Germany (0.156 %), Switzerland (0.085 %), Austria (0.048 %), United Kingdom (0.004 %), U.S.A. (0.002 %), Canada, Romania, Poland and Cyprus. About Intesa Sanpaolo Group The Italian banking group Intesa Sanpaolo, based in Turin and Milan, is the majority shareholder of VUB Bank with a stake of 96.84 % in the Bank’s share capital. It was established in January 2007 by a merger of two significant Italian banks, Banca Intesa and Sanpaolo IMI. The Group has a leading position in Italy and it is one of the leading banks providing financial products and services to households and also companies across Europe. Intesa Sanpaolo has a strategic business representation in the region of Central and Eastern Europe and in the area of the Mediterranean Sea. Through its subsidiary banks, it operates in Serbia, where it ranks first, then in Albania, Croatia and Slovakia, where it controls the second largest banks in the market, in Hungary with the third largest bank, fifth largest bank in Bosnia and Herzegovina and in Egypt and in Slovenia, where it owns the sixth most significant bank. The Group is represented also in Ukraine, in the Russian Federation and in Romania. Presence of Intesa Sanpaolo in the Region (marked in blue). 7 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Financial Indicators Market Shares On the background of a persisting debt crisis and a slight recession in the Euroas at as at as at zone as well as in Czech Republic or Hungary, in 2012 the Slovak economy was 31/12/2012 31/12/2011 31/12/2010 not faring bad. The estimated GDP of around two percent is one of the highest Total assets 18.6 % 19.0 % 18.7 % in the entire EU. However, it is a fact that the Slovak economy was growing only Customer deposits 17.8 % 18.0 % 17.5 % owing to the foreign demand for our industrial products and especially automoLoans to customers 19.0 % 18.9 % 18.1 % biles, without which the GDP growth would have likely ended up in red figures. The local demand in 2012 dropped. Nor consumption or investments reached Mortgage loans 46.4 % 46.5 % 44.1 % their pre-crisis levels and they even kept moving further away from these levels. Branch network 19.9 % 20.6 % 20.4 % The labour market stopped producing new jobs and at year-end unemployment Payment cards 28.8 % 24.7 % -* ATMs 22.6 % 23.3 % -* EFT POS terminals 23.1 % 20.2 % -* * data not available The complete financial performance is published in VUB’s 2012 Annual Report (www.vub.sk/o-banke/profil-banky/vyrocne-spravy/). VUB Bank’s Headcount excluding Management Board reached an all-time high since 2004. members (always as at 31/12) A growing insecurity in the labour market and a continuous deterioration of the 2012 3,497 economic outlook lead the households to saving. The volume of primary deposits 2011 3,520 as well as assets managed by asset management companies was on increase. On 2010 3,465 the other hand, the insecurity brought a slow-down in lending. Households became more cautious and started preferring smaller loans without the necessity of pledging a real estate. This change in consumer behaviour resulted in a lower demand for mortgages, which represent one of the key pillars of VUB Bank’s product Employee Structure as at 31/12/2012 portfolio. On the contrary, the consumer loan market recorded an improvement Management Board members 8 that also our subsidiary Consumer Finance Holding benefited from. We were sucManagers 553 cessful also in the corporate banking segment. Non-managers 2,944 Overall, we exceeded the market in loans; however we slightly fell behind in the area of primary deposits and total assets. In terms of financial stability, our prudent approach to risk resulted into further improvement of our capital base, which is perhaps the most crucial factor impacting the sustainable growth of such financial institution as VÚB is. However, its profitability indicators lagged behind 2011, which was driven by the sale of foreign securities from the available for sale portfolio as well as by the bank levy negatively impacting all banks operating in Slovakia. Disregarding these two factors, VUB Bank’s financial performance in 2012 was as strong as in the preceding year. 8 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Subsidiaries with Majority Stake of VÚB, a.s. VÚB Factoring, a.s. Registered Office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. Consumer Finance Holding, a. s. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Registered Office: Hlavné nám. 12, 060 01 Kežmarok Core business: Factoring and forfaiting transactions Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Provision of non-banking loans Recovery, a.s. Registered Office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. VÚB Asset Management, správ. spol., a. s. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Registered Office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Core business: Administration, collection and purchase of receivables Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Core business: Collective investment, portfolio administration and management Business Network The VUB business network servicing more than 1.25 mil. clients is the second In Q1 2013, the company’s share capital will be increased and new shareholdelargest in Slovakia. VUB’s management is based in Bratislava. rs from the Intesa Sanpaolo Group will enter it. This will consequently lead to a reduction of VUB’s stake. 2012 2011 2010 Retail branches 203 206 206 VÚB Leasing, a.s. Mortgage centres 11 11 11 Registered Office: Mlynské nivy 1, 820 04 Bratislava Corporate branches 1 1 1 Shareholders: VÚB, a.s. Stake of VÚB, a. s., 100 % Call Center 32 32 32 Core business: Financial and operational leasing Number of ATMs 566 560 554 Čadca Námestovo Turzovka Zákamenné Svidník Krásno Trstená Bardejov Kysucké Nové Mesto Tvrdošín Medzilaborce nad Kysucou Nižná 6 x Žilina Stropkov Bytča Dolný Kubín Podolínec Lipany Spišská Belá Giraltovce Považská Bystrica Vrútky 2 x Liptovský Stará Ľubovňa Kežmarok Sabinov Turany Mikuláš 3 x Poprad Hanušovce nad Topľou Púchov Lednické Svit Levoča 3 x Prešov Snina Ilava Rovne Rajec 2 x Martin Ružomberok Liptovský Hrádok Nová Dubnica Dubnica Spišské Podhradie Krompachy 2 x Humenné Trenčianske Teplice nad Váhom Spišská Vranov Strážske Gelnica 3 x Trenčín Nitrianske Pravno Turčianske Teplice Nová Ves nad Topľou Skalica Nové Mesto 2 x Prievidza Slovenská Ľupča Brezno 12 x Košice 2 x Michalovce Holíč nad Váhom Bánovce nad Sobrance Myjava Bebravou Bojnice Kremnica Stará Turá 3 x Banská Sečovce Senica Leopoldov Dolné Handlová Bystrica Rožňava Vrbové Revúca Trebišov Vestenice Žiar nad Piešťany Nováky Partizánske Hronom Hriňová Moldava Veľké Kapušany Zvolen Detva Hnúšťa nad Bodvou Nitrianska Kráľovský Smolenice Blatnica 2 x Topoľčany Chlmec Žarnovica Poltár Rimavská Banská Štiavnica Kúty Malacky 3 x Trnava Hlohovec Nová Baňa Sobota Tornaľa Modra 6 x Nitra Zlaté Moravce Lučenec Šaštín-Stráže Pezinok Krupina Stupava Senec Sereď Fiľakovo Sládkovičovo Vráble Levice Ivanka Galanta Dudince Veľký Krtíš 34 x pri Dunaji Šaľa Bratislava Dunajská Lužná Šurany Vinica Šahy Zlaté Klasy Tvrdošovce 9 Šamorín Nové Zámky Dunajská Želiezovce Streda Veľký Kolárovo Meder Hurbanovo Gabčíkovo Štúrovo Komárno Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Membership in Organizations Awards In 2012, VUB Bank was an active member in several associations and professional associations. The most important professional association is the Slovak Banking AsCentral and Eastern Europe’s Safest Bank sociation, which is a key association in the Slovak financial sector and the only organization representing the interests of banks operating in the Slovak Republic. Other According to the prestigious financial magazine Global Finance, VUB Bank besignificant organizations, in which VUB Bank was a member, include the Italian, U.S. longs to the safest banks in the Central and Eastern Europe (World’s Safest Banks and German Chambers of Commerce, the Association of Securities Dealers and in Central & Eastern Europe). VUB Bank ranked sixth among the top ten safest the Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry. We are a member of the Business banks in Central and Eastern Europe. In its assessment, the magazine derived from Leaders Forum association joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility long-term credit ratings (of agencies Moody’s, Standard & Poor’s and Fitch) and principles in Slovakia. the total volume of assets. VUB is the only Slovak bank, which placed among the selected banks in the region. Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) Also in 2012, VUB became the most successful bank in the Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) competition. Within the competition, products of financial institutions are assessed by experts from the circles of financial journalists, representatives of broker companies, universities, research companies, professional associations. Out of ten banking product categories, it received nine coins. VUB scored in the categories of housing loans (Flexi Mortgage), debit cards (Maestro Good Angel) and trade financing (Profi Loans), for which it was awarded golden coins. It won silver in the category of corporate accounts (Flexi Business Account) and credit cards (Blue from American Express). The coin collection of VUB is supplemented also by four bronze coins in the categories of bank accounts (Flexi Account), electronic banking (Internet Banking), term deposits (FLEXImore Saving) and consumer loans (Flexi Loan). The competition included also a public voting on the most forthcoming bank, which VUB Bank won. 10 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Organization and Governance Supervisory Board Staff U.1007-Corporate 1700-Change Social Responsibility management Ofﬁce 1100-Internal Audit & Control 1020-Customer 1900-Corpor. Management Board Care & mark. Communication 1200-Corp. Strategy Staff U. 1005-Business CEO 1600-Compliance & Econ. Research Continuity Management Corporate Governance Units Staff U. 1009-General 1800-Legal Secretariat Services Deputy CEO Business Support Unitts 8000-Operational 5000-Finance, 7000-Risk 9000-Human 2000-Financial and 3 000-Corporate 4 000-Retail 11 000-VÚB CR 6000-IT Capital Makets Divisions Banking Banking Prague Branch Services Planning & Controling Management Resources Staff U. 6001-IT 8100-Banking Staff U.5002-Tax 7300-Enterprise 9300-Personell 3200-Corporate 4010-Competence Staff U. 2200-Depository Support Ofﬁce Operations Strategy & Managemnet Risk Management & Compensation Customer Centre 6100-IT Architecture Staff U. 2004 3300-Small 4200-Segment management 8200-Corporate Staff U. 5003-Administrative 7400-Corporate 9400-Personnel management and Customer Relationship Middle Ofﬁce and Financial Governance and Retail Underwriting Relationship Management -Institutional Sales & Medium Enterprises and BI Delivery Management 8300-Cash Flow 5100-Planning 7600-Asset 9500-Training Staff U.2005-Custody 3800-Corporate 4300 Product 6200-ITDevelopment Mgmt. & Controling Quality Mgmt and Development and Sales Support Transactions Banking Management 8400-Facility 5200-Fin. Reporting 7700-Recovery 3900-Project 4500-Retail 6300-IT Operations 2300-Trading Administration & Account. Governance & Real Estate Finance Branch Mgmt. 5600-Global Reconciliation 7900-Policy 8500-Security and Internal Accounting 2600-Sales 4600-Payment Cards & Methodology 8600-Internal 2800-Balance 4800-Private Services Sheet Management Banking 8700-Archival 4900-Alternative Services Channel Development 8800-Procurement Recovery, a.s. CFH, a.s. VÚB Generali DSS, a.s. VÚB Factoring, a.s. Slovak Banking Credit VÚB AM, VÚB Leasing, a.s. Bureau, spol. s r. o. správ. spol., a.s. Support Units Control Units Support Units Business Units 11 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Governance Similarly to its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo and following the Slovak legisThe number of Supervisory Board members is minimum three, out of which one lation, also VUB Bank applies a dual administration and control model, within is the Chairman and at least one is a Vice Chairman. Members of the Supervisory which the control activities and strategic management are separated from the Board are elected and removed by a decision of the General Meeting. The term management of business activities performed by the Bank’s Management Board. of office of the Supervisory Board members is three years. In 2012, Juraj Jurenka, Ownership and management are thus clearly defined and the Supervisory Board who was an employee representative, terminated his term of appointment to the functions as a filter between the shareholders and the Management Board. The Supervisory Board. Bank’s management disposes of a full execution power, whereas the Supervisory Board performs the control function. This model provides for transparency and reduces the risk of conflict of interest. General Meeting Supervisory Board members in 2012: General Meetings are the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all shaGyörgy Surányi – Chairman of Supervisory Board reholders and their decisions approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations • Resident Regional Manager, International Subsidiary Banks Division, and Bank’s Articles of Association are binding for all shareholders. The General Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy Meeting consists of all attending shareholders. Members of the Supervisory and Management Boards regularly attend General Meetings facilitating their smooth Fabrizio Centrone – Vice Chairman of Supervisory Board (until April 3, 2012) course and simultaneously answering the questions and inquiries presented by • Head of Central Eastern Europe Area Department, shareholders. The Management Board is obliged to convene a regular General International Subsidiary Banks Division, Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy Meeting within the period of three months from the compilation of regular finanMassimo Malagoli – Supervisory Board Member and from April 3, 2012 Vice Chairman cial statements and its verification by an auditor. Should the interests of VÚB, a.s. of Supervisory Board require so and in cases stipulated by legal regulations an extraordinary General • Head of Planning & Control and Corporate Development Department, Meeting may be convened. International Subsidiary Banks Division, Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy Adriano Arietti – Supervisory Board member Supervisory Board • Independent member Supervisory Board is the top control body of the Bank. It supervises the ManageAntonio Furesi – Supervisory Board member ment Board and performance of the Bank’s business activities. Except for members • Head of Coordination of VUB Bank and CIB Bank, of Supervisory Board elected by the employees of VÚB, a.s., a member of the International Subsidiary Banks Division, Intesa Sanpaolo, Italy Supervisory Board may not be an employee of VÚB, a.s. The Supervisory Board inJana Finková – Supervisory Board member spects and submits conclusions and/or recommendations to the General Meeting • Employee representative regarding mainly the following: Ján Gallo – Supervisory Board member • fulfilment of tasks assigned to the Management Board by the General Meeting; • Employee representative • compliance of VÚB, a.s.’s activities with the Articles of Association, and with Juraj Jurenka – Supervisory Board member (until March 6, 2012) • Employee representative 12 legal regulations; and • business and financial activities of VÚB, a.s., accounting, documentation, accounts, condition of property, payables and receivables of VÚB, a.s. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Management Board Management Board members in 2012 Management Board is the statutory body governing the Bank’s executive maIgnacio Jaquotot Chairman of Management Board and Chief Executive Officer nagement. It is authorized to act on behalf of the Bank in all matters and to represent VÚB, a.s. in relations with third parties, in front of courts or other Elena Kohútiková Management Board Member authorities. It manages the activities of VÚB, a.s. and takes decisions over any and Deputy Chief Executive Officer for Support matters related to VÚB, a.s, which, under the legal regulations or Articles of Tomislav Lazarić Management Board Member and Deputy Chief Executive Association have not been reserved for the authority of other VUB bodies. Officer for Business (until 31/01/2012) Andrea De Michelis Management Board Member and Executive Director of Finance, Planning and Controlling Division Daniele Fanin Management Board Member and VUB Prague Branch Manager Stanislav Hodek Management Board Member and Executive Director of IT Division (from 01/10/2012) Jozef Kausich Management Board Member and Executive Director of Corporate Banking Division Peter Magala Management Board Member and Executive Director of Risk Management Division (from 01/03/2012) Silvia Púchovská Management Board Member and Executive Director of Human Resources Division Alexander Resch Management Board Member and Executive Director of Risk Management Division (until 29/02/2012) Adrián Ševčík Management Board Member and Executive Director of Retail Banking Division The Management Board mainly: a) implements decisions taken by the General Meeting and the Supervisory Board; The curricula vitae published in the 2012 Annual Report and on b) ensures the accuracy of mandatory bookkeeping and other records, Bank´s page contain information on professional qualification of Supervisory Board trade books and other documentation of VÚB, a.s.; members and Management Board members in the area of finance and banking, c) manages the issuer’s securities registry; as well as information on their practical experience serving as assurance for an d) after prior approval by and upon a proposal of the Supervisory Board, efficient management of the company in line with the Bank’s strategy in financial, it submits to the General Meeting proposals for approval of: environmental and social spheres. All Management Board members are evaluated • Amendment to the Articles of Association; on the basis of key performance indicators (KPIs), for which they bear responsibility. • proposals for increasing / decreasing registered capital and bond issues; All managers in the respective positions are evaluated depending on the fulfilment • ordinary, extraordinary, or consolidated financial statements; of these KPIs also with respect to financial, social and environmental performance. • proposals for distribution of current and retained profits and/or proposals The Bank adopted the Compensation Policy of VÚB, a.s., which is compliant with for settlement of outstanding losses from the current and/or previous the Compensation Policy of Intesa Sanpaolo, Banking Act No. 483/2001 and other years; relevant legal regulations. The Compensation Policy determines a balanced propor• annual report; tion of individual components of the total compensation with respect to prevention e) approves and regularly reviews the Bank’s Compensation Policy. of excessively risk-oriented behaviour with a view of preventing initiatives aimed exclusively at reaching short-term goals and also resolving potential conflict of interests. The evaluation is carried out under the Performance Assessment guidelines and is fully in the competence of the Supervisory Board. 13 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Internal Audit and Control The mission of the Internal Audit and Control Department is to provide independent, objective assurance and consulting services designed to add value and improve VUB’s and its affiliates‘ operations. It helps VUB Group accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluation and improvement of the effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance processes. Independence of the Internal Audit and Control Department is expressed in the organizational structure by its direct reporting to the Supervisory Board, which established also an Audit Committee for the needs of a more detailed communication concerning the Bank’s internal control system. Committees In VUB Bank, the Management Board established mainly the following bank-wide top committees charged with the task of coordinating, escalating and adopting decisions in bank-wide procedures and initiatives: • Corporate Credit Committee, • Assets and Liabilities Committee (ALCO), • Credit Risk Committee, • Operational Risk Committee, • New Product Committee, • IT – Business / Risk / IT Architecture Committee. 14 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Our Responsibility Corporate Responsibility Approach Managerial decisions in the area of corporate responsibility are in the competence of the Chief Executive Officer, whereas all activities are regularly reported to the Bank’s Management Board on a quarterly basis. Codes and policies Corporate Responsibility Governance concerning corporate responsibility are always approved by the Management Board, which is responsible for performance in the financial, social and enviManagement ronmental areas. board Corporate Responsibility Strategy CEO CSR unit Satisﬁed Satisﬁed All Bank CSR woking clients employees divisions group Corporate Responsibility Staff Unit The unit is included in the Bank’s organizational structure as an independent department reporting directly to the Chief Executive Officer. It is managed by Our aim the corporate responsibility manager, who is simultaneously a member of the international coordination group for corporate responsibility of the parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. The department’s task is to provide support, guidance and where necessary also coordinate the corporate responsibility activities through designated representatives from each bank division. Corporate Responsibility Group Satisﬁed Satisﬁed A bank-wide corporate responsibility group has been continuously working in shareholders public the interest of implementing corporate responsibility principles into all aspects of the Bank’s activities. Representatives for each bank division were nominated to this group by the Management Board. The group is responsible for: • implementation of corporate responsibility principles into the division’s activities, • management and monitoring of all corporate responsibility aspects in their divisions, • supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the purposes of compiling the annual corporate responsibility report, • quarterly supply of qualitative and quantitative data for the parent company. 15 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Subsidiary banks implement into their activities corporate responsibility values, poIn order to learn about the needs of communities the Corporate Responsibility licies and principles identical with the ones of their parent bank Intesa Sanpaolo. Staff Unit organizes meetings with the representatives of communities, the third The model that the parent bank applies is based on the premise that equally as sector, education system and other entities. the bank itself also all employees are owners of responsibility in their day-to-day activities. Important is a complex approach to sustainability and addressing the All forms of dialogue and communication with stakeholders we engage in are needs of Bank’s individual stakeholders, whether it is company owners, employees specified in individual chapters of this report. The stakeholder dialogue results in or clients. The result is implementation of unified corporate responsibility policies measures and commitments that the Bank implements into its business and action and principles. plans. All these measures help us deliver the Bank’s mission, improve our services and products, as well as manage our relations with the Bank’s stakeholders in order to achieve an evenly balanced relation satisfying for both parties. Corporate Responsibility Section on Intranet On the Intranet there is a special section for employees dedicated to corporate Advocating Corporate Responsibility Principles responsibility. It contains all corporate responsibility related documents adopted VUB Bank engages also in advocating corporate responsibility principles and rai(Code of Ethics, Internal Code of Conduct, policies), corporate responsibility resing awareness among entrepreneurs and the wide public alike. Since 2004, it has ports, presentations and information materials. Basic corporate responsibility dobeen a member of an informal association called the Business Leaders Forum (BLF) cuments of our parent bank are available to employees as well. joining leaders in enforcement of corporate responsibility principles in Slovakia. VUB Bank has been actively participating in the association’s activities and it has been a member of working groups for a responsible supply chain and for climatic change. Dialogue with Stakeholders In 2012, BLF concentrated on the topic of raising awareness about corporate responsibility among small and medium enterprises. The association was also dediVUB Bank runs several programs aimed at dialogue and communication with our cated to active aging. stakeholders influenced by our business activity. We focus mainly on dialogue with our key stakeholders: • customer satisfaction surveys, • solving of client inquiries, • employee surveys and polls, • discussion between employees and Bank’s management, • communication with the community. Greatest attention is paid to the category of clients, mainly through several types of client satisfaction surveys. The survey is built on the basis of a recognized EuZODPOVEDNÉ ODPOVEDNÉ PODNIKANIE PRE MALÉ A A|STREDNÉ STREDNÉ FIRM FIRMY ropean indicator ECSI – European Customer Satisfaction Index. Client inquiries and complaints are examined by the Customer Care Department, which consistently accepts and analyzes all inquiries, their justification and causes providing a feedback to other sub-departments in form of proposals for improvement in processes, products and prevention of similar potential wrongdoings in the future. For more details refer to the Clients chapter. Attentive listening and dialogue are important also in relation to employees. Their Business Ethics and Management of Sensitive satisfaction is periodically examined in form of employee surveys and by promoting Aspects Bank’s values and principles anchored in the Code of Ethics. In 2012, a regular survey identifying employee satisfaction was performed in the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group. During the whole year, we are carrying out also internal polls on various toWe are a bank that committed itself to corporate responsibility and our clients, 16 pics. Employees have a chance to pose questions directly to the Chief Executive Ofshareholders, employees and suppliers expect us to be ethical in conducting our ficer by means of an Intranet form. For more details refer to the Employees chapter. business. This is the very reason why VUB decided to implement ethics into its buContents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes siness taking specific steps and within various important measures it introduced Versions of all ethical codes are published on the Internet site also a Code of Ethics. It is a set of principles, which have a strategic meaning for http://www.vub.sk/en/about-us/values-principles/compliance/. us and regulate the behaviour of our employees. Each employee, without any exception, is required to get familiarized with it, while its observance is contiInternal and External Ethical Standards nuously monitored and its breach penalized. This Code of Ethics is followed up VUB Bank has continued in a targeted building of its Corporate Governance and by a corporate anti-corruption program with specific system and organizational in cooperation with its parent company Intesa Sanpaolo has been setting up its measures, including an internal audit control system. own internal corporate responsibility rules significantly beyond the basic scope required by the Slovak legislation. Currently applicable internal regulations are: Considering the great responsibility that we as a bank bear towards our sha• Code of Ethics of VUB reholders and naturally towards our clients, we must comply with a variety of • Group Internal Code of Conduct, legal regulations. Their observance is supervised by regulators. But we take it • Gift Acceptance Policy, even further. We follow also such rules that are not imposed on us by any law • Query Resolution Procedure (Whistle Blower Policy), or required by any authority, but which we consider commonplace as they give • Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically our business an ethical dimension. Engaged Parties, Clients Operating in Armament Industry and Risk Industries, Clients from Risk Countries and Transactions with Risk Overview of 2012 Proceedings Countries in VUB Group. VUB Bank was a party to a proceeding heard by the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic in the matter of a suspected conclusion of agreement with other Code of Ethics of VUB two banks limiting the competition. The administrative proceeding was lawfully The Code of Ethics adopted in 2012 is based on the Code of Ethics of the Intesa terminated in 2009 and VUB Bank was sanctioned with a penalty amounting to Sanpaolo Groups. The Code is one of its corporate culture pillars. It represents EUR 3,810,461. Since, in the opinion of VUB Bank, the administrative proceea framework of ethical and moral values, observance of which is the basic preding was not conducted in compliance with the law, in January 2010 the Bank requisite for a successful growth and permanently sustainable development. brought a legal action against the Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic It contains principles of conduct in relation to all stakeholders which raise the to the respective court appealing the decision. In its ruling dated September 28, level of standards that each individual within the company must adhere to in 2010, the Regional Court in Bratislava cancelled the appealed decision of the order to have the trust of all stakeholders. As a management tool and a part Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic and returned the matter to it for of a wider vision of the Group’s social and environmental responsibility, the further action. The Antimonopoly Office of the Slovak Republic filed an appeal Code of Ethics attributes the highest importance to all stakeholder relations. against this ruling in the Supreme Court of the Slovak Republic. Based on the Electronic version of the document is published on http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/ decision of the Supreme Court of the SR the proceedings were suspended in hodnoty-principy/. March 2012 for indefinite period of time. In 2012, VUB was party to one proceeding before the Advertising Committee, acting as an ethic and self regulation body. The petition was found unjustified and compliance of the advertisement with Code of Ethics for Advertising PracEtický kódex tices was confirmed. Ethical Codes No lying. We repeatedly state these words, which reflect the essence of all ethical codes VUB Bank acceded to. The effort to bring clear and true information is a reflection of one of our basic values in practice, being the transparency. • Consumer Protection Code of Ethics • European Agreement on a Voluntary Code of Conduct on Pre-Contractual Information for Home Loans • The European Code of Conduct on Home Loans (ESIS) 17 • Ethical Code of Advertising Practice Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Group Internal Code of Conduct existing intergovernmental agreements or other transactions for national armies, The Code sets the basic principles of conduct by the company’s representatives, police and other state armed forces which could be considered compatible with employees and external agents, who are obliged to execute their functions resthe spirit of an “unarmed bank – a bank non-supportive of arms“, on the basis of ponsibly, honestly, fairly and professionally, while promoting the Bank and Group’s authorization by the designated Intesa Sanpaolo department. interests as well as taking into consideration the interests of clients and shareholders. Therefore, execution of decision-making authorities and each business actiGift Acceptance Policy vity must reflect all values and principles contained in the Code. The parent comThis internal policy deriving from the Code of Ethics of VUB Bank governs prinpany and all Group’s companies promote by means of suitable internal control ciples and limitations to behaviour of Bank’s representatives and employees in system and adequate trainings and information systems – respecting of applicable accepting unsolicited gifts. It also sets the limits and rules of behaviour in gift laws and regulations as well as compliance with general principles of conduct speacceptance. cified in the Code on all executive and operational levels and in every geographical context, where Intesa Sanpaolo performs its activities with the aim of protecting Policy for Management of Relations with Political Parties and Politically Engaged property, integrity and reputation of each company and the whole group. Parties, Clients Operating in Armament Industry and Risk Industries The policy stipulates mainly: Environmental Policy • management of relations with political parties and politically engaged parties in Environmental Policy represents a written commitment to environmental protection, the interest of preserving impartiality and independence which sets a mission and objectives in the area of environmental management. The Aiming to prevent potential reputation risk related to political parties and politipolicy defines VUB Group’s approach to prevention, management and where pocally engaged parties, VUB Group is obliged to act impartially and independently. ssible also reduction of direct and indirect environmental impacts it generates as a This means that companies, which are a part of VUB Group will approach the result of its business activity. As a responsible company, VUB committed to manage starting of business relations with political parties and politically engaged parties the impacts of its business activity and reduce the impacts of its activities on the with utmost prudence. environment in cooperation with its stakeholders. We do not belong among significant direct polluters of the environment, but we preferentially strive to minimize • management of relations with clients operating in the armament industry potential negative impact on the environment to the lowest level possible. In connection with preservation of values and principles outlined in the Code of Ethics, the main goal of this policy is to prevent that VUB and its subsidiaries partiGlobal Compact cipate in the financing of activities and transactions concerning manufacturing of VUB is a signatory of Global Compact, a strategic initiative of the United Nations arms equipment as well as trading of this equipment for military purposes. aimed at corporate responsibility. Worldwide, it was joined by over 5,000 companies from more than 100 countries. VUB committed to support the ten basic • management of relations with clients operating in risky business fields (industry risk) principles concerning human rights, labour conditions, environment and anti-corWithin VUB Group, clients and potential clients operating in the below industries ruption with its activities. These principles fully correspond with VUB’s values. / business fields are considered as risky: – exchange offices; Equator Principles – pawnbroker’s shops; Intesa Sanpaolo committed to observe the so-called Equator Principles. It consists – bars, night clubs, casinos; of a set of international rules for project financing designed by a group of inter– gambling rooms with more than 3 gambling machines; national banks based on the policies of the International Finance Corporation. – security agencies; The principles are based on environmental and social standards of the World Bank – sex shops and pornography distributors; and applied in project financing worth more than USD 10 million. The principles – debt collecting agency; assist financial institutions in selecting projects with the aim of reducing social – broker companies; and environmental risks in project financing. They oblige the financing applicants – betting offices. to prepare a compulsory report on environmental impacts. These principles are observed also by VUB. • management of relations with clients and transactions from/to risk countries (country risk) Arms Policy Pursuant to the requirements of the binding regulation and Intesa Sanpaolo reguIn accordance with values and principles of the Code of Ethics, this policy of Intesa lations, clients and potential clients from selected countries are considered risky, as Sanpaolo Group defines a ban on financing and enabling transactions related well as all types of transactions and payments from and to these countries. to import and export of arms and armament systems (in Italy subject of Act No. 185/90). Members of the Group can assist clients in transactions concerning the 18 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Confidential Data Processing ach each client as a non-professional client. The basic information on financial We respect client privacy and protect it. Pursuant to the law, we handle our mediation, products subject to it and on affiliated and subordinated financial clients’ data with utmost care and principally with their awareness and consent. agents, with whom VUB Bank cooperates, is published on our Internet pages. On page http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/hodnoty-principy/compliance/spracovanie-dovernych-udajov/ we post and continuously update the list of third parties Client Protection in Consumer Lending that were provided data of our clients: VUB Bank provides consumer loans in accordance with the Act No. 129/2010 Coll. • List of VUB’s mediators in the area of personal data processing and parties on Consumer Loans and Other Loans for Consumers and on the Amendment and provided personal data constituting a bank secret, Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended. • List of third parties and recipients provided and made available personal data of clients and data constituting a bank secret. Investor Protection (MiFID) Conflict of Interest Policy VUB keeps providing the highest possible level of protection not only to its VUB Bank commits to avoid a conflict between private interests of its employretail clients, but also to clients included in the highest category of professional ees and the interests of the Bank. The employees are liable to take all required clients. VUB adopted and has been constantly enhancing several measures aimeasures in order to avoid a conflict of interest. In case a conflict of interest med at investor protection and solving of investors’ complaints. This legal reguoccurs, employees shall solve such a conflict to the benefit of the Bank. The lation is embedded in the directive on financial markets, the so-called “MiFID” employees may never misuse their connection with the Bank to promote their (Markets in Financial Instruments Directive), implemented in the Securities Act. personal interests or harm the Bank’s reputation by their actions nor can they Our clients have access to documents that will help them to better understand misuse their position or confidential information to prefer a job applicant or a the financial instruments and provision of investment services. person aiming to start a business relation with the Bank. The Bank evaluates the measures and procedures implemented to prevent, minimize and solve a Client Protection in Payment Services Provision potential conflict of interest on a regular basis. VUB introduced measures for VUB Bank continues in application of effective measures aimed at a better awaminimization of occurrence of an external conflict of interests in economic actireness of clients in provision of payment services in connection with implemenvities of employees and in transactions between the Bank and an employee or tation of the new “PSD“ (Payment Services Directive) directive in Slovakia by mea person related to an employee. The employees should consult their working ans of the Payment Services Act. Simultaneously, the Bank keeps enhancing the activities outside their main employment or involvement in business activities knowledge of its employees through internal training activities as to guarantee with their superior. The Bank has no objections against employees getting inthe highest possible comfort in practical use of the payment services by its clients. volved in activities outside their work as volunteers or otherwise provided that the activity does not obstruct performance of their regular work for the Bank or is not in conflict with internal rules of the Bank and the Intesa Sanpaolo Group. Client Protection in Financial Mediation VUB Bank brought its activity into compliance with the requirements of the Act VUB also applies and adheres to special measures designed to prevent conflicts No. 186/2009 Coll. on Financial Mediation and Financial Advisory and on the of interests in the area of investment services. Their main aim is to prevent conAmendment and Supplementation of Certain Acts as amended, as to provide 19 flicts of interests or cope with inevitable conflicts of interests as to prevent the clients with the protection required by law. In the interest of securing a higher risk of harming the clients’ interests. These measures are monitored and their protection of client rights, in financial mediation VUB Bank is trying to approContents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes efficiency is regularly evaluated. In relation with occurrence of a potential conflict Awareness of interest, VUB Bank declares that it will notify clients of the nature and source of The Bank created a specialized unit dedicated to disclosure of frauds and corthe conflict prior to provision of an investment service or prior to performing an ruption, which is a part of the Risk Management Division. It closely cooperates activity and in case of their provision or execution it will always prefer the clients’ primarily with the Internal Audit and Control Department and the Compliance Deinterests to its own ones. In case of a conflict of interests between the clients partment. All bank employees are informed of internal ethical standards and the themselves it will ensure an equal and fair treatment of all clients. zero tolerance principle while having access to the basic information on the steps that are necessary to take in case of any corruption or fraud suspicion. Since the In 2012, VUB Bank implemented more strict rules of Intesa Sanpaolo Group for Bank has an eminent interest in disclosing corruption and frauds, it implemented personal deals performed by the Bank employees. the so-called Whistle Blower Policy enabling each bank employee to communicate his/her suspicion preserving his/her anonymity. Anti-money Laundering and Anti-terrorism In the anti-money laundering and anti-terrorist financing, we are progressing in The Bank does not conceal the detected corruption and fraud cases from its emline with the Slovak and also the European legislation ensuring protection of our ployees, but on the contrary it decided to inform and educate its managers in clients as well as of the Bank itself. In the banking sector, we are a stakeholder of order to constantly improve their work and eliminate shortcomings and errors in the Financial Investigation Unit (FIU), which operatively evaluates the clients’ bethis area in the future. Due to this reason, the managers are informed of some haviour signals we report and is under a permanent supervision of the regulatory cases that occurred in the past. authority of the National Bank of Slovakia. Within initial trainings, all new hires in the retail network are given a special preOur activity in the area of Bank’s protection against money laundering or terrorist sentation on fraud and corruption risks including typical signs of a risky behaviour. financing is intensifying and we dedicate this area greater attention. We do not The main objective of this training activity is to increase prevention and/or minimiwant to support these negative phenomena not even indirectly by enabling finanze occurrence of these cases. cial flows by means of our products, services or in any connection with the Bank. Therefore, we follow strictly set up internal rules to prevent money-laundering and terrorist financing in form of detection of unusual business transactions. For this Discrimination Ban purpose, the Bank developed and implemented its own program of anti-money On all levels and in relation to all its stakeholders, VUB Bank observes the nonlaundering and anti-terrorist financing activities deriving from: -discrimination principles, which are firmly anchored in our Code of Ethics and • Slovak legislation, system of values. One of VUB’s values is that “We do not discriminate We com• European legislation, mit that we shall exclude from our actions any discrimination and shall respect • international FATF recommendations, recommendations of The Basel differences based on sex, age, race, faith, political opinion, participation in unions, Committee on Banking Supervision and Wolfsberg Principles, US Patriot Act, language skills or impairment.“ For more information on its application refer to • Intesa Sanpaolo Group rules concerning money-laundering as well the Employees chapter. as against risky entities and countries. Corruption and Fraudulent Actions We apply Customer Due Diligence pursuant to the valid legislation and take into Clearly Defined Approach and Principles consideration the risk profile of individual clients. VUB Bank has been fulfilling and committed to fulfil high moral and ethical standards built on clearly declared principles. All bank employees have been informed Within its organizational structure, the Bank defined a specialized unit charged of these principles by means of various forms (distributed brochures, internal camwith implementation, execution and coordination of activities related to protecpaign, posting on Intranet). The principles are as follows: tion of the Bank against its misuse for the purposes of money laundering or terrorist financing. The unit reports directly to the Deputy CEO and is responsible also • The Bank requires all its employees to act honestly, with integrity and protect for detection of unusual business transactions and cooperation with the respective sources and information in their work environment or for which they bear responregulatory authorities. It also ensures monitoring of all financial transactions as sibility. required by the law and the international legislation. The unit’s activities inclu• The Bank committed to ensure that fraud and corruption risk would be reduced de also evaluation of international payment transactions in real time constituting to the lowest level possible. first-level prevention of connection between the bank sector and a sanctioned or • These principles relate to all unusual cases involving employees as well as ex20 risky person and/or entity. ternal consultants, suppliers, contractual stakeholders and/or any third party in a business relation with this organization. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes • All employees must take decisions individually in line with the Bank’s intelegislation including the Bank’s Code of Ethics, verification of internal control rests. They must not act with the aim of gaining financial or other material failures and internal fraud suspicions. advantage for themselves, their family or close ones. In 2012, the Internal Audit and Control unit examined the internal control sysZero Tolerance tem in all corporate branches, in approximately half of the retail branches and VUB Bank clearly proclaims its absolute zero tolerance principle regarding corit also carried out several specialized audits related to internal fraud and corruption and frauds. All bank employees are informed about the following prinruption risk. Verified were also all key processes in the Bank selected based on ciples: an annually prepared risk map. On the grounds of the risks identified within individual audits, the Bank immediately adopted corrective measures and set • The Bank shall not accept any form of fraudulent or corrupt acting, therefore up a regular monitoring of such areas and if necessary notified the respective each case will be thoroughly examined and relevant measures drawn from it. state bodies. • Each participation in a fraud or fraud attempt shall lead to adequate legal steps and potential criminal charges. • Necessary investigation shall be performed irrespective of the relation of the given person to this organization, his/her work position or employment duration. Measures for Corruption and Fraud Reduction Internal Control System The Bank incorporated into its processes various control mechanisms in order to reduce the corruption and fraud risk to the minimum level possible. The Bank clearly sets the necessity of a control mechanism for each bank process, where corruption and fraud risk is imminent (e.g. verification of decisions, 4-eyes control, access rights management etc.). The internal control system consists of three levels: statutory, executive and control. Whistle Blower Policy Employees and business partners, who have a reasonable suspicion of the breach of laws and internal regulations of the bank by employees and bank managers, may inform the bank about the suspicion in the way, which will assure the protection of their identities during an internal investigation. Internal Audit The Bank established an internal audit and control unit, which is an independent supervising body (unit directly reporting to the Bank’s Supervisory Board and not to the Management Board). One of its main roles is to verify the functionality of internal control system, compliance with external and internal 21 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Our Stakeholders Clients • Individual clients Our Clients Individual (Private) Clients • Corporate clients The focus of our interest lies in retail banking, where we provide services to more • Public and Non-profit sector than 1.2 million clients: • Financial markets area • citizens – individuals, • small businesses and sole traders, • freelancers, Clients are one of our most important stakeholders and therefore in the centre • non-governmental organizations. of our interest and our priority. We strive to provide them products and services they request in order to achieve their utmost satisfaction. It does not matter if In many banking areas, we hold a significant market position in this segment the client is an individual or a large company; we treat every client equally res(mortgages, credit cards, direct banking), whereas we are often the first ones to ponsibly and professionally. A prerequisite for permanent success is the ability bring new product solutions to the market. to correctly identify clients’ needs. Therefore, also in 2012 we continued in the Listening 100 % project aimed at enhancing the quality of Bank’s services, improCorporate (Business) Clients vement of its processes, innovation of its products and distribution channels. In VUB Bank, corporate clients represent a significant segment. Our unique network of 32 corporate branches around Slovakia ensures our professional and personal approach to clients, whether they are small, medium or large companies, towns and municipalities, farmers or administrators of flats and apartment buildings. We leverage our local expertise connected with an international know-how, which enable us to provide a variety of attractive banking products and services. Moreover, we offer also products aimed at contribution to sustainability of the environment. Municipalities VUB Bank has a position of a strong and reliable partner also in the segment of self-administrations. Combining special advisory and tailored products, we assist the self-administrations in executing their projects. To a great extent, we participate in co-financing of projects supported from EU funds aimed at developing the infrastructure of towns, municipalities and regions. Financial and Capital Markets We render services to a wide spectrum of clients, which are financial institutions and the business clientele including legal and natural entities. We support and have a close cooperation with the clients of retail and private banking and communicate with many partners in the global interbank market on a daily basis. At the end of 2012, VUB Bank counted 1,252,931 clients, thereof 1,151,017 individuals (citizens) and 101,914 business clients (sole traders, large companies, small and medium enterprises). Vaše otázky nám pomáhajú rásť 2012 2011 2010 individual clients 1,151,017 1,153,587 1,153,997 business clients 101,914 102,410 103,036 Total 1,252,931 1,255,997 1,257,033 22 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Client Segmentation Closer to Clients We continuously monitor and every three months evaluate changes in the As at 31/12/2012 VUB Bank’s clients had at their disposal: structure of our clients. This evaluation allows us to regularly revise and improve • 203 retail branches the offer of our services for them. • 11 mortgage centres • 32 corporate branches Our Individual Clients • 1 contact centre • network of Exclusive Business Partners. Classification by Age age: 0 25: 167,323 age: 0 25: 169,770 age: > 61: 244,308 age: > 61: 234,940 During the year we opened 3 new retail branches (Trenčín – Shopping Center Laugarício, Zvolen – Shopping Center Európa and Bratislava – Shopping Center Centrál) and 5 retail branches were closed. 2012 2011 All VUB Bank branches are available to clients 5 days a week. One retail branch age: 41 60: 393,627 age: 26 40: 345,759 age: 41 60: 395,710 age: 26 40: 353,167 operates 6 days a week and 18 retail branches and 1 mortgage centre are available to clients even 7 days a week. Corporate branches are located in all big VUB client’s average age is 45.03. towns around Slovakia in order to be as close to the clients as possible. Classification by Relationship Duration The Kontakt Centre provides services to all clients, whether in Slovakia or ab2012 2011 road, for Slovak Republic citizens and also foreigners. It operates non-stop 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. The operators ensure service and consultancy by less than 1 year 43,307 49,620 telephone and also e-mail. They also carry out activities related to safety of our 1 3 years 143,507 166,000 clients’ funds, whether it is safe working with Internet Banking or payment 4 6 years 168,638 169,808 cards safety. In 2012, we ran a pilot project for remote sale – via the telephone, 7 10 years 198,526 193,588 clients have a possibility to obtain and utilize funds from a granted loan without having to visit the branch. over 10 years 597,039 574,571 In 2012, we started building a network of Exclusive Business Partners, who are Average duration of a client’s relationship with the Bank is 10.75 years. available to clients anywhere in Slovakia, i.e. they will serve the client where the client wishes it. This network arranges for clients mediation of selected Our Corporate Clients products and services exclusively of VUB Bank and its subsidiaries and it closely 9,000 cooperates with the retail business network. 8,000 ATM Network and Safety 7,000 As at 31/12/2012, VUB Bank operated 566 installed ATMs, whereas in 2012 31/12/2012 6 ATMs were installed in new locations. For the purpose of increasing security 6,000 of ATMs, they were equipped with anti-skimming protection. 31/12/2011 5,000 Number of ATMs 4,000 2012 566 2011 560 3,000 2010 554 2,000 1,000 23 0 SME Municipalities Non-proﬁt Large businesses organizations corporate clients Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Availability to Disabled Citizens Active Listening and Dialogue with Clients We strive to make our branches easily available to people with physical disabilities. All newly opened sales points dispose of a barrier-free access and when Customer Care and Query Resolution reconstructing older sales points we always make sure they are barrier-free. Fifty The Customer Care Department was established in 2008. Within the organization percent of ATMs have hardware arrangements for communication with sight-imchart, it reports directly to the Chief Executive Officer of the Bank, so improvepaired individuals. ments proposed and executed based on feedback from our clients could be implemented across the Bank as fast as possible. We get the feedback via 4 alternative Number of Barrier-free Branches channels: 2012 183* • in person at any of the Bank’s sales points 2011 186 • telephonically to the Kontakt Service (tel. 0850 123 000) • in writing to the Customer Care Department (Mlynské nivy 1, 829 90 Bratislava 25) 2010 164 • via the Internet form *The lower number results from several branches having closed. Praising comments from clients always please us. We have therefore developed an initiative in the Bank to gather all praising comments in one place. Such comDirect Banking ments are forwarded directly to the concerned employee, his/her superiors and we In 2012, VUB Bank continued to improve the quality of our non-stop banking publish them on our Intranet as positive examples and motivation for our services. services including the services Kontakt, Internet Banking, Internet Banking Plus, However, not all client queries are positive. Complaints, requests and claims are Mobile Banking and Business Banking. resolved by the Client Query Resolution Sub-department, which is headed by the Customer Care Department. Based on resolution and analysis of those less pleaSecurity and Personal Data Protection sing queries from clients, the Bank changed many of its processes and settings. Protection of confidential data and privacy of our clients is commonplace for us. We are thus very grateful for each feedback we obtain from our clients. Naturally, All information and documents about our clients, which are not publicly acceswe record all complaints, claims and requests in a banking system and settle them sible, mainly the information on clients’ transactions with the Bank and on accoin accordance with the applicable legislation. unt balances, are subject to bank secret. In the crisis years, it became evident that people preferred personal branch visits to other forms of communication with their bank: Branch Security All VUB Bank branches are, in compliance with the relevant regulations, equipped Input channels with a security camera system and other security equipment. The basic security rule at branches is that security and protection of our clients’ lives and health 2012 % 2011 % come always before the protection of the Bank’s property. Branch network (in person) 9,285 61.85 8,340 55.09 Kontakt Centre (by telephone) 4,729 31.50 5,661 37.39 Payment Card Security Bank’s Head Office (in writing) 999 6.65 999 7.52 In 2012, VUB Bank finalized the transfer from non-chip cards to chip technology and currently all our payment cards are equipped with a chip. The chip technology represents a higher level of security in the use of payment cards. Another form In the last 3 years, the total number of recorded inquires dropped. of securing payment cards is insurance in the event of misuse, of a lost or stolen card. This insurance covers holders of payment cards for legal entities and it is Number of Queries provided automatically and without any fees. The insurance covers unauthorized transactions made during 24 hours prior to reporting the blockage of the lost or 2012 15,013 stolen card. 2011 15,140 In 2012, VUB Bank started issuing cards with contactless technology, which incre2010 16,351 ases comfort and speed of payments up to EUR 20. Existing clients have the opportunity to have their existing cards replaced with a contactless card, or the card 24 is issued to them automatically after the expiry of their original card. Security is The most frequent client queries concerned transactions through payment terensured in form of insurance against a contactless payment misuse up to EUR 100. minals and ATMs, deposit products and electronic banking. The Bank’s pro-client Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes approach is proven also by the number of accepted complaints/claims/requests: In 2012, we ran also several activities aimed at identifying the level of satisfac63.38%, which is 5% up compared to 2011 (57.97%). tion of our clients. Within the 2nd Annual Client Day (20/09/2012), we were asking our clients how satisfied they were with our Bank. The outcomes pleaWithin the Client Day, we initiated a competition called “Our Idea for the sed us, since 8 out of 10 clients who visit our branches voiced a high level of Client“, which was open for all Bank employees to participate. The objective satisfaction with our Bank, its staff and services. For the purposes of feedback, of this competition was to publish an actual idea, which was implemented in on the web site http://www.vub.sk/o-banke/starostlivost-klientov/den-klientov/ the Bank with the aim of improving client satisfaction. Three ideas got into the we posted a form, in which we are asking clients whether they would recomsemi-final. The winning team was awarded a teambuilding activity. mend our Bank. For your information, we specify several improvements performed in 2012 baIn 2012, we continued in the successful “Listening 100 %“ program focused sed on client feedback: on a better understanding of client needs. For the purpose of improving the • notifications in ATMs in cases when the ATM does not dispose quality of our services and a joint building of a stable relationship based on of the requested cash trust, it is very important to listen to our clients. Therefore, VUB Bank carries • reduction of foreign bank’s fee in case of recalled international payments out client satisfaction surveys, in which it tries to get opinions on the quality of • Internet Banking service can be selected also with the Senior Account its services and products. • improved transparency of our Price List • issuance of selected banking confirmations on client’s request 1. Retail and SME Client Satisfaction Survey During 2012, we addressed more than 32,000 clients in order to get feedback on the Bank, quality of our sale, our products and services and overall satisfacClient Satisfaction tion of our clients. The level of satisfaction of our clients is expressed by ECSI (the European Customer Satisfaction Index). Within this survey we identify the We realize that not only figures, charts or volumes, but also the “client satisfacsatisfaction of clients broken by individual branches of our Bank. If clients are tion” category is the indicator of and key to our success. It is rooted in quality not satisfied with some branches, this data is included in the specific branch’s service and our effort for continuous improvement on the basis of communicaevaluation, which will be ultimately reflected in the salaries of employees in the tion and feedback from clients. given branch. European Customer Satisfaction Index 85.00 % 85.00 % 84.50 % 84.50 % 84.00 % 84.00 % 83.50 % 83.50 % 83.00 % 83.00 % 82.50 % 82.50 % 82.00 % 82.00 % Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Half-year 2009 2009 2009 2009 2010 2010 2010 2010 2011 2011 2011 2011 2012 25 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes 2. Interbank satisfaction survey of retail and SME clients (Bank benchmarZlatá minca 2012 (Golden Coin). VUB took three golden, two silver and four bronze king, retail and SME customers 2012) carried out by an external company on coins. VUB scored mainly in the categories of housing loans (Fleximortgage), debet a sample of 2,250 respondents. In the survey, we identify satisfaction of clients cards (Maestro Good Angel) and trade financing (Profi Loans), for which it took of our largest banking houses in Slovakia with the products and services of inGolden Coins. It received Silver Coins in the category of credit cards (American Exdividual banks, as well as other indicators. The respondents evaluated VUB as press) and corporate accounts (Flexi Business Account). Bronze Coins went to VUB a bank, the services and products of which they are definitely most satisfied within for the categories of bank accounts (Flexi Account), electronic banking (Internet the fierce competition and they also showed the highest degree of loyalty. We Banking), term deposits (FLEXImore Saving) and consumer loans (Flexi Loan). VUB are pleased to regularly achieve results of quality, which mirror the satisfaction was simultaneously awarded the recognition “2012 Most Forthcoming Bank” within of our clients. Our aim is to maintain a leading position and continue to increase a public voting. The ranking in individual categories was decided by experts from the the quality of products and services we provide. circles of financial journalists, representatives of universities, news agencies, financial servers, financial advisors, professional associations and market research companies. The European Customer Satisfaction Index Zlatá minca (Golden Coin) competition’s objective is to help the lay public orient themselves in the myriad of financial products provided and point at the most quality ones. 82 % VÚB 81.20 % Individual Clients 77.90 % In 2012, in retail banking VUB Bank brought its clients the following innovated Competitive bank 1 and new products: 77.70 % 78.30 % Saving and Investments Competitive bank 2 • new fixed periods for term deposits in EUR – 9 months for individuals and 80.90 % legal entities and 42 months for individuals; 81.50 % • 2 new issues of Guaranteed Deposit with a fixed period of 4 years and a guCompetitive bank 3 75.80% arantee of a minimum yield and the possibility of a bonus yield when meeting terms and conditions for underlying assets, which are the Eurostoxx 50 index (Guaranteed 76.70 % Competitive bank 4 Deposit XXII) and currency pairs EUR/TRY and EUR/PLN (Guaranteed Deposit XXIII); 77.60 % • new issue of mortgage bonds with a fixed period of 3.5 years with the possi60 65 70 75 80 85 90 95 100 bility of an interesting yield; • kombiprodukt VII – combined investment into a term deposit with an 18-month 2012 fixed period and selected mutual funds of VUBAM; 2011 • term deposits in foreign currencies – possibility to open term deposits in HUF and PLN. The Listening 100% program supplements the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) employee program aimed at capturing valuable ideas and implementing them into practice Current Accounts as efficiently as possible. For more details refer to the Employees chapter. • new concept of portfolio Accounts for the Young – new packages of current accounts: Start Junior with a debit card and more convenient interests for the yoBranch Evaluation ung aged 8 to 15 years and Start Generation with the option of opening a saving Also in 2012, we kept evaluating the quality of individual branches of the Bank. account with the service of automatic saving for the young aged 25 to 26 years; This system has been implemented in the Bank since 2006 and it regularly helps more attractive conditions of Start Konto increased number of withdrawals improving weaker spots in the individual branches. The quality of a branch is not from VUB’s ATMs included in the price of the account free of charge and adding evaluated based on the quantity of products sold, but rather on the quality of of the first deposit in cash at a branch in monthly interval free of charge; service and sale. • new component for Flexi Account – option to keep an account for a child Start Junior within the Flexi Account of the legal guardian; Product Development and Innovation • extension of products and services included in the Flexi Account in the highest price tier – adding of a benefit of the first deposit / withdrawal at branch free of Quality Product Offer charge in monthly interval; 26 VUB Bank dedicates increased attention to an ongoing development of products and • switching – simplification of the account transfer process, supplementation of a serservices and their improvement. In 2012, we confirmed our achievements from the vice of continuous provision of information on the account transfer status to the client. past years and won the most awards in the financial products competition entitled the Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Payment Cards • Convenient Flexi Loan for additional financing of housing – for clients • New payment card with contactless technology – EMMA Card – designed for with Flexi Mortgage, who are in need of additional finance; women, who like to shop and enjoy the world of fashion. The card is issued in • Flexi Loan with personal credit line (pre-approved applications) – intwo versions – gift card with initial credit of EUR 50 or 100 with the possibility terest rate determined by the client’s risk profile – a good client gets a more of a renewed recharge up to the amount of EUR 150, which is suitable as a gift favourable interest rate; on any occasion. The second version is a pre-paid card designed for subscri• Flexi Loan – cancellation of loan account maintenance fee; bers of the EMMA Magazine, who along with the annual subscription get the • Online VUB Loan and Flexi Loan via Kontakt Centre – sale of loans via possibility to apply for a pre-paid EMMA Card with an initial credit of EUR 5 from new distribution channels – Internet; VUB. With both versions of EMMA Card, their holders can use the discounts with • Flexi Loan for students provided in cooperation with Aptech Europe serthe partners of EMMA Club; ves for financing of costs related to the parallel ACCP career program, or in • new insurance covers to credit card MasterCard Gold we added new combination with the bachelor’s study with ACCP. travel insurance, which contains for example insurance of medical costs and accidental insurance abroad and assistance services. With the new insurance Small Business Lending for protection of goods, the cardholder obtains insurance of purchased goods • Profi Consolidation Loan – extension of maturity to 48 months; against a direct physical theft or accidental damaging. In addition, the new ex• Profihypo – more favourable terms and conditions for members of selected tended warranty insurance provides one additional year of warranty for purchambers and associations – loan amount increased to EUR 200,000 without chased electronics beyond the 2–year legal warranty. All these insurance covers submission of income documents; are available to the cardholder automatically as they are included in the annual • Profihypo – extension of purposes – refinancing, financing of movable ascard fee, which was not increased in 2012 despite the new services added. sets, at the same time 20 % of the loan amount granted may be used without documenting the loan purpose; Lending • Profihypo – acceptance of documents related to the subject of collateral • Flexi Mortgage for refinancing – convenient interest rate for clients with from the cadastre portal (ownership deeds). clean refinancing (down by 1% against the original interest rate); • Flexi Mortgage with favourable interest rate – convenient interest rate Corporate Clients for clients with a current account in the tier 4 or 5; We consider it essential that the offer of our products and services correspond • Flexi Mortgage – a pro-client step was also a change in the process – acto our clients’ needs. In order to be able to react to these requirements in a ceptance of documents related to subject of collateral from cadastre portal timely fashion, we have been continuously conducting market surveys, perso(ownership deeds); nally meeting with our clients and based on the facts identified, we have been • Green Flexi Mortgage – support of ecological projects financing. Clients developing new products or enhancing the existing ones. Our constant interest that will use Flexi Mortgage for the set ecological purposes (e.g. passive house of bringing new products and services to the market including their enhanceor solar panels), will be supported by VUB with a discount on the fee; ments was visible also in 2012. • Flexi Loan – comprehensive offer for client and unification of accepOur new products and services include: tance criteria for unsecured loans – when applying for an unsecured loan • FLEXI Loan for farmers – simpler terms and conditions for pre-approval (Flexi Loan / credit card / authorized overdraft), the Bank will offer the client of multi-annual loans, simplification and acceleration of approval process for supplementary products as to make available to the client a comprehensive financing specific payments, accelerated technical processing of these loans; offer of loan products; Produkty pre podnikateĘov Úvery Flexihypotéka Sporenie Každodenný život s|bežným úêtom a investovanie AKO SI NASTAVIĸ HYPOTÉKU AKO DRŽAĸ BUDÚCNOSĸ AKO FINANCOVAĸ POTREBY|VAŠEJ FIRMY AKO SA ROZHODNÚĸ PRE SPRÁVNY ÚVER PODėA SVOJICH PREDSTÁV VO|VLASTNÝCH RUKÁCH 27 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes • Loans for Associations of Apartments and Apartment Houses Owners For clarification and facilitation of work with Internet Banking, we prepared – new, more favourable terms and conditions in the effort of supporting projects instructional videos for our clients (one to two-minute video instructions contaiaimed at achieving energetic efficiency while aspiring to come as close to the ning advice on how to proceed in individual operations). needs of clients as possible. In accordance with amendment of Consumer Loans Act No. 129/2010 Coll., which defines concrete provisions applicable for this type of loan, we performed extensive modifications of financing processes in order to ensure the best possible awareness of our clients; • Loan for additional financing of construction of apartments/houses included in the purpose of subsidy from the State Housing Development Fund (ŠFRB) “Apartment Purchase” – this is a term loan designed for construction firms, which in cooperation with the municipality execute construction of apartments/houses included in the purpose of subsidy from the State Housing Development Fund (ŠFRB). Once the construction is terminated, the municipality applies for support with the ŠFRB and the subsidy granted serves to repay the loan; Correct Information at a Correct Time • Introduction of the electronic banking service InBiz on a web platform enabling: In early 2012, under the auspices of the VUB BUSINESS CLUB and in cooperation – access for VUB corporate clients to their accounts abroad kept in other banks of with the consultancy company Deloitte, we launched a series of regional conferenthe Intesa Sanpaolo Group, ces of informational and educational nature for our corporate and private banking – access to accounts of VUB corporate clients for international companies, which clients. The conferences focused on the current topics of today’s world of business are their owners creating thus conditions for a centralized management of finances such as Transaction Banking and Restructuring, Trends in Agricultural Sector, Trade within international companies; Finance and many more. The conferences were held gradually starting out in Žilina, • introduction of Fictitious Cash Pooling service enabling VUB corporate clients then moving to Košice, Bratislava, Sliač, Nitra, Poprad, Lučenec, Púchov, Trnava and to appreciate free funds booked on several accounts in a manner as if they were on ending in Prešov. The objective was to provide our clients with correct information one account without the need of executing payment transfers. at a correct time in order to support their businesses. Professional Associations Simplicity and Transparency in Communication In VUB, we honour our clients and therefore we adjust our range of products and services to their needs and specific requirements. We are trying to know our clients and differentiate our product portfolio so it would meet the requirements of our We want our Bank’s cooperation with clients to be always simple, comfortable and client base in the maximum extent possible. One of the forms of coming closer to beneficial. We are concerned about them being able to exercise their rights and our clients, communicating and cooperating with them is to conclude agreements knowing the Bank’s obligations towards them. As a signatory of Consumer Prowith professional associations (chambers and associations). It is VUB Bank’s interest tection Code of Ethics we inform clients on everything in the most open manner to foster possibly most intense cooperation with professional associations in terms of possible. We provide them with information on our products and services through: mutual communication, promotion of activities, marketing activities and utilization of • employees, bank products and services by their members. The cooperation is intended to make • sales points, the Bank’s products and services as available to the members of professional associa• information flyers, tions as possible. For this reason, our website features a special section for professio• brochures and user handbooks, nal associations. Continuous progress, trustworthiness, reliability and honesty are the • web pages (www.vub.sk, www.flexihypoteka.sk, www.flexiucet.sk, main values we follow in satisfying the needs of professional association members. www.flexibiznisucet.sk, www.startkonto.sk). Our partners include: • Association of Private Physicians, In addition to current information about the Bank and its products and services, • Chamber of Slovak Republic Veterinaries, clients and the general public as well are made available also various interactive • Slovak Dentist Chamber, calculators, e.g. for calculating their maximum loan amount. In order to raise the • Slovak Medical Chamber, clients’ financial awareness, on our Internet site, we prepared a section dedicated • Slovak Sole Trader Chamber, to financial education, where clients and non-clients alike can: • Slovak Agricultural and Foodstuffs Chamber, • get information on the financing options in various life situations, 28 • Slovak Chamber of Commerce and Industry • explore the world of bank products and see that it is not so complex, – Banks and Insurance Companies Section, • learn to manage their finances in a more efficient and time-saving fashion. • other chambers with special offers. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Employees Strategy In 2012, within the HR management strategy we set two main tasks: to increThe following areas were determined in the HR management strategy as the key pillars: ase the overall participation and engagement of employees and to start up a • Development of Management: Change of Managerial Culture – the aim change of managerial culture towards an increased participative management of the change of management style was mainly to draw attention to engastyle, i.e. engaging employees in decision-making more. These targets were ging employees in the decision-making, which is closely related to their ensupposed to support the success of our employees in their daily activities in gagement. In order to support a participative management style and increase order to achieve results and quality, which predetermine our Bank’s long-term trustworthiness in our organization, all managers on all management levels performance. including the Management Board were given system training. This activity was the most significant activity within the development of management for the Our Strategy in 2012: past years. Its benefits will be measured in practice the next year. • Efficient Cost Management in the areas of personnel and compensation, Our priority was to increase participation and engagement of our employees. training and recruitment. For the first time, our dedication to this area was much targeted and we focused on it as a key area, which should bring VUB a higher motivation among Staff Structure by Employment Agreement employees and their increased loyalty. For this purpose, we targeted five areas 2012 % 2011 % of human resources management, which according to an internal analysis needed improvement: Indefinite period 2,939 84.04 2,995 85.09 Definite period 558 15.96 525 14.91 • Perception of VUB Bank as a Good Employer – we continued in activities for employees and for the public as well. Popular among the employees is the My Staff Structure by Type of Employment Company program, which is built on support of off-work activities. We are ple2012 % 2011 % ased that the public perceives VUB as a top company in the market or a desired company they would like to work for. We gained these awards together with Full-time 3,490 99.80 3,511 99.74 the offer of the Internship and Work program at the National Career Days held Part-time 7 0.20 9 0.26 last year. • Adaptation for Head Office Employees – in this area, we pointed at weak Staff Structure by Region spots, which in case of the newly hired employees may lead to their reduced 2012 % 2011 % performance immediately after joining VUB. We addressed adaptation in performance management trainings, which will continue also in 2013. Bratislava 1,582 45.24 1,558 44.26 • Adaptation Process in Retail Business Network is a key process for new emTrnava 226 6.46 236 6.70 ployees who are getting started, getting trained and socialized, representing Trenčín 239 6.83 246 6.99 for us one of the basic pillars of our banking business. A great part of the HuNitra 258 7.38 273 7.76 man Resources Division is dedicated to its detailed management. • Stabilization of Key People – we are glad that turnover of our key people is Žilina 277 7.92 282 8.01 showing a lower percentage of churn rate against the total number of employBanská Bystrica 368 10.52 366 10.40 ees. Despite the fact, it is necessary to concentrate on this group of employees Prešov 283 8.09 289 8.21 who not only mean high performance quality, but they are also future candidates for our open managerial positions. In the retail business network, in 2012 Košice 264 7.55 270 7.67 we opened an important program for talents for managerial positions entitled “Developing the Best Ones”. We selected 30 highly performing employees Staff Structure by Position Type from the network that participated in it, out of whom several got promoted in Number Men Women their careers already during the program. We are planning to continue with this Senior management positions 65 42 23 initiative also in 2013 and prepare a similar program for the Head Office staff. • Management of Compensation Expectations of Employees and Managers Other managerial positions 488 174 314 – over the year, we held workshops and trainings focused on improvement of Non-managerial positions 2,944 716 2,228 29 communication with employees in the area of compensation and performance assessment, altogether for 212 managers. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Staff Structure by Gender Men: 932 Regional Management Trnava 17 182 0.49% 5.20% Regional Management Žilina 31 195 0.89% 5.58% Regional Management of Alternative 15 73 0.43% 2.09% Total: 3,497 Distribution Channels Total 932 2,565 26.65% 73.35% Women: 2,565 Staff Structure by Education Staff Structure by Age Secondary up to 29 years 789 22.56% Secondary without with Secon30 39 years 1,236 35.34% Basic Secondary Bachelor’s University dary School TOTAL 40 49 years 966 27.62% Education School Degree Education Leaving Leaving 50 59 years 479 13.7% Examination Examination 60 years and over 27 0.77% 2 23 1,617 171 1,684 3,497 Average Employment Duration in Years 0.06% 0.66% 46.24% 4.89% 48.16% 100% 7.93 7.60 10.82 10.23 10.05 9.56 Turnover 2012 2010 2012 2010 2012 2010 Compared to the previous period, the turnover (employee departures) increased by men women total 1.49 p.p. to 13.74%. In total, 485 employees quit, thereof 139 men and 346 women. 2011 The turnover rate reflects the current trends, which are among the other demon2011 2011 strated also by an increased movement of labour force in the labour market. Besides 7.71 10.50 9.77 external factors, we strived to reduce the turnover also by the following procedures: • elaboration of an adaptation plan at joining of each employee, • continuing in regular meetings with new hires within the trial and adaptation period, Job Classification by Regions • continuous motivational interviews with the employees following the adaptation men in women period with the aim of obtaining their feedback, (simultaneously it is a source of finmen women % in % dings about potential departures of new hires and solving of such undesired situaHead Office Total 568 761 16.24% 21.76% tions), • improving quality of recruiting tools in key positions (assessment and development Corporate Network Total 55 88 1.57% 2.52% centre), Regional Management Bratislava 8 15 0.23% 0.43% • implementation of new mentoring concept, which lead to improvement of quality Regional Management – West 17 26 0.49% 0.74% and acceleration of orientation of new hires for their future work, Regional Management – Centre 11 27 0.31% 0.77% • the new mentoring also shifted the churn rate of new employees within the period of 3 months after joining, Regional Management – East 19 20 0.54% 0.57% • preventive solving of personnel issues through HR relationship managers in regions Retail Network Total 309 1,716 8.84% 49.07% and at the Head Office, Regional Management Bratislava East 53 146 1.52% 4.18% • having interviews at employment termination, finding out the reasons for departures and subsequent work with these reasons. Regional Management Bratislava West 46 164 1.32% 4.69% Regional Management Banská Bystrica 25 191 0.71% 5.46% Overview of Departures in 2012 Regional Management Košice 29 189 0.83% 5.40% Gender Departures Average Headcount Turnover in % Regional Management Nitra 28 191 0.80% 5.46% men 139 929 14.97 30 Regional Management Prešov 33 206 0.94% 5.89% women 346 2,601 13.30 Regional Management Trenčín 32 179 0.92% 5.12% Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Age Category reby we have been maintaining our position of a strong and desired employer in the Slovak market. In 2012, we hired 459 external candidates. We staffed 353 below 30 151 741 20.37 vacancies from our internal sources. VUB ranked among the most interesting com30 39 200 1,274 15.69 panies preferring students. This is evidenced also by the awards we received at the 40 49 70 988 7.08 National Career Days – My Desired NCD Company and TOP Employer. 50 59 55 497 11.06 Besides common recruitment, we concentrated also on the group of university 60 and over 9 29 31.03 students. Within the “Internship and Work“ project, we offered them a unique opRegion portunity to get employed in the Bank as interns and so widen their horizons and Bratislava 189 1,573 12.02 contact with practice. In the first year of the program (2011/2012) 44 young people got the internship in VUB Bank. Out of students, who during the program sucTrnava 51 240 21.28 cessfully terminated their university study 16 interns got a job offer. In the second Nitra 45 268 16.77 year (2012/2013) we have currently 20 new students in the internship program. Trenčín 27 247 10.91 Žilina 35 284 12.33 Performance Management and Career Development In the Bank we guarantee equal opportunities in professional development and Banská Bystrica 60 367 16.34 growth, access to development tools and work positions. We provide all employees Prešov 33 268 12.33 with a possibility of expressing their individuality and creativity at work, while supKošice 45 284 15.87 porting innovations. Professional development and growth of employees is covered Total Turnover 13.74% by the Performance and Development Management System aimed at: • creating conditions for individual development of employees and enabling so the Bank’s development as a whole, Recruitment • strengthening the employees’ engagement in Bank’s development, In recruiting and hiring new employees we follow the rules based on assessment of • ensure that all employees efficiently contribute to meeting goals, individual knowledge, skills and personal prerequisites relevant for the vacant posi• increasing transparency and fairness of the compensation policy. tion being staffed. We pay due care to adhering to the principles of impartiality and avoid protectionism, misuse or discrimination. Job applicants interested in working We enable our employees to develop their careers horizontally and also vertically, with us can refer to our Internet page in the “Career” section, which provides an while growing within the company. The point of this development path is that overview of the current vacancies. Using an electronic questionnaire, the job applieverybody gets a targeted support in development of their competencies needed cants can apply for the vacancies and send their curricula vitae. to succeed at their work. It always starts with an adaptation orientation, which is later on followed by trainings according to the type of position, knowledge and One of the most important sources in staffing vacant positions is the VUB employee skills required to accomplish tasks. base itself through internal recruitment. Open or newly created positions present an opportunity not only for external candidates, whose main contribution is the An important part of the Performance and Development Management System is “fresh wind” they bring, i.e. new experience and practice, but also a chance for the evaluation process. In 2012, we implemented a unified evaluation system (Glointernal employees in their further career growth. An employee who is successful bal Performance System) for all subsidiaries of Intesa Sanpaolo. Its main task is to in the internal recruitment has to go through a standard adaptation period, which evaluate the employee’s targets for the past period and plan key tasks and targets will enable him/her to better manage the process of joining and learn the new job supporting the Bank’s strategy for the future period. Each year, all employees are in the position. evaluated by their direct superiors subject to their work position and classification. Within the whole process, an important role is played by the employee himself/herLast year, we continued in the Find Your Colleague activity around Slovakia aimed self, who declares his/her ambitions and ideas regarding his/her future career. The at engaging internal employees in searching for and recommending candidates for superior employee, based on employee’s performance, motivation and potential vacancies. In case of all proposed candidates, we were assessing how suitable they coordinates his/her further development and growth. were for the given position. Only the best of the best made it through the standard recruitment process. After six months and subsequently also after the candidate spends a year in the position, the employee is paid out a motivation reward. Compensation 31 The main principles of our employees’ Compensation Policy are transparency, During 2012, about 20,903 people showed interest in employment with us, whefairness (internally and also externally) and motivation factor. The system is Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes set up as to enable the Bank to be competitive in the labour market and at the by provision of a summer camp allowance. Last year, we developed a strategy of new same time sufficiently attractive for its employees. The Bank monitors and reacts approach to employees’ health care and balance between their work and private life. to the wage and inflation development in Slovakia so that the real wages would correspond to these trends. We designed a new structure of benefits effective from 01/01/2012, which has been inspired by the employee survey results. We have introduced several novelties, for The basic tool for setting up the compensation policy is the Catalogue of Working example, contribution for preventive screenings, possibility to take days off in halfPositions defining the working positions in the Bank, their job descriptions (brief -days, a paid leave day before wedding, commuting allowance, for fathers a paid characteristics), “sizes“ of individual positions across the Bank are measured based leave day after birth of a child or for parents of first graders half-day on their child’s on: first school day. We inform our employees on the current offer of benefits via Intranet • complexity of work, and other communications channels. • work with confidential information, • impact on company’s performance, In 2012, we successfully continued with the My Company program, in which we • core-business and support, strive to reward active employees engaging in the life of VUB through activities that • initiative and performance monitoring, are not necessarily directly related to their work duties or job description. It is a way • knowledge and experience, how to show them our respect and at the same time promote their activities such as • management and independence. blood donation, advisory for secondary grammar school and university students or volunteering. The Compensation Policy is made up of a fixed and a variable component. The fixed component reflects the work position, its “size”, complexity and perforPercentage of Funds Spent on Employee Benefits in 2012 mance from a long-term perspective. The variable component corresponds to the employee’s performance and it is simultaneously a motivation tool designed to Form of Employee Benefit 2012 (%) increase the personal involvement of employees in accomplishing the tasks set and to reward their performance and contribution to the Bank. 3rd pillar / supplementary pension insurance 28.55 Food allowance from Social Fund 24.59 Overall annual as well as individual results are evaluated by the Compensation Day off with wage compensation beyond Labour Code 19.04 Committee consisting of CEO, Deputy CEO, Executive Director of Finance, PlanCommuting allowance 10.03 ning and Controlling Division, Executive Director of Human Resources Division. The Committee is also charged with approval of annual evaluation results, variable Clothing allowance 8.92 wage components and base wage adjustments. Anniversary bonuses 5.66 Social contributions 1.00 Benefits Care for employees’ children 0.87 Irrespective of their job classification, the Bank provides all its employees with a wide Care for employees’ health 0.79 range of benefits (i.e. financial and non-financial benefits). Already the second year, the food allowance is fully financed by the Bank. We also continue to provide an Allowance for recruitment 0.54 allowance at the birth of a child or financial aid to employees facing complex life situations. The retail network employees who are in daily contact with the clients are Note: The table does not include the bank products that the employee can take advantage of under more favourable conditions. provided a clothing allowance. We also make contributions to supplementary pension saving, while the contribution made by the employer and by the employee is 1:1. The The Bank accommodates its employees by means of several measures supporting employees can also use some banking products under more favourable conditions a more efficient harmonization of their work and private life. These measures include e.g. free-of-charge bank account maintenance, favourable interest rates on term acflexible working hours (beginning optional between 7.00 am and 9.00 am and end counts, consumer or mortgage loan at favourable interest rates or discount rates on between 4.00 pm and 7.00 pm), four days off per year for intensified healthcare beyond insurance. We also keep developing an interesting benefit in form of an employee the framework of legal title to holiday. Employees who are single parents taking care of discount system. It has already become a tradition that we do not forget even about a child under 15 years of age (in case of invalid children until 26 years) and pregnant the employees’ children. Also in 2012, they got a present at the occasion of the Inwomen from the fourth month of pregnancy are allowed to use two additional days off ternational Children’s Day and in summer, 26 children of VUB employees spent two per year. These days off are paid as the base wage in a calendar half-year. An important 32 weeks in a children’s camp in an Intesa Sanpaolo facility, in the Italian seaside town of change in 2012 was that all Head Office workplaces with flexible working hours had the Follonica. Besides organizing the camp, we have widened the offer of benefits also Fridays’ working hours shortened by one hour. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Training and Development improvement, thereof 9 ideas are currently being implemented. Since the program’s VUB Bank creates preconditions for a continuous and systematic growth of its employlaunch, we have so far implemented 106 proposals in practice. ees’ qualification, supporting their training in the areas crucial from the perspective of the Bank’s needs and their personal development. Specific training requirements are Employee Survey addressed according to individual needs in collaboration with external training orgaTowards the end of 2011, we performed a regular employee satisfaction survey nizations in the Slovak Republic and abroad mainly in form of participation in selected coordinated directly from the Head Office of our parent bank identifying the climate training activities. VUB Bank’s own training centre VUB Academy organizes technical and satisfaction among employees across the whole Intesa Sanpaolo Group. We obcourses and also corporate and personal development courses. The Academy prepares tained and analyzed the results of this survey at the beginning of 2012. In VUB, the professional and skilled employees, supports continuous development of employees participation was 1,773 employees, which represents 44 % of all employees. In the and their careers, motivates and stabilizes the employees. electronic questionnaire, the employees could anonymously express their views on five areas. The survey outcomes showed that the overall satisfaction reached 84.7 %, We continued developing e-learning and e-testing through our e-learning system which represents a slight increase vis-à-vis the previous year. The suggestions given AMOS. In the system, the employees can view the catalogue of educational and traiin the employee survey confirmed that we needed to continue focusing on two arening activities and take an initiative approach to their development and career growth. as of improvement, which the Bank’s management approved as priorities and these The e-courses and e-tests are available at any time and the users can repeat them were incorporated in an action plan. First of all, these are engagement of employees several times. The application contains courses on current topics, trainings for indiviinto the decision-making process by their superiors. We addressed this topic also in dual working procedures and freely available tests up-to-date for the given position or our development program designed for the Bank’s managers. The second priority product and many trainings. is supporting balance between the work and private life of employees. In this area, we prepared several changes in employee benefits and also recommendations for In 2012, the total training time reached 24,753 days. The average number of training managers. Throughout 2013, we will carry on with the employee survey to be able days was 7 days (in 2010 the average was 6.9 days, in 2011 the average was 7.9 days). to efficiently evaluate all the activities we had implemented. E-learning training time reached 17,332 days. Diversity and Equal Opportunities Number of Training Days VUB committed not to discriminate, respect the principles of equal treatment, 2012 2011 2010 by Position exclude from its actions any discrimination and respect differences based on Managers 6,253 days 4,559 days 5,190 days gender, age, race, faith, political opinion, participation in unions, language skiOthers 18,500 days 22,986 days 19,060 days lls, impairment, marital or family status, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property or other position. By signing the Collective Agreement, Since 2007, the Bank has been traditionally organizing a so-called Welcome Day it also undertook to observe the discrimination ban in compliance with the for new employees. It is held each month and its aim is to give the new employees a Labour Code. The employees must not be harmed for exercising their rights basic overview of the Bank in which they are about to start working. They will learn ensuing from industrial relations. In 2012, no action was filed regarding a case about the history of VUB and Intesa Sanpaolo Group, its market position, portfolio of discrimination. The Bank provides everybody with equal opportunities for of products and services it provides, company structure but also of employee rights, personal and professional growth giving each employee an equal opportunity obligations and benefits. to assert himself/herself. Differentiation of employees according to their work prerequisites and performance is however not considered discrimination. Another program, in which we are trying to form our own professionals, is the Mentoring Program. Employees in senior positions become mentors, who hand The majority of our employees are women – at the end of 2012, there were over their practical experience to junior colleagues, mostly to the newly hired em2,565 women working in the Bank out of a total of 3,497 employees. This ployees or employees after return to work from maternity or parental leave. With disproportion in favour of women occurs mainly in the retail business network, the mentor’s assistance, the employee will adapt to the working position more easiit is mostly women that work at the branches. Two women are represented on ly. In January 2012, we implemented changes to the mentoring in the whole branch the Bank’s Management Board and one on the Supervisory Board. Also in 2012, network, which helped us to improve the quality of adaptation orientation of new we were employing disabled citizens altogether 36 persons. employees. The indicators in regard to protection of rights of aboriginal inhabitants, child labor and forced or compulsary labor are not relevant due to the geographic 33 Within the ZAPNi (SWITCHon) program, we give our employees space to search for innovative solutions with the purpose of improving satisfaction of clients or emlocation of our business activities. ployees themselves. In 2012, the staff submitted altogether 222 suggestions for Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Occupational Health Protection Despite the above-mentioned measures taken within the trainings on occupational The Bank considers its obligation to create a working environment and conditions safety and health protection, prevention and risk control, in 2012 we recorded 7 ocpursuant to the Slovak technical standards and hygiene regulations. The topics of cupational injuries and related 159 business days out of work. In the given year, we did safety and protection of health at work are contained in internal regulations and not record any diseases related to the performance of profession. Collective Agreement. The rights of all employees in this respect are represented also by the Trade Union representatives. In accordance with Article 20 of the Act Number of Occupational Injuries, Days Lost and Out of Work as a Result of the National Council of the Slovak Republic No. 124/2006 Coll. on Occupatioof Work Impact nal Safety and Health Protection, the main Occupational Safety Commission is noNumber Number Number minated in the Bank. It consists of 7 members: 4 employee representatives (trade Region of Injuries of Business Days of Calendar Days union members) and 3 employer representatives. Besides the main commission, in 2012 out of Work out of Work nominated are also regional occupational safety commissions for each region, Bratislava 4 71 99 which carry out regular annual preventive inspections. The regional commission works at least in a four-member set up: employee representative, two employer Trnava 1 25 36 representatives (regional facility management technician and branch manager), Trenčín 0 0 0 and occupational safety technician. Altogether, there are 294 occupational safety Nitra 0 0 0 commission members, i.e. a percentage of the total workforce represented in forŽilina 2 63 87 mal joint occupational safety commissions falls in the category of up to 25% of the total employee count. Banská Bystrica 0 0 0 Prešov 0 0 0 Types of Trainings, Risk Preventions and Controls Košice 0 0 0 Each new employee is obliged to participate in an orientation training pursuant to Act Total in 2012 7 159 222 No. 124/2006 Coll. on Occupational Safety and Health Protection and on amendment and supplementation of some acts. Periodical trainings on occupational safety and heTotal in 2011 6 185 259 alth protection in accordance with the above-stated legislation and the Bank’s internal regulations are taken by all Bank employees every two years in electronic form. The Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Bank ensures also training for employee safety representatives (trade union members) Freedom of association and collective bargaining are regulated by the Labour Code, and a first aid course. Activities in the area of occupational safety and health protection Collective Bargaining Act and the Act on Freedom of Association. Collective Agre(annual comprehensive inspections, provision of personal work protective equipment, ement governs individual and collective relations between the employer and emtraining, investigation of occupational injuries, measures for enhancement of work enployees, which are more convenient than the ones stipulated by the Labour Code vironment, updating of internal regulations) are semi-annually submitted at evaluation or any other generally binding legal regulation. The Bank committed to preserve the of the Collective Agreement. Training and consultancy concerning the employees is trade union rights, namely the freedom of association of employees in trade unions ensured by the occupational safety technicians from an external company. and collective bargaining in accordance with the generally binding legal regulations. Collective Agreement is concluded for the period of 3 years between VUB and the Within prevention and risk control, a Work Medical Service performs an inception audit Council of VUB Trade Union Representatives. It applies to all employees in an emat the opening of a new branch. Medical services, first aid trainings, workplace superviployment relation with the employer irrespective of their membership in the trade sion and preventive medical examinations according to the type of work performed are union. The provisions of the Collective Agreement supersede the Bank’s internal ensured by a work medical service from an external company. The Bank ensures safe regulations in the scope of commitments concluded in the Collective Agreement. working conditions not detrimental to health in premises where cash is handled and in premises where works of technological nature are performed. In case an employee uses a company car, he/she is obliged to take a driving capacity examination every 2 Notification Duty The Labour Code imposes on the employer a notification duty against employyears. ee representatives in connection with the economic and financial situation and the projected development of its activities. Notification is to be performed “in a Due to the nature of our company’s business, there is a possibility that our employees comprehensible manner and at a suitable time“. Under the Labour Code, the emfind themselves in situations endangering their lives, e.g. in case of a branch robbery. ployer is obliged to negotiate fundamental changes regarding, among the other, In these rare cases, they are provided professional psychological assistance and are status, structure and projected development of employment with employee repre34 entitled to 5 business days off for recovery. sentatives in advance. Provision of further information including specific deadlines is agreed, under the wording of the Labour Code, in the Collective Agreement. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Internal Communication and Dialogue with Employees carrier of the information, which gets closer to the others. In supporting the In the Bank, we understand that if we expect our employees to deliver the best company’s brand perception, values and naturally also the business we make possible performance, we must regularly inform them of what is happening, use of all internal communication channels including posters, Intranet, magaziwhy and where the company is heading and what is the place of each of them ne or personal e-mails, or for example also computer screen savers. in this fulfilment. At the same time, we are giving them the space to voice their own opinions and ideas engaging them also in the decision-making processes. With the aim of supporting the team spirit and informal relations, a sports and Internal communication is based on seven values common for the whole Intesa nomination event named VUB CUP was held. The best employees from the Sanpaolo Group and it helps in delivering our vision and mission. In 2012, we event went on to represent VUB at international sports tournaments organized continued improving the quality of cooperation among employees and diffeby our parent company. At year-end, we had the traditional Christmas meetings rent units. We concentrated on the topics of work-life balance and also on that were supplemented by announcement of the most active employees in the the change of people management culture. These suggestions came from the My Company program. The meetings were organized in three towns – Košice, results of our employee survey. Banská Bystrica and Bratislava so that all employees could attend. In order to Also in 2012, corporate Intranet was being built as the key and most efficient support the delivery of business objectives, motivation and competitiveness in tool of internal communication, whereas employees themselves were drawn 2012 we continued in the employee competition called VUB Super League. into creation of its content even to a greater extent. Each piece of information on Intranet has its sponsor, and so employees know at any moment, whom they should turn to in case of need. In 2012, we brought more than 150 news Nemusíte ho mať na čele, reports on the happening in the VUB Group or in the international group Intesa aby ho niekto zistil Sanpaolo. The periodicity of the WORLD internal magazine remained on the bi-monthly basis also in 2012. Its design and also content sections observed the uniform concept of Intesa Sanpaolo Group, so employees get regular information from the international level. The magazine kept being distributed in the volume of 4,000 prints to all employees of VUB Group including the subsidiaries. Information on key events is regularly brought by the Chief Executive Officer via an electronic bi-monthly CEO Newsletter and the topics from the human resources management and benefits are covered in the HR Newsletter issued four times a year. Understanding the message is the key element in setting up internal communication well. If the people are to understand what and how is happening in the company, a dialogue and two-way communication are a must. Employees have therefore always the possibility to ask the CEO questions by means of an Intranet form, comment on topics important for the Bank and the employee as such, e.g. on the system of benefits, form and content of Intranet and internal magazine. All these open forums are on the Intranet under a special section. Evaluation and surveys of internal communication channels is carried out regularly on an annual basis. Simona Červenková Active Engagement of Employees into Bank’s Life poradca klienta, Nové Zámky Also in 2012, we continued preparing internal campaigns as a unique and Zabráňte zneužitiu svojho hesla a identity original method of communication with the employees in order to motivate V banke prichádzame do styku s citlivými informáciami, treba ich chrániť rovnako ako majetok banky. Zneužitie identity a prístupového hesla je častým prípadom narušenia bezpečnosti. Zabráňme tomu. them with each topic to active engagement and interactivity. We appreciate Keď si vytvoríme vhodné heslo, držme ho len vo svojej hlave a nehovorme ho kolegom. Opatrnosť je namieste aj v prípade osobných vstupných kariet. Tie nosme neustále pri sebe a neumožňujme pro-activeness of people and at the same time we are trying to present envineoprávnený vstup nepovolaným osobám. Nikto z nás, ani ja, svoje heslo v skutočnosti na čele napísané nemá. Pri používaní hesiel a osobných vstupných kariet sa musíme riadiť základnými bezpečnostnými pravidlami, o ktorých sa dozvieš na intranete. Ochránime tak nielen svoju identitu, ale aj našu banku. ronmental topics. In 2012, within an internal campaign, we got our employees specifically engaged in protection and support of the environment. The best ones received plants in flower pots for a more pleasant working environment. Campaigns aimed at the inside of VUB are introduced on a monthly basis each 35 time with a new topic, up to date for the given period. The face of the campaign is always an employee involved in the topic. Thus, he/she becomes the VUB interka interka A1-.indd 5 24.4.2009 9:09 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Shareholders VUB Share Capital and Shares The share capital amounts to € 430,819,063.81 and is divided into the first wave of the coupon privatization in 1991. The number of shareholders fell from the original approx. 80,000 to the current number of over 39,500 sha• 4,078,108 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value reholders. The majority shareholder is the Italian banking group, Intesa Sanpaolo, of EUR 33.20 per share and which became the owner of VUB in 2001. The shareholder structure is described • 89 registered and book-entered shares with a nominal value of EUR 3,319,391.89 in detail in the Profile and Governance chapter. per share. VUB paid up its whole share capital. VUB shares are traded in a public equity Dialogue with Shareholders The priority of VUB Bank is to strive for efficient communication with all the Bank’s market organized by the Bratislava Stock Exchange, under share numerical code shareholders and ensure that they are informed accordingly. The General Secretariat ISIN – SK 111 000 1437 in the total number of 4,078,108 units. Information on Staff Unit provides for a constant dialogue with the shareholders and the Corporate these shares is also available at the official web page of the Stock Exchange under the section securities/markets, quoted market and issue detail of VUB. VUB Bank Strategy and Economic Research Department bears responsibility for communication issued also 89 registered shares that are, however, not publicly tradable. with the rating agencies and analysts. The dialogue with shareholders involves several forms, formal and also informal, in the Slovak and also English language, in written Information on VUB shares traded on public equity market form, over the telephone and by means of personal meetings. The main medium is Name Share of Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. the site www.vub.sk with a separate section entitled “Information for Shareholders” Form book-entered share* containing necessary information, instructions and forms. It contains also practical proType registered share cedures for legal acts related to the transactions most frequently required by the Bank’s shareholders, mainly: Issuer Všeobecná úverová banka, a.s. Country of Issuance Slovak Republic • Method and place of dividend payout, Number of Shares Issued 4,078,108 units • Change of shareholder’s address or name – whom to notify and how, • Inheritance of VUB shares – legal steps and title to dividend, Nominal Value € 33.20 • Donation of VUB shares – legal steps, Placement of Shares Issued Bratislava Stock Exchange • Power of Attorney for payout of dividend from VUB shares and transfer of the right Equity Market Main listed stock market to dividend, Trading Currency euro (€) • Power of Attorney for participation at the General Meeting, • Requirements related to documents legally certified abroad, ISIN ISIN SK 111 000 1437 • Participation of shareholders at the General Meeting of Shareholders – rights and Ticker symbol 1VUB02A requirements Share index SAX • Full wording of documents and draft resolutions subject to discussion at the General Meeting, Note: • Results of voting at the General Meeting. * a book-entered share means an electronic record in the register of the Central Securities Depository 36 of the Slovak Republic VUB has a great number of minority shareholders, who acquired their shares in Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Besides the above-mentioned procedures, the Internet site provides shareholVUB Share Development ders also with the following useful information: Information on the current price of VUB shares in the public equity market is re• Decisions on dividend payout for individual years, gularly published in daily press with national coverage releasing stock exchange • Information on their taxation, news, e.g. PRAVDA, Hospodárske noviny or on the web site of Bratislava Stock • Development of VUB share price, Exchange (www.bsse.sk). The VUB share is included in the Slovak Share Index • Information on Bank’s share capital and VUB share distribution, SAX and influences its development to a significant extent. • Information on shareholder structure, • Information on the majority shareholder, • List of Bank’s Management Board and Supervisory Board members, • Press releases and analytical reports, • Financial statements and important basic information on the Bank’s activities, • Information on VUB Bank’s market position and its evaluation, Average Development of VUB Share for 2012 in EUR • Market shares, 140 • Rating, 120 • Bank’s vision and mission and its awards, 100 • Abstract of VUB Bank’s data from the Commercial Register of the Slovak Republic, 80 • Annual reports. 60 40 Overview of Dividend Payout from VUB Share 20 0 Dividend Amount Maturity Dividend for Year December 2011 January 2012 February 2012 March 2012 April 2012 May 2012 June 2012 July 2012 August 2012 September 2012 October 2012 November 2012 December 2012 per VUB Share Date 2011 EUR 3.65 June 1, 2012 2010 EUR 4.60 June 1, 2011 2009 EUR 4.50 June 4, 2010 Source: Bratislava Stock Exchange 2008 EUR 0.00 – 2007 EUR 4.48 June 2, 2008 Shareholder Rights and Obligations The rights and obligations of shareholders are stipulated by relevant legal regulaNote: tions and the VUB Articles of Association. All shares are attached a shareholder’s Dividend maturity date is the date when the dividend payout starts and it was determined by the right to take part in the management of VUB and the title to a share in its profit. decision of the General Meeting. The shareholder’s right to take part in the management of VUB Bank can be exercised at the General Meeting. Profit distribution to shareholders in form of dividends 37 is subject to the General Meeting’s decision. The shares are freely transferable either by registering their transfer in the Central Securities Depository of the Slovak Republic or by registering their transfer with a member of the Central Depository Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes based on a transfer and/or transition registration order. Members of the Supervisory and Management Boards regularly attend all General Meetings facilitating their smooth course and simultaneously answering the The General Meeting is the Bank’s top decision-making body representing all sharequestions and inquiries presented by shareholders. VUB Bank accepts all its obliholders and its decisions approved pursuant to applicable legal regulations and Bank’s gations resulting from the legislation with regard to the shareholders. The Bank Articles of Association are binding for all shareholders. It is competent for the folobserves provisions of the Commercial Code applicable to protection of sharehollowing most important decisions: ders’ rights, in particular provisions on timely supply of all relevant information about the company and provisions on convening and conducting its annual Gene• decision on amendment of the Articles of Association, ral Meetings. The Bank adheres to the principle of equal access to information for • decision on increase and decrease of share capital and decision on authorizing the all shareholders pursuant to the Code. Management Board to increase the share capital, • decision on issuance of preference bonds or convertible bonds, 2012 Shareholder Protection Initiatives The 262 Project has been running in VUB since 2007. Its aim is to achieve compliance with the requirements of the Italian Act No. 262 inspired by the American Sarbanes Oxley Act. The Act 262 was issued in order to ensure significant strengthening of investments protection. The measures deriving from the Act cover a wide area and are aimed at various activities, such as governance of joint-stock companies, rules for accounting audit, rules for financial instruments, conflict of interests, transparency and market regulations. This Act is a part of a legal scenario aimed at consistent enhancement of governance. The objective of Project 262 in VUB is to review the internal control system, identify its shortcomings and based on the results adjust it in order to eliminate the potential risk and ensure a true and fair representation of the financial situation. • decision on change of rights connected with any type of VUB shares and on limitation of transferability of VUB shares, The Act No. 262 requires that individual companies identify processes, which in• election and dismissal of Supervisory Board members, with the exception of Superfluence the financial information, evaluate associated relevant risks and based on visory Board members elected and dismissed by VUB employees, this propose adequate design of internal controls with the purpose of eliminating • approval of regular and/or extraordinary individual and/or consolidated financial potential risks. The project’s basis lies in identifying and promptly responding to a statements, decision on profit distribution or settlement of losses and determination potentially insufficient functioning of the internal control system. This will assure of the amount of profit bonuses, improvement in the quality of financial reporting also by means of business ethics, • decision on distribution of retained earnings from previous years and/or settlement efficient internal audits and good corporate governance. The Act No. 262 assigof unsettled losses from previous years, ned the responsibility for the contents of financial reports, accounting procedures • decision on utilization of reserve fund, applied, adequately set up control system and procedures and a true and fair • decision on amount, method and place of dividend payout and determination of view of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and cash flows to the Chief Executive the decisive date for designation of persons entitled to exercise their title to dividends. Officer. Both the Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer sign a representation confirming that adequate and efficient procedures of accounting Prior to the General Meeting, VUB Bank sends all shareholders an invitation with and financial reporting have been applied. Benefit of the whole project is provian agenda of the General Meeting including annexes and basic information that ding shareholders with security concerning a true and regulatory presentation of will be subject to the discussion. Additional information is available to the sharethe capital, economic and financial position of the VUB Group and adequacy and holders for viewing in the Bank’s registered office or they are sent upon request. efficiency of the internal control system and procedures. The invitation and basic documents are also published on the Bank’s Internet site and in periodical press with national coverage publishing stock exchange news. Instructions on shareholder rights under Article 180 Sect. 1 and Article 181 Sect. 1 of Act No. 513/1991 Coll. Commercial Code as amended and documents and data pursuant to Article 184a Sect. 1 and 2 of Commercial Code are published on Internet site of VUB Bank in the “Information for Shareholders” section at least thirty days prior to the General Meeting. 38 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes 39 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Suppliers • small and medium enterprises ambition to cooperate with VUB Bank in the future. For the existing partners, it simultaneously presents a challenge to continuously improve the quality of their products • large supplier firms and chains and services in order to be a valuable partner of VUB Bank also for the future period. VUB Bank expects its partners to have a flexible, proactive and forthcoming approach Strategy coupled with high efficiency. VUB is interested to develop long-term business relations Suppliers represent one group of VUB Bank’s stakeholders that are significantly inbuilt on open prices with the aim of achieving possibly the most convenient supplier fluenced by our corporate responsibility and observance of the Code of Ethics enterms and conditions acceptable for both parties. suing therefrom. VUB Bank requires that its suppliers adhere to principles, which form a part of its business and which it perceives as a natural part of the Code of Application of Corporate Social Responsibility Rules with Suppliers Ethics and its daily actions. In 2012, within the tender process we actively started requiring from our suppliers to VUB Bank realizes that the Bank’s good business performance is a benefit for all comply with the rules of Corporate Social Responsibility via the document “Declarastakeholder groups and suppliers have an indispensable position among them. tion on Compliance with Corporate Social Responsibility Principles”. With its signature, VUB is one of the largest Slovak companies and as such it also has a broad network the tender bidder – future business partner, confirms to VUB Bank that it conducts its of business partners its suppliers. By purchasing goods and services, it indirectly business activities in line with the principles of ethics, transparency, good morals, good generates benefits for the whole society, namely in form of employment and busimanners and observes the legal regulations of the Slovak Republic. The bidder further ness financial performance of its suppliers. An indispensable commitment of VUB confirms that it refuses and penalizes any forms of corruption including blackmailing or Bank with respect to suppliers includes responsible practices in the environmental bribery, supporting a fair competition. It declares that it is not involved in breaching huand social areas. man rights and it observes and respects international human rights in business. The bidder respects the right to freedom of association and collective bargaining and it likewise Transparency, equal opportunities and efficiency – these are the attributes, respects the rights of employees ensuing from the collective agreement, while simulwhich most adequately characterize VUB Bank’s responsible approach in relation to taneously respecting the international ban on forced and children labour in any form. suppliers. These attributes are applied not only in selection of suppliers but also in definition of internal supplier processes or relations. One of the basic prerequisites Application of Electronic Auctions System for success in a competitive market is an efficient manner of spending funds for For selecting suppliers VUB Bank has been using, in the maximum possible extent, the goods and services that VUB Bank needs for its activities. The total amount of such electronic auctions called Access Point. This system enables suppliers to submit their pricosts directly contributes to the business performance, impacting the Bank’s profit. ce bids in electronic form at the same time and in one virtual place. Electronic auctions are thus available to all companies meeting the conditions set in advance and VUB Bank transparently accelerates and makes the procurement process as well as correct price neTransparent Selection of Suppliers gotiation more effective. Electronic auction is one of possible “open” forms of negotiation Suppliers of VUB Bank are significantly influenced by observance of the Code of Ethics. ensuring in procurement of goods and services equal opportunities and fair play in the In relation to suppliers, the Bank professes values such as fair play and transparency. process of supplier selection. In the interest of creating and building an open partnership across the whole supplier Out of the total number of tenders, in 2012 VUB Bank performed approx. 17% of price portfolio of VUB is the Bank’s effort to principally cooperate with those suppliers that negotiations by means of using the electronic e-auction. This form of selection may not be respect these values. applied to all purchases, which is correspondingly reflected in the percentage. As a tool for 40 Procurement in VUB Bank is open to a wide spectrum of suppliers. VUB Bank gives efficient negotiation, time saving for the Bank and the supplier, transparent and efficient space and business opportunity to all that are not its business partners yet and have an process of negotiation with suppliers, we will use the electronic auction also in the future Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes period. Although inconsiderably, but using the tool we are positively influencing our Adopted Measures suppliers. It leads to paper saving, as we communicate by means of electronic distribuAn interesting example of how to do it, is for example the use of envelopes. tion channels. Until now, in the Bank’s correspondence we had been using envelopes from recycled paper. Neverthless, we decided to move to the next level. In June 2012, Legislation Governing Procurement Process in the we were the first bank in Slovakia to use the eco-envelopes. This means that we used ecological offset colours from renewable raw materials, such as soy Slovak Republic and Its Impacts on VUB Bank’s Activities oil, linseed oil or rapeseed oil to print on them. These envelopes had also the Selection of suppliers in VUB Bank is not subject to the Public Procurement Act certified Green Energy logo. Since until now, in VUB Bank we had been using applicable in the Slovak Republic. In 2012, VUB Bank was not imposed any fines envelopes with the classical window film, in case of the eco-envelope we replafor inobservance of any laws or regulations concerning procurement and purchaced the film with a film made of renewable sources. Such film will easily degrase of products and services. Internally, VUB Bank has a sufficiently strong control de in the industrial composting equipments, by which we managed to fulfil the standard on biological degradability and compostability. The envelopes carried the message that VUB was a company saving the environment and since the Bank did this in the partnership with the supplier company Harmanec–Kuvert, both companies decided to do even something in addition: for each m3 of supplied goods to VUB Bank the supplier Harmanec-Kuvert will plant a tree in the capital city. The project will continue also in 2013. For more information refer to the Environment chapter. Materials VUB Bank manages the usage and consumption of office paper, consumption of toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquidation of used packaging. In the area of facility management, it cooperates with ISO 14001 certified commechanism, whether the Internal Control System on the Procurement or Internal panies (this system helps the companies to successfully participate in domestic and Audit levels. also international tenders, but it also ensures growth of value, company’s economical operation as well as increased trust of customers). Purchase of office paper is limited Pursuant to the Act on Employment Services, each employer in the Slovak Republic to chlorine-free (TCF/ECF) and recycled papers. Bulk correspondence to the Bank’s employing more than 20 employees is obliged to employ disabled citizens. Another clients is sent exclusively in recycled envelopes. option is using a supplementary solution by submitting orders or purchasing goods and services from a sheltered workshop employing disabled people, from a In the area of facility management and maintenance, VUB Bank cooperates with citizen with a grave disability or from an employer employing citizens with grave companies with a systematic approach to environmental protection through their disabilities. In view of the above-stated legal obligations, VUB Bank gives a part of activities in all aspects of their businesses. In the area of redesign, reconstructions or its orders to sheltered workshops also despite the fact that prices they offer are other construction works VUB Bank collaborates with construction companies that oftentimes higher and delivery deadlines longer than with common suppliers. One include environmental care in its business strategy and also common operations. The of the 2012 projects was the project of “Children’s Play Areas“ in selected retail same applies also to the suppliers of lighting and interior, the activities of which are, branches across Slovakia. For more information refer to the Community chapter. in addition to production and provision of services, oriented on energy saving, waste minimization and minimization of environmental fees and sanctions for pollution of Environmental Supplier Management the environment. VUB Bank belongs to the leaders in corporate social responsibility in Slovakia. Although it is not a production firm or direct polluter, it committed to reduce its negative Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not result in proimpact on the environment to the lowest extent possible. In our company, we have ducts that would require purchase of input materials, the report does not deal with been looking for optimum solutions beyond the legislative framework and one of materials used or recycled input materials used in greater detail. For more information the solutions is preference of ecological products. We prefer mainly those suppliers, refer to the Environment chapter. who adopt measures for minimizing the negative impacts of their activities on the environment. 41 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Environment • employees and also business strategy. It defines the principles and guidelines concerning direct and indirect impact on the environment. It allows the Bank to communicate • clients its intentions and objectives to employees and other stakeholders. • suppliers • future generations In line with our Environmental Policy and in the interest of social and environmental corporate responsibility, in 2012 we adopted and implemented 3 new internal policies: 1. Organization of Social Events and Internal Training Courses Strategy The policy addresses issues of paper consumption, use of office equipment, VUB Bank is not a producing company or a direct polluter of the environment and transport, accommodation and catering. With the aim of reducing paper contherefore the environmental impacts of our business are not significant. Yet, we sumption we e.g. stopped using invitations and study materials in printed form committed to reduce our negative impact on the environment to the minimum (only electronically) and in case the documents must be printed, we use recycled level possible. We are looking for solutions beyond the scope of the legislation; or certified paper and do double-sided printing. We use recycled and recyclable we are interested in our environmental performance in relation to the inputs and materials, the events are held in low-energy buildings and in places easily reaoutputs, while mapping the relevant environmental indicators. chable by public transport. In case of accommodation and catering we give preference to companies with an ecological approach. Measures for reduction of direct (resulting from our activities) and indirect (ge2. Purchase and Use of Office Paper nerated by clients and suppliers) environmental impact are stipulated in VUB The policy sets the principles to be followed in purchase of paper with the aim of Group’s Environmental Policy. As a member of an international banking group, reducing the consumption of non-certified paper to the lowest level possible and we adhere to the Equator Principles and UN Global Compact. We have firmly prefer purchase of paper from certified producers with a paper origin label FSC, or defined internal regulations and our decisions on investments and lending take CSA or PECF. We also deal with the question of bleached paper and therefore it is into account both social and environmental risks. recommended to purchase and use paper of the ECF type (Elemental Chlorine Free) or TCF (Totally Chlorine Free). When using paper, we prefer black and white doubleVUB Bank’s main activities in environmental protection in 2012 ensued from our -sided printing; we rationalized the need and subsequent printing of documents applicable environmental policy used at the branches and in business contact; at the Bank’s management meetings, aimed at: we introduced the use of PCs instead of printed version of documents; 90 % of • support of projects focused on managers stopped getting newspapers in printed form, which they can read online. energy saving and renewable so3. Integrated Environmental and Energy Management System urces, It regulates prevention, management and, where possible, also reduction of im• saving measures for reduction pacts of our activities, whether direct or indirect. Direct impacts are defined as areof energy and consumer mateas, which may be negatively impacted by our activity or in which, on the contrary, rial consumption, we can directly influence protection of environment through our actions. These • waste separation and meainclude, for example, use of sources, production of emissions, green procurement, sures for reduction of its producmobility, integrated environmental and energy management system, managetion. ment of hazardous substances and waste handling, waste reduction, energetic efficiency (e.g. electricity saving and use of lighting units, computers and office Environmental Policy equipment), attention paid to environmental and social impacts of our decisions. The amended document defines, specifies and expands the VUB UN Global Compact Bank’s objectives in environmenVUB Bank undertook to act in accordance with the international standard tal protection and sustainability. UN Global Compact, to which it acceded in 2009. It includes also environmental Our Environmental Policy is a protection principles, which we strive to observe in the maximum extent possible. written commitment to environmental protection, which sets the Bank’s mission and objectiEquator Principles We take a responsible approach to project financing. Managing a great volume 42 ves in the area of environmental of funds, we significantly impact the flows of capital. Therefore, it is important management. It forms the basis for us that projects we decide to finance do not have a negative impact on the of our management decisions Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes environment we live in. Voluntary compliance with the Equator Principles as well as a strict implementation of the principles applied in all levels of our credit policy including expert trainings of relevant teams confirm our commitment to the society. Education and Awareness Raising VUB Bank is not limited only to minimization of negative impacts of its business on the environment, but it supports also ecological thinking and behaviour of its employees and clients. Employees Over the year, all employees are encouraged in form of awareness raising activities and internal notices to: • save paper and consumer material, • turn off their PCs outside working hours and on holidays, • separate waste, • use the energies economically (with a focus on cooling equipment in the summer period). In all interiors of the Head Office building, we have installed promotional information stickers in order to alert and raise awareness about saving light and energies. Papierovanie už patrí do múzea On the occasion of World Environment Day on June 5 announced by the UN, we prepared an internal 3-phase campaign entitled We All Are Mother Earth’s Peter Bartek, Children, which included proposals of employees on how to reduce paper conporadca klienta, Trenčín sumption, stories of specific personal involvement in environmental protection and competition for office plants. Clients Electronic Account Statements Since 2010, we have been successfully replacing paper account statements with electronic ones. Not only because an electronic statement is more modern and easily available in one place and at any time, but it is rather also a demonstration of our responsibility towards the environment. Currently all VUB Bank clients from the residential segment with access to Internet Banking are able to view their electronic statements to their current and term accounts, as well as to loans and mutual funds. These clients are sent a paper statement only once a year in form of a so-called summary annual statement. Nahraďte aj vy papierové výpisy z účtu elektronickými Kedysi som aj ja každý mesiac dostával papierové výpisy z účtu. Keďže som ich častokrát ani neotváral, cez internet banking som ich pohodlne a jednoducho zrušil a nastavil zasielanie ročného sumárneho výpisu. A vyhovuje mi to. For all postal consignments addressed to our clients, we use ecological enveloAk si chcem niečo pozrieť, v internet bankingu mám pohromade nielen mesačné detailné výpisy z účtu, ale aj výpisy z iných produktov. Využívajte elektronický výpis aj vy a poraďte to aj vašim klientom. A tak ako mňa, aj vás určite poteší drobný darček, ktorý získate po nastavení sumárneho ročného výpisu. Kliknite na intranet a zistite viac. pes (more in Materials section) from recycled FSC paper and Green Energy cerICKÝVÝ ON tified ones. On account statements, which we send by regular mail, we started ELEKTR PIS EJ using the new environmental logo Green Letters. J E ŠÍ MODERN ElektVypis.indd 1 23.3.2010 15:44:44 43 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Management Approach Suppliers Our management system defines rules and processes related to implementation We strive to modify our impact on the environment also by means of procedures of our Environmental Policy. Since VUB Bank is not a direct polluter of the environused in selection of our suppliers. We prefer mainly those suppliers that respect ment, our impact can be split into: the environment and adopt necessary measures for minimizing the negative impacts of their activities, use recycled materials, save energies and reduce their neIndirect: gative impact on the environment. We require that our suppliers give us a declara• we comply with international and national environmental protection protocols, tion about taking preventive measures in relation to the environmental issues and • we support projects with a high environmental value (loans), making effort to reduce their negative impact on the environment when running • our lending system clearly incorporates standards concerning the environment their business. With its signature, the supplier declares to VUB Bank that it will and the Equator Principles. VUB Bank principally does not grant funds for finantake steps towards a higher responsibility for the environment, support developcing of certain activities that could endanger the environment; ment and expansion of technologies saving the environment or look for new ways and efficient solutions for the environment. Thanks to them no contamination of the environment took place. Direct: • energy saving measures, In the area of Facility Management and Maintenance, VUB Bank cooperates with • introduction and observation of internal regulations and notices, e.g. companies, which systematically protect the environment within their activities – economical usage of electricity in the offices, in all aspects of their business. In facility management, reconstructions, redesign – air-conditioning (principles of its utilization), and construction works VUB Bank cooperates with construction firms incorpora– cooling and heating (setting of interior temperatures in cold and hot periods), ting care for environment into their business strategy and common operations. – turning off of computers overnight and during the weekends, The same applies also to the suppliers of cleaning services, suppliers of services – regular collection and ecological liquidation of non-functional telephones, acconnected with fire protection, occupational safety and health protection and civil cessories and batteries; collection and liquidation of waste classified as hazardous protection, as well as suppliers of the interior, lighting units or exterior signage (toners, fluorescent lamps), (light logos on the buildings and ATMs), the activities of which are oriented, besi– video conferences instead of business trips; bicycles, des production and provision of services, on energy savings, waste minimization – obligatory turning off of computers outside working hours, during weekends and minimization of environmental fees and fines for polluting the environment. and holidays. Materials Our environmental management involves: The aspects influencing the environment include consumption of office paper, • Facility Management and Procurement Departments, consumption of toners for copying machines and printers, collection and liquida• specialists and employees of the Internal Services Department, tion of used packaging and also cooperation in the area of facility management • external suppliers of products and services, with ISO 14001 certified companies. Purchase of office paper is limited to chlorine • Risk Management Division (ensures control of project financing and lending), free paper (TCF) and recycled paper. We buy office paper principally from certified • regular inspections and controls in branch and also headquarters buildings foproducers and with paper origin labelling. cused on reduction of energy consumption and identification of potential savings, • internal regulations and notices, In the interest of VUB Bank’s ecological approach, in 2012 we adopted the fol• internal communication employee awareness. lowing measures / commitments, which we all managed to deliver: • reduce overall paper consumption, • reduce consumption of “non-certified paper“, Environmental Management Indicators • use ecological certified paper, Number of employees appointed to directly implement environmental • prefer purchasing and consuming paper: 1 policy within their job description • from certified producers with origin labelling, Number of internal specialists 0 • recycled paper – use 100% recycled paper in the greatest extent possible, • bleached paper – use the ECF TCF type paper. Number of external specialists 2 Percentage of employees regularly informed of environmental policy 100 44 implementation Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes In all cases when it is impossible to use the classical recycled paper, acceptable dow film, in case of the eco-envelope we replaced the film with a film made of is an equivalent in form of FSC (Forest Stewardship Council), or CSA (Canadian renewable sources. Such film will easily degrade in the industrial composting Standard Association), PECF (Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certiequipments, by which we managed to fulfil the standard on biological degrafication Schemes), SFI (Sustainable Forestry Initiative) or ATFS (American Tree dability and compostability. The envelopes carried the message that VUB was Farm System). By preferring the purchase of FSC raw materials and subsequa company saving the environment – the new Green Letters logo. In the next ently by production of FSC products, we contribute to improvement of forest period, we used also keep using envelopes from recycled FSC paper. These enmanagement around the world. We are preventing destruction of forests as velopes also bear the certified Green Energy logo. well as illegal tree harvesting worldwide. FSC provides us with an efficient tool for monitoring the wood’s origin from its harvesting through its processing up Since VUB Bank is not a production company and its activity does not yield to the final product. products, which would require purchase of input materials, the report does not deal in more detail with materials used or recycled input materials used. We do not even disregard the issue of bleaching the used wood mass, and we therefore purchase and use, as much as possible, the ECF paper type (Elemental Chlorine Free – meaning that in its production they used chlorine gas, but no chlorine derivatives such as chlorine dioxide) or TCF (Totally Chlorine Free). With regard to economic efficiency (cost reduction) and our aim to reduce our environmental footprint, we introduced the planning of paper discarding and purchase and control of these processes in the Cicero system. Paper Consumption Energies We have been successfully reducing our paper consumption. Direct Energy Consumption Paper Consumption (kg) VUB Bank is constantly striving to reduce the consumption of energies. Simi2012 452,906 larly to previous years, also in 2012 we were putting emphasis on purchasing highly efficient cooling and heating equipment for an efficient and economical 2011 521,097 heating and cooling of our premises and on selection of possibly the most eco2010 614,462 nomical lighting units for our premises. By introducing new environmental policies, we considerably increased the share of For its operation, VUB Bank needs two primary sources of energy – electricity recycled paper. and gas. In 2012, electricity consumption dropped again and this drop is the result of an ongoing effort to lead employees towards an efficient utilization of Consumption of Recycled Paper in kg and its Percentage Share out of sources, purchases of highly efficient equipment and last but not least continuTotal Quantity of Paper Consumed ous supervision of used technology and its regulation. The data do not consider 2012 339,587 (74.9 %) the impact of the weather. 2011 77,481 (14.9 %) Direct Energy Consumption 2010 81,331 (13.2 %) electricity gas total kWh m 3 kWh kWh Postal Eco-Envelopes Until mid 2012, in the Bank we had been using envelopes from recycled paper 2012 16,099,182 1,099,915 10,339,203 26,438,385 for correspondence and all postal consignments sent to our clients. Neverthless, 2011 16,786,396 1,138,475 10,701,670 27,488,066 we decided to move to the next level and in June 2012 we were the first bank 2010 17,500,480 1,295,968 12,182,099 29,682,579 in Slovakia to use the eco-envelopes. This means that we used ecological offset colours from renewable raw materials, such as soy oil, linseed oil or rapeseed Notes: 45 oil to print on them. These envelopes had also the certified Green Energy logo. 1) 1 m3 = 9.4 kWh As until now in VUB Bank we had been using envelopes with the classical win2) the data were obtained from counter statuses of our contractual supplier Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Electricity is supplied by the largest local suppliers (ZSE, VSE and SSE). These com• thermal insulation and heat loss prevention reconstructions of facades, roofs, replacepanies guarantee that a minimum of 15 % of the energy they supply is produced ment of windows. from renewable sources. In accordance with the relevant provisions of Act No. Besides the above, we have been permanently supervising the correct set up of mea656/2004, electricity suppliers in the Slovak Republic must inform their buyers on surement and regulation systems, which control cooling and heating. We simultaneously the share of individual types of primary energy sources in produced and supplied explain the basic principles of economical operation to the users. energy, including the supply of electricity produced in other EU member states and third states. In 2012, the share of primary sources for production of electricity Share of Energy Savings supplied by our suppliers was as follows: Year Energy Savings in kWh Energy Savings in % 2012 1,645,000 4.98 Renewable (water, air, solar) 15.47 % 2011 2,071,000 6.02 Gas 13.23 % 2010 2,506,000 7.92 Coal 20.06 % Nuclear 51.24 % Environmental Management and Waste Liquidation Costs Year in EUR Gas is purchased from a local supplier, which is Slovenský plynárenský priemysel. 2012 17,038 2011 14,046 Indirect Energy Consumption Our heat consumption dropped repeatedly also in 2012. Heat is procured from various bigger and smaller heat energy producers; therefore it is not possible to Water state the primary energy source. All VUB Bank’s branches in the whole territory of the Slovak Republic are supplied water by local water companies. In 2012, our water consumption fell considerably. Secondary Energy Purchased (heat energy in the form of heat) in kWh 2012 6,574,929 Total Water Consumption (in m3) 2011 6,893,703 2012 47,469 2010 9,665,754 2011 84,220 2010 75,589 Total Energy Consumption In 2012, our average daily water consumption was 130.05 m3, which is on averaOwing to saving measures, our energy consumption shows a falling tendency. ge 36.95 l a day per employee. Total Energy Consumption (heat + electricity + gas) in kWh Average Daily Water Consumption 2012 33,013,314 Year Bankwide (in m3) Per 1 Employee (in litres) 2011 34,381,774 2012 130.05 36.95 2010 39,621,909 2011 230.70 65.50 2010 59.20 Saving Measures Saving measures are actually VUB Bank’s investments into environmental protection and VUB Bank is not a production company, so our water consumption is not signifimodernization of its operations. In 2012, we took various measures with impact on enercant. We use water mostly for personal hygiene, watering and minimally for the gies in the area of operation of facilities (heating, cooling circuits, etc.). At present, we do not initiate • heating (reconstruction of networks, hydraulic regulation and other related optimizaany measures aimed at reducing water consumption, since we are convinced that tion processes), we use water efficiently and our consumption falls below the Slovak average. • cooling (modernization of equipment with higher operating efficiency), 46 • reconstruction of lighting networks – replacement of lighting (in 2012 we launched a We do not take water directly from a water source, but from water companies or major project for replacement of lighting in advertising panels in all VUB branches for LED) small local suppliers. We do not request our suppliers to provide us with the data Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes about water sources and use of recycled water. Our activity does not significanIt is impossible to state the volume of emissions produced by company cars (comtly influence local water sources in any way. bustion engines, diesel aggregates), since this information was not monitored even in 2012. Due to the same reason, we are not stating NOx, SOx and other significant Biodiversity emissions into the atmosphere. None of VUB Bank’s activities affects the biodiversity. We do not perform any activity that would directly disrupt the environment, and therefore indicators related Wastes to biodiversity are not relevant for us. VUB does not own any facility, neither does Waste separation is the responsibility of all employees. Waste separation is managed it dispose of any leased premises that would interfere with or be directly located in through the process we have in place, which is binding for all employees. Its wording a protected territory. is available on the Intranet page and the employees have been informed of it in form of personal e-mails. In our objects in the whole territory of Slovakia, we separate paper For 2012, we do not record any contamination of environment in the surroundings waste only. In the VUB Bank’s Head Office building in Bratislava we separate waste into: of our facilities. Since we are not a production company, we did not cause any • paper (cardboard), considerable water pollution. We do not own facilities, from which sewage would • plastic, be discarded into the environment and pose a threat to the biodiversity of water • metal, reservoirs. Water is drained off in a standard way to the sewerage system and then • glass, processed in waste treatment plants. • mixed communal waste, • hazardous waste. We contribute to protection of the environment also by keeping accounts and providing loans and borrowings to companies and non-governmental organizations Hazardous Waste Containing Remnants of Hazardous Substances (in kg) having as their core business ecological activities. 2012 600 2011 1,240 Emissions of CO2 and Substances Damaging Ozone Layer 2010 600 As a financial institution operating only small and medium sources of pollution, we do not produce significant volume of harmful emissions. However, we are aware of the least we ourselves can influence (use of passenger cars, business trips, logistics, Types of Wastes Liquidated (in kg) etc.). So far, we have not been measuring the emissions released by equipments 2012 2011 2010 producing electricity (diesel aggregates), nor do we employ any individual speciaabsorbents, other filtration materials 0 1,240 – lists that would be dedicated to this activity. packages containing hazardous substances 690 1,240 – Pursuant to Act No. 286/2009 Coll., based on which each operator of cooling equipment is obliged to inform the relevant District Environmental Authority data on waste toner from printers 0 – 50 fluorinated greenhouse gases, the Bank fulfilled its notification duty and provided voluminous waste 5,970 1,170 3,410 information on volumes of substances directly influencing the damaging of the lead batteries 0 170 310 ozone layer. Our supplier submitted to us an overview of all cooling equipment (in operation) with more than 3 kg of refrigerant in the circuit containing gases harplastic and rubber 160 – 480 ming the ozone layer. These are refrigerant mixtures such as R407c, R410a, R22. discarded equipment – 12,890 discarded equipment (other) 9,905 1,660 – Total Volume of R22 Refrigerants discarded equipment containing hazardous substances 237 194 150 Year in kg discarded transformers 0 2 – 2012 3,340 2011 2,724 Waste – Separated Paper (in kg) 2010 – 2012 50,852 2011 56,683 The increase is related to the fact that we have been improving the working envi2010 46,165 ronment and installing new cooling and air-conditioning devices. 47 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Environment and Lending Policy The SLOVSEFF Program is aimed at supporting development of energetic efficiency in the industrial sector, in the area of renewable energy sources and at energetic efficiency projects in the housing sector. Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects “Twin Pillars“ Following a successful execution and verification of each project’s completeness, Sustainability of the environment is one of the basic pillars of our corporate resthe client will be paid out a stimulation payment calculated as a percentage of the ponsibility strategy. Within our lending policy, we do not finance companies breloan volume. The levels of stimulation payments are as follows: aching the legal regulations concerning the environment. We do not support companies not meeting the requirements for environmental protection stipulated EBRD SLOVSEFF I: by the legislation of the Czech and Slovak Republics or the European Union or in • energetic efficiency in industry: 7.5 % of loan volume conflict with the EBRD/IFC (European Bank for Reconstruction and Development • renewable energy sources: 15 % of loan volume and International Financial Corporation) requirements. Loans within corporate fi• energetic efficiency in the housing sector: 20 % of loan volume nancing are granted also to clients from sectors, where environmental risks can be expected, however we examine them in detail. EBRD SLOVSEFF II: • energetic efficiency in industry: 7.5 % of loan volume From the green-energy oriented perspective, we offer product contributing to • renewable energy sources: 5 15 % of loan volume sustainability of the environment. We confirmed our effort to bring to the market • energetic efficiency in the housing sector: 10 15 % of loan volume new or innovated products and services also in 2012, while paying increased attention to the areas of: The stimulation payments are paid out to the clients directly. The project is de• agriculture, signed for the private sector, legal and natural persons in business based on the • self-administrations, applicable legislation of the Slovak Republic meeting the following criteria: • renewable sources, • the company may not have a majority ownership in the public sector • energy efficiency. • the company may not be involved in production, marketing, distribution of tobacco products, hard alcohol, alcohol (except breweries, wine producers and The projects financed contribute to environmental protection – reducing the CO2 other firms producing drinks with low/medium alcohol content), firms operating production and thereby improving the environment, protecting people’s health hazardous games, production and trading with weapons and projects conflicting and also natural resources, contributing to reduction of air pollution and reducing the environmental policy of EBRD energy consumption. • the company may not pollute the environment with its activity. VUB Bank supports the “Twin Pillars” projects aimed at energy savings and energy production from alternative energy sources (water power plants, biogas stations, biomass combustion equipments and photovoltaic power plants). We have a team of people providing financial and professional assistance to potential investors in preparing and executing these types of projects, whether in the industrial, agrarian or communal area. In 2012, we executed several “Twin Pillars“ projects. We assisted our clients in searching for the best possible form of financing – either by direct financing or co-financing (EU structural funds, SLOVSEFF program). Investment Loans from EBRD Sources to Support Energetic Efficiency (SLOVSEFF Program) For several years, VUB Bank has been cooperating with the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD). In cooperation with EBRD, we provide loans to support energetic efficiency based on the credit line Slovak Sustainable Energy Financing Facility (SLOVSEFFSlovak Sustainable Energy Financing Facility). For more information on the given project visit the Internet site www.slovseff.eu. 48 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Supported Renewable Sources Projects • radioactive substances including radioactive waste. 2012 2011 2010 If a client consciously engages in areas risky from the environmental point of Investment Investment Investment NumNumNumview, the Bank requires a due diligence aimed at client’s environmental risk maProject Type Volume in Volume in Volume in ber ber ber nagement. Below, we specify examples of risky activities and business areas from mil. € mil. € mil. € the perspective of the environment: photovoltaics 2 2.8 9 39.5 16 54 • storage of hazardous waste, its modification and liquidation, water energy 0 0 2 3.5 • production or trading in freon-containing equipment and appliances, combined • production or trading in electrical equipment containing polychlorinated production biphenyls (PCB), 1 12.2 electricity / • production or trading in products containing asbestos, heating • foreign trade in waste or waste products. biogas 8 20.9 4 8.3 2 4 Conference on Trends in Renewable Energy Supported Energy Efficiency Projects Sources Business 2012 2011 2010 Renewable energy sources are one of the key topics of the discussions about energy InInof the future. Their correct implementation and targeted utilization of their potential Investment Numvestment Numvestment Numhas undoubtedly a wider reach to our whole society. One of the prospective alterProject Type Volume in ber Volume in ber Volume in ber natives is to use biomass, which has seen an ever increasing interest in our country mil. € mil. € mil. € as well as abroad. Based on the last year’s successful conference, also in 2012 VUB Energy savings Bank, in cooperation with Trend weekly magazine and the Allen & Overy law firm, and reduction of 1 23 1 0.8 organized a conference with the theme How to Still Succeed in the Renewable CO2 emissions Energy Sources Business. All key parties inevitable for a successful execution of reReplacement of newable sources projects gave their opinions on them state, banks, lawyers and also grinding plant 0 3 1.6 investors. The discussion itself brought several interesting conclusions and solutions. technology Thermal insulation for apartment 6 0.9 74 14.1 87 15.9 Community buildings Through VUB Foundation, we supported also several ecological projects and events organized by non-governmental organizations. The most significant of Thermal insulation them included: for administrative 3 0.8 10 6.9 buildings • Ekotopfilm – international film festival on permanently sustainable development connected with ecological education of children and youth, Reconstruction of 4 2.0 • Clean Waters – a project focused on cleaning of mountain tarns, lakes and heating boilers rivers in the protected territory of High Tatras, • Grants for primary grammar schools within the employee grant program. Initiatives for Reduction of Environmental Impacts of Our Products and Services Lending Policy One of VUB Bank’s main activities, the lending, incorporates standards concerning the environment. The Bank does not provide funds for financing of some activities from the environmental point of view including: • trading in wildlife and products made of it, • release of genetically modified organisms into the natural environment, • production, distribution and use of prohibited pesticides, herbicides, chemical 49 or agrochemical substances, • fishing by means of floating nets, Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Community • Society Number of IT Equipment Units Donated 2012 2011 2010 • NGOs 76 units 8 units 38 units • Non-profit organizations • State institutions Other Types of Aid Cooperation with Non-profit Sector At the end of 2012, Slovakia counted over 119,000 “good angels“, thereof nearly In 2012, VUB Bank continued in helping the community, where our clients, part30 thousand were VUB clients. VUB Bank has been issuing unique charity payment ners and employees live. Our activities to the benefit of the community have been cards for the Good Angel. One percent of the payments performed goes to the long-term concentrated on the support of: account of the non-profitable organization helping oncological patients and families • third sector, with gravely sick children. This percentage is not donated by the cardholder, but by • education, VUB Bank on his/her behalf. The Good Angel card has been used by 27,559 clients. • sheltered workshops. More than 2,800 families receive donations through this system. Last year, we funded community projects with the volume exceeding EUR 295 thousand. Already the sixth year, we have been supporting the Good Angel humanitarian system via the charity payment cards. Their number increased to nearly POMÁHAJTE 28,000. In the area of university education support we continued in the grant scheme, which brings foreign guest professors to the Slovak universities as well as in support of economic science development by means of the Economicus competition. Students of economic universities competed for the award for the best DEŤOM BOJOVAŤ student project in customer satisfaction in the international competition Customer S RAKOVINOU Satisfaction University Award. VUB managers go to give lectures at universities A BUDETE and colleges of economic specialisation. We continued supporting the starting female entrepreneurs within the EMMA Business Academy project. The Bank has been purchasing products and services from sheltered workshops, which employ disabled people. For example in 2012, a sheltered workshop supplied the furniture for children’s play areas we created in selected branches. In the field of philanthropy, we carried on with our long-term initiatives aimed at preservation of cultural heritage and fine arts support. Through VUB Foundation, we contributed to the www. .sk restoration of several historical monuments. We organized two exhibitions of young contemporary art in the painting and photography media. Financial and Non-financial Aid VUB Bank supports projects in identical fields, which are targeted also by VUB Foundation in order to achieve a synergic effect. These are the areas of education, culture and charity. In 2012, VUB Bank funded 14 entities in the amount of EUR 295 thousand. 2012 2011 2010 Overview of Sponsor Funds Donated Number of Good Angel Maestro cards issued 27,559 22,724 19,704 2012 2011 2010 VUB’s contribution in euro (1% from payments 205,836 163,165 121,025 Number of entities funded 14 29 31 performed by clients’ cards) Total amount of donations in € 295 thous. 274 thous. 108 thous. In 2012, VUB Bank donated 76 units of excluded IT equipment to applicants incluCooperation with Sheltered Workshops 50 ding mainly medical facilities, non-profit organizations and schools. VUB Bank aimfully supports the functioning of sheltered workshops by purchasing their products and services. In 2012, we purchased from them goods and services in Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes the total amount of more than EUR 61,000. Last year, in selected branches we creinstruments applied in treasure dealing. ated children’s play areas and the furniture was supplied by a sheltered workshop. Student Day in the Bank The children of the eight-year secondary school in Novohradská Street in Bratislava managed something exceptional. For one day, they got to sit in the chair of VUB’s CEO and try what it is like to work in such position. Together with the Chief Executive Officer, they tackled a meeting about the latest marketing campaign, with the management board members they were selecting the design of a new bank card for the young, and in the Human Resources Department they took a simulated job interview. Unique experience was also the visit to the safe full of money. The children were interested to find out how construction of a shopping centre is financed and how the Bank’s IT systems work. At a joint lunch with the Management Board members, the children could propose steps that the CEO should take, for example, not to grant a loan to a shopping centre where smoking is allowed, to support sheltered workshops and attend to the needs of the Bank’s employees. In December, the VUB Head Office building hosted already the second Christmas International Guest Professor Fair, to which the employees could bring also their children. During two days, Already the fifth year, the grant program International Guest Professor enables unithey could enjoy the holiday atmosphere and the products sold there by eight versities of economic specialisation to invite guest experts from abroad for a semester. sheltered workshops from around Slovakia Darujem ti tulipán (Tulip as a Gift) The program is funded by the amount of EUR 90,000 covering the costs of two guest from Nitra, Dúha (Rainbow) from Vranov nad Topľou, Barlička from Prešov, Ayrprofessors. Besides the pedagogical engagement of significant international experts ton from Prievidza, Impulz, Inklúzia, Scarabeus, Manna Catering and Z dobrých at our universities, the program brings knowledge about the forms of scientific work rúk (From Good Hands) from Bratislava. at foreign universities, motivates students of economy, doctoral graduates and pedagogues to actively engage in the economic science. The students get a chance to Cooperation with Schools and Support of Education get familiar with the procedures used at other universities abroad and learn in a way One of VUB Bank’s priorities is education in the realm of our “core business“ – econever experienced until now. Last year, the grants to host foreign professors were nomy and finance. Our projects offer talented pupils and students a possibility to put awarded to the University of Economy in Bratislava and Faculty of Mathematics, Phyforward their original ideas and demonstrate their talent. Their goal is to improve the sics and Informatics of Comenius University. During one entire semester, professors quality of research and university education in the field of finance and develop the Alexandru Minea of the University of Auvergne in Ćlermont-Ferrand and Aleš Černý economic science and research. VUB Bank has had a long-term cooperation with of the London City University were giving their lectures. universities and secondary schools. In the interest of making education in the finance, economy and banking fields more attractive we perform: Economicus – Award of VUB Foundation to Young Economists • consultation activities in elaboration of a thesis or annual school project, The development of economic science in Slovakia is supported also by a competi• possibility of an expert internship for secondary school and university students, tion of scientific papers in the area of economy for young economists aged below • technical topical lectures at secondary schools and universities. 40 years. The winner will receive EUR 10,000 and an award for the best published scientific paper issued in renowned international magazines. The competition aims Lectures by VUB Managers for Economy Students to motivate young pedagogues, scientific workers, doctoral graduates to scientific Within the VUB University Lecture Series, VUB managers prepared expert lectures work, original concept and publishing. In its third year, the competition winner was for students of the Faculty of Economy in Košice and the University of Economy in the authorial team composed of Eduard Baumöhl, Tomáš Výrost and Štefan Lyócsa of Bratislava. The lectures for Košice students were focused on the topics of credit risk the Faculty of Business Economics at the University of Economy in Košice. Their paper management as well as trade and export finance. Students got acquainted with two was published in the Applied Economics magazine. opposite yet very interconnected sides of banking, on one hand risk control and on the other a part of the banking business. Promising economists of the University of Customer Satisfaction University Award – Award for Best Student Project in CustoEconomy in Bratislava were given lectures by Management Board members. The mer Satisfaction Chief Executive Officer presented them the corporate social responsibility concept In 2012, the international student project competition continued with its second year. executed in VUB and the Executive Director of Retail Banking lectured them on The competition is designed for students of economic universities and it is held simulspecifics of the Private banking. Head of HR hold a lecture on functioning of the personal management system and Head of Financial and Capital Markets presented taneously in 8 countries in cooperation with our parent company Intesa Sanpaolo. The competition’s aim is to obtain an independent, critical view of students on the Bank’s 51 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes activities and proposals of measures leading to improvements in customer satisfaction. The participated in three blood collections donating 72 litres of the lifesaving liquid. competition develops the students’ potential for creative, non-traditional ideas how to do common things in a different way. The students’ task was to elaborate a customer satisfacIn the effort of engaging VUB employees in the activities beneficial for the commution project. The students were preparing for the competition at a workshop, where they nity and supporting their volunteering, VUB Foundation continued in its existing received a lot of information and ground materials for their projects. In preparing their proemployee programs. In the Treasures of My Heart grant scheme, employees can jects, talented university students were assisted by tutors – our colleagues, who gave them receive financial support for preservation of cultural and natural heritage objects. invaluable advice. The competition gave the students the opportunity to interconnect acaEmployees submit these projects in cooperation with the non-profit sector and selfdemic study with practice, to work on real cases from the practice, in solving of which they -administrations. Last year, our employees enrolled 156 projects and received the could test their skills and abilities to apply their knowledge and ideas in practice. Out of 74 support of nearly EUR 60 thousand for 10 projects. teams enrolled, only 6 made it to the competition’s national round finals. The winners got rewards amounting to EUR 7,600 in total, an internship in VUB and participation at the In the second type of employee program, employees can submit projects of edusuper-finals in Milan. cational and charitable nature. The condition for obtaining the grant is the employee’s active participation in the project’s execution in form of volunteering. EmTrainings for Starting Female Entrepreneurs ployees submit the projects in cooperation with non-governmental organizations, In collaboration with the Emma magazine, already for the third year VUB Bank contischools or local self-administration. This is a way to support the ideas and projects nued in the Emma Business Academy training project. It is designed for women, who that employees consider meaningful and useful: together they are solving a certain are fresh graduates, after maternity leave, unemployed and would like to start a buproblem in the community, support community activities or a civic association, in siness. The course was attended by 12 women. They acquired the know-how that which the employees are engaged. In 2012, our employees submitted altogether will help them in starting up their own businesses. The lectures were given by VUB 188 projects and received support in the amount of EUR 56,000 for 24 organizamanagers – experts in the areas of finance, business loans, marketing and advertising. tions. In the evaluation committees, aside from experts from the given areas, repreAlso female entrepreneurs that have been successfully running their businesses already sented are also the Bank’s employees. for several years including the successful academy attendees from previous years came to advise them. The seminar revealed the female participants’ potential for running a Supported Employee Projects business by means of their personal assessment, provided them with valuable advice on 2012 2011 2010 how to communicate with the customer and what business practices to use for which types of customers. The lecturers revealed not only the stumbling blocks of a feasible Number of projects enrolled 344 326 160 business plan, but also creative tactics and advice how to sell oneself. The participants Number of projects supported 34 46 31 could subsequently test the theory in practice at a workshop where they had to create Grants provided in euro 115,852 116,011 135,742 business plans on the given topic in teams and the best plan was then rewarded. 2012 VUB Foundation Activities VUB Foundation is an independent legal entity, however, it executes some of its activities and projects in close managerial and financial cooperation with VUB Bank and therefore we publish them also in this report. All activities of VUB Foundation in 2012 are comprehensibly presented in its annual report on the web page www. nadaciavub.sk. VUB Foundation has developed its activities in the field of philanthropy already for nine years. Last year, it contributed to several community projects with the amount of EUR 690 thous., whereof the majority of funds went to the support of art and cultural heritage (43.5%) and to the area of charity (31%). The Foundation is financed by assignment of income tax from VUB Bank (EUR 762,940 in 2012) and by fiEngaging Employees in Community Life nancial donations from the parent company VUB (EUR 228,000 in 2012). VUB Bank Just like in the recent years, we ran an internal employee campaign focused on the supports its foundation also in terms of personnel, material and administration. topic of donating 2 % of individuals’ income tax and individual donations. Many employees have activated the Good Angel charity payment card. Each year, our employees make a free donation of blood during the “VUB Blood Drop“ campaign organized in cooperation with the National Transfusion Service. In 2012, 159 donors from VUB 52 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Overview of Grants Provided Also the general public is engaged in the decision-making on monuments to be sup2012 2011 2010 ported. Last year, historical town gates in 6 towns from various regions of Slovakia in need of funds for their reconstruction were competing for people’s votes in an Support provided in euro 690-thous. 1.1 mil. 1.2 mil. Internet voting. Based on the results of voting, which was held during the month of Number of projects supported 100 124 174 November at www.vub.sk/brany, VUB Foundation supported the reconstruction of Leopold’s Gate in Komárno, which received the most clicks in the voting. For Hope Foundation Program A program aimed at charity that helps disadvantaged groups to equalize their chanRestoration of Calvary in Banská Štiavnica ces in life. It supports the development of sheltered workplaces, sheltered living, In 2012, the cooperation between VUB Foundation and the Calvary Fund Assofunds therapy for the disadvantaged and also assists foster families. In the area of ciation in the project of preservation of the Calvary in Banská Štiavnica continued. healthcare, we donated EUR 72 thousand for medical therapies, purchase of devices This UNESCO protected national monument Calvary in Banská Štiavnica has been and equipment of hospital wards. The grant recipients included the Children’s Faculin a dilapidated condition for a long period of time and in 2007 it was put on the ty Hospital with Policlinic in Bratislava and ADELI Rehabilitation Centre in Piešťany. list of 100 most threatened monuments in the world. Over the period of 10 years (2008 2017), VUB Foundation annually provides the Fund with a contribution of For Education Foundation Program EUR 66,400. In addition to the above-mentioned projects contained in the section Cooperation with Schools (Guest Professor and Economicus), we concentrated also on the Support of Contemporary Fine Arts support of universities of economic specialisation – financial support was provided Inspired by the example of its parent bank, VUB engages itself also as a supporter of for example to University of Economy in Bratislava and the University of Cyril and art. In cooperation with the Foundation, each year it organizes two competitions for Method in Trnava. Further support went to the Bank’s employees for execution of talents in the painting and photography media. The works enrolled in the compe11 educational projects at various schools around Slovakia. titions are assessed by international expert juries and the winners get prize money. For Art Foundation Program In 2012, it organized already its seventh year of the competition entitled Painting The activities of VUB Foundation focused on cultural heritage and fine arts derive VUB Foundation’s Award to Young Artists for an Artwork, which counted 90 enfrom the tradition of enhancing the country’s artistic and historical heritage, which is rolled artists. Artworks by the competition finalists were showcased at an exhibition characteristic also of the Italian owner of VUB Bank, the banking group Intesa Sanin Dvorana Exhibition Hall of the Ministry of Culture of Slovak Republic in Bratislava paolo. In identifying and selecting the monuments in need for help, we cooperate from 15/11 to 18/12/2012. Besides direct financial support of artists, the competiwith local partners and experts. Besides reconstructions, our objective is also to raise tion also helps promoting the contemporary fine arts. The talents from the Painting awareness about the treasures of our country and at the same time of our natiocompetition are presented in a virtual gallery on page www.malbaroka.sk/en. nal heritage’s vulnerability. In 2012, VUB Foundation contributed to preservation of cultural heritage with the amount of EUR 268 thousand, which was dedicated to Objective of the competition Photo of the Year – VUB Foundation’s Award to Yoreconstruction of objects in different corners of Slovakia. ung Photographers is to support young artists under 35 years of age and promote artworks in the category of photography. Last year we held the fifth year of the Treasures of My Heart 2012 Photo of the Year competition, which culminated in an open-air exhibition The interest of VUB Foundation is to achieve that attention be paid also to monuat Hviezdoslavovo Square in Bratislava. The exhibition lasted three weeks presenting ment objects of regional significance, the preservation of which is equally important the competition finalists by means of their 60 large-sized photographs on the theme as the restoration of national cultural monuments. For this purpose, we created a “Faces of Slovakia“. The web page www.fotoroka.sk/en presents photographs from unique grant program Treasures of My Heart, in which funds for preservation of the finals of previous years of the competition in a virtual gallery. cultural and natural heritage objects in various regions of Slovakia can be obtained. The program’s goal is to financially support smaller objects, which are our country’s POKLADY cultural, artistic and natural treasures. These are financially less demanding projects MÔJHO that can be executed with a financial amount of up to EUR 6,000. In the seventh SRDCA year of the program’s existence, VUB Foundation supported 10 projects with the POKLADY MÔJHO SRDCA amount of EUR 60 thousand. Owing to this program, last year it was possible to preserve several Slovak treasures such as the biggest war cemetery from World War I, residence from the Great Moravian period in the municipality of Ducové, wooden 53 cabin elementary school in the Slovak Village Museum, National Geography House in Dolný Štál or window-panes in Trnava’s St. Nicolas Basilica. Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Annexes Global Reporting Initiative Indicator Table Profile Disclosure Description GRI Coverage Page Strategy and analysis Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. 1.1 X 3 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 1.2 X 3, 8 Organizational Profile Name of the organization. 2.1 X 6 Primary brands, products, and/or services. 2.2 X 8 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, 2.3 X 11 and joint ventures. Location of organization’s headquarters. 2.4 X 3 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either major opera2.5 X 6 tions or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report. Nature of ownership and legal form. 2.6 X 6 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). 2.7 X 6 Scale of the reporting organization. 2.8 X 6 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure, or ownership. 2.9 X 6 Awards received in the reporting period. 2.10 X 10 Report Parameters Reporting period. 3.1 X 4 Date of most recent previous report. 3.2 X 4 Reporting cycle. 3.3 X 4 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 3.4 4 Process for defining report content, including determining materiality; prioritizing topics within the report; 3.5 X 4 and identifying stakeholders the organization expects to use the report. Boundary of the report (e.g., countries, divisions, subsidiaries, leased facilities, joint ventures, suppliers). 3.6 X 4 State any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the report. 3.7 X 4 Basis for reporting on joint ventures, subsidiaries, leased facilities, outsourced operations, and other enti3.8 X 4 ties that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/or between organizations. Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations. 3.9 4 Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the reasons 3.10 Not relevant for such re-statement. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods 3.11 Not relevant applied in the report. 54 GRI Content Index. 3.12 X 54 Assurance. 3.13 X 61 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the organization, including committees under the highest governance body 4.1 X 13 14 responsible for specific tasks, such as setting strategy or organizational oversight. Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. 4.2 X 13 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest 4.3 X Not relevant governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members. Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or direction to the highest 4.4 X 16, 33, 36, 37 governance body. Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance 4.5. X 13 (including social and environmental performance). Processes in place for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided. 4.6. X 12 Process for determining the qualifications and expertise of the members of the highest governance 4.7 Incomplete 13 body for guiding the organization’s strategy on economic, environmental, and social topics. Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant 4.8 X 5 to economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, 4.9 Incomplete 14 and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect 4.10 X 13 to economic, environmental, and social performance. Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed 4.11 X 42 by the organization. Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other initiatives 4.12 X 18 to which the organization subscribes or endorses. Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/international advocacy 4.13 X 10 organizations in which the organization. List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 4.14 X 16 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 4.15 X 16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type 4.16 X 16, 35, 36 and by stakeholder group. Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 4.17 X 25, 33 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. 55 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Disclosure on Management Approach Page Economic Economic performance 8-9 Market Presence 8-9 Indirect Economic Impacts 50 52 Environmental Materials 44 Energy 44, 45 Water 44, 46 Biodiversity 47 Emissions, Effluents, and Waste 44, 47 Products and Services 43, 44 Compliance 43, 44 Transport 47 Social Labour Practices and Decent Work Employment 29 33 Labor/Management Relations 29 Occupational Health and Safety 33, 34 Training and Education 29, 32, 34 Diversity and Equal opportunities 33 Human Rights Investment and Procurement Practices 40, 41 Non-discrimination 20 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 34 Child Labor Not relevant Forced and Compulsory Labor Not relevant Indigenous Rights Not relevant Product Responsibility Customer Health and Safety 19 Product and Service Labeling 24 26 Marketing Communications 28 Customer Privacy 19 Compliance 41 Society Community 50 52 Corruption 20, 21 Public Policy 18 56 Anti-Competitive Behavior 17 Compliance 17 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Performance Indicators Description Aspect Indicator Core Coverage Page Economic EC1. Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, doEconomic Performance X X 6, 37, 50 nations and other community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. EC6. Policy, practices, and proportion of spending on locallyMarket presence -based suppliers at significant X X 6, 40, 41 locations of operation. EC8. Development and impact of infrastructure investments Indirect Economic Impacts and services provided primarily for public benefit through X X 50 53 commercial, in-kind, or pro bono engagement. Environmental Performance Indicators EN1. Materials used by weight or volume. X X 44 Materials EN2. Percentage of materials used that are recycled input X X 45 materials. EN3. Direct energy consumption by primary energy source. X X 45, 46 EN4. Indirect energy consumption by primary source. X X 46 EN5. Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improEnergy X 46 vements. EN6. Initiatives to provide energy-effcient or renewable energy based products and services, and reductions in energy requireX 46, 49 ments as a result of these initiatives. EN8. Total water withdrawal by source. X X 46 EN9. Water sources signiﬁcantly affected by withdrawal of X 47 Water water. EN10. Percentage and total volume of water recycled and X 47 reused. EN11. Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity X X 47 non-rel. value outside protected areas. EN12. Description of significant impacts of activities, products, Biodiversity and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of X X 47 non-rel. high biodiversity value outside protected areas. EN13. Habitats protected or restored. X 47 non-rel. EN14. Strategies, current actions, and future plans X 47 non-rel. for managing impacts on biodiversity. 57 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes EN16. Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions X 47 by weight. EN19. Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight. X X 47 EN20. NO, SO, and other significant air emissions by type X X 47 and weight. EN22. Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. X X 47 Emissions, Effluents, EN23. Total number and volume of significant spills. X X 44 and Waste EN24. Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel X 47 Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. EN25. Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats signiﬁcantly affected by X 47 the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff. EN26. Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts Products and Services X X 48, 49 of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation. Labor Practices and Decent Work LA1. Total workforce by employment type, employment X X 29, 30 contract, and region LA2. Total number and rate of employee turnover X X 31 Employment by age group, gender, and region LA 3. Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, X 32 by major operations. LA4. Percentage of employees covered by collective X X 34 bargaining agreements. Labor/Management relations LA5. Minimum notice period(s) regarding operational chanX X 34 ges, including whether it is specified in collective agreements. 58 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes LA6. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker health and safety committees X 34 that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety LA7. Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work related fatalities X X 34 Occupational health by region. and safety LA8. Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place X X 34 to assist workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases. LA9. Health and safety topics covered in formal X 33 agreements with trade unions. LA10. Average hours of training per year per employee X X 33 by employee category. LA11. Programs for skills management and lifelong Training and education learning that support the continued employability of X 32, 33 employees and assist them in managing career endings. LA12. Percentage of employees receiving regular X 31 performance and career development reviews. LA13. Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category according to gender, Diversity and equal opportunity X X 12, 13, 29 age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. Human Rights HR4. Total number of incidents of discrimination and Non-discrimination X X 33 actions taken. HR6. Operations identiﬁed as having signiﬁcant risk for Child labor incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute X X 33 to the elimination of child labor. HR7. Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Forced and compulsory labor X X 33 taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. HR9. Total number of incidents of violations involving Indigenous rights X 33 rights of indigenous people and actions taken. 59 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Product responsibility PR5. Practices related to customer satisfaction, including Product and Service Labeling X 24 26 results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. PR6. Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing communications, X X 28 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship. Marketing Communications PR7. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing X 17 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. PR9. Monetary value of significant fines for non-comCompliance pliance with laws and regulations concerning the proviX X 41 sion and use of products and services. Society SO1. Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of Community X X 50 53 operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting. SO2. Percentage and total number of business units anaX X 21 lyzed for risks related to corruption. Corruption SO3. Percentage of employees trained in organization’s X X 20 anti-corruption policies and procedures. SO7. Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive Anti-Competitive Behavior behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their X 17 outcomes. SO8. Monetary value of significant fines and total numCompliance ber of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with X X 17 laws and regulations. 60 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes VUB’s adhesion to the Global Compact Principles Global Compact Principles VUB action GRI KPI • Code of Ethics, page 17 • Internal and External Ethical Standards, pages 17 21 Human Rights: 1. Businesses should support and • Adherence to international standards in project finance (Equator HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9 respect the protection of internatioHuman Principles), page 18 Labour Practices: nally proclaimed human rights rights • Social inclusion of disadvantaged people, page 50 51, 52 LA4, LA6-9, LA13 2. Businesses should make sure they • Code of Ethics, page 17 Human Rights: are not complicit in human rights • Internal and External Ethical Standards, pages 17 21 HR4, HR6, HR7, HR9 abuses • Promote social and environmental sustainability, pages 40 41 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Labour Practices: • Labour/management relations, page 33 34 effective recognition of the right to LA4-5 collective bargaining Human Rights: 4. Businesses should uphold the HR7 elimination of forms of forced and • Code of Ethics, page 17 Governance: compulsory labour Labour 4.8., 4.12. standards Human Rights: 5. Businesses should uphold the HR6 • Code of Ethics, page 17 effective abolition of child labour Governance: 4.8., 4.12. • Enhancement of human resources, pages 31 33 Labour Practices: 6. Businesses should uphold the eli• Labour/management relations, pages 33 34 LA2, LA13 mination of discrimination in respect • Respecting differences, pages 33 Human Rights: of employment and occupation • Internal control mechanisms, pages 20 21 HR4 • Environmental Management System and Strategy, pages 42 43 Governance: 7. Businesses should support a pre• Adherence to international standards in project finance (Equator 4.8., 4.12. cautionary approach to environmenPrinciples), page 18 Environmental Performance: tal challenges • Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects, page 48 49 EN26 • Environmentally Responsible Procurement, page 41 • Strategies for the environment, adhesion to international stanEnvironmental Performance: Environment 8. Businesses should undertake inidards, pages 42 43 EN1-6, EN8, EN12, EN14, tiatives to promote greater environ• Environmental culture, pages 18, 42 43 EN16, EN 19-20, EN22, mental responsibility • Green initiatives and community projects, pages 49 EN24, EN26 9. Businesses should encourage the • Green Energy and Energy Efficiency Projects, pages 48 49 Environmental Performance: development and diffusion of envi• Fostering innovative green technologies, pages 48 49 EN2, EN5-6, EN10, EN26 ronmentally friendly technologies • Financing energy savings projects, pages 48 49 • Code of Ethics, page 17 Anti10. Businesses should work against • Internal and External Ethical Standards, pages 20 21 Society: Corruption corruption in all forms • Transparency in internal processes, pages 40 41 SO2, SO3 • Internal control mechanisms, pages 20 21 61 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Statement of External Verifier 62 Contents To Our Stakeholders About This Report Profile and Governance Our Responsibility Our Stakeholders Annexes Issued by: Všeobecná úverová banka, a. s. Mlynské nivy 1 829 90 Bratislava Slovak Republic www.vub.sk csr@vub.sk External Verifier: Pontis Foundation, Bratislava Layout: Istropolitana Ogilvy 63 The 2012 Corporate Responsibility Report has been translated from Slovak into English solely for the convenience of international readers. The original document in Slovak prevails over any translation and will be made available upon request.
