Dear Mr. Secretary-General: Schibsted Media Group is a large player in the market for re-use of products through our online Schibsted Media Group's history is based on a long classifieds sites. Our marketplaces extend the tradition of independent news, information and economic life cycle of a range of products and transparent marketplaces. Trustworthiness and contribute to reducing the need for manufacturing quality are essentials for a media group – our users new products, thus alleviating the pressure on must be able to trust our news and our products. critical resources. We believe this contribute to empowering people in their daily life and thereby building more In recent years we have launched new services that transparent societies. contribute to increased transparency in the fields of consumer services. The services are easy to use and Through the way we interact with each other, with an efficient way for consumers to compare different our customers, suppliers and users, we are building service providers. Schibsted Media Group's reputation as a media group with high integrity. Schibsted has prepared a Schibsted is a member of the Nordic Media CSR Code of Conduct which in 2012 was implemented Forum with the aim of setting the stage for across the Group. Schibsted Media Group's Code of corporate responsibility in the media sector. We Conduct shall serve as a guide for each individual disclose our environmental risks and opportunities employee's daily business interactions and clarifies and quantitative year-over-year environmental the Group's standard for proper behaviour. impacts in our annual Carbon Disclosure Project submission. One of Schibsted's foremost corporate responsibilities is to ensure editorial freedom and Schibsted Media Group has been a member of the the right to freedom of speech. Schibsted's UN Global Compact since 2009. This is our third publishing businesses prepare annual editorial communication on progress and we affirm our accounts and their reports are available on the continued commitment to the ten principles of the group's website. The aim of the annual editorial Global Compact. We continue to express our intent reports is to increase transparency in our editorial to advance those principles within our sphere of activities. In the report, the editors-in-chief present influence, and we are continuously working on a yearly State of the Union article, describing making the ten principles part of our strategy, editorial goals, challenges and results during the culture and day-to-day operations. past year. During 2012, the use of mobile platforms for Oslo, 1 March 2013 consumption of news exploded. Even if the media Sincerely, landscape is changing, the role of the media is still the same. By illuminating and facilitating discussions of critical aspects in the society, media is moving the society forward. One of the most powerful strengths of the media is the ability to effect change. With new Rolv Erik Ryssdal digital platforms, Schibsted believes that the work of CEO, Schibsted Media Group our media houses may be performed even better.
