{2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR VISION TO BE THE LEADING MINING COMPANY MISSION To create value for our shareholders, our employees and our business and social partners through safely and responsibly exploring, mining and marketing our products. Our primary focus is gold and we will pursue value creating opportunities in other minerals where we can leverage our existing assets, skills and experience to enhance the delivery of value. VALUES Safety is our first value. We are accountable for our actions and We place people first and correspondingly put the highest undertake to deliver on our commitments. priority on safe and healthy practices and systems of work. We are focused on delivering results and we do what we We are responsible for seeking out new and innovative ways to say we will do. We accept responsibility and hold ourselves ensure that our workplaces are free of occupational injury and accountable for our work, our behaviour, our ethics and our illness. We live each day for each other and use our collective actions. We aim to deliver high performance outcomes and commitment, talents, resources and systems to deliver on our undertake to deliver on our commitments to our colleagues, most important commitment ... to care. business and social partners, and our investors. We treat each other with dignity and respect. The communities and societies in which we We believe that individuals who are treated with respect and operate will be better off for AngloGold Ashanti who are entrusted to take responsibility respond by giving having been there. their best. We seek to preserve people’s dignity, their sense We uphold and promote fundamental human rights where we of self-worth in all our interactions, respecting them for who do business. We contribute to building productive, respectful they are and valuing the unique contribution that they can and mutually beneficial partnerships in the communities in make to our business success. We are honest with ourselves which we operate. We aim to leave host communities with a and others, and we deal ethically with all of our business and sustainable future. social partners. We respect the environment. We value diversity. We are committed to continually improving our processes in We aim to be a global leader with the right people for the right order to prevent pollution, minimise waste, increase our carbon jobs. We promote inclusion and team work, deriving benefit efficiency and make efficient use of natural resources. We will from the rich diversity of the cultures, ideas, experiences and develop innovative solutions to mitigate environmental and skills that each employee brings to the business. climate risks. Contents 02 Key features of the year 32 Delivering sustainable community 03 } benefits 35 Adding value WHO WE ARE 39 Addressing artisanal and 04 Our business small-scale mining 06 Our stakeholders 41 Respecting human rights 07 } 43 Securing our people and assets Our approach 45 Responsible Gold 47 Addressing energy security and 08 Letter from CEO, Mark Cutifani climate change 10 Our business strategy 49 Responsible custodianship of 11 Our sustainability strategy water and land 13 Our approach to risk management 53 Cyanide and waste management and identifying material issues 55 Managing our supply chain 15 Our approach to assurance 16 Our sustainability review panel 17 External panel review 19 } Our PERFORMANCE 20 Ensuring safety and health 28 Attracting, developing and Guide to using our reports retaining our people See the guide to using our reports 30 Responding to the strike in on the inside back cover and flap. South Africa Forward-looking statements Certain statements contained in this document, other than statements of historical fact, including, without limitation, those concerning the economic outlook for the gold mining industry, expectations regarding gold prices, production, cash costs and other operating results, return on equity, productivity improvements, growth prospects and outlook of AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, individually or in the aggregate, including the achievement of project milestones, commencement and completion of commercial operations of certain of AngloGold Ashanti’s exploration and production projects and the completion of acquisitions and dispositions, AngloGold Ashanti’s liquidity and capital resources and capital expenditures and the outcome and consequence of any potential or pending litigation or regulatory proceedings or environmental issues, are forward-looking statements regarding AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, economic performance and financial condition. These forward-looking statements or forecasts involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that may cause AngloGold Ashanti’s actual results, performance or achievements to differ materially from the anticipated results, performance or achievements expressed or implied in these forward-looking statements. Although AngloGold Ashanti believes that the expectations reflected in such forward-looking statements and forecasts are reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will prove to have been correct. Accordingly, results could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, social and political and market conditions, the success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other government actions, including environmental approvals, fluctuations in gold prices and exchange rates, the outcome of pending or future litigation proceedings, and business and operational risk management. For a discussion of such risk factors, refer to the document entitled “Risk factors related to AngloGold Ashanti’s suite of 2012 reports” on the AngloGold Ashanti online corporate report website at www.aga-reports.com. These factors are not necessarily all of the important factors that could cause AngloGold Ashanti’s actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Other unknown or unpredictable factors could also have material adverse effects on future results. Consequently, readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. AngloGold Ashanti undertakes no obligation to update publicly or release any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances after the date of this Sustainability Report or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events, except to the extent required by applicable law. All subsequent written or oral forward-looking statements attributable to AngloGold Ashanti or any person acting on its behalf are qualified by the cautionary statements herein. This communication may contain certain “Non-GAAP” financial measures. AngloGold Ashanti utilises certain Non-GAAP performance measures and ratios in managing its business. NonGAAP financial measures should be viewed in addition to, and not as an alternative for, the reported operating results or cash flow from operations or any other measures of performance prepared in accordance with IFRS. In addition, the presentation of these measures may not be comparable to similarly titled measures other companies may use. AngloGold Ashanti posts information that is important to investors on the main page of its website at www.anglogoldashanti.com and under the “Investors” tab on the main page. This information is updated regularly. Investors should visit this website to obtain important information about AngloGold Ashanti. Contents {1 KEY FEATURES OF THE YEAR For the group AIFR(1) Payments to governments (per million hours worked) ($m) 20 1,500 16.66 1,220 1,245 1,200 15 12.88 11.50 900 844 9.76 10 644 7.72 535 600 5 300 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 (1) All injury frequency rate Average number of employees Community investment (including contractors) ($m) 80,000 28 24.91 70,000 62,895 63,364 65,822 24 62,046 61,242 20.61 60,000 20 50,000 16.08 16 40,000 10.88 12 30,000 8.44 20,000 8 10,000 4 0 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 Our Sustainability Report is published annually, with the previous report having been published in March 2012. This report should be read in conjunction with our online Sustainability Report and our Integrated Report for the year ended 31 December 2012. Incidents under the VPSHR(2) (Human rights incidents due to security interventions) For ease of use, a detailed guide to using our reports may be found on the inside back cover of this report, with a flap that 10 9 may be opened while reading the report. An interactive online 8 guide may be found at www.aga-reports.com. 6 5 For noting 4 3 2 The following key parameters should also be noted in 2 1 respect of our reports: 0 • Production is expressed on an attributable basis unless 08 09 10 11 12 otherwise indicated. (2) Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights •  The average workforce, including employees and contractors, is reported for AngloGold Ashanti subsidiaries and joint ventures (JVs). The JVs are reported on an attributable basis. Number of reportable environmental incidents • Adjustment of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions factors for Ghana and updating of records at other locations have resulted in restatement of some entries for 2011. 60 55 51 • Unless otherwise stated, $ or dollar refers to US dollars 50 throughout this suite of reports. 40 • Locations on maps are for indication purposes only. 30 27 27 • Group and company are used interchangeably. 20 16 10 For terminology used refer to the glossary of terms at www.aga-reports.com. OS 0 08 09 10 11 12 2} 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT } WHO WE ARE This section provides an overview of who we are, what we do and where we operate Bruce Kirkpatrick and John Caullay at Sunrise Dam gold mine, Australia Who we are {3 OUR BUSINESS AngloGold Ashanti, one of the world’s foremost gold exploration, mining and marketing companies, holds a portfolio of operations and projects on four continents, and has a worldwide exploration programme. We work across the full spectrum of the mining value chain, and are concerned with the impact of our activities on the diverse communities and environments in which we operate. Americas Continental Africa 10 6 5 4 11 12 9 7 3 2 13 8 South Africa Australasia 1 Operations 1 Argentina 5 Guinea 8 South Africa 9 Tanzania Cerro Vanguardia (92.5%) Siguiri (85%) Vaal River Geita 2 Australia 6 Mali Great Noligwa 10 United States Sunrise Dam Morila (40%) Kopanang Cripple Creek & Victor 3 Brazil Sadiola (41%) Moab Khotsong (CC&V) Serra Grande (1) Yatela (40%) Surface operations AGA Mineração 7 Namibia Mine Waste Solutions 4 Ghana Navachab West Wits Iduapriem Mponeng Obuasi Savuka TauTona (1) Effective 1 July 2012, AngloGold Ashanti increased its shareholding from 50% to 100%. Percentages indicate Major projects the ownership interest of AngloGold Ashanti, whether 11 Colombia 12 Democratic Republic 13 Australia held directly or indirectly. Gramalote (51%) of the Congo (DRC) Tropicana (70%) All operations and projects are 100%-owned unless La Colosa Kibali (45%) otherwise indicated. Mongbwalu (86.2%) 4} 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Our operations and projects In addition to gold, and depending on geology, valuable byproducts including silver, sulphuric acid and uranium may Headquartered in Johannesburg, South Africa, AngloGold be produced in the process of recovering the gold mined at Ashanti has 21 operations in 10 countries. Major development our various operations. These are inputs to other markets projects are located at Tropicana in Australia, Mongbwalu and and industries, demonstrating a valuable contribution from Kibali in the DRC and La Colosa in Colombia. our mining. Our extensive brownfield, greenfield and marine exploration programmes extend to 12 countries, in both established and Our markets new gold-producing regions through managed and nonAngloGold Ashanti’s primary direct customers of gold are managed joint ventures, strategic alliances and wholly-owned bullion banks acting as intermediaries for gold markets. ground holdings. We have an interest in Rand Refinery, a gold We promote our product in target markets, by supporting refining and smelting complex in South Africa, and own and initiatives aimed at improving gold jewellery design. This is operate the Queiroz Refinery in Brazil. mainly through the AuDITIONS programme of jewellery design The group is managed according to four geographic regions, competitions. Jewellery consumption in countries such as namely: India and China represents an important portion of physical gold demand. • South Africa, which comprises two mining areas and associated infrastructure – namely West Wits and Vaal River, Our shareholders which together comprise six deep‑level mining and surface AngloGold Ashanti’s primary listing is on the JSE in Johannesburg. operations. In July 2012, AngloGold Ashanti concluded The company is also listed on the New York, London, Australia the acquisition of First Uranium (Pty) Limited, the owner of and Ghana stock exchanges. The government of Ghana holds Mine Waste Solutions, which operates in the same area of a 1.66% interest in the company. The national governments of South Africa. Mali, Guinea and the DRC hold direct interests in our subsidiaries • Continental Africa, which comprises the operations in operating in those countries. In Argentina, the province of Santa Ghana, Guinea, Mali, Namibia and Tanzania, as well as Cruz has a stake in Cerro Vanguardia. projects in the DRC. In South Africa, a black economic empowerment (BEE) • Americas, comprising operations in Argentina, Brazil and the transaction undertaken in 2006 transferred an amount equivalent United States, as well as projects in Colombia. AngloGold to 6% of the value of South African production to employees Ashanti concluded the acquisition of the remaining 50% participating in an Employee Share Ownership Plan (ESOP) interest in Serra Grande in Brazil during the year. and to our BEE partner, Izingwe Holdings. At year end, 25,284 • Australasia, which currently focuses on a mine and project employees were participants to the ESOP. in Australia. At the end of December 2012, AngloGold Ashanti had Our people 383,320,962 ordinary shares in issue and a market AngloGold Ashanti’s operations and joint ventures employed, capitalisation of $12.02bn (2011: $16.23bn). on average, 65,822 people (including contractors) in 2012 (2011: 61,242 people). Attributable gold production (000oz) Our products South Africa 1,212 Gold has been a much sought-after source of wealth over the Continental Africa 1,521 centuries. It has extensive uses as an investment, as a store of Americas 953 value, as jewellery and for use in the electronics industry and Australasia 258 medical technology. Once mined, the ore is processed into doré (unrefined gold bars) at AngloGold Ashanti’s operations, and the product is Geographic distribution of shareholders as at 31 December 2012 (%) dispatched to various precious metals refineries. The gold is refined to a purity of at least 99.5%, in accordance with the United States 44 Rest of world/ standards of ‘good delivery’ as determined by the London South Africa 31 unidentified 3 Bullion Market Association (LBMA). This is important as it United Kingdom 8 Australia 2 ensures that we comply with the highest standards as a Rest of Europe 5 Ghana 2 responsible mining company. Singapore 3 Rest of Americas 2 Who we are {5 OUR STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholder engagement is the process through which we stay connected with our stakeholders and social partners. Stakeholders are those who are directly or indirectly affected Stakeholder identification and engagement is undertaken by our business and those with the ability to influence our in all areas of operation, within a framework informed by the business outcomes, positively and/or negatively, and social group management standard on engagement (www.agapartners are stakeholders with whom we seek to build reports.com/12/pdf/ms-engagement). This standard applies mutually beneficial relationships. Stakeholder engagement to engagement at corporate, regional, country office and site may be formal or informal. levels and: • records our intention that all operations engage in building Our stakeholders are highly diverse, reflecting the variety of successful and mutually beneficial relationships with geographic regions in which we operate, the wide range of stakeholders throughout the life of mine cycle (including groups with which we interact and the extent of issues with exploration projects, new and established operations, during which we deal. closure and post-closure); and While we plan for a certain level of engagement in every • provides tools for building social partnerships to secure our relationship, we aim to be responsive to issues and concerns social licence to operate and positions us as the preferred as they arise. operator wherever we have a presence. Comm tners unitie JV par s GO Inv CB s an es *NOs d tor s Stakeholder Customers Employees and employee groups with which AngloGold Ashanti representativ es we interact include: Sup plie Med rs ia Ind s bo ustry ent die ernm s Gov Regulatory bodies PODCAST * NGOs = non-governmental organisations Thomas Streiff CBOs = community-based organisations Fondation Guilé Head of Engagement AngloGold Ashanti’s sustainability reporting content: See case study: Americas – Partnership and what investors want to know participation at CC&V Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/thomas-streiff OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/ccv-participation 6} 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT } our approach This section addresses our business strategy and our sustainability strategy. It also takes a look at our approach to risk management and the Sustainability issues that we believe are material to our business. Finally, we discuss our approach to assurance and provide feedback from our sustainability panel Pacifique Zaboni at Mongbwalu in the DRC OUR APPROACH {7 LETTER FROM CEO, MARK CUTIFANI Reflections on 2012 Looking back at our sustainability journey and performance in the last year gives us an important view of progress in our longer-term business journey. I have been privileged to have been part of the team that built the foundation for systemic changes in the way we do business, and how we consider sustainability across all areas of our business. The continuing challenge we face is how to turn great ideas into actions on the ground. The building of systems and processes that are well understood provides the boundaries within which we operate. They must be embraced and adopted across all our operations so that we not only support effective knowledge management but also foster cross learning between the different geographic areas and disciplines. As reported in 2011, we have developed a sustainability framework that laid the foundations for the Mark Cutifani development of our sustainability strategy. In June 2012, Chief Executive Officer we appointed our Executive Vice President: Sustainable Development, David Noko. addition, improvements and successes continue to be evident How we report in the area of health, from fatigue management in Australia to There has been continued improvement in our reporting tuberculosis (TB) and HIV care in South Africa, and malaria processes to bring them in line with changing regulatory control in Ghana and Tanzania. requirements, and to make sure that we give a transparent and holistic view of the company to our business and social partners. Legacy issues on silicosis remain a challenge in South Africa as Reference is made in this report to information that is available we continue to work through the legal cases brought against and best placed in our other annual reports: the Integrated the company. We are committed to co-operating with industry Report; Annual Financial Statements; and the Mineral Resource partners and government to find a holistic approach to this issue. and Ore Reserve Statement. We have improved our processes As a company, we are also working hard to manage the work to better align our reporting. For example, our process for environment with programmes for dust control, improved drilling determining the company’s material issues is aligned with the and blasting methods, and in-house support for our employees. way we identify our sustainability issues in order to integrate our strategic approach with how we identify, address and We have seen an improvement in our environmental incidents mitigate those material issues that impact on different parts and reportable incidents within communities. There were 16 of the business. At a strategic level, that integration is crucial reportable environmental incidents during 2012, a 41% drop because sustainability is not a standalone discipline but an from the 27 that occurred in 2011, and 69% fewer incidents integral part of our business, across disciplines and geography. than the 51 in 2009. The improvement that has occurred in By seeking to understand how the issues are interconnected Ghana, with reportable environmental incidents declining from and by collaborating with partners not necessarily in the mining industry, we hope to find common solutions that originate 14 in 2011 to three in 2012 (a drop of 79%), is evidence of the beyond our own mining industry. encouraging work completed in this area. Our performance in 2012 During 2012, 58 community incidents occurred with the majority of these reported at our African operations. In most On the global front, AngloGold Ashanti has made significant cases, these incidents relate to communications and the need strides in performance across the different dimensions of sustainability, including improvements in safety and for us to reach out more effectively in these areas. In many environmental management in line with our business strategy. In cases, we are not able to use electronic communications so the knowledge penetration of key programmes needs to be considered in local context. We continue to address our key risks in a systematic way. We PODCAST are busy with the development of stakeholder identification and mapping plans, and will develop stakeholder management Mark Cutifani plans from that base. This will allow us to improve our interaction AngloGold Ashanti CEO with our diverse stakeholder universe. We believe this will help Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/mark-cutifani us in our engagements and improve identification of issues from a stakeholder perspective. 8} 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The changing landscape the working environment and removal of people from harm The tragic incident at Marikana was a devastating end to the but also in skills training and improving capability. We are in year. While the event itself happened at a particular mining the process of testing some of the concepts that will allow house in the platinum sector, it was one that reverberated us to do the work. Our consortium is unique in the partners across South Africa and the world. It has had a huge impact in it involves and how these partnerships are structured for a how government, the mining industry and individual companies win-win in the long term for all involved. We are also looking engage to find a common solution to the underlying causes that at how this will affect our current workforce and what we have fuelled this incident. As the contagion spread across the mining to do to manage the situation, and work with both unions and industry, it was important for us to act quickly to avoid similar employees to discover potential and create future value. The tragic consequences, and build partnerships in the interest of TIC clearly demonstrates that the answers will lie beyond the the industry and society at large. I personally commend the mining industry. leadership shown by the management team who navigated the South African operations through this unprecedented Other challenges like water and energy, require us to make event; keeping in line with our company values and showing systemic changes to the way we run our operations in the leadership that will set the stage for a different industrial long term. For example, we seek to minimise our demand relations environment. on resources such as water and look at alternative energy sources so that we leave as light a footprint as we can on the We remain committed to respecting our employees’ rights in environment. terms of freedom of association but had to set clear boundaries to ensure all our people were able to come to work without We still have a long way to go in defining appropriate metrics fear for their lives. We took drastic action in closing operations for measuring our sustainability performance that will have in South Africa in the interests of the safety of every single meaning across the group and that take into account the employee, and to avoid intimidation and coercion. The incident different operating environments. has fundamentally changed and challenged the status quo that had held us in good stead for the better part of the past two We continue to engage communities and governments on decades. We understand we need to continue to work hard broader policy developments to make sure we are part of defining to navigate the rather precarious situation and learn from it to a sustainable pathway to value for both business and society. improve our performance, and find sustainable solutions to the We continue to actively support the objectives of the ICMM, evil triplets of poverty, inequality and unemployment. We have the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the Extractive all learned difficult but important lessons from it. In the face Industries Transparency Initiative (EITI), and the Voluntary of a fragile situation, we remain committed to our employees, Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR). We are industry partners, representative unions, communities and government in finding long-term sustainable solutions. signatories to the Cyanide Code, and are supporters of a number of standards promoting Responsible Gold. Our online report We continue to work on our strategy for artisanal and smallhas been produced in accordance with the G3.0 guidelines of scale mining (ASM). We have learned important lessons from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), and we continue to be an the involvement with institutions such as the World Bank organisational stakeholder of the GRI. and International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM) on how we tackle the issue. While the Communities and SmallIn conclusion scale Mining (CASM) project with the World Bank might have Finally, I would like to congratulate my colleagues for the stopped, we continue with our own work as the threats are important strides we have made in defining our strategic immediate and a concerted effort needs to be made to ensure sustainable development objectives and in making the continued we find sustainable solutions, such as alternative livelihoods improvements across the business. This is a tribute to all and supporting local skills development. Great work has been 65,822 employees (including contractors) across the group and done in some of the countries in which we have a presence, the many communities from where they come. Their diverse such as Australia (with indigenous people), Brazil (with local experiences and circumstances give us a learning opportunity communities), Colombia (tackling sustainability issues around and a challenge to use those experiences in creating robust our projects), and Argentina (in local development programmes), systems and processes that transcend change and time, and and this is recognised across the group. create important links with the different communities. Looking forward Our strategic intervention through the Technology Innovation Consortium (TIC) demonstrates our belief that, through effective investment in research and development and Mark Cutifani innovative use of technology, we can unlock future potential, CEO both in terms of production and in the way we improve not just 19 March 2013 our approach {9 OUR BUSINESS STRATEGY AngloGold Ashanti’s vision, mission and values form the basis of our strategy. Our strategy Strategic focus areas To achieve our vision to be the leading mining company, Our five strategic focus areas support the achievement of our we must fulfil our mission to create value for shareholders, delivery targets – which are measured and re-evaluated on employees and business and social partners by safely and an ongoing basis. These delivery targets are reflected in the responsibly exploring for, mining and marketing our products. strategic focus areas referred to below. Although our primary focus is gold, AngloGold Ashanti will pursue value-creating opportunities in other minerals where it Strategic focus areas address one or more delivery targets. can leverage existing assets, skills and experience to enhance the delivery of value. Strategic focus areas People are Providing the leadership and the supporting management processes to ensure that we the business have the right people, in the right roles, doing the right work, to deliver against our goals. Maximise Managing revenues to ensure that full value is realised from our products by delivering a margins quality product and managing costs to protect margins and returns. Manage the Optimising asset and project portfolios to meet or exceed specified rates of return. To business as an achieve this, each asset is regularly reviewed and ranked both in absolute terms and relative asset portfolio to its peer group. Developing a range of options for growth, including greenfield, brownfield and marine Grow the exploration, new opportunities for promoting organic growth, value-accretive merger and business acquisition opportunities and maximising the value of commodities other than gold within our portfolio. Embrace Developing business and social partnerships based on mutual value creation, while sustainability maintaining a focus on ensuring the safety and well-being of employees and managing principles environmental and other impacts. Our delivery targets We have set targets which are measured and re-evaluated on a • total cash costs; continuous basis. Our targets are aimed at driving the creation • financial performance; and of real and long-term beneficial relationships with social and • environmental performance. business partners within the company and the communities in which we operate. They relate to seven key areas of our Our target relating to social performance was re-considered as business strategy and define our vision of leadership in our we sought to identify and report on meaningful and quantifiable sector, namely: measures of impact. Consequently, we have not reported on these • safety; targets here. We expect to advise on these in the year ahead. • production volumes; For further detail on these targets, see page 7 of our IR at • productivity; www.aga-reports.com/12/five-year-targets-scorecard. 10 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY Sustainability is intrinsic to our business. A sound sustainability strategy that is effectively executed will provide a basis for competitive advantage through: • improved productivity and fewer disruptions; PODCAST David Noko • stronger relationships with AngloGold Ashanti Executive Vice President: communities globally; Sustainable Development • preferential access to resources, Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/david-noko capital and talent; design approaches to deliver on shared goals. To succeed, • opportunities to grow our business; and we need to build relationships based on trust and sustained • enhanced company reputation. benefits. Progress in delivering on objectives will be measured by performance indicators that have been agreed upon by all parties involved. The sustainable development framework aims to take a holistic Increasing constraints and complexity in the global social, natural, view of sustainability – understanding connections and the and economic environments present growing challenges to range of possible impacts on our operations. Sustainability in business sustainability. These include higher-than-sustainable this sense is essential to the long-term viability of our business. consumption of some natural resources, environmental At each stage in the operational life cycle, we will therefore degradation, rising resource nationalism, a tightening regulatory define clear long-term positive outcomes in line with our environment, high costs of capital and rising costs of production, strategic intent, vision, mission and values. along with unstable economic systems combined with skills While we have made progress, our sustainability journey shortages, rising expectations of employees and communities continues to: and the potential for conflict. • address significant legacy issues at some operations; Our response is to embed sustainability into the business, at • integrate sustainability into the business at all operations and every stage of our life cycle. We can only generate mutual value in all regions; in the future if we effectively address and manage our current • position sustainability in the business to drive our competitive and legacy risks, and capitalise on our opportunities. advantage; In 2011, we set out our intention in our sustainable development • integrate sustainability functions at a corporate and framework to rebuild the way in which we work with and operational level; and relate to our key stakeholders and, in particular, with our host • consistently share good performance and lessons learned communities. Good progress was made in developing the across the group. framework during 2012. In going forward, we have as our objectives: We are placing increased focus on developing projects in • building a strong framework for effective sustainability partnership with communities and governments, aiming practices, enabling meaningful interactions within the to undertake community investment in a more consistent organisation and with relevant external partners; and co-ordinated way that enables communities within and around our operations to reach their development goals. This • understanding where our greatest impacts and risks arise and approach requires us to engage with our employees, our reside, and developing specific strategies to address them; host communities, governments at all levels, NGOs, other • integrating sustainability practices, issues and processes into mining companies, suppliers and others to identify and coall of our organisational activities across the mine life cycle; OUR APPROACH { 11 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY continued •  establishing progressive community partnership models that are based on engagement and co-design, in keeping with our values; •  advocating for sustainable policy development with governments, communities and institutions globally; •  building robust systems and processes for measuring sustainability performance and reporting, and for managing sustainability knowledge; and • effectively managing global sustainability talent. Sokoine Chayonka is a local community member who works with us at Geita in Tanzania. Sustainability framework Process Setting expectations and Integrating strategies into the Evaluating performance Accountability building strategies business and execution Sustainability vision Global standards, procedures and guidelines Review standards, shaping system design procedures and guidelines Corporate level Company sustainability Integration into strategies operating system Enabling systems to Provide assurance Sustainability policy support alignment and principles and execution Measure performance Regional Regionalisation of against standards level sustainability strategies with continuous improvement Operational Operational sustainability Review site plans level plans and procedures and procedures Sustainable development Feasibility, Pre-exploration Exploration design and Operations Closure Post closure construction Products Marketing 12 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT AND IDENTIFYING MATERIAL ISSUES Risk analysis has been and continues to be a key component in building and executing our business strategy, including our sustainability strategy. Risk identification, assessment and management are considered We understand, however, that mere analysis of our risks is at every step in the business planning process, from setting not sufficient, and that we need to understand the positions forth our business strategy, expectations and performance and concerns of our stakeholders in determining those issues targets; developing production and service strategies; planning that are material to the business. A risk may or may not be a and scheduling work; through to task execution. material issue identified by the business; however it is one that influences or makes a difference to the stakeholder. Our key risks and uncertainties are described on pages 26 to 30 of our Integrated Report, along with mitigation strategies and a summary of progress against these risks. We adopted a three-stage process in determining our material issues: Identify issues relevant to • Direct short-term financial performance Document the process • Ability to deliver on strategy and policies Stage 1 • Best-practice norms exhibited by peers Segment issues according to • Stakeholder behaviour level of relevance and themes • Concerns about societal norms Prioritise the issues • Internal considerations: direct financial implications, Decide on thresholds reputational risks and opportunities, potential effect on Stage 2 operational performance and strategic opportunities • External considerations: media coverage, market Assess issues commentary, number of complaints, survey results Materiality assessment Review by included in audit scope Stage 3 • Internal and external advisory panels • Board Categorise issues by relevance and themes our approach { 13 OUR APPROACH TO RISK MANAGEMENT AND IDENTIFYING MATERIAL ISSUES continued Material issues Employee safety and health, in particular mine fatalities associated with deep-level underground mining, as well as See Ensuring safety and health, on page 20; legacy health issues; the threat of individual claims or class and Health and well-being on page 23. action lawsuits. See Addressing energy security and climate change, Access to adequate energy and water supply. on page 47; and Responsible custodianship of water and land, on page 49. Impact of climate change on our business, our regulatory See Addressing energy security and climate change and physical environments and communities. on page 47. See Responsible custodianship of water and Environmental permitting, potential water and air pollution land, on page 49 and Cyanide and waste and competing demands for land use. management on page 53. Delivery on production and growth targets, including the See our IR and FS . introduction of new technologies and mitigating skills shortages. Rising resource nationalism and potential conflict with See Adding value, on page 35 and Delivering government (including imposition of royalties, taxes, levies, sustainable community benefits, on page 32. mandated beneficiation and state ownership of resources). Global market dynamics – recession, gold price, R/$ volatility, See Project One: Business Process Framework for ability to raise capital, as well as inflationary cost pressures, a successful company in our OS . Also see our especially rising labour expectations and costs. IR at www.aga-reports.com Heightened community and government expectations; See Adding value, on page 35, Delivering sustainable in some countries ASM; labour relations and the threat of community benefits, on page 32, and Addressing unlawful industrial action. artisanal and small-scale mining, on page 39. See Respecting human rights on page 41, Securing Upholding fundamental human rights and support for our people and our assets, on page 43, and Responsible Gold. Responsible Gold, on page 45. Ensuring consistency in policy, approach and management of See Managing our supply chain, on page 55, and our supply chain. Responsible Gold, on page 45. 14 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR APPROACH TO ASSURANCE In 2012, the scope of our external assurance also covered compliance with the key standards against which we report – AngloGold Ashanti believes the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI’s) G3.0 guidelines and the in timeous, accurate and Sustainable Development Framework of the International Council on Mining and Metals (ICMM). transparent reporting, and we support third party verification of In addition, all sustainability reporting was self-declared as being in alignment with GRI (G3.0) at an A+ application level. our systems and data. Our reporting was reviewed by GRI. GRI’s statement may be found in our OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/gri-statement. Independent review See the role of and review letter by our panel – pages 16 and 17. Assurance and approvals This year we have continued our threefold approach to Introducing combined assurance assurance, relying on three complementary review processes – AngloGold Ashanti is committed to the progressive internal audit, external audit and an independent viewpoint from implementation of integrated reporting at all levels of our our sustainability review panel. For the first time we have also business. This reporting should, and does, reflect a holistic introduced Combined Assurance. account of our business – both financial and non-financial Internal assurance objectives, our performance against them, and our vision for the future. Under the guidance of the Audit and Corporate AngloGold Ashanti’s Group Internal Audit continues to develop capacity in the area of sustainability reporting and Governance Committee, a combined assurance model has has conducted an audit of our 2012 sustainability reporting in been adopted with the aim of providing a co-ordinated approach terms of the Group Internal Audit Charter as approved by the to all assurance activities, which includes a wide representation company’s Audit and Corporate Governance Committee. The of disciplines in the business. We believe that this will enable the audit was also performed in accordance with the Institute of board and management to assess whether the significant risks Internal Auditors’ Standards for the Professional Practice of facing the group are complete and adequately mitigated. Internal Audit. The review assessed the validity, accuracy and completeness of the relevant GRI indicators in the group-level The combined assurance model facilitates a group-wide and online reporting, together with various data transfer and integration and leveraging of the various control, governance, integrity checks. and assurance processes. Its introduction has brought a new dimension to assurance within the group through value being This Sustainability Report was approved by the board of derived from integrated assurance teams. directors on 19 March 2013. During 2012, AngloGold Ashanti was subjected to risk based, External assurance and independent review integrated, technical and commercial combined assurance External assurance of our sustainability reporting was provided reviews. The outcome of these reviews provided reasonable by Ernst & Young. Data indicators are selected for assurance assurance to allow the board, on recommendation from the by external audit teams on the basis of their assessment of Audit and Corporate Governance Committee, to decide on the the issues and indicators that are most significant to the sustainability performance of the business, as well as the key effectiveness of the group’s system of internal controls. risks identified by the group. We believe that this reflects our maturing approach towards risk Data which has been externally assured is indicated in our online management and assurance, and will: reports with icons for limited LA or reasonable assurance RA . • allow executive management and the board to extract and Ernst & Young’s sustainability assurance statement may be monitor meaningful information for better decision-making; found in our OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/assurance. • eliminate duplication; • reduce costs; and • improve transparency and reporting. See case study: Group – Combined assurance means During 2012, all operations within AngloGold Ashanti were ‘no surprises’ subjected to risk based, integrated, technical or commercial OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/combined-assurance combined assurance reviews involving more than 113 people, from across 19 disciplines. our approach { 15 OUR sustainability REVIEW PANEL The panel meets at AngloGold Ashanti, Johannesburg in September 2012 Francis Petersen Sheila Khama Anita Roper David Noko Nisia Werneck Muzong Kodi Simon Zadek (Member: South Africa) (Member: Ghana) (Member: Australia) (Executive Vice (Member: Brazil) (Member: DRC) (Panel facilitator) President: Sustainable Development, AngloGold Ashanti) AngloGold Ashanti is committed to continuous improvement ‘through the eyes of the community’. In South Africa, members of its sustainability performance and uses a structured process focused on understanding the challenges faced by a region to identify sustainability priorities for the business. They are with declining gold deposits and an extensive labour force. based on the views of external stakeholders, as well as on a Their mandate was to evaluate the region’s socio-economic real understanding of business and shareholder imperatives. development strategy and provide comment on how South Africa seeks to address impacts arising from its transition from In November 2010, we convened a Sustainability Review Panel a highly labour-intensive industry to a technology-focused to provide independent perspectives on our sustainability model. These views are shared with executive management for performance. This panel is an international assembly of selfconsideration and, where appropriate, implementation. governing experts, facilitated by an external advisor. Many of the panel participants have extensive experience in mining, but The panel’s role as indicated above is to comment and members are not drawn exclusively from that sector. The group provide guidance on the company’s approach to sustainability is partly representative of the geographical diversity of our in terms of strategy and practice. In addition, it reviews and business, but their broader experience of sustainability matters makes recommendations on the content and quality of our provides real value to the range of sustainability issues that the Sustainability Report, flagging emerging issues which may company faces. require closer attention. So as to provide a meaningful base of understanding of AngloGold As in previous years, the panel has reviewed this group-level Ashanti, we continue to build on the panel’s knowledge through Sustainability Report and has provided its commentary in the ongoing access to information on our sustainability performance review letter that follows. However, it should be noted the panel and strategy, and through visits to selected sites and the has not undertaken an audit of the report of the company’s Corporate office in Johannesburg biannually. activities, and so does not provide any indication of the accuracy of the report or the materiality or completeness of During its tenure the panel has spent focused time with the specific elements. business, engaging in a range of discussions with executive and senior management and visiting regional operating hubs in Ghana, South Africa and Brazil. In Ghana and Brazil, panel members visited numerous See our OS for individual profiles of our panel and panel communities of their own choosing and held discussions with membership changes in 2012. a variety of stakeholders in order to see AngloGold Ashanti 16 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT externaL PANEL REVIEW The company is to be commended for the organisation of the report, the coherence between its parts, and the links to additional online resources, although the Panel has focused in its review and comments, on the written report. For the first time, reporting on sustainability is more fully explained on the science of what is possible and what the contextualised by the company’s core business strategy. company has achieved across its global operations. This, together with a clear description of the company’s • Community development impacts, with a particular focus new sustainability management framework, should support on economic benefits through leveraging the company’s improved reporting, in the future, on the links between procurement, including how longer-term opportunities linked, sustainability impacts and underlying business performance. for example, to technology upgrading can be realised. Particularly impressive is the underlying alignment of reporting • Technology upgrading, which provides a basis for the on sustainability and business-related material issues and risks company’s viability, especially in deep mines such as those through the company’s integrated approach to reporting and in South Africa, as a means to improve worker safety, internal assurance in compliance with South Africa’s progressive and economic benefit for a potential host country through corporate governance requirements. The clear description of associated R&D, production and maintenance. how its internal risk management handles sustainability impacts • Mine closure from its policies and financial provisioning indicates a growing embeddedness of sustainability into the through to its restitution planning and work with particular company’s daily business. communities in developing alternative livelihood strategies. Effectively communicating performance and impact is at More information on the company’s targets, including the basis the core of what the report must deliver. This year’s report on which they are set, would provide clarity on its ambitions continues the positive trend in more fully explaining how the and greater continuity between reports. company determines material sustainability issues, and then reporting against these issues. It is also encouraging to see The tragic events in Marikana, South Africa, over 2012, and the continuous improvements in the description and measurement associated strikes and social unrest that impacted AngloGold of performance specifics. The summary of what has been Ashanti, have rightly been highlighted in the report. The CEO’s achieved during 2012, measured across key goals and letter, in particular, provides important insights into careful targets, provides an easy-to-access means for the reader to consideration, at all stages, of the best way for the company assess whether, and how, such strategies, frameworks and to respond, taking account of the immediate circumstances management systems translate into real, positive changes. and longer-term implications. Given the CEO’s indication of the longer-term significance of these events, it would be important Stakeholders would benefit, however, from a more thorough for the company to provide greater depth on this; if not in this treatment in future reporting of several issues highlighted by the report then through stakeholder engagement channels and company as material. reporting in future. • Health and safety: Reporting on the major improvements Stakeholder engagement is a core aspect of sustainability. in safety standards that have been achieved would benefit AngloGold Ashanti has continued to improve its engagement from some benchmarking. Health issues, notably silicosis, with a range of stakeholders, as described in the report and have been highlighted in the CEO’s letter but more could be noted by the Panel through its country and corporate-level our approach { 17 externaL PANEL REVIEW continued assessments. Such engagement has, positively, extended In summarising our perspective, the Panel wishes to commend into more difficult areas on specific issues such as artisanal AngloGold Ashanti for progress made, and to urge the company mining, in particular places such as Ghana, and with notable to continue this by acting on several recommendations in next stakeholders such as sustainability-focused investors. While year’s report: the report is principally a vehicle for the company’s own voice • Greater focus on setting and measuring progress against to be communicated, there is considerable value in reflecting longer-term, ambitious goals and targets. the views of stakeholders articulated through engagement. • Support for stakeholder education and insights by further It is unfortunate, therefore, that the report once again does development of dilemma and learning-linked reporting. not reflect the views of key stakeholders, notably workers, communities, governments and investors. The Panel hopes • Improved analysis and performance measurement of key that this shortfall can be remedied in next year’s report. issues, including health and technology-related impacts. • Inclusion of independently authenticated key stakeholders, Learning, responsiveness and innovation, as a means of driving including voices of employees and communities. sustainability but also as one of its business benefits, have been • More in-depth coverage of several material issues, including a core focus of the Sustainability Panel in its country visits, community development, mine closure, health and which have to date included Brazil, Ghana and South Africa, technology-related goals and impacts. as well as in its ongoing interactions with the corporate team. The report’s more open approach to discussing the company’s response to unexpected developments has been positive, particularly in its approach to human rights and, more generally, its handling of dilemmas. The Panel would recommend a more systematic treatment of this core dynamic in future reports to broaden its application across all major sustainability issues and business areas. 18 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT } our performance This section deals with how we have performed against our strategic objectives Fatoumata Diallo and Bah Hseuy at Siguiri in Guinea our PERFORMANCE { 19 ENSURING SAFETY AND HEALTH The safety and health of our employees is one of our most important business considerations and we are committed to creating the safest possible working environment for employees, and one in which our employees’ well-being is safeguarded. We are also committed to addressing existing and legacy health issues – such as noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL), silicosis, HIV/Aids, pulmonary tuberculosis (TB) and malaria. Safety Our performance in 2012 What we said we would do We have made significant progress in improving safety and health performance since 2008, and have sustained a 50% Our long-term goal is to operate a business that is free of reduction in occupational fatalities for the fifth consecutive year. occupational injury and illness. Within five years from 2010, we aim to achieve our objective of reducing our all injury frequency We recognise factors leading to fatal incidents differ from those rate (AIFR) to less than nine per million hours worked. AIFR is which result in less severe incidents and have started a process the total number of injuries per million hours worked, including to thoroughly analyse all major hazards with fatal consequence fatalities, and was selected as a key performance measure potential using bow-tie risk models. The models visually portray because it aligns with our long-term goal of no harm. threat and consequence pathways to and from a major event In mid-2008 we initiated a safety transformation programme in the characteristic shape of a bow-tie. Along each pathway which focused on three areas: engaging people; building the intervening preventative and mitigating controls are depicted. right systems; and managing risk effectively. This programme Vulnerabilities, both in layers of control and control robustness, has evolved into our Safety Framework, which consists of are quickly identified and addressed. The models take the 22 programmatic elements which we believe are critical in assessment process one step further and crucially link critical establishing a resilient safety management system and an controls to management systems through the assignment of enduring safety culture. Our framework complements and tasks, procedures, processes, and accountabilities in a critical builds upon the internationally recognised OHSAS18001control register. certified safety management systems established and In concert with the development of bow-tie risk models, a suite maintained at each of our operations. of Major Hazard Control Standards has been developed which To us, safety transformation is about valuing people and concisely defines mandatory controls aimed at eliminating or ensuring that we place priority on people’s safety, physical minimising the risk of fatalities, injuries or incidents arising from security, health and well-being. the uncontrolled release of the associated hazard. Control standards encompassing 20 risk areas – such as ground control, {Michael Parker, Senior Vice President: Safety & Environment, Business and Technical Development Department: “Is safety really our first value? Absolutely. From the executive level to the front line, this value is embraced. We have stopped mining in certain areas in South Africa because PODCAST Michael Parker we believe the risk is just too high. We have shut down portions AngloGold Ashanti of our operations when they are not fully compliant. We have Senior Vice President: Safety and shut down contractors for not operating in accordance with Environment; Business and Technical Development Department our values and standards. Obviously we can and will do more Safety at our operations and the effectiveness of our safety focus. but, yes, the business is living up to this value.” } Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/michael-parker 20 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT working at height, and fire prevention – have been developed and are intended for global implementation early in 2013. See case study: Continental Africa – AngloGold Ashanti and Africa aid vulnerable groups at Sadiola In an effort to enhance organisational learning and establish OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sadiola-africare a broader basket of leading and lagging safety performance indicators, we expanded the scope of our global reporting platform to include high potential incidents (HPIs). HPIs are incidents with major loss potential, but with minimal to no actual with the tools and interpersonal skills to facilitate comprehensive consequence having materialised. We view these incidents incident investigations aimed at rooting out not only immediate as learning opportunities to improve our safety management causes, but underlining individual, workplace, and organisational systems and recorded over 100 incidents during 2012. They also serve as a leading indicator for significant incidents. factors which may have contributed to the incident. Through the identification of these factors, preventative and corrective actions Further enhancements to our global reporting system improved are taken to ensure incidents do not recur. performance monitoring through transparent, real-time performance reporting, diagnostics, and analytics. This allowed Organisational capability building during 2012 was not only us to be more responsive and to deploy critical resources limited to structured methods of incident investigation, but strategically where needed. Incident reporting is instantaneous included the development, piloting and launch of a multi-tiered and key performance indicators are reported automatically on a Hazard and Risk Management (H&RM) and Safety Leadership more frequent weekly basis, allowing us to monitor performance training programmes. The tiered H&RM training programme more closely. caters to the various organisational levels and covers personal risk assessments for front-line workers to enterprise risk A crucial step in preventing incidents and associated injuries is assessments at the executive level. The Safety Leadership to understand their immediate, fundamental, and contributing Programme introduces tools and techniques to assist leaders causes. To this end, we have developed and fully implemented in engaging employees in safety conversations, interactions, an incident investigation process based upon Professor James and interventions. The Safety Leadership Programme was Reason’s Organizational Accident Model, which is widely successfully piloted within our greenfield exploration and recognised as best practice. Over 500 individuals from various Australia business units. Understanding that a number of disciplines in each business unit have participated in a three or factors influence the safety performance of an organisation, five day custom-developed training course. This equips them each of these business units was able to realise substantial We encourage voluntary counselling and testing through a variety of initiatives. our performance { 21 ENSURING SAFETY AND HEALTH continued (60%+) safety improvements in 2012, as measured by AIFR time injuries been reduced, but that the magnitude of injuries continued reductions over the past five years. has reduced as well. Our fatal injury frequency rate (FIFR) has remained essentially unchanged year-on-year while the 50% Each organisational capability building programme will be step-change reduction attained in the 2007/2008 time period accelerated in 2013. was sustained for the fifth consecutive year. A strong focus on the control of major hazards, the institution of preventative While it is too soon to see if we are indeed achieving the and corrective actions from organisational learnings, and step-change we are seeking, our AIFR shows continuous instilling safety leadership attributes and qualities in all levels improvement. In 2012, this figure was reduced by 21% to a of management we believe are instrumental in eliminating the record low of 7.72 injuries per million hours worked, compared occurrence of fatal incidents at our operations. with 9.76 the previous year. Our lost time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) improved by 16% to a record low of 5.28 injuries per million hours worked and our injury severity (IS) rate improved by See case study: Australasia – Employees simplify 24% from 351 in 2011 to 267 days lost in 2012. Injury severity is sustainability management system at Sunrise Dam a measure of lost productivity due to occupational injuries and OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sunrise-safety-kiosk equals the number of lost days per million hours worked. The reduced rate suggests that not only have the number of lostKey performance indicators In memoriam At Cerro Vanguardia in Argentina Occupational fatalities – group Mr Marcos Dante Apaza on 20 January 20 18 At Iduapriem in Ghana 15 15 15 Mr Abdul Razak on 14 September 15 14 At Obuasi in Ghana 10 Mr Kojo Anobil on 29 April Mr Yakubu Waziru on 17 November 5 At Mongbwalu in the DRC 0 Mr Ramazani Tsongo on 3 November 08 09 10 11 12 At a greenfield exploration site in the DRC Mr Malobi Loyda on 21 May FIFR – group (per million hours worked) At Geita in Tanzania 0,12 Mr Almas Peter on 6 August 0.10 0.10 0,10 0.09 0.09 0.09 At Mponeng in South Africa 0,08 Mr Phakiso Cletus Fosa on 14 February 0,06 Mr Middleton Zitulele Nojoko on 12 August Mr Gerhardus C. Krugel on 25 September 0,04 0,02 At TauTona in South Africa 0,00 Mr Manene Mzwakali on 23 March 08 09 10 11 12 Mr Bangindawo Mninawe on 23 March Mr Maile Patrick Thobi on 3 December Injury severity rate – group (per million hours worked) At Savuka in South Africa Mr Liphakana Ernest Lipholo on 4 January 400 363 368 351 Mr Tsebang Justice Ntsatsi on 28 July 350 329 300 267 At Great Noligwa in South Africa 250 Mr Alphonsi Mosiuoa on 13 June 200 150 At Moab Khotsong in South Africa 100 Mr Mahlasinyane Sidwel Leipa on 26 January 50 Mr Thuso Ernest Manosa on 21 June 0 08 09 10 11 12 22 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Operations in the Americas and Australasia regions and our Occupational lung diseases litigation exploration projects are largely excluded from this discussion, Occupational health litigation instituted in October 2006 as occupational health incidence is low and therefore not by Mr Mankayi in the High Court of South Africa and deemed to be sufficiently material to report. reported on previously has not progressed during the year. Mr Mankayi passed away subsequent to the hearing Our performance in 2012 in the Supreme Court of Appeal in which his appeal was Occupational health dismissed. Following the Constitutional Court judgment in Our occupational health programmes are geared to address March 2011, Mr Mankayi’s executor may proceed with his current risks and legacy issues. Occupational illnesses – such case in the High Court. as silicosis and NIHL – tend to have a long latency period Two class certification applications were served on and may often only be detected after individuals have left the AngloGold Ashanti in 2012 and early 2013 respectively. company’s employ. In the event any class is certified, such class would be Reducing occupational exposure to dust at our South permitted to institute a class action against AngloGold African operations requires a combination of engineering Ashanti. As of 31 December 2012, 31 individual claims and administrative controls. Our rigorous dust sampling had been received and AngloGold Ashanti has filed a programmes show consistently-reduced dust exposure since notice of intention to oppose the claims. It is possible that 2006. Only 0.94% of samples of respirable crystalline silica additional class actions and/or individual claims relating to silicosis and/or other occupational lung disease (OLD) will exceeded the Occupational Exposure Limit (OEL) of 0.1mg/m3 be filed against AngloGold Ashanti Limited in the future. (2011: 0.74%), which is well below the industry target of 5%. AngloGold Ashanti will defend these and any other future Two major initiatives designed to reduce dust exposure were the claims, if and when filed, on their merits. introduction of centralised blasting at our Vaal River operations For further information, see our FS at www.aga-reports. and the introduction of sidewall treatment for dust (an extension com/12/fs/financials/note-30. of existing footwall treatment measures) in both South Africa regions. Centralised blasting has been practised in the West Wits region for a number of years and both regions continue to Health and well-being show progress. What we said we would do In 2012, a total of 168 cases of silicosis were identified as In the area of health, we continue to manage several key areas submitted to the Medical Board for Occupational Diseases of of concern, including: South Africa (MBOD) (2011: 263 cases). The latency period • occupational illnesses, particularly occupational lung disease of the disease is typically 10 to 15 years, which means that (OLD), primarily silicosis and occupational TB at our South it is too early to assess the success of the industry initiative of African operations, and noise-induced hearing loss (NIHL); eliminating new cases of silicosis among employees unexposed • HIV/AIDS, particularly in the South Africa Region; and to dust prior to 2008. • malaria, especially in certain areas of our Continental Africa region. Occupational tuberculosis is a compensable disease in the South African mining industry and is linked both to silica dust We have committed to the following objectives: exposure and to the HIV/AIDS epidemic. In 2012, 446 new • progress towards the industry milestone of no new cases of TB were identified and submitted for compensation cases of silicosis among previously unexposed (2008 (2011: 541 cases). The incidence of occupational TB among onwards) employees at our South African operations after employees in South Africa in 2012 was 1.4% (2011: 1.8%) December 2013; which is below our 2015 target of 2.25%. Our cure rate for • maintaining occupational TB incidence at below 2.25% occupational TB was 94%, against a World Health Organization among South African employees, reducing it to below 1.5% target of 85%. by 2029 and successfully curing 85% of new cases; Intensive and sustained dust control measures, HIV testing and • meeting the industry milestone of no deterioration in counselling programmes accompanied by antiretroviral therapy hearing greater than 10%, from a 2008 baseline, among (ART), monitoring and early treatment of TB, and successful occupationally-exposed individuals at our South African housing and accommodation strategies have contributed to operations; and this improvement. • rolling out integrated malaria programmes, based on the highly successful model implemented at Obuasi in Ghana, at The incidence of NIHL is a matter of concern at our operations our operations in Mali, Tanzania and Guinea. in South Africa and at Obuasi in Ghana. In South Africa, 57 new our performance { 23 ENSURING SAFETY AND HEALTH continued cases of NIHL were identified (2011: 69 cases), with 15 cases Health and well-being having acquired more than 10% loss when compared to their 2008 The areas in which we operate may have high levels of nonaudiograms. This clearly does not meet the industry milestone. work related illnesses, which may be either communicable or non-communicable. For instance, in Ghana malaria is NIHL remains a critical issue at Obuasi in Ghana because the administrative and surveillance programmes are still relatively new not directly associated with the work that we do, but it is a and are dealing with a backlog of cases requiring identification, widespread disease that has a significant impact on our treatment and compensation. In 2012, 141 new cases were business and on our ability to respond as a business. The diagnosed, compared to 116 in 2011 and 226 in 2010. same concerns apply to HIV/AIDS in South Africa. Across all of our operations we have also seen increasing levels of nonInitiatives to silence or substitute equipment and ensure communicable diseases such as hypertension and diabetes administrative controls (including awareness and education which have had an impact on the business. programmes) aimed at improving the issuing and suitability of hearing protection devices have been put in place. A high-level Measuring absenteeism and its causes is complex and multitask team has been set up and specialist staff employed. factoral, and is not simply a reflection of health programmes. Nonetheless this is considered a partial indicator of well-being, and – in the South Africa Region – has remained constant yearSee case study: South Africa – Saving lives by on-year, at around 6%. removing people from risk OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sa-safety-system Given the importance of health within the communities in which we operate and, very often, the lack of access to healthcare, we also look to find ways in which the internal capabilities we have developed can be used to contribute to improve community health in sustainable ways. This means establishing and working within partnerships, very often with the national and local health authorities, to strengthen local health systems. HIV/AIDS continues to be a significant public health threat in South Africa, although our programmes that integrate the management of HIV/AIDS and TB continue to show positive results. Our programmes entail: • awareness, education and training programmes not only about the disease and its impacts, but also the options available to employees and their dependants; • voluntary counselling and testing (VCT) initiatives; • wellness programmes, which are made available to affected employees; and • the provision of antiretroviral therapy (ART) to employees for whom this treatment is clinically indicated. HIV prevalence among employees can only be estimated as disclosure is not compulsory. Our most conservative estimate (or worst case scenario) is that prevalence is about 30% amongst our South African workforce. One of the key issues we deal with is the sustainability of our testing initiatives. We have always tried to get as many people through VCT as possible through a variety of programmatic At Obuasi, Ghana, where Luke Boateng and Fritz Larkai work, we are working hard to address noise, as well as dust, which remain interventions, including mass campaigns and incentives. After critical workplace issues. 10 years of these campaigns, we are seeing a decline in the 24 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Global Fund work rolls out In 2009, AngloGold Ashanti was nominated as the principal recipient of a $138m grant from the Global Fund to fight AIDS, TB and malaria. The project will cover 40 districts in Ghana and will be based on the integrated malaria-control model implemented at Obuasi. Work on the project began in July 2011, following successful resolution with the Ghanaian authorities of taxation issues relating to the grant. The first round of indoor residual spraying started in January AngloGold Ashanti is implementing an integrated malaria control programme, covering 40 districts in Ghana. and continued to June 2012, covering 444,218 structures in seven implementing districts (around 99% of our target) compared with the 85% coverage target set by the Global number of people going to VCT. Our challenge is to devise Fund for the period. The second round started in August new and engaging ways to encourage as many people to test with the addition of five more districts. The objective is as possible. to cover 40 districts in Ghana and reduce the burden of disease while creating 3,800 jobs by year four. In 2012, there were 4,483 employees participating in our Additionally, governance mechanisms have been wellness programme (about 20% of the South African improved in the year under review. An inaugural meeting workforce) and around 3,000 people on ART (around 12% of of the AngloGold Ashanti Malaria Control Ltd* Board our South African workforce). was held in Accra on Friday 14 December 2012. New, Our ART programmes continue and, despite the incidence of independent members are Ms Sheila Khama (one of our AIDS-defining illnesses increasing slightly to 0.75 cases per Sustainability Panel Members), Dr George Amofah (former 1,000 employees during the year (2011: 0.66 cases per 1,000), Deputy Director-General of the Ghana Health Service ) and they still receive much support. While we have had significant Dr Constance Bart-Plange (Ministry of Health). successes in our disease management programmes, we * a special purpose vehicle formed to implement the grant. recognise that we have been less successful in preventing new cases of HIV infection. {James Steele, Manager: Health, South Africa Region, “We Millennium Development Goals alignment are seeing encouraging successes in the HIV programme Our Continental Africa Region will be collaborating with in South Africa. The number of new cases of HIV has come the Earth Institute, Columbia University, including the two down by about 33% over the past five years. Some of the late Millennium Development Goals (MDGs) Centres in East lagging indicators – hospital admission rates, AIDS-defining and West Africa, and with Millennium Promise in New York. Together, the teams aim to adapt the Millennium illness rates, death rates, TB rates – have declined by 50% Villages Project’s rural development approach to a mining to 60% over the same period. Our AIDS-defining illness rates environment with the intent of formulating integrated, reduction is as much as 80%. We recognise that we have a community-led development programmes to achieve long way to go: Still too many people are contracting HIV, and the MDGs. In doing so, we hope to better manage our community investments and engagement activities in still too many people are dying from AIDS-related illnesses.” } a measurable, sustainable way, as well as to improve relationships between the company and the community. The incidence of malaria in our Continental Africa Region What we hope to see is that the investments we are remains an area of concern, although we have seen a reduction making in communities have a greater impact and that in 2012. The primary contribution to this success is the Obuasi communities are ultimately strengthened as a result of Malaria Control Programme, which is our flagship initiative, as hosting the company. well as the programme at Iduapriem, both in Ghana. our performance { 25 ENSURING SAFETY AND HEALTH continued Nidiaye Paba and Traore Mamadou at Sadiola in Mali. Seasonal spraying to control malaria is undertaken at Sadiola and Yatela. Rolling out the Obuasi programme to other sites in our • lack of reliable baseline data from the community health Continental Africa Region began in 2011, although the success facilities; and of these interventions has been less marked. • Siguiri town not included in the original programme although this is where two thirds of the mine workers reside. At Iduapriem, there was an 80% decrease in the malaria LTIFR from 113 in 2011 to 22.5 in 2012(1). Going forward, the indoor A plan has been put in place to address these challenges and residual spraying aspect of the programme will fall under the site management has agreed to the following immediate steps: ambit of the Global Fund Project. This will ensure continuity and • Continental Africa Region to support the development of sustainability of the programme’s success. a new malaria control programme based on the previous successes, but incorporating all interventions and including The malaria control programme at Geita continues to show Siguiri town; improvement. The overall trend from 2010 has been downward • relocate the responsibility to the health section and – a reduction by 40% from 2010. In 2012, the malaria LTIFR accountability to the Health Services Manager; came down to 15.7 from 26.07 in 2010. • conduct baseline surveys; In Siguiri, there was an increase (54%) in the malaria LTIFR in • implement a robust monitoring and evaluation system; and 2012. The malaria LTIFR was 107.16 in 2012 as compared to • increase interaction with the government’s National Malaria 87.74 in 2011. A recent review by the regional team revealed Control Programme (NMCP) and the Siguiri community the following: health facilities. • lack of adequate resources (spray operators) has resulted in the control programme only able to spray the targeted Seasonal indoor residual spraying was delayed in Sadiola villages once a year for the past three years; and Yatela due to Malian government officials’ unfamiliarity with the recommended insecticide. Sustained engagement • limited period of protection and no continuity, resulting in a with the relevant departments has not successfully resulted in resurgence of mosquito vectors; procurement of a less potent insecticide to cover lost ground. •  suboptimal quality control of bio-assays and other surveillance The result has been an increase in the number of cases of mechanisms; malaria seen in the last two quarters of 2012; a year-on-year (1) Previous years’ data contained confirmed and non-confirmed cases. 26 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT increase of 63% (malaria LTIFR of 118.8 in 2012, up from 44 in 2011). Plans have been put in place to ensure that the next {Brian Chicksen, Vice President: Safety and Health, round of indoor residual spraying experiences less challenges. Sustainability, “Our focus should not be on replacing publicA malaria control programme was initiated at Mongbwalu in sector accountability but rather to complement it within our the DRC in the second quarter of 2012 with the assistance of means. In our direct response and mitigation activities to the regional team. The first phase of the programme, including the spraying of the main camp and fly camps, was completed significant community health threats, our main approach is during the third quarter. The second phase, expected to cover to transfer knowledge based on our internal capabilities; to the surrounding villages, is due to commence in the first half strengthen external health systems and processes.” } of 2013. {Brian Mathibe, Vice President: Health, Continental Africa See case study: South Africa – Health students bring Region, “Implementing the Obuasi model in 40 other districts in healing and more to KwaZulu-Natal communities Ghana, as part of our grant from the Global Fund to fight malaria, OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sa-healing-kzn is a huge undertaking. The mainstay of our programmes in Ghana is indoor residual spraying. The case-management leg of the project will still be managed by the Ghana Ministry of Health. It is envisaged that 3,800 jobs will be created over the five-year Key performance indicators duration of the project, with most of the recruitment taking place within the targeted communities.” } Number of people on ART – South Africa An often overlooked area of our involvement is the provision of 3,500 3,023 healthcare services to our employees and their dependants. In 3,000 2,459 2,378 South Africa alone, we employ 900 people in the provision of 2,500 1,933 1,997 healthcare, most of them highly-qualified medical professionals. 2,000 1,500 In 2012, our South African healthcare network included nine 1,000 primary healthcare clinics, two large occupational healthcare 500 centres and two regional hospitals, servicing some 32,000 0 employees and a number of contractors. These health facilities 08 09 10 11 12 recorded some 45,500 medical surveillance visits, 380,000 clinic appointments and 5,000 hospital admissions in 2012. In addition, 4,483 employees attended wellness programmes and, Incidence of malaria – assuming single annual testing, some 60% of our workforce Ghana, Mali, Guinea, Tanzania (per 100 employees) was tested for HIV. Monthly prescriptions were dispensed to some 3,023 people on ART, 396 people with TB, 2,434 people 50 46.9 45.0 with hypertension and 464 people with diabetes. 40 We recently embarked on an upgrade of medical facilities at 30 27.6 23.1 Geita in Tanzania, Iduapriem in Ghana, Siguiri in Guinea and 20 17.6 Navachab in Namibia. In the last quarter of 2012, an upgrade 10 of facilities in Mongbwalu in the DRC was approved. These upgrades will enable us to deliver improved healthcare to our 0 employees across the region. 08 09 10 11 12 our performance { 27 ATTRACTING, DEVELOPING AND RETAINING OUR PEOPLE At AngloGold Ashanti we believe that ‘People are the Business’. Implicit within this statement is our desire to: • attract, retain and develop our people; PODCAST • engage and connect with each other, making sure that we Italia Boninelli AngloGold Ashanti involve the right people in the right way to deliver the right Executive Vice President: People outcome; and and Organisational Development • ensure that our people management system, the System Combating skills scarcity for People, provides consistent context for our people Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/italia-boninelli and organisational development strategies, and that this is achieved within the framework of our company values, objectives and strategy. What we said we would do In 2011 we reiterated our purpose to advance our standard business processes across every area of the company implementation of the System for People, with clear objectives in order to ensure that the right people are in the right roles to build internal capability, retain key skills, develop diverse talent and are working to ensure stable processes in order to deliver and succession plans, and embed a culture of accountability consistently exceptional results. within the business. Global talent management Our performance in 2012 In line with the roll-out of the System for People, we have System for People developed an integrated global talent management model to The System for People, our people component of Project ONE, help us navigate scarce skills challenges in our industry while was designed to facilitate an effective organisation structure servicing the individual development needs of our employees. and an accountability hierarchy that facilitates engagement and All AngloGold Ashanti employees are recognised as talent and involvement at the right levels of the organisation, and efficient considered central to the organisation’s success. We therefore execution of work. remain committed to continuously improving our talent pool The roll-out of the System for People across the organisation development processes and to identifying further opportunities continued during the year, estimated at 60% of coverage by all for social media, e-learning technology platforms, and for business units. An extensive amount of training on managerial industry-wide collaboration in managing skills scarcity issues leadership practices is in progress to provide line managers that affect many of us to some extent. with tools to manage the outputs of their immediate reports Our aim in talent management is to deliver a strategic and and hold them accountable for their work. integrated analysis of priorities across business areas and to Our progress to date has confirmed that working towards put in place plans to address long-term business needs to having the right people in the right roles and focused on the right 2020. Our key focus areas of work include: work, creates both personal and organisational advantages. • obtaining a clear understanding of the business landscape We found that individual capability that is well-matched to role (strategic priorities, cultural priorities and business drivers); complexity results in good performance, good decision-making • understanding the talent implications (people trends, capacity at the appropriate level of work complexity, and employees who projections, organisation needs and capacity gaps); and are sufficiently challenged and engaged. • enhancing our talent growth engine disciplines (e.g. selection, Together with the Business Process Framework – the technical development, performance management and succession component of Project ONE – the System for People promotes management). 28 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Another area of focus is addressing employee turnover in key roles and the period of time taken to fill jobs at middle and senior See case study: Continental Africa – Support for major management (those with eight to 10 years of experience). Due skills development initiative to skills shortages and the location of our operations, we find OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/africa-skills-development that many young mining graduates are not staying in the mining industry for longer than two to three years, opting instead for jobs in financial services, consulting services or the petrochemical Scarce skills pipeline industry. In our experience, these individuals rarely return to the Building strategic advisor capabilities / workforce and talent planning / ine mining industry and consequently, we experience shortages at integrated talent management strategy middle management and in key technical skills. apabilities / workforce and talent planning / talent management strategy In response to the skills shortage challenge, we have developed General Manager a conceptual model that addresses this issue. Our research or Vice President focused on four levels: GM or VP Leader-led development / identifying business-critical competencies / • identifying gaps in resources to deliver the business plan; Senior management • identifying gaps in the pipeline of the discipline from secondary Integrated talent management enior management school level through to senior management; Employee value proposition / talent sourcing / Employee value proposition / talent sourcing / ated talent management • more innovative sourcing strategies (including re-looking at our employee value proposition); and Middle management iddle management Integrated talent management • retention strategies. ated talent management We have established an integrated systemic approach with a on boarding / high-potential identification on boarding / high-potential identification performance management / organisational review series of possible interventions at different levels as shown in the Junior management unior management Integrated talent management scarce skills model. The application of this model in 2013 will be ated talent management extended globally as a guiding framework for our operating regions. anagement trainees Management trainees elopment programmes Development programmes See case study: South Africa – Simunye, working as ‘one’ ertiary education Tertiary education further education andOS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sa-simunye training Universities, further education and training aries, bridging programmes and colleges, bursaries, bridging programmes and al work, practical training vocational work, practical training Secondary school See case study: South Africa – Education in the partnership: Grade 9 – 12 Secondary school shadow of the headgear School partnership: Grade 9 – 12 OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sa-preparatory-mining / talent engagement and retention / nagement / leadership transition Talent development / talent engagement and retention / succession management / leadership transition Developing strategic alliances We seek to leverage strategic alliances in research and Key performance indicators development where we can collaborate with prominent experts across multiple industries to develop and share leading Group turnover rate innovations. These alliances, for example the Technology (%) Innovation Consortium, help us build skills and capability both 12 11.15 internally and for the benefit of the industry in finding solutions 9.70 10 8.86 to address common and future concerns (www.aga-tic.com). 8.00 8 7.55 6 4 See case study: Australasia – Supporting students for the future at Sunrise Dam 2 OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sunrise-future-students 0 08 09 10 11 12 our performance { 29 RESPONDING TO THE STRIKE IN SOUTH AFRICA In August 2012, more than 55 people died at and around platinum mines in South Africa in violent clashes between trade union members, miners, and members of the South African Police Service (SAPS) related to issues in the platinum industry, in particular at Lonmin. AngloGold Ashanti recognises and mourns this tragedy. A Presidential Commission of Inquiry has been convened and PODCAST its proceedings are seeking to uncover the causes of this Mike O’Hare violence and to make recommendations for the future. AngloGold Ashanti Executive Vice President: In the weeks that followed the tragedy at the Marikana platinum South African Region mine, employees engaged in a series of unprotected strikes AngloGold Ashanti’s perspectives on the 2012 strikes in that swept across the entire mining sector. Protest action was South Africa often violent with high levels of intimidation reported. Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/mike-ohare AngloGold Ashanti was also severely affected by these events as it spread to the gold sector and to our operations. Employees at our Kopanang mine embarked on an unprotected strike on This approach included, for example, consciously avoiding as 20 September with those at the three West Wits operations and far as was feasible the threat of dismissal, notwithstanding the the balance of the Vaal River region’s operations joining them unprocedural and unprotected nature of the strike. This tended on 25 September 2012. Most employees had returned to work to minimise the adversarial, sometimes violent, responses by 26 October 2012, although there were scattered incidents experienced at other affected mines. The approach used at of disruption elsewhere after this date. The main exception Mponeng when sit-ins and incidents of vandalism continued was Mponeng where a series of sit-in protests continued for after the resolution of the strike at other operations was some weeks. The effect of the unprotected strike was to halt to suspend operations, in order to diffuse tensions, rather operations for an extended period of time. than threaten dismissal. AngloGold Ashanti’s approach to the strikes was not to take any short-term action that would Throughout this period, AngloGold Ashanti continued to result in us deviating from our defined long-term strategy of interact as constructively as possible with the strikers and their improving management/employee relationships in our business. representatives. This was done in the knowledge that we would This meant no retaliation for the illegality of the strike and a need to resume mutually respectful working relationships and concerted effort to secure a safe, quick and sensible return to to minimise the risks of human rights impacts as had been seen work without giving in to the excessive demands. We believe in the platinum sector and elsewhere. this was achieved at our mines. 30 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT The process of rebuilding our relationships with labour has begun. While the latter stages of the strike action were PODCAST unfortunately marred by acts of vandalism at one of our mines, Gideon du Plessis the strike action passed for the most part without serious The Trade Union: Solidarity violence and without physical harm to any of our employees. General secretary Nonetheless, AngloGold Ashanti acknowledges that the strikes Solidarity’s perspectives on the 2012 strikes in South Africa had damaging impacts on all involved – employees, their Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/gideon-duplessis families, the communities around the mines and the company. While the strike action was the result of many extraneous factors beyond the control of the company or indeed beyond the control of the unions, the strike – the first of such magnitude at our operations in more than 20 years – signalled the need to improve relationships with employees and communication within the company. Close communication was maintained with other stakeholders during the strike period, including with the departments of Mineral Resources and Labour, local communities, mayors and other local authorities, contractors and suppliers. AngloGold Ashanti remains committed to respecting fundamental labour rights, including the right to organised and centralised collective bargaining. In dealing with the strikes, our aim was to maintain the integrity of that system, which we believe has served the industry – both employees and employers – well. While we consider it important to maintain the collective bargaining system, we do not view the labour caucus as being exclusive and invite all labour representatives, with proven credentials of representivity, to participate in negotiations. The ramp-up of production, while maintaining safe and secure working conditions following the strike, was complicated by the depth of the affected mines and the protracted period of inactivity caused by the strike. The strike had a material adverse impact on fourth quarter performance in the South Africa region. AngloGold Ashanti estimates, as a result of the strike, that the company lost production of approximately 235,000oz, and adjusted headline earnings of about $208m in 2012. Given the ‘no work, no pay’ policy that prevailed, employees also We interacted as constructively as possible with strikers and their suffered financial setbacks, as did our contractors, suppliers and representatives to uphold mutually respectful working relationships businesses in our local communities. and human rights. our performance { 31 DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY BENEFITS We aim to foster sustainable development in host communities* as a way of working towards our value of leaving communities better off for us having been there. We are required to engage effectively with communities The scale and influence of these interventions varies from throughout the life cycle of a mining operation. From exploration operation to operation, and is dependent on specific local to closure, we commit the necessary resources to ensure that needs and the relative influence of the company. effective engagement takes place. Community development programmes are supported * Host communities are those groups of people who are directly by community engagement plans. Personnel on site are or indirectly affected by AngloGold Ashanti, including those responsible for engaging with local stakeholders, noting their surrounding our operations, those on transport routes used by our operations, and those in areas from which our labour is drawn concerns and issues, and responding to these timeously and (labour-sending areas). transparently. Site-specific community frameworks are intended to maximise the benefit flow to affected communities within How we make a positive impact clearly-defined parameters of responsibility, but without the Measuring whether or not we are achieving these aims is not company becoming the de facto provider of services instead of a simple task, particularly at a group level. Indicators of our the authorities, as this is not sustainable. performance include: Our approach to skills development and employment is • our direct contribution to regional and local development discussed in greater detail on page 28, and in our online through community investment – see page 34; report at www.aga-reports.com/12/performance/attracting• our indirect contribution to regional and local development developing-retaining-people. The way in which the business through infrastructure development; creates and shares value is discussed on page 36. • the creation of employment opportunities, particularly locally; What we said we would do • our contribution to local economic development through our Specific commitments made in 2011 include: procurement expenditure, and also in the way in which we encourage and develop economic activity – see page 56; • Implementation of the community standards developed in 2011 (www.aga-reports.com/11/sd/community-relations). • payments to government in respect of resources extracted, These standards are based on international good practice including direct and indirect taxation and royalties – see page 37; such as the International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance Standards and the International Council on • the nature of our engagement with communities and their Mining and Metals (ICMM) position statements and seek to representatives; and support the development of a more-consistent approach • community incidents that have resulted in disruptions or to community relations and socio-economic contributions threats to our operations and to our communities – see across the group. page 34. • Implementation of a sustained and strategic engagement All sites have a range of interventions designed to eliminate approach with key stakeholders across the group. or mitigate community risks and impacts, and programmes • On-going contribution to our communities through our to enhance the well-being of communities living in close community investment activities. At some operations the proximity to our operations. At new sites, baseline studies and quantum and nature of this expenditure is agreed between surveys must be conducted to determine the socio-economic the company and the regulators. In all regions, decisions are conditions existing prior to our entering an area. made based on identified needs and community consultation. Our interventions are largely intended to be long-term We do not currently have global performance metrics to and sustainable, and undertaken in partnership with local measure the impact of our on-the-ground interventions and communities, government and NGOs, where this is applicable, investments, for example, number of jobs created, or number to ensure the greatest possible impact, longevity and support. of children schooled. However, through the roll-out of our 32 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT socio-economic contribution standard and guideline, sites are (www.aga-reports.com/12/downloadCommunityandEnvironment mandated within their socio-economic contribution strategy ManagementStandards.pdf). to provide clarity on the desired outcomes of interventions, as The implementation process is being undertaken in four well as to monitor and evaluate progress and impacts. While phases, namely: a number of sites already have these metrics on a project-byproject basis, it is not yet consistent across the organisation. • Initial roll-out and socialisation. This includes developing an understanding of country or site-specific requirements, their context, and their practical application. See case study: South Africa – Water • Undertaking a gap assessment to: everywhere, for everyone – community water initiatives • identify best practices within the organisation as well as OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sa-community-water opportunities for improvement based on current practices and the requirements of the standards; and Our performance in 2012 • review the completeness, accuracy and effectiveness of Seven community management standards were approved in our management of community-related risks. October 2011 as part of our overall community management • Developing action plans to address areas for improvement framework. The Community Management standards are: and mitigate identified community-related risks. • engagement;  On-going embedding of these standards into the operation • land access and resettlement; of each site and their adaptation to suit the context of • socio-economic contribution; each site. • complaints and grievances; In 2012, nine operations (three in the Americas Region and six • indigenous peoples; in the Continental Africa Region) and two projects (Gramalote and La Colosa in Colombia) were reviewed. The completion • ASM; and of the implementation process is planned for the end of 2013. • cultural heritage and sacred sites. The group took a decision during the year to re-evaluate the The standards were designed to ensure a consistent and feasibility of the integration of community parameters into the balanced approach to community engagement across the ISO14001 management system. The initial decision to include group. Further work is being undertaken to align our standards social aspects into ISO14001 stemmed from a desire to manage with the recently revised IFC Performance Standards, although our social performance in a rigorous and systematic manner. major changes are not expected. Detailed guidelines have While progress has been made in achieving this through the been drawn up for three of our standards: Engagement; Community Management Framework, the compatability of this Complaints and Grievances; and Socio-Economic Contribution system and ISO14001 is being questioned. The Cajamarca dairy sector in Colombia is one of our partners in sustainable development. our performance { 33 DELIVERING SUSTAINABLE COMMUNITY BENEFITS continued For a detailed discussion on community engagement and minor; moderate; major; high; and extreme and are categorised investment by operation, see our Operational Profiles at into six types: www.aga-reports.com/12/op. • active community opposition; • indigenous or traditional cultural heritage disturbance/rights See case study: Americas – Collaborative efforts to infringements; preserve water in Colombia • human rights issues; OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/la-colosa-water • structural damage to public or private property; • noise and ground vibration; and • reputation issues. See case study: Continental Africa – Working with the Mbuti to preserve DRC forests OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/drc-forests See case study: Australasia – New ways of working with wood – artist-in-residence programme Monitoring community incidents OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/tropicana-wood-art Since 2011, AngloGold Ashanti formalised the process of monitoring and reporting of community incidents. A community incident is any event caused by the company which has the potential to lead to a negative impact on the community or any See case study: South Africa – Ensuring the TauTona event caused by the community which has the potential to lead community is better for us having been there to a negative impact on the company. At AngloGold Ashanti, OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sa-rudo-care community incidents are classified into five levels of severity: Inaugural community awards recognise excellence in project design and impact In 2012, AngloGold Ashanti held its inaugural Community Project impact: Awards, intended to reinforce good-practice principles • potential or actual benefit to communities; by initiating, implementing and measuring the impacts of •  monitoring and evaluation – the nature and extent of community projects. monitoring and evaluation conducted; and The criteria for the awards were: • sustainability – sustainability elements were designed into the project. Project design: • engagement – to what extent the project initiation was The three winners for 2012 were: consultative; •  Supporting the Cajamarca dairy sector in Colombia – • strategy – the extent to which the project resulted from a see case study at www.aga-reports.com/12/colombiabroader site/region/corporate strategy; cajamarca-diary; • partnership – the extent to which the project involved one • AngloGold Ashanti makes decisions with the help of local or more partners; and communities in Brazil – see case study at www.agareports.com/12/brazil-ccp; and • innovative approach. • Basic Education Improvement project at Iduapriem in Ghana – see case study at www.aga-reports.com/12/ghana-bei. Community incidents* Community investment in 2012(1) ($000) 2012 South Africa 7,055 South Africa 3 Continental Africa 13,341 Continental Africa 53 Australasia 464 Australasia 1 Americas 5,148 Americas 1 Corporate office 645 * Includes all levels of severity. Of the total, only two incidents were (1) These figures have not been adjusted for equity investment of ($1,746) reportable. 34 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ADDING VALUE The mining industry is faced with negative perceptions about its contribution to societies in which it operates all over the world. Increased competition for shared natural resources, such as access to potable water, land for agriculture and other {Yedwa Simelane, Senior Vice President: Corporate Affairs, purposes, as well as energy shortages, negative impacts on the “Resource nationalism has been driven by the ambition natural environment and social fabric, and unmet expectations of governments and communities to obtain more benefit have added further on-the-ground impetus for governments to from the extraction of mineral wealth from their countries demonstrate tangible economic benefits for communities. and their perceived increase in resource profits. This Resource nationalism continues to be a significant risk facing manifests as increasing demand to control and extract resource companies in 2012. This rising trend was spurred maximum economic interest from their natural resources by a commodities supercycle that yielded significant profits through revisions to existing mining legislation, codes and and precipitated increased competition for access to scarce agreements, as well as through increased royalties, taxes resources, combined with domestic socio-economic pressures and duties and increased state participation in mining mainly and rising community expectations. The global financial crisis, increasing youth unemployment and increasing poverty levels through direct equity holdings.” } have exacerbated the situation. and efficient application of payments to government by mining An additional element in this debate is the challenge that is companies. This results in governments not meeting the often presented by a lack of capacity within local and national expectations of society, and serves to blur the lines between governments and, indeed, a lack of co-ordination between the expectations of delivery by mining companies with those government entities, which may result in the failure of timeous of government. Alain Nfizi at Mongbwalu, DRC. Mining can be a significant contribution to local economic development, through employment, payment of taxes, community investment and procurement. our performance { 35 ADDING VALUE continued The above mentioned achievements are the statutory requirements See case study: Greenfield exploration – Community and conditions of our licence to operate. development fund supports sustainable projects in Solomon Islands Distributions made in 2012 were as follows: OSat www.aga-reports.com/12/solomon-islands•  direct contributions to regional and local development community-fund through community investment expenditure of $18.6m in 2012 ($20.6m in 2011). This excludes expenditure by our What we said we would do joint ventures. See page 34 for further information; AngloGold Ashanti believes that mining can play an effective • employment opportunities – in 2012 AngloGold Ashanti role in bringing skills and tangible experience to support and employed 65,822 people, including 17,993 contractors. partner communities to achieve their development objectives. As far as possible, AngloGold Ashanti seeks to recruit and employ people from the region and country of operation; Mining is a significant contributor to local economic •  employee salaries, wages and other benefits accounted development, through employment, payment of taxes, for 23% of economic value distributed. The total contribution community investment and procurement. in 2012 was $1.56bn (2011: $1.46bn); In 2011, we committed to: •  operating costs made up the greatest single component of economic value distributed at 40%; • designing a group-wide framework to address sustainable development issues in a more systematic way – see page 11; • corporate taxation in 2012 amounted to $413m (2011: $407m). An analysis of our payments to government • various on-going development and community investment in line with the Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative initiatives, in partnership with communities and governments (EITI)* is presented below. Payments to government includes – see page 32; direct and indirect taxes, duties and royalties. Note also our • development of more-consistent engagement strategies to commitment to reporting in line with the Dodd-Frank Act support the implementation of the sustainable development legislation – see page 45; framework and demonstrate the benefits of Responsible • p ayment of dividends to shareholders of $215m Gold – see page 45; (2011: $131m); and •  demonstrating the benefits that flow from mining to •  payments to providers of capital (banks, lending institutions) communities – see page 32; and other than shareholders of $231m (2011: $196m). • adding value to our product – see page 38. * The EITI is a global standard for extractive companies to publish what Our performance in 2012 they pay and for governments to disclose what they receive in the interests of transparency and good governance. AngloGold Ashanti Progress has been made in designing a group-wide framework is an organisational supporter of the EITI. We disclose all payments to address sustainable development issues in a more made to governments whether or not the country concerned is EITI systematic way. In 2012, we appointed a social and sustainable compliant. Of the countries in which we operate, Mali and Ghana are compliant with the EITI and Guinea, Tanzania and the DRC are development executive, David Noko, to progress this further. candidate members. An important feature of the approach is to enable crosslearning across the company’s global operations. An example Key performance indicators of this would be to learn from experiences in Brazil, where the incidence of new cases of silicosis has been eradicated. Payments to governments by country ($m) Our economic value-added statement, which follows, illustrates the economic value created by the group in 2012, and the way 300 in which this was distributed. 250 250.8 213.8 200 In our South African Operations, the Department of Mineral 147.7 150 132.3 143.8 Resources (DMR) has approved the Social and Labour Plans 101.4 88.2 for West Wits and Vaal River Operations for the period 2010 100 75.5 2014 which has also resulted in the granting of the mining rights 50 41.3 15.9 23.3 10.9 for the Groot Draai and Magnum Farm mining areas. 0 South Africa Mali Brazil Argentina Australia Tanzania Guinea Ghana USA DRC Colombia Namibia The Environmental Management Plans (EMPs) for both the West Wits and Vaal River operations were also approved by the DMR. 36 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Economic value added statement for the year ended 31 December US Dollar million % 2012 % 2011 Economic value generated Gold sales and by-product income (1) 99% 6,559 97% 6,794 Interest received 1% 43 1% 52 Royalties received (2) 0% 23 1% 79 Profit from sale of assets (3) 0% 14 0% – Income from investments (4) 0% 7 1% 75 Total economic value generated 100% 6,646 100% 7,000 Economic value distributed Operating costs (5) 40% 2,689 36% 2,519 Employee salaries, wages and other benefits 23% 1,559 21% 1,459 Payments to providers of capital 7% 446 5% 327 Finance costs and unwinding of obligations 4% 231 3% 196 Dividends (6) 3% 215 2% 131 Corporate taxation Current taxation 6% 413 6% 407 Community and social investments (7) 1% 19 0% 21 Loss from investments (8) 1% 28 0% – Total economic value distributed 78% 5,154 68% 4,733 Economic value retained 22% 1,492 32% 2,267 (1) Gold sales and by-product income were lower due to less gold produced as a result of the strikes at the South African mines and operational issues at Obuasi, Ghana. (2) In 2012, royalties received were $20m lower at Boddington joint venture. In 2011 royalties received included $35m from the sale of Ayanfuri. (3) AngloGold Ashanti disposed of 5% of its interest in Rand Refinery, resulting in a profit of $14m. (4) In 2012, income from investments included dividends received from Village Main Reef Gold Mining Company and First Uranium Canada Limited totalling $7m. In 2011, income from associates included share of equity-accounted investments profit of $73m. (5) Operating costs were higher in 2012 and included higher labour, power and fuel costs which were mainly inflationary related. (6) The increase in dividends was mainly due to a management decision to improve dividend yield. (7) Community and social investments exclude expenditure by equity-accounted joint ventures, social leases, social infrastructure and entities in preproduction phase. (8) In 2012, loss from investments mainly related to impairments of equity-accounted investments. See case study: Australasia – Partnering with indigenous stakeholders to create jobs OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/tropicana-job-creation our performance { 37 ADDING VALUE continued Adding value to our product Jewellery accounted for 43% of gold demand in 2012. AngloGold Ashanti has been instrumental in initiatives that are Our mission statement is to create value for our shareholders, aimed at supporting the gold market. India is the largest market our employees and our business and social partners through for gold jewellery and China the fastest-growing market for gold safely and responsibly exploring, mining and marketing jewellery in the world. our products. Our primary focus is gold but we will pursue value creating opportunities in other minerals where we can The main focus of our activities has been in improving gold leverage our existing assets, skills and experience to enhance jewellery design because we believe the jewellery market the delivery of value. The marketing strategy and focus is provides the “floor” for support for the gold price. So by not informed by our vision. taking care of the market that utilises the gold we produce, we will not understand one of the key drivers for our product Beneficiation, or value addition to our product, is therefore part and will see a long-term decline in gold uptake. Our other of our belief that we need to take care of our product – from the focus is research, development and innovation in the multiple initial exploration phase, through mining, to marketing. For us, uses of gold. the marketing aspect goes beyond selling the refined product and is evidenced by a number of initiatives we have undertaken Auditions over the years to demonstrate our support for downstream The Global Gold Couture Jewellery Design activities. competition Auditions is a global gold jewellery design competition that The judges were unanimous in selecting as the winner of was launched by AngloGold Ashanti in 1999. It is the largest AuDITIONS South Africa 2011/2012, Adrian Antonie’s Globe Trotter, gold design competition in the world, with competitions in a bold 18ct gold gentleman’s ring with a glass globe containing gold leaf flakes suspended in liquid. Brazil, South Africa and China (in China we partner with the World Gold Council). The competition aims to increase gold’s desirability and push the envelope in gold jewellery design, by encouraging bold new designs in high gold caratage. Our other value-add activities include strategic investments in the Rand Refinery (Pty) Limited in South Africa, and the Queiroz Plant, in Brazil. The refinery produces semi-finished products that feed into the jewellery supply chain and gold investment markets. The refineries are an important link between the gold mining activity and the end refined product, illustrating our role in the gold market beyond exploration and mining activities. We also have a strategic investment in Oro Africa, a jewellery manufacturing company in South Africa. This creates and supports jobs in the gold manufacturing industry as well as supporting skills development. See case study: South Africa – A focus on beneficiation OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/group-beneficiation PODCAST Kristen Malan BeJewelled Professional jewellery designer The value of gold jewellery design competitions to jewellers and aspiring designers Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/kristen-malan 38 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ADDRESSING ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING ASM is a centuries-old activity providing livelihoods to many millions of people, including many women. ASM activity can be legal or illegal, with country legislation AngloGold Ashanti acknowledges and supports the rights determining this. Legal ASM is regulated in terms of health, of governments to uphold the requirements of the law and to social and environmental impacts, and occurs in areas prosecute where individuals or groups of people trespass on designated by governments, or in some jurisdictions, in any company property, including the act of illegal mining. We also area not covered by the exclusive rights of third parties. Illegal support taking action that is appropriate in terms of the law and ASM actively occurs when artisanal and small-scale miners in accordance with established international norms of human operate outside of the provisions of the law, including when rights including the Voluntary Principles on Security and Human they operate on concessions where others have exclusive Rights (VPSHR). mineral rights and might involve the theft of property. What we said we would do AngloGold Ashanti takes seriously our obligations to protect AngloGold Ashanti seeks to address ASM: our assets and therefore oppose illegal ASM activity on our • at a strategic level, to develop global partnerships with sites. As we recognise that so many depend on ASM for their industry role players to identify and develop an ASM livelihood, we support steps taken to create and build the legal, framework and set of guidelines; formal ASM sector. This support includes the promotion of • at an in-country level, to collaborate in priority countries ASM formalisation, support to health and safety regulation, and addressing country risks and issues, and crafting agreed innovative solutions to land use and economic development. solutions; and Addressing ASM is a complex undertaking, and requires • at a site level, to tailor solutions which respond to the ondifferent approaches from site to site. Each of our operating the-ground situation. sites (mine, projects and exploration) needs to include ASM in In 2011, we committed to: its social baseline assessment. In addition, each site is required • ensuring compliance with the Dodd-Frank Act and the to formulate a strategy that includes: Responsible Gold standards – see page 45; • collaboration with governments and interested and affected • actively participating and leading global partners in parties on the promotion of an unambiguous regulatory addressing the complexity of ASM; environment; and • developing an ASM framework and guidance to assist • security and legal considerations. operations in addressing ASM and the issues relating to it at a site level; Defining ASM • creating in-country and cross-country collaboration, where Our management standard on ASM defines this activity applicable, across our operating portfolio; and as any mining and/or processing activities undertaken • actively engaging with artisanal and small-scale miners at by individuals who may have formed a collective or coeach of our affected sites to ensure peaceful co-existence operative to undertake these activities. The scale of with ASM participants and contributing to the long-term activity can range from one individual to large collectives development of the regions in which ASM is active. of hundreds or even thousands of individuals working an area with the common denominator being a low level of mechanisation. Activity is often well co-ordinated, Our performance in 2012 although it may seem informal, and is sometimes Seeking global mechanisms regulated by local legislation, though often the activities At a global leveI, AngloGold Ashanti continued to seek are unregulated. Colloquially, ASM is referred to by many to develop effective mechanisms for understanding and different names including galamsey (Ghana), orpailleurs managing ASM with support from the International Council on (DRC), garimpeiros (Brazil), Zama Zamas (South Africa) and barequeros (Colombia). Mining and Metals (ICMM) and the World Gold Council. The partnership with the World Bank and its Communities and our performance { 39 ADDRESSING ARTISANAL AND SMALL-SCALE MINING continued Small-scale Mining (CASM) did not progress as the World Bank Multi-stakeholder partnerships to has suspended its CASM project in its current design. As a deliver solutions result, AngloGold Ashanti has continued with the programme A specialist ASM manager has been appointed in the independently to develop a definition, framework and guidance Continental Africa Region to develop site-specific strategies, as regards ASM. Although each country and region has different and progress has been made in Tanzania. A multi-stakeholder contexts in which ASM takes place, we believe it important to partnership meeting was held in Tanzania in November 2012 develop a group global framework and guidance to develop to plot the process for establishing the mechanisms for ASM local strategies. in the country. A follow-up meeting was held with the Deputy Minister for Mines to confirm this. A committee comprising {Johan Viljoen, Senior Vice President, Policy and Assurance: membership groups has been established and its terms of reference are being drafted. Sustainability, “ASM is a significant issue for the company. We support governments’ efforts to formalise the ASM In Colombia, good progress has been made with the identification of alternative potential livelihoods for ASM miners. sector, while recognising our obligation to secure our own assets and guard against illegal ASM activity on our sites” } See case study: Continental Africa – ASM unpacked OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/africa-asm-unpacked Stakeholder mapping In 2012, we began a stakeholder mapping exercise to identify ASM representatives with whom to engage. A timeline has See case study: Americas – Developing alternative been developed to create the basis of dialogue as regards the livelihoods at Gramalote in Colombia topic of ASM. OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/colombia-alternativelivelihoods We recognise that livelihoods of so many artisanal miners, as in Guinea, depend on ASM. We seek to develop partnerships at global, national and site level to formalise ASM. 40 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS We formally commit ourselves to complying with applicable laws and respecting internationally recognised human rights, even when national laws or their application fall short of protecting these rights. We seek alignment of our policies and practices with the United The gap analysis that was started last year continued and, in Nations Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights response to the gaps identified, we have developed a Human (UNGPs) as endorsed by the United Nations Human Rights Rights Framework and an action plan. The gap analysis in itself Council in June 2011. has been an important part of our process to understand our shortcomings, and as we find gaps we continue to address Respect for human rights is a critical issue in addressing those through our Human Rights Framework. The Human security – see page 43. Rights Framework is the system through which we embed our human rights commitments into existing systems and business What we said we would do processes. It will enable appropriate action to respond to In 2011, we undertook to: human rights risks that we cause, that contribute to or that are • completing a detailed gap assessment of existing policies and linked to our business partners. It is key for us that human rights systems to be used as the basis for supplementing existing is not an add-on, but an integral part of everything we do. policies and systems or, where necessary, creating new ones; A draft framework was completed in 2012 and will be developed • developing a framework for human rights within AngloGold further. A human rights due diligence function will be piloted Ashanti, including an explicit human rights policy statement; and during 2013. • developing a structure for embedding human rights into existing company processes, enabling systems for onThree pilot sites have been selected for review and piloting of going human rights due diligence at all operations and human rights due diligence, namely Gramalote in Colombia; projects, and establishing effective grievance mechanisms Iduapriem in Ghana and Mongbwalu in the DRC. Each site at all operations and projects and systems for methodically is unique in terms of the human rights challenges it faces, monitoring the human rights performance of business its operating context, the maturity of the rule of law, and partners, including suppliers. each project is at a different stage in the life cycle of mine development. The review process is a reciprocal learning one: {Alan Fine, Public Affairs Manager, “Our responsibility is • A corporate human rights team supported by a regional really about respecting human rights, in line with the United manager, examines how human rights challenges are managed through document study and site visits, and is informed about Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. what the particular projects in question need to better protect It is important that our activities contribute to communities human rights. The learning forms the further development of and their sustainability, for example, through building a the human rights framework and assists in evaluating how school. But, the principle of ‘doing no harm’ is our primary capable business planning and risk-management processes responsibility.” } are in managing human rights challenges; and • Informed by the findings, the business unit receives input on how it, from a corporate perspective, is managing human Our performance in 2012 rights, using the UNGPs as a benchmark. It also receives a Our human rights policy has undergone a process both of formulated and agreed road map which is created through limited external and internal consultation and of screening, an interactive process on how it can improve its processes and is to be formally adopted in 2013. The internal AngloGold to better manage human rights risks, and ultimately to better Ashanti Human Rights Working Group has been the key vehicle protect human rights, which is the responsibility of each for policy drafting and broader consultations. business unit. our performance { 41 RESPECTING HUMAN RIGHTS continued grievances examined and addressed. A pilot project in the {Alan Fine, Public Affairs Manager, “One of the debates we DRC, conducted under the auspices of the ICMM, to develop have had is whether human rights is a separate discipline, and implement a draft community grievance mechanism like safety, environment and community or whether it is based on our draft standard on complaint and grievance mechanisms was completed in 2012. integrated in all the existing ones. Human rights cuts across all of our already existing disciplines, and we probably have Supply chain and human rights around 70% of the substantive issues covered through the In line with our commitment to the UNGPs, we are also current normative hierarchy of the company. However, the mindful of our responsibility to seek to prevent or mitigate human rights framework is needed because we require adverse human rights impacts by our business partners, including subsidiaries, joint venture partners and a systematised approach to ensure that we always take suppliers. The AngloGold Ashanti Global Supply Chain the rights holders’ perspective – the person on the ground department is developing policy and systems to achieve this affected by our activities. The purpose of a human rights in the procurement sphere and the Global Supply Chain has framework is to ensure a human rights perspective in every recently adopted a code of conduct and a policy on labour and single business decision, system and process. Importantly, human rights aligned with the UNGPs. A strategy to implement these is being developed along with a matrix of indicators to many risk-management systems take the approach of risks support risk identification and management. Adherence to our from the perspective of the company. What our Human Rights business principles and ethics is now a standard clause in all Framework will require, is an assessment of risk from the new contracts. perspective of the individuals and communities. While it might While different business units undertake their own procurement be argued that almost all of the time there is a correlation with regard to many inputs, they will be required to do so in line between risks to the company and risk to right holders, with corporate policy. sometimes this is not the case.” } Key performance indicators The detailed KPIs for the business in respect of human rights are still under development as part of the framework. In terms During the year, and as part of the Human Rights Framework, of our undertakings for 2013, the main one is to begin the the corporate human rights project has continued its efforts to roll-out of the framework before the end of the year. embed and integrate human rights into the organisation. For example, the company has, together with the human resources team, prepared a labour policy covering fundamental principles and rights at work and a policy on Supply Chain and Human Rights and Labour. Our executive committee is expected to adopt these policies during 2013. Furthermore, work has begun with internal control functions to ensure that human rights considerations are integrated into Human rights reporting their processes, and this work will continue in 2013. These efforts include defining human rights compliance obligations, Our reporting on human rights performance was ensuring that all human rights risks are part of our risk system benchmarked against that of our peers. While we received recognition in the area of reporting on human rights, we and that human rights risks are audited in the same way that also realised that, in comparison with our peers, we could the company follows a risk-based approach in combined improve our reporting on performance with regards to assurance reviews and other audit processes. fundamental labour rights, in particular child labour, forced When there is a concern that a company may have negatively labour, freedom of association and discrimination. affected human rights, a part of its responsibility to respect Therefore, we are undertaking a process to demonstrate human rights is to review and remedy any such impacts. The to our stakeholders how, in practice, we respect and establishment of grievance mechanisms is thus instrumental uphold these fundamental rights at work, acknowledging to our respect for human rights. These mechanisms provide a our responsibility to know and show that we respect platform for those who consider that they have been adversely these rights. affected by our activities to raise grievances, and have their 42 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT SECURING OUR PEOPLE AND ASSETS The Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights (VPSHR) forms an integral part of our global security framework and is the key driver of our security management practices. The VPSHR comprise a set of principles to guide businesses Voluntary Principles’ related incidents was notable in 2012, on meeting security needs while maintaining respect for human due to increased and more complex ASM illegal mining rights and fundamental freedoms. challenges, specifically in Tanzania and Ghana. The company has evaluated and will continue to evaluate incidents in 2013 Our mission for security within the company is to protect to help the company achieve its goal of recording zero people, assets and uphold the reputation of the company. incidents in future years. A detailed annual report on progress in We work in vastly different environments with different risk the application of the VPSHR is published on our website at profiles – from high to extreme risk to very low-risk environments. www.anglogoldashanti.com/Sustainability/Other+public+reports/. It is important for us to anticipate, interpret and appropriately mitigate security risk. Extensive training of AngloGold Ashanti security personnel and public and private security suppliers is carried out in line with Our most significant security challenges inevitably lie in the the VPSHR. In 2012, 99% of our security personnel received regions in which we operate where there is endemic poverty, training (2011: 97%). Most of this training is undertaken inwith high levels of unemployment and few opportunities for house, although expert external service providers are engaged alternative livelihoods. as necessary. In addition to training in respect of the VPSHR, training of our staff in task-orientated skills and competencies We recognise that good community relationships built on trust is standard. Specialised skills and training, for example, will have a positive impact on security and that an increase in identification of explosives, crowd control or emergency illegal mining or artisanal mining and an increase in the level response is done on a needs-basis. of organisation and funding of criminal activity around our operations have the potential to increase the number and We continue to seek support for our approach and activities. severity of security incidents. Effective strategies for community At Geita in Tanzania, an NGO called “Search for Common engagement and local economic development to create Ground” has been engaged to assist with the training of our alternative livelihoods are essential in addressing human rights people, private, public security and community in conflict and security issues and their causes. prevention/resolution including sexual harassment. We are also undertaking work through the University of Stellenbosch In respect of security and human rights, in 2011 we in South Africa on conflict prevention in the security context, committed to: which will continue in 2013. • a review of all of our public and private security services, which has been completed, but requires on-going attention Another area of progress during the year was the introduction as resource deployment changes according to threat and risk; of a new incident investigation and management reporting methodology in the company, the Advanced Incident • undertaking compliance and verification assessments of our Investigation Programme. This was developed by AngloGold global security framework implementation, which has been Ashanti, primarily in the context of safety, and now is also being completed; and used to investigate significant security incidents to identify • integrating our global security framework and management their root causes and appropriate mitigating measures, with practices within all of our exploration activities as part of the good progress to date. overall due diligence of new and existing exploration sites. This is currently underway. Our performance in 2012 {Brian Gonsalves, Vice President: Global Security, “Our In support of our human rights commitments, we continuously mission for the security of the company is very simple – strove to improve security management and practices across it is to protect people, assets and the reputation of the our operations. We continued to implement our global company. The security landscape is becoming more and more security framework, including embedding the VPSHR into our challenging globally. The issue for us is that, in security, our security management practices. Although AngloGold Ashanti action or inaction can negatively affect our licence to operate.” } has made good progress in the past few years, an increase in our performance { 43 SECURING OUR PEOPLE AND ASSETS continued Progress on the implementation of AngloGold Ashanti’s revised security strategy (five point plan) Objective Progress 1 Removing people Our primary means of preventing injuries to employees, security personnel and community members from risk, reducing the is to reduce the potential for conflict. In 2012, we reported 51 injuries to security personnel; there potential for conflict were two fatalities and 16 injuries among community members due to security interventions (2011: 49 injuries to security personnel; three fatalities and nine injuries among community members.) Although the trend has remained more or less the same, we saw a marked increase in illegal activity at our sites in 2012, due to immigration and socio-economic hardship. However, Geita mine in Tanzania (which is the pilot for the implementation of our plan) saw improvements in the last quarter of 2012 – a decrease in incidents of conflict, despite an increase in apprehension of intruders. 2 Defining the role Our aim is to engage communities surrounding our operations to assist us with security and security of communities in initiatives, which is being done in partnership with private and public security providers and with complementing security civil society. The establishment of ASM and community forums, as part of our broader stakeholder initiatives engagement strategies, is being used as the platform to raise security awareness amongst communities and collectively define the role of communities to complement law and order and securing initiatives. 3 Partnering more The role of public security in our areas of operation is to maintain law and order. Our role is to protect effectively with public our people and facilities. National police and/or military units provide security in accordance with security providers specific agreements with the authorities or at the authorities’ initiative. The use of military or police support remains a last resort and will only be deployed if the risk profile requires it. At the end of 2012, we had a military presence at Siguiri in Guinea and at our projects in Colombia. The police provide a ‘permanent service’ at Geita in Tanzania, and at Obuasi and Iduapriem in Ghana. 4 Improving technology Our aim is to increase the use of technology and reduce the number of security personnel potentially application and at risk. A significant number of security personnel are deployed, which includes military and police reducing manpower force members providing a ‘service’ and who are exposed to risk on a daily basis. Good progress has been made with the implementation of AngloGold Ashanti’s revised security strategy (five point plan). The intention is for full implementation by 2015. The Phase 1 plan has been fully implemented at Geita in Tanzania. The plan has been communicated across all operations and implementation will start at the other sites in 2013, incorporating the lessons learned at the Geita pilot project. 5 Using highly-trained, These teams are used to defuse potential security incidents before they escalate. Our capacity skilled and equipped to respond appropriately to incidents in the field will also be improved through real time reporting, rapid reaction teams surveillance and monitoring and electronic alarms (technology). Positive results have been achieved with the pilot project at Geita in the last quarter, with the implementation of technology paired with trained, skilled and equipped people in the field. There has been a decrease in incidents of conflict, with a marked increase in the apprehension of intruders. Key performance indicators Fatalities & injuries due to security interventions Third parties fatalities/injuries (due to illegal activity – not due to security intervention) 70 40 60 35 1 50 30 17 40 51 25 49 30 20 44 15 28 1 20 10 2 19 10 12 11 9 16 4 3 5 5 12 0 2 3 2 4 4 0 08 09 10 11 12 08 09 10 11 12 AGA Injuries AGA Fatalities Community injuries Community fatalities Injuries Fatalities 44 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE GOLD AngloGold Ashanti undertakes responsible business practices that make a positive contribution to the societies in which we operate. We demonstrate our commitment through: Our performance in 2012 • our social and economic contribution to our host communities In 2011/2012, AngloGold Ashanti took an active role in the and economies – see page 32 for further details; development of four complementary standards: • upholding human rights within our business, and in our • the Responsible Jewellery Council’s (RJC’s) ‘Chain-ofimpact on the rights of community members. In particular Custody Certification for the Gold and Platinum Jewellery we are concerned about security and human rights – see Supply Chain’ which was published in March 2012; page 41 for further details; • the ‘Supplement on Gold’ to the Organisation for Economic • supply chain transparency – see page 55 for further detail; Co-operation and Development’s (OECD’s) ‘Due Diligence • being able to demonstrate that our gold has been produced Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from responsibly; and Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas’ which was published in July 2012; • the role of our business in areas affected by or at high risk of illegal armed conflict. • the World Gold Council’s (WGC’s) ‘Conflict-Free Gold Standard’ which was published in October 2012; and What we said we would do • the London Bullion Market Association’s (LBMA’s) Audit In 2011 we committed to: Guidance, which was published in January 2013. • contributing to the establishment of standards and Underpinning these standards is the realisation that gold mining certification procedures which are robust and credible and companies need to be able to show that they can operate which enable companies to demonstrate that their operations responsibly in conflict affected areas. do not contribute to conflict; The RJC’s code of practices assesses the scope of • engaging the US government, together with host African environmental and social issues, safety and health, ethics governments, in the debate around the consequences – and governance, labour issues, human rights, among intended and unintended – of Section 1502 of the Doddothers. At the end of 2011, AngloGold Ashanti withdrew Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act from corporate membership of the RJC as we plan to adopt (Dodd-Frank Act)*; and a phased approach to certification. Individual operations • developing a proactive industry programme to demonstrate will thus join the RJC and undertake certification when that gold mining is an agent for positive social and economic they are ready to do so. AGA Mineração in Brazil achieved development. certification in October 2012, while Sunrise Dam in Australia * The Dodd-Frank Act was passed in 2010 by the US government and CC&V in the USA are on track to achieve certification in and implementing legislation for Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank the first quarter of 2013. Act was published in 2012. The Section requires Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) reporting issuers that use so-called The WGC had been developing its standard for some time, “conflict minerals” “necessary to the functionality or production of starting before the passage of the US legislation or the OECD a product that it manufactures or contracts to manufacture” to, Guidance. The WGC standard was developed together with among other things, file a new disclosure form with the SEC. If an LBMA-member refineries to ensure a smooth handover from issuer determines, or has reason to believe, based on a reasonable country of origin inquiry that, the “conflict minerals” are from the mine to refinery. The intention of that standard is to enable gold DRC or adjoining countries the issuer must conduct due diligence miners to demonstrate that the gold that they produce has not on the source and chain of custody of conflict minerals. contributed to armed conflict. It is aimed at retaining confidence our performance { 45 RESPONSIBLE GOLD continued in gold as a product and store of wealth and encouraging Engaging in the implementation of legislation responsible investment in developing countries. AngloGold Ashanti engaged with the US government, together The standard was developed through an extensive consultation with host African governments, in the debate around the process, including two public drafts and roundtable discussions consequences – intended and unintended – of section 1502 of on five continents. AngloGold Ashanti played a prominent role the Dodd-Frank Act, with the specific objective of ensuring that in the WGC initiative with the aim of ensuring that the standard this legislation is implemented in a way that is not damaging for was rigorous enough to stand up to stakeholder scrutiny, African economies. reflected operational circumstances and was auditable. The WGC standard requires independent, external verification. That external verification will be combined with AngloGold Ashanti’s existing internal and external assurance processes. The company will publish an independently assured ConflictFree Gold Report in 2014 in accordance with the requirements of the Conflict-Free Gold Standard. To the best of our knowledge, AngloGold Ashanti has the appropriate systems and controls in place to conform to the Standard. Nothing has come to our attention to indicate any non-conformance. Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act does not apply to AngloGold Ashanti as an extractor of gold. However, AngloGold Ashanti has an interest in two refineries, Queiroz in Brazil and Rand Refinery (Pty) Limited in South Africa. Both refineries are members of the LBMA and are required to comply with its Responsible Gold Guidance, which is closely aligned to the OECD Due Diligence Guidance. In contrast, Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Act only applies to controlled subsidiaries and thus only the Queiroz Gold Refinery’s operations must comply with the good faith “reasonable country of origin inquiry” requirements of the Dodd-Frank Act. The Queiroz Gold Refinery does not refine gold from the DRC or adjoining countries. {Andrew Parsons, Vice President: Environmental Policy and Assurance, “By proactively developing the Conflict-Free Gold Standard, the gold mining industry has shown that it sets itself high standards. External assurance of the public disclosure of conformance ensures rigour and independence of the conflict assessment not only for the stakeholders and regulators, but for companies as well.” } Agent for positive development Much work has been done in developing a proactive industry programme to demonstrate that gold mining is an agent for positive social and economic development at both an industry and company level. At a global level, AngloGold Ashanti has been involved in ICMM’s activities on Mining Partnerships for Development. 46 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ADDRESSING ENERGY SECURITY AND CLIMATE CHANGE Energy security is critical to the company, both for our current operations and future projects. As a mining company, AngloGold Ashanti is a significant increasingly energy intensive as mine depth, complexity and consumer of energy. Allied with our concerns regarding energy haulage distances increase at our maturing mines. Much intensity is the impact our emissions have on climate change, of our energy usage (37.6%) was in South Africa, where our and, in turn, the impact that climate change could have on deep underground mines are particularly energy intensive. The our operations and local communities. This could manifest in strike action in the latter half of the year distorted our energy threats to energy, water and food security. See page 49 for performance to some extent since, although production was further discussions on water management and security. curtailed, our baseload energy consumption largely continued to protect our assets and provide safe working conditions for We are concerned about the following critical elements: essential services. Reducing energy consumption is an area • a consistent and cost-effective 24/7 supply of energy for our of focus of our Technology Innovation Consortium – see case existing operations; study at www.aga-reports.com/12/tic-future-mining, which is • access to energy for our projects that is cost-effective and addressing future technical challenges in deep underground available at the right time; mining. Our energy intensity was 7.49GJ per ounce of gold • optimising our energy usage to reduce our costs and minimise produced in 2012 (2011: 6.7GJ). wastage and our environmental footprint, particularly in respect of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions; and {Lyn Staib, Vice President: Energy, Water and Community • adapting to the impacts of a changing climate. Infrastructure, “Adopting innovative technologies is critical What we said we would do if we are to meet our obligations. We need to understand In 2011, we re-committed to minimising energy consumption what is technically desirable and feasible at each site. We and securing energy supplies for the future, a key feature of also need to understand the characteristics of optimal and our global energy strategy, with site-based strategies to be current site-based performance and set realistic targets to developed as soon as possible. enable sites to improve.” } Progress in achieving these targets has been slower than planned. Our South African operations are well advanced with this process though and piloting many of the critical components. See case study: South Africa – Energy consumption cut www.aga-reports.com/12/sa-energy-consumption Our performance in 2012 A global strategy to build energy security – including the Our total energy costs in 2012 constituted around 20% of adoption of clean energy alternatives and energy-efficient our operating cash costs (2011: 20%). Rising electricity costs technologies – was initially developed in 2011. Further in South Africa, particularly, contributed to this. This ratio is development of this strategy, including planning to implement expected to escalate rapidly as global energy constraints the strategy at an operational level, is expected to occur in 2013 continue to affect prices. in parallel with the progression of our overarching sustainability strategy. Energy performance has been introduced as a critical component of our business-planning processes. See case study: Continental Africa – The Siguiri and Bouré electrification project In 2012, our energy consumption was 31.01m GJ www.aga-reports.com/12/siguiri-electrification (2011: 30.5m GJ). Traditional mining methods are becoming our performance { 47 ADDRESSING ENERGY SECURITY AND CLIMATE CHANGE continued Electricity and fuels usage accounts for most (98.9%) of our Key performance indicators greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs). Our GHG emissions in 2012 were 4.58Mt of CO2e (2011:4.5Mt CO2e). This Energy efficiency (GJ/oz) translated into 1.11Mt CO2e per ounce of gold produced in 2012 (2011: 0.98Mt CO2e), or 4.50Mt CO2e. 8 7.49 7 6.4 6.7 6 The South African region accounted for a significant portion of 6 5.5 5 our GHG emissions (68%) in 2012, given South Africa’s reliance 4 on electrical energy sourced from coal-based power stations. 3 2 1 0 {Lyn Staib, Vice President: Energy, Water and Community 08 09 10 11 12 Infrastructure,“Reducing absolute emissions is a substantive and urgent challenge for the mining industry Greenhouse gas efficiency worldwide. The scale of change necessary over the next 30 (Mt CO2e/oz) years requires an innovative step-change in performance. 1,2 1.11 1 0.99 The success of our Technology Innovation Consortium 1,0 0.85 0.96 project in South Africa is likely to be pivotal in changing 0,8 our emissions profile over the coming decades. Given 0,6 0,4 the extended life of our mines, long-term scenarios both 0,2 within the company and externally (40 to 50 years hence) 0,0 must inform our internal decision making, including the 08 09 10 11 12 potential availability of differing energy sources and new technologies. At the same time, we must build practical Energy consumption by region and site-specific shortand medium-term approaches to % mitigating our GHG emissions.” } South Africa 38 Continental Africa 39 To reduce our generation of GHGs, we are considering the Australasia 19 installation of low-carbon electricity generation capacity (such as hydro-power) and energy-efficient technologies, such as Americas 4 efficient compressed air systems. Our operations in Ghana and Brazil already make extensive use of hydro power – both via national grids, and the latter through our own hydroThe Technology Innovation Consortium aims to find solutions for deep-level mining with the world’s leading innovators. power facilities. The Mponeng Mine in South Africa also uses an innovative in-shaft hydro-power system to power its drilling, cleaning and other equipment. During 2012, a total of 0.59m GJ (2011: 0.61m GJ) of hydro-electrical power was used by AngloGold Ashanti operations; 0.49m GJ (2011: 0.50m GJ) at the AGA Mineração operations in Brazil and 0.10m GJ (2011: 0.10m GJ) at the Mponeng operation in South Africa. Work has begun on upgrading a hydro-power facility in the DRC, which will initially service communities, but will later be upgraded to service our mining operation. See case study: Group – Towards cleaner operations through fuel and oil standard OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/group-fuel-oil 48 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT RESPONSIBLE CUSTODIANSHIP OF WATER AND LAND Water is a critical input for the mining industry. It is also fundamental to socio-economic development and the maintenance of sound ecosystems. In the mining industry, water is used, among other things, in power generation, dust suppression, mining and processing, {Tony Da Cruz, Manager: Environment, Business and cooling, rehabilitation and for human consumption. Many Technical Development, “Water management is a of our operations are located in water-scarce areas, which complex issue. Some places are dry for long periods of the potentially bring them into direct competition for water with local communities and other users, including agriculture and year and will not have enough water available unless they other industry. Water scarcity results from low rainfall and reuse water extensively; others have so much water that other environmental considerations, and is exacerbated by they have to manage this effectively to prevent flooding degradation and over-use of groundwater and surface water. and accidental releases of process water. A drought in the Further, climate change is affecting weather patterns that may US mid-west in 2012 resulted in reduced production at in turn place water resources under even greater pressure, or result in an over-supply of water, including flooding. Both cases CC&V in the US, while flooding at Sunrise Dam in Australia present challenges for our operations. curtailed production the previous year.” } The management of water supply and quality are thus key concerns both for AngloGold Ashanti and for our stakeholders. It is critically important that we protect the water, energy and Our performance in 2012 food security of associated communities. A failure to protect Our South African operations are well advanced with this water resources could curtail current and future operations. process and are piloting many of the critical components. Historically, water has been a source of conflict and this remains true today given its role in communities’ ability to sustain their Our focus remains on minimising fresh water intake from the livelihoods, health and well-being. Should water scarcity environment, combined with securing water supplies for the continue or increase in future, extreme cases of conflict could future, as well as ensuring that the quality of water discharged lead to community protests and the withdrawal of support for by our operations at least meets regulatory requirements. our operations. None of our operations has been identified as being immediately under threat from water shortages. See case study: Australasia – Floods and the fairy Our approach to water sourcing varies by location. In addition shrimp in Lake Carey to recycled water, the three primary sources in 2012 were: OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sunrise-fairy-shrimp What we said we would do Total water consumption by source (%) A global strategy for building water security was developed in 2011, and is being progressively implemented. This strategy focuses on reducing raw water consumption, continuous Ground water 26 improvement in integrated water management practice, Surface water 43 progressively addressing discharge water quality legacy issues Utilities and/or external water suppliers 31 and enhanced transparency in monitoring and reporting. our performance { 49 RESPONSIBLE CUSTODIANSHIP OF WATER AND LAND continued Progress with our water management strategy in South Africa PODCAST Lyn Staib Our South African operations include a complex network of AngloGold Ashanti shafts, underground workings, metallurgical plants, tailings Vice President: Energy, Water and storage facilities (TSFs) and surface infrastructure. This Community Infrastructure infrastructure traverses significant distances (horizontally AngloGold Ashanti’s water security strategy and vertically), in an area that has been intensively mined Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/lyn-staib by numerous mining companies for many decades. Many of these mines are no longer operating. Our mines are situated within or adjacent to local municipalities, farmland, shafts, multiple points for water discharge into the environment, industrial complexes and informal settlements. Water differing requirements for process and potable water quality, as management is therefore a complex issue, and sources of well as water storage and evaporation challenges. contamination cannot always be easily isolated. Avoiding, or, where this is not possible, mitigating our The implementation of our revised integrated water impacts on the water environment remain significant management strategy in the South African region is aimed at: priorities. Where feasible we operate a closed loop system, • reducing water consumption; recycling the water used in our operations without discharging • optimising the efficiency of our water circuits; to the environment. This reduces our potential environmental impact, enabling us both to reduce water consumption and • minimising the potential for discharge of contaminated the potential for water contamination. At some operations water into the environment, either directly or indirectly, – for example in Ghana – high levels of rainfall mean that a as a result of seepage from TSFs; and closed system is not feasible and that controlled releases • preventing the contamination of land beyond current must take place. In this situation, we ensure that we have the mining boundaries as a result of planned or unplanned water treatment systems in place to manage effluents to meet discharges. applicable discharge standards. South Africa accounted for approximately 40% of the A significant milestone has been the commissioning and group’s total water consumption. expansion of water-treatment capacity at Obuasi where the The integrated water management strategy also addresses mine has operated for the full year without a single waterissues such as potential mine flooding; groundwater and related reportable environmental incident. storm water management; and the potential impact of Land management and biodiversity mining activities on the water supply to neighbouring Similarly, access to land and land use is of critical importance to areas. Mitigation measures include the development of the company, for exploration and mining as well as for ancillary regional mine flooding models, and plans and technical infrastructure. The issue of biodiversity has also become remediation options for seepage from TSFs. increasingly prominent. The reason is that a mine can only be located where an orebody is found. There is potentially a choice between digging an open pit or an underground mine and Our new approach to integrated water management is infrastructure, such as the processing plant, offices, tailings being piloted in the South Africa Region, given the complexity facilities, stockpiles and waste rock dumps can be moved of its water circuits. The two water circuits in the South Africa to avoid sensitive areas, within the constraints of economics region comprise multiple processing plants, deep underground and geology. The company has learnt and continues to learn 50 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT to treat land and biodiversity sensitively to earn the trust of governments and communities. See case study: Greenfield exploration – ‘Green’ roads assist drilling in forest clearings in Colombia Issues of land use and biodiversity are also closely linked to OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/green-drilling water and communities. This is particularly evident in Colombia, one of the world’s most biodiverse countries as determined by the number of species per hectare. We have entered into partnerships with NGOs on our approach to environmental PODCAST management in Colombia, including investigating establishing Anne-Marie Fleury biodiversity offsets. A practical outcome of this process has International Council on Mining and Metals been the way in which we have approached exploration drilling. Director: Environment Our exploration teams have developed low-impact drilling Addressing biodiversity globally platforms and a way of building access roads so as to minimise Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/anne-marie-fleury land disturbance and biodiversity impacts. Other countries in which biodiversity is of particular importance are Brazil, Ghana and Argentina. Our biodiversity programme at Cerro Vanguardia in Argentina was recognised for its achievements in the group’s biennial environmental awards – see the case study at www.aga-reports.com/12/patagoniaAt Cerro Vanguardia in Argentina, our biodiversity programme was biodiversity. recognised for its achievements with an environmental award. Securing access to land is an important consideration at all our operations and requires not only a rigorous permitting process, but also co-existence with communities. The relationship between the company and artisanal miners at our operations in Guinea, Ghana, Tanzania and now also in the DRC are examples of this. See the discussion on ASM on page 39. Closely related to land use is planning for closure, which while undertaken at an operational level is guided and overseen by a company closure working group. See the Integrated Report for a detailed discussion on closure on page 109. See case study: Greenfield exploration – Work at exploration site yields two new myrtle species in Australia OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/dundas-myrtles See case study: Americas – Promoting biodiversity in Patagonia OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/patagonia-biodiversity our performance { 51 RESPONSIBLE CUSTODIANSHIP OF WATER AND LAND continued Key performance indicators Significant legacy issue in South Africa requires collaborative solution Water efficiency (kL/ounce) Deep groundwater contamination remains a potentially significant issue in South Africa, where groundwater 15 14.46 has infiltrated mined-out workings in some older mining 12.43 12 11.11 11.34 regions. When exposed to sulphide minerals in these 10.02 workings, this deep groundwater may become acidic 9 and, on refilling of mining voids, presents a potential 6 contamination risk to shallow groundwater and eventually 3 surface water resources. 0 Contamination is prevented by continuing to pump water 08 09 10 11 12 from underground operations that have ceased working. However, the cost of pumping is significant, and is carried by a declining number of operators of nearby mines. Number of reportable environmental incidents If pumping is stopped and the mines allowed to refill, the pH of the water will eventually decline, but this could 60 55 51 take decades. 50 40 The solution to this issue cannot lie with one company 30 27 27 and must be addressed holistically and collaboratively by government, regulators, the mining industry and 20 16 communities. 10 0 08 09 10 11 12 See case study: Continental Africa – Micro dams in Mali bring new possibilities for market gardeners * Details of these incidents are available online at www.aga-reports. OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/mali-micro-dams com/12/environmental-incidents. Avoiding or mitigating our impacts on the water environment remain significant priorities, as at Lake Carey, Sunrise Dam, Australia. 52 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CYANIDE AND WASTE MANAGEMENT The management of cyanide and waste generated during the gold production process remains an important consideration for AngloGold Ashanti. It is also a critical issue for NGOs and other stakeholders. Cyanide is used to efficiently and cost-effectively extract gold (called overburden) are generated to expose the orebody. from its host ore. It is estimated that, of the approximately Similarly, waste rock is generated during drilling and developing 1.1 Mt of hydrogen cyanide produced annually worldwide‚ only access to underground orebodies. Overburden and waste rock 6% is used to produce cyanide reagents for gold processing. typically contain sub-economic levels of gold and are deposited as large waste rock dumps. The responsible use of cyanide is as integral a part of our ‘licence to operate’ as the systems and processes associated The impact of failure of a TSF can be significant. We, therefore, with the planning, management and monitoring of our monitor these facilities closely and ensure their management is in environmental performance. Compliance with the International accordance with our permits, national regulating requirements, Cyanide Management Code (Cyanide Code), along with our internal tailings management framework and agreements rigorous reporting, is central to this. we may have with communities. Our chemical and waste management standards address *Tailings are the fine process effluents that are deposited in the the management of risks arising from the use of hazardous form of a slurry in tailings storage facilities (TSFs), that have been specifically designed for this purpose. materials, including the waste mitigation hierarchy of avoiding, reducing, reusing, recycling, treating and disposing of waste. See case study: Australasia – Cleo and Sunrise rock – Like other mining companies, we generate waste rock and waste management at Sunrise Dam tailings* as a result of our mining and processing operations. OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/sunrise-waste-rock During open-pit mining, large volumes of soil and/or rock Water sampling at the process water treatment plant in Obuasi, Ghana. The water is primarily treated to remove arsenic before it is recycled into the plant or discharged into the environment. our performance { 53 CYANIDE AND WASTE MANAGEMENT continued What we said we would do Good progress was made by all four as-yet-unaudited operations in the implementation of the Code, although they In 2011 we committed to: were unfortunately not registered with the ICMI during 2012. • maintaining our certification of compliance to the cyanide However they, and the newly acquired Mine Waste Solutions, code of the 16 operations that were certified by the end of were registered in early 2013 and it is expected that these five 2011; and operations will achieve compliance and certification by 2016. • the registration of four additional sites (Iduapriem and Obuasi in Ghana, Córrego do Sítio Sulphide plant in Brazil; and Geita In total, the group used 19.4t of cyanide in 2012 (2011: 24.3t). in Tanzania) with the International Cyanide Management There were no reportable incidents relating to cyanide during Institute (ICMI), confirming their intention to seek certification the year. within a three-year window period. Cyanide destruction technology is being installed at the Iduapriem mine in Ghana to reduce the weak-acid dissociable Our performance in 2012 (WAD) cyanide on the tailings facility, and will be commissioned At the end of 2012, 16 of our plants had achieved and/or in 2013. The construction of replacement cyanide handling retained Cyanide Code certification. A further three plants facilities at the Obuasi mine in Ghana was completed in late are in the process of seeking certification and the remaining 2012, with commissioning planned for in early 2013. Both two plants, newly acquired in 2012, will be embarking on installations will facilitate compliance by these operations with the certification process in 2013. The following operations the Cyanide Code. were re-certified for three years during the year: Serra Grande; Queiroz Gold Plant; Córrego do Sítio Oxide Plant; Yatela (recertification announced in early 2013) and About the Cyanide Code Sadiola (recertification announcement pending at time The Cyanide Code is a voluntary initiative for the gold of printing). mining industry and the producers and transporters of the cyanide used in gold mining. The code was developed for gold mining operations, and addresses production, transport, storage, and use of cyanide and the decommissioning of cyanide facilities. It includes requirements related to financial assurance, accident prevention, emergency response, training, public reporting, stakeholder involvement and verification procedures. See www.cyanidecode.org. Key performance indicators Ore processed(1) (kilotonnes) 79,113 80,000 73,055 70,192 70,164 69,817 60,000 40,000 20,000 Our newly acquired Mine Waste Solutions, in the Vaal River mining 0 area of South Africa, has been registered with the International Cyanide 08 09 10 11 12 Management Institute. (1) Represents the group’s attributable share 54 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT MANAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN Supply chain management has always been a critical operational drive and, in recent times, has become an important ethics and human rights consideration. Supply chain management is increasingly the focus of external See case study: South Africa – The future of mining: ratings agencies and regulation. technology and innovation in the 21st century What we said we would do OS at www.aga-reports.com/12/tic-future-mining While the issue of supply chain management was not specifically identified as a material issue in the 2011 Sustainability Report, Our performance in 2012 we have committed ourselves to developing an understanding of the ethical behaviour of suppliers in 2012, and to reporting fully on the suppliers screened by the company in respect of PODCAST Parker Kapp human rights by 2016. AngloGold Ashanti Senior Vice President: A distinct but important aspect of supply chain management Global Supply Chain is the achievement of specific objectives in respect of inEthical supply chain management country and local procurement. Nowhere is this more Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/parker-kapp evident than in the South African Region, where procurement initiatives and targets form a fundamental part of the industry’s transformation programme. This region has continued to Ethics and human rights form a cornerstone of our Code of work towards achieving the targets set in our Social and Labour Business Principles and Ethics, with which all suppliers are Plans* (SLPs). expected to comply. * Mining companies are required to submit and work in accordance Good progress was made in 2012 in respect of integrating with SLPs that have been developed as part of the Minerals and ethics and human rights considerations into our formal Petroleum Resources Development Act (MPRDA) and the Broad procurement systems, culminating in a workshop to launch Based Socio-Economic Charter for the South African mining our Ethical Supply Chain Tool. The tool encompasses a selfindustry (Mining Charter). The Mining Charter was amended in 2010 assessment questionnaire that has been designed for suppliers and its revision includes a requirement for multinational suppliers of capital goods to contribute a minimum of 0.5% of their locallyto complete. In late 2012, the process of the Ethical Supply generated annual income towards a “social development fund” for Chain Tool supplier screening software refinement (in line with the benefit of local communities. the implementation of the group’s OneERP project) continued and supplier training will begin during 2013. SLPs have an important role to play in regulating the way in which mining companies approach local economic development, use The tool forms part of a supply chain management project that and expand the existing skills base of local communities (and in addresses human rights, including labour standards, health particular historically disadvantaged South Africans (HDSAs)), standards and also environmental issues, and is aimed in and provide the necessary support to emerging small and the first instance at ‘first-tier’ suppliers. First-tier suppliers are medium sized enterprises (SMMEs). Our 2012 SLP target those that have direct contractual relationships with AngloGold was for 20% of our capital goods, 50% of our services, and Ashanti, while second-tier suppliers are our suppliers’ suppliers. 25% of our consumables to be sourced from black economic The implementation of the Voluntary Principles on Security and empowerment* (BEE) companies. Human Rights (VPSHRs) has been an important part of our * BEE companies are those defined as qualifying BEE entities with a supply chain process, particularly security personnel training. minimum 25% black ownership status. See page 43. our performance { 55 MANAGING OUR SUPPLY CHAIN continued Detailed reports of our compliance with our SLPs will be Key performance indicators available on our website at www.anglogoldashanti.com in May 2013. While the numbers alone do not reflect the full impact of our endeavours, they provide useful insight. Expenditure with qualifying BEE entities (%) By the end of 2012, the South Africa Region had spent $359m 50 43 45 (R3.03bn) with qualifying BEE entities. This represents 45% of 40 36 procurement expenditure of $797m (R6.7bn). No contribution 35 29 has yet been reported against the target for multinationals 30 because the Social Development Fund has not yet been 20 established by the Department of Mineral Resources (DMR) 10 in South Africa. We have issued notices to our suppliers to set aside, either in a trust account or as an accrual, such 0 required funding until such time as the fund details are finalised. 08 09 10 11 12 Overall, we achieved 75% in terms of the DMR compliance scorecard. The table below translates the achieved actual BEE expenditure per category and objectives (capital, services and Procurement performance against targets consumables) into actual points achieved as measured against (%) the target points. 50 47 50 43 Expenditure Target points Actual 40 36 Capital 5 5 30 25 20 Services 5 4 20 Consumables 2 2 10 Multi-national contribution 3 Pending 0 Capital Services Consumables In terms of supporting emerging SMMEs, we are setting up a supplier development centre in the labour-sending 2012 target 2012 actual area of Mthatha, Eastern Cape, South Africa. This supplier development centre is intended to become a gateway for suppliers to access business from the company and other entities, as well as training and development in entrepreneurship and basic business management skills. We have appointed a service provider in O.R. Tambo District Municipality in the Eastern Cape who will develop the specific enterprise development intervention programmes and operationalise the supplier development centres. In our host communities of Merafong, Gauteng, South Africa and Matlosana, North West, South Africa, a survey was conducted to establish the business profile of SMMEs in these communities to enable us to begin the development of a customised SMME strategy for each area. PODCAST Nils Steward Golder & Associates Principal consultant Member of the Technology Innovation Consortium The benefits of a consortium of minds to address the future of mining Podcast available at: www.aga-reports.com/12/nils-steward 56 } 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GUIDE TO USING OUR REPORTS Our annual suite of reports to stakeholders in 2012 comprises: The Annual Integrated Report, the primary document in (The JORC Code, 2004 edition). This report has been the suite of reports which has been produced in line with prepared, reviewed and confirmed by the Competent Persons the recommendations of the King Code of Governance for as defined in terms of these codes. South Africa, 2009 (King III) and the Listings Requirements of the Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), the home of Our Operational Profiles, which provide detailed financial our primary listing. We have taken cognisance of local and and non-financial information on each of our operations and international recommendations on integrated reporting in projects. These will be made available online at www.agadeveloping our report content, and the style of reporting. It reports.com, and will be downloadable in a pdf format. contains an holistic view of our business – now and in the A Notice of Meeting to shareholders together with the future – containing operational, financial and non-financial relevant voting instruction forms for the stock exchanges at information. As this is a group-level report, operational targets which the company is listed. These provide details of the and performance are discussed at a group level. This report is forthcoming annual general meeting and of the resolutions on available online and, on request, as a printed report. which shareholders are to vote. Stakeholders seeking more detailed and specific information Additional supporting material, including the document are referred to the reports listed below. entitled “Risk Factors related to AngloGold Ashanti’s suite of 2012 reports”, which was previously in the Annual Financial The Annual Financial Statements, which has been prepared Statements, is available on AngloGold Ashanti’s online in accordance with: the International Financial Reporting corporate report website www.aga-reports.com. Standards (IFRS); the South African Companies Act, 71 of 2008 (as amended); and the Listings Requirements of the In compliance with the rules governing its listing on the NYSE JSE. This report is submitted to the JSE in South Africa, as and in accordance with the accounting principles generally well as the London, New York, Ghana and Australian stock accepted in the United States, AngloGold Ashanti prepares exchanges on which AngloGold Ashanti is listed. This report is an annual report on Form 20-F which is filed each year. The available online and, on request, as a printed report. full suite of 2012 reports will be furnished to the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on a Form 6-K. Our Sustainability Report – Summary, which provides insight into our approach to sustainability, and objectives, strategy and performance. This global report focuses on those sustainability issues that have been determined to be Our primary platform for reporting is most important to us, and to our stakeholders. This report is our online report at www.aga-reports.com available online and, on request, as a printed report. Our Online Sustainability Report, which provides a more comprehensive view of our business, has been produced in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) 3.0 guidelines, as well as GRI’s Mining and Metals Sector Supplement, the Sustainable Development Framework of the International Council on Metals and Mining (ICMM), the principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and the Extractive Industries Reporting Initiative (EITI). This report is available online. The inside pages of this report were printed on Triple Green Silk 135gsm. A local double coated, high-white, wood-free coated art paper produced by Our Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve Statement, which Sappi at the Stanger Mill in South Africa. ISO 9001 and 14001 certification. records our Mineral Resource and Ore Reserve in accordance PEFC, Sustainable Forest Initiative, FSC and CoC standards compliant. Sappi Stanger Mill is one of the only mills in the world that uses bagasse as with the South African Code for Reporting of Exploration its primary source of pulp. The pulp is a by-product of sugar production, Results, Mineral Resource and Mineral Reserve (The SAMREC being the fibrous material remaining after raw sugar has been extracted Code, 2007 edition), and the Australasian Code for Reporting from sugar cane. This paper is free of both acid and elemental chlorine of Exploration Results, Mineral Resources and Ore Reserves and is recyclable. 6384/12 annual IR integrated REPORT {2012 • Regional review of operations annual integrated rePOrt • Non-GAAP disclosure 2012 annual integrated rePOrt • Approach to risk • Letters from Chairman and CEO annual FS financial statements {2012 • Assurance statement annual financial statements • Remuneration report • Corporate governance 2012 annual financial statements • Financial results • Non-GAAP disclosure SUSTAINABILITY SR REPORT • Letter from CEO {2012 YOU ARE HERE SUSTAINABILITY • Material sustainability issues REPORT • Approach to risk 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • Sustainability performance • Panel feedback OS ONLINE ADMINISTRATIVE INFORMATION SUSTAINABILITY Registered and corporate office REPORT 76 Jeppe Street, Newtown {2012 • Assurance statement ONLINE Johannesburg, Gauteng 2001 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • GRI compliance South Africa • Sustainability performance 2012 ONLINE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT • UNGC compliance PO Box 62117, Marshalltown • ICMM compliance Gauteng 2107 • Case studies South Africa Telephone: +27 11 637 6000 Fax: +27 11 637 6624 Mineral resource RR and ore reserve www.anglogoldashanti.com report Contact person for this report {2012 • Proved and Probable Nilesh Moodley Ore Reserve Mineral resource and ore reserve report 2012 Mineral resource and ore reserve report Telephone: +27 11 637 6788 • Measured, Indicated and Inferred Mineral Resource Fax: +27 86 686 8177 Email: nmoodley@anglogoldashanti.com Sustainability enquiries Sustainabilityreport@anglogoldashanti.com 2012 } SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Download the full Sustainability Report 2012 www.anglogoldashanti.com
