www.sanlucar.com SanLucar Corporate Responsibility Report 2011/2012 Cover text: María Dolores Nieto Vargas, our expert grower in Almería Diversity: our basis for a long-term stability Nature is our most important partner, this is clear as daylight to everyone in We dedicated one chapter of this report SanLucar. Fruits and vegetables are natural products, cultivated by man and to each stakeholder, where we explain for man, therefore, the respect and commitment towards the human being how we strive together to achieve a and nature are the foundations for SanLucar, stamped in our philosophy and fairer and more responsible society in the brand SanLucar. and the conservation of a healthy enA careful and responsible use of resources is something natural for us, as it vironment. The following subjects are is developing innovative packages and cultivating our products with respect included: diversity and cultural equalfor the environment and, moreover, participating in social projects in our ity; the programme of international countries of production. volunteering; cultivation in harmony At SanLucar, we want to be part of the solution and seek an active exchange with the environment, using auxiliary with our employees, producers, partners and consumers, our stakeholders. We fauna; packaging innovations, like our also include external experts and networks who work with sustainability and patented Light Weight Box®; and the corporate responsibility, as it is internationally known. Thus, we made severimportance of a fair and long-term al interviews with our stakeholders about several issues, to have first-hand relation with our partners. knowledge about what does corporate responsibility mean to them and how While you are reading this report, we they apply it in their day by day. continue to strive to reach our goals, With this report, we want to prove that corporate responsibility is lived within and comply worldwide with our reSanLucar and that we can compete with the best in this aspect. sponsibilities at SanLucar. We carried out a detailed study from July to September 2010 to find out which expectations our stakeholders have, what is the most important for our employees and consumers, and how and where we have an influence, directly or indirectly, on our environment and our community. With the results, we had a meeting with a group of experts at the beginning of 2012 to study and define our strategy, objectives and future activities concerning corporate responsibility. page name of the chapter 45 4.2 The price of responsibility 46 4.3 The dialogue with our producers Foreword from Stephan Rötzer 47 We chat with José “Pepe” Saorín, Quality Technician at SanLucar 1 We are SanLucar 49 4.4 Our German growers perfectly complement our yearly product offer 12 1.1 The brand SanLucar 5 Commitment to our community 12 1.2 The world SanLucar 52 5.1 SanLucar gets involved! 14 1.3 With future vision 53 5.1.1 Merry Christmas to all 16 1.4 The structure of SanLucar 54 5.1.2 Commitment of SanLucar to a healthy lifestyle and sports 2 The Corporate Responsibility at SanLucar 54 5.1.3 Commitment of SanLucar to the development of childhood and youth 20 2.1 The team of Corporate Responsibility (CR) 54 5.1.4 Social Shops 21 2.2 Taste in harmony with man and nature 55 5.2 Our programme of corporate volunteering 23 2.3 The model “from inside to outside” 55 5.2.1 Voluntary work for the society of Valencia with ENGAGE Valencia 24 2.4 SanLucar moves! 56 We chat with Fundar Vicepresident Juan Ángel Poyatos 25 We chat with Peter Kromminga, CEO of the UPJ 59 5.2.2 Our international volunteering 28 2.5 Risk Management 60 We chat with Alan Bojanic, representative of the FAO in Chile 3 Growing together 63 5.3 The social development at SanLucar International 30 3.1 What is sociocultural balance? 64 We chat with Santiago Galán, CEO of SanLucar International 31 3.2 Training and development 6 Our customers and consumers – our best guarantee 32 3.3 Our policies of equality and diversity 70 Edeka Südwest and SanLucar 34 3.4 Road safety and sustainable mobility 71 REWE about sustainability, we chat with Tanja Dietrich-Hübner (REWE Austria) 34 3.5 Internal communication and surveys about work climate 73 6.1 Social innovation in packaging 35 3.6 Our management system SA8000 73 6.2 Transparent quality 4 Only the best growers 74 6.3 The dialogue with our customers and consumers 38 The Llusar brothers talk about their great passion 75 6.4 Fresh communication 40 The secret of the Giulianos’ 76 6.4.1 The SanLucar online community 44 4.1 Growing confidence SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 4 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 5 77 6.4.2 Our educational trips – bringing the farm closer to the supermarket 7 Nature – our most valuable partner 80 7.1 In harmony with nature 84 We chat with Carmen Nicolás, Director of Quality and Production at SanLucar 86 7.2 Protection of the atmosphere 86 7.3 Innovative packaging 86 7.3.1 Lighter and more environmentally friendly packaging made out of corrugated card board 87 7.3.2 Program on reduction of the use of plastics in our primary packaging 88 7.4 Green Office 8 Appendix 92 GRI Table 113 Communication on Progress Report (CoP) 115 Corporate data 120 Contacts 121 Certifications 122 Glossary SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 6 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 7 Foreword from Stephan Rötzer Dear reader, When I started with SanLucar, nearly 20 years ago, I could not imagine we would be where we are right now. More than 1,300 people in 30 countries make it possible for the consumer to enjoy the best and tastiest fruits and vegetables every day. These people have passion, and this is something you notice in each bite. However our world changes very quickly, and we are facing huge challenges: our population is aging; the planet is suffering; there is lack of food and potable water for everyone; younger generations are not interested in agriculture and are unmotivated towards their future; the poverty rate is increasing day by day… We cannot just sit around doing nothing, we must act! At SanLucar we have grown without losing sight of the future we would like to have for our company, our partners and our society. Therefore, we commit ourselves and daily work together for this future. All of us believe that the quality and exceptional taste of our fruits and vegetables can only be achieved if we cultivate and act in harmony with man and nature. These are not just simple words, the SanLucar philosophy is felt, shared and lived every day. More than 2,000 hours that our employees of Puzol spent in voluntary tasks, sometimes even during their free time, are a proof of it. They helped people living in poverty or excluded from society. The farm we bought in Rooihoogte, South Africa, is a step towards this future we foresee at SanLucar. People of 19 nationalities and several other cultures, languages and dialects make up what we know nowadays as SanLucar. Because of this, we strive for their development and work for equality of opportunities. This is a very important challenge in a country like South Africa, with such historical differences. We are spending time, money and effort on the most modern facilities, the best working conditions and social development, sooner than planting our first clementine. There is still much to be done, daily we have to consider which is the best way to grow and produce, and prove that we are on the right track. This report is a summary of everything we have commenced in 2011 and 2012 and, for the first time, we include a table of indicators according to the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), besides our progress indicators respecting the ten A brief introduction to our CEO, Stephan Rötzer principles of the Global Compact we signed in 2011. I hope that through reading this you come to know our world more closely, know who we are, what is behind our taste and what makes our products so special. The son of a fruit and vegetable vendor from Munich, Stephan Rötzer learned from his father how to select the freshest, tastiest and healthiest fruits. He started his working life as food vendor, then he worked as fork-lift operator, purchaser and as a manager of a citrus fruit warehouse. Stephan Rötzer speaks five languages. He uses the experience of fruits and vegetables he gained throughout the years and applies it to a business philosophy of global and international vision. Stephan Rötzer SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 8 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 9 SanLucar products 1. We are SanLucar • The brand SanLucar • The world SanLucar • With future vision • The structure of SanLucar SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 10 We are SanLucar SanLucar represents the best fruits and vegetables; it represents quality and passion for the best taste. People from all over the world work hard, day by day, to reach this aim, they fight for it and contribute in many different ways. These people are, among others, our growers, harvesters, packers, hauliers, and obviously, our colleagues in the corporate headquarters. Without them, SanLucar would not be SanLucar. 1.1 The brand SanLucar To be able to understand the brand SanLucar, we have to know its philosophy: “the taste is the most important, always in harmony with man and nature”. SanLucar works worldwide with growers in more than 30 countries, who combine years of experience and traditional cultivation methods with the most modern methods and agricultural knowledge. The quality team of SanLucar supports them on site. We keep a close eye on our fruits, from the careful selection of the field and the planting of varieties, until the harvest at the perfect moment and the attentive transport to our clients in Germany and Austria. There we offer guidance through our presence when the fruit and vegetable offers is confusing. This is something that distinguishes us and our customers appreciate this every day. Anyone who chooses SanLucar fruits knows that the best taste, in harmony with man and nature, lies within. 1.2 The world SanLucar SanLucar offers more than 100 varieties of fruits and vegetables, with the highest quality and the best taste. Our products come from more than 30 different countries and are sold in fourteen. Our main markets are Germany and Austria. Thanks to the selection and constant quality controls of our experts all over the world, we can guarantee the highest quality of all our products. Where we produce, where we sell and where our other corporate sites are. Moreover, we use the most advanced techniques, as is happening at our logistics centre in Ettlingen, from where we distribute our products for the whole German market. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 12 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 13 We are SanLucar 1.3 With future vision Along the same theme, we invested in the continuous improvement of our greenIn March 2012 we started a new advenhouse facilities, such as our drainage water recycling system, and the heating ture in South Africa, our second “flag system through recirculation of water, using the geothermic energy our oasis ship”. Our farm Rooihoogte, which offers us. All this, joint to the daily effort of our local experts all over the world means “red land” in Afrikaans, has an to understand the necessities of the plants, allows us to take the maximum adarea of 608 ha and extraordinary farmvantage of the climatic conditions and the land of each geographic area, and ing qualities. There, our colleagues from thus get the best of the plant at each moment. SanLucar International work restlessly together with a local team, preparing At SanLucar, we do not only invest in technology. Our most important investthe land for the new plantations, develment, and the one we are most proud of, is in the people. Over the last four oping the future plantations schemes years, we invested in Tunisia in education, development, in the best working (varieties, products, cultivation lines), conditions, recreational facilities, social benefits, safety and work health, and of designing irrigation facilities according course, in rewarding effort and commitment. Our Tunisian colleagues receive a to SanLucar standards, creating plots salary 30 percent higher than the local average, and all of them have doubled and reservoirs, planning campaigns, etc. their salary over the last four years as an expression of their loyalty, implication, All this is to offer our customers the commitment and performance. tastiest citrus fruits, grapes and stone fruits, among others, for the campaign Our oasis is not an island. It is not enough to only understand our employees, we 2011/2012. have to talk to local communities and their leaders, to understand their needs and find out how SanLucar can help. Our commitment We want to continue advancing towards Thus, the continuous investment in people, in the environment and in R&D has the future we desire for SanLucar, somemade possible that today, four years later, we are talking about a reality in Tuthing we do every day, working with nisia of being able to overcome challenges even the sociopolitical environment a great human resource team and a has posed in recent times. vocation: with passion for the best fruits We passed with good marks! This same growth model is the one we want to apply and vegetables. everywhere SanLucar is producing today and tomorrow, and keep on improving it. At SanLucar we have a vision: offering our customers fruits and vegetables of the Our “flagship” in Tunisia highest quality and the best taste, during twelve months of the year. This vision We are especially proud of our new includes the necessary development of our international presence in the five con“oasis” in Tunisia. For the last four years Our future vision 2020 tinents. We grow thanks to the alliances with the best local producers, who can we have been growing tomatoes of the Area Hectare Tons Employees Products guarantee to us, and our customers a premium product, in addition to sustainable highest quality and taste. cultivation in all senses, that is, cultivation methods that allows us to optimize The selection of the land is always Tunisia 4,000 100,000 20,000 tomatoes, stone fruits, citrus fruits, berries, resources, a fair salary for all and a firm commitment with the local community. the first important decision. SanLucar melons and watermelons, lettuce, peppers, This vision is also a clear commitment with our customers, and to meet this comselects areas and lands with a special aubergines, courgettes mitment, SanLucar has developed a business plan for the next ten years, with microclimate that allows us to reduce South Africa 3,000 65,000 8,000 stone fruits, citrus fruits, berries, grapes the introduction of the production in several countries and, thus, covering all the consumption of natural resources. Chile/Peru 1,500 50,000 5,000 citrus fruits, berries, stone fruits production seasons. For example, the climate in Tunisia Ecuador/Costa Rica 700 2,000 1,000 pineapples, bananas, grapes Within this entire process and expansion plan, we never forget our vision and advantageous to production methods Asia 300 1,000 1,800 citrus fruits, berries, stone fruits values; they are our lighthouse and our radar. This does not mean that we are with nil chemical pesticide control since able to start applying our policy as soon as we arrive to the “new land”. This is the little precipitations contributes to a continuous process, full of challenges, but with a clear aim: grow in harmony the low amount of incidents of plant with man and nature. diseases. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 14 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 15 We are SanLucar 1.4 The structure of SanLucar The SanLucar headquarters in Puzol is organized by areas, direction and departments. All our subsidiaries have their own administration, human resources and sales departments, always coordinated with the team in Puzol. CEO SanLucar Group Stephan Rötzer Corporate Areas SanLucar in Germany SanLucar Resources SanLucar Operations SanLucar International SanLucar Jorge Peris Carlos Seguí Santiago Galán Austria SanLucar SanLucar Alexander Thaller Production Ettlingen Germany Matthias Rensch Gunther Kies Finance + Travel Information Corporate Communications Commercial Sales National Management Technologies SanLucar SanLucar and Corporate Responsibility Area José Ventura RSA Tunisia Ilka Hein Research & Alejandro Meyer Toni Calatayud Carlos Seguí Development Sales Europe Sales National Berries PR CR Carlos Segui Pepe Ventura Human Quality & Charlotte Stojan Delia García Holger Brandt Legal Geza Aumüller Brand Resources + Office Production SanLucar SanLucar Nancy Daiss Services Sonia Mallén Gunnar Brune Management Toni Ferrer Carmen Nicolás Portugal Ecuador Luis Paisán Quality & Brand Production Gunnar Brune General Distribution Carmen Nicolás Packaging Services Germany Project José Navarro Jorge Álvarez Matthias Rensch Management Corporate Logistics Culture Christian Quintela Jennifer Heer SanLucar Group chart SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 16 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 17 Our producer Ulrich Gößl, the best apples of the Styria Region, in Austria 2. The Corporate Responsibility at SanLucar • The team of Corporate Responsibility (CR) • The model “from inside to outside” • Taste in harmony with man • SanLucar moves! and nature: shared values, lived • Risk Management philosophy SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 18 CR at SanLucar CR is everywhere: our ambassadors SanLucar is an international company and we need our colleagues all over the world to help us to be globally responsible. Ambassadors like Petra Kreinecker in Austria, Andrea Ceballos, Dali Chabchoub and Bochra Jourani in Tunisia, Marius Merwe The corporate responsibility and sustainability are part of our company’s philosophy and are reflected and Patricia Ciscar in South Africa, Fernando Piza in Ecuador and Costa Rica or Nicolás Aguilera in Chile. All of them are our in our policy, our values, our communication and our day-to-day. eyes, ears and hands on the field. Without them, CR in SanLucar would not be possible! The tasks of the CR team are: 2.1 The team of Corporate Responsibility (CR) • identifying social development opportunities and for the protection of The CR team is made up of professionals from several branches. This makes it possible to consider social responsibility and the environment in our activities and our communities; sustainability at SanLucar from several points of view (see contacts in Appendix 4). They support the SanLucar team in the development of the CR programme, but they are not alone. The whole SanLucar team is part of the CR team; as we work • gathering information about social responsibility from several forums, with the same aim and share our vision of the future. national and international, to be updated about trends and the most innovative progresses, and be able to apply them as far as possible; Ilka Hein, Corporate Communication, PR and CR from Germany • talking to the departments and promoting the creation of work groups for Ilka is an expert in Marketing, Corporate Communication, Public Relations and Corporate Responsibility, besides being a the development of corporate concepts and the application of sustainability; professional coach. She gives advice from Germany in the fields of which she is an expert. She is our link to the press and she knows how SanLucar works perfectly, our industry and our markets, and how to transmit our philosophy, our values • upporting all departments in the development of projects, to help them and our future plans to our stakeholders. Moreover, Ilka is the head of CR in Germany, where she and our colleagues in accomplish their objectives regarding CR and sustainability; Ettlingen have developed activities in collaboration with local entities, NGOs and all our other stakeholders. • promote the dialogue with all stakeholders mentioned in this report (emDelia García, manages our programmes for sustainable and sociocultural development from Puzol ployees, growers, customers, consumers, NGOs, public administration, etc.), to identify collaboration opportunities and for constant improvement; Delia studied Environmental Sciences and has a Master in Environmental Engineering and Management and also a Master in Corporate Responsibility and Communication • monitoring of the advancement of CR objectives and coordinating the Processes within the company. She is a specialist in responsible management and annual report. sustainable development. She is in charge of coordinating and managing projects from Puzol, as well as facilitating internal work groups for a responsible management within SanLucar and for the communication with stakeholders. She is responsible for the project of social development in South Africa and the corporate volunteering programme. She is member of the team for the measurement and reduction of the carbon footprint, of the committee of equality and diversity and of the committee of sustainable mobility. 2.2 Taste in harmony with man and nature: Nancy Daiss, manages agroecological and regional development from Puzol shared values, lived philosophy Nancy Daiss is an agronomic engineer and has a Master of Business Administration. At SanLucar we believe all our acts count. Not only we, but also our partners, know which are our values and commitCurrently, she is finishing her Master of Agroecology. She began working at SanLucar ments, and how we try to apply them in our daily work and our decisions. Therefore, in 2011, we translated our Code of in 2007 and since 2011 she has been a part of the CR team, contributing her knowlEthics into six languages and published it on our web page http://www.sanlucar.com/company/corporate-responsibility/ edge to sustainable production and projects for social development. She is member and the Web portal. of the committee for health & safety of SanLucar and of the Green Office team. The CR team We know that we can keep on improving, therefore, SanLucar made a step forward and created the new department of corporate culture management in 2012. Its mission is transmitting the SanLucar philosophy to our colleagues, customers and growers, and assists in ensuring that it is understood even better, through educational journeys, courses or coaching sessions. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 20 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 21 CR at SanLucar Moreover, three Spanish Paralympics Games athletes came to visit our facilities What are these commitments? SanLucar in Puzol on the 26th of April 2012. The disabled sportsmen David Casinos, Ricardo has a Code of Ethics, mainly based upon 2.3 The model “from inside to outside” Ten and Óscar Ponce taught us that with effort, passion, team work, excellence, the principles of the international norm quality, initiative and motivation everything is possible. They told us about their SA8000, a standard that SanLucar has personal experiences and showed us how they work with these values everyday to had since 2010. SanLucar has also been Our CR model goes from the inside to the outside. It is based on a strategy of collaboration with all our stakeholders, reach their goals. certified since 2011 in the principles of who are our core points and members of the SanLucar family. Our activities are therefore for: the Global Compact of the United NaAll these performances are part of the plan for the development of people, to widen tions. Our Code of Ethics is given to all • our colleagues, employees of SanLucar; the values of SanLucar and make them real so that we all feel and live them in our our stakeholders as a summary of the day-to-day, to share and transmit them appropriately. commitments SanLucar acquires, together • our growers and our production partners; with partners and colleagues, and what In this sense, our team of quality technicians transmits to our growers the concept the foundation is for taking decisions. • our distribution partners, customers and consumers; of sustainable production, besides working with them side by side to achieve the Thus, we are able to speak about the objectives of each campaign. This collaboration is possible thanks to our producSanLucar quality, the quality that is lived • our social environment and nature. tion partners who express their great willingness to cooperate and the desire to throughout the whole chain of values improve themselves. and which is sustainable. With each of them, we assume a commitment. Our values ... and the day-to-day Stakeholder – Our SanLucar colleagues 1. Collaboration and cooperation with our partners to move • People are at the center of everything we do. Do not Our target – Sociocultural balance SanLucar towards excellence. consider only the grower, the product or the client, but That means: best working conditions, equality of opportunities, knowledge exchange Company also consider the person. 2. Active listening of our stakeholders for a better understanding of their needs. • Always work with foresight – you will thereby avoid probStakeholder – Our growers and production partners worldwide lems and you will not need to solve them. Our target – Cultivation in harmony with man and nature 3. Ethics and responsible management: Business Fair-Play. That means: integration of ethics and ecology in our farms and being an example SanLucar for all growers, trust Cultivation 4. Honesty and transparency. • Search for criticism and help others become better than you. 5. Quality: We take care down to the smallest detail throughout • Do not accept intermediate solutions. Stakeholder – Our clients and consumers the entire process; pre-planting, planting, growing, harvesting, Our target – “Appreciate food” distribution and marketing. • Take on responsibilities and never put your personal inThat means: promotion of healthy nutrition, responsible handling with food, transSanLucar terests before the group’s success. parency related to products origin and cultivation criteria 6. Sustainability: Respect and protection for the environment Market and people, regardless of their condition or circumstances. • Work only in a way that makes you happy. By doing so you 7. Innovation for us means sustainable development and concreate success for the company and for our collaborators. Stakeholder/Recipients – Our environment tinuous learning. Our target – Harmony That means: Respect, protection of the environment and the people along our value SanLucar • Work only with collaborators that have the same values. 8. Better anticipation than correction. chain as well as in the SanLucar communities Planet 9. The freshest, most natural and tastiest fruit and vegetables guaranteed throughout the year. Our CR model: “from inside to outside” 10. We will share SanLucar’s values with our collaborators and will pass them on to all our stakeholders. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 22 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 23 CR at SanLucar 2.4 SanLucar moves! We chat with Peter Kromminga Peter Kromminga is the director of UPJ, the German CSR and Corporate Citizenship network. Since we have collaborated We speak constantly with experts about new possibilities to live sustainability in our company, to gain a better knowla lot with them, we were interested in talking to him about the several aspects of corporate responsibility and knowing edge about the best practices. Moreover, these conversations are very inspiring and a critical analysis of our own perhis point of view. formances. An active exchange with networks and our stakeholders gives us the opportunity to identify problems in advance and react quickly. This means: Mr. Kromminga, what was the reason for the foundation of UPJ? Which needs were not satisfied? • Support of responsibilities – We support the principles of the Global Compact and the Charter of Diversity, since we believe in a fair society and a more sustainable world. Our activities are guided by these principles. The mission of UPJ is moving CSR forward in Germany. We • Networking – We are members of the UPJ Network in Germany and the respACT in Austria. Both are networks of see CSR as the specific contribution companies make for a corporate citizenship and social responsibility of compromised companies and intermediate charitable organizations sustainable development, something that can be reached (NGOs, international organizations). The exchange with our companies allows us to check if we are on the right path. through responsible actions throughout the whole chain • Transparency – We publish our activities in the SEDEX (the Supplier Ethical Data Exchange). of values and the society, collaborating with figures of the • Performances on site – Since 2011 we have supported the programme ENGAGE Valencia, and participated in many civil society, policy and administration. Thus, corporate solidarity projects in Spain, Germany, Austria and in our countries of production worldwide. innovations can be created and the society can grow towards the future. What additional value does UPJ contribute to entrepreneurs? Companies receive practical support, with information, different at SanLucar. They have been able to contribute exchange with people in charge of CSR, projects and advice. with their experience in many different ways, as well as This is the additional value received by the collaboration the way they manage CR, how to put CR into practice, with UPJ. or their knowledge about the supply chain, and thus, create advantages for the members in their job and SanLucar has been part of UPJ for more than a year and the exchange in the network. Moreover, SanLucar is a a half. How do you see the progress of SanLucar during good example of how CR should be practiced, representthis time? ing UPJ in the media or in events, as the International CSR-Conference, organized by the German Ministry of SanLucar lives its corporate values, something that can be Employment, that took place last year in Berlin. felt when you have dealings with the company. You also feel a growing sense of professionalism. This is not that Let’s take a look towards the future… The concept obvious for a medium-size company. SanLucar carries out of corporate responsibility emerged in the 90’s, and the CR systematically, using a huge amount of personnel since then it has evolved and gained more importance. and financial resources. Values turn into a strategy. What do you think is essential to not fall behind in this constant and fast evolution? A network of companies is an excellent platform for the exchange of experiences and to be able to investigate our I am sure that CSR will continue with a very dynamown strategies. Moreover, we know cases of success, can ic development, because of the globalization and its strengthen own aspects and learn from conflicts of other consequences, but especially because of the financial enterprises. How do you think SanLucar has contributed and economic crisis we are currently going through, and helped other companies with its experience? which results in enterprises that are under intensified The information exchange for surveillance and pressure by the society, NGOs and makes us grow healthy every day In the UPJ network, collaborate small, medium-sized and politicians. It is therefore logical to seek support through very big companies. The common opinion is that small and dialogues with stakeholders and their management. This medium-sized companies learn from the big ones, but this is would be the best requisite to not get lost during the SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 24 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 25 CR at SanLucar progress, and be able to draw the appropriate conclusions Let us talk about political conditions. Do you think that format reasons. SanLucar carries this out offensively and and necessary measures for the CR strategies. companies receive enough support from the government very successfully. Anyhow, in my opinion the impact it has for the introduction of CR activities? What is your opinion “SANLUCAR DOeS NOT ONLy internally is as important. During the writing of a report, a Which could be the most important future challenges conon the new european CSR strategies? reminder is made of everything that happened regarding cerning corporate responsibility, especially in the fruit and WORRy AbOUT ITS eMPLOysustainability and responsibility. This would be the first esvegetable sector? I do think that government and public administrations offer sential step for the establishment of priorities and to be able opportunities. Small and medium-sized companies especially eeS, bUT ALSO AbOUT THeIR to develop an appropriate strategy. Besides, employees are I am thinking about three challenges: the first, the supply need help, because they sometimes do not have the time included, since they provide the necessary information for chain. Transparency and proactive information of and for or resources to undertake CSR systematically and integrate fAMILIeS.” the report. The participation and collaboration of employees consumers about the origin of products and their cultivation it into the policies of the company. The European Commisis, as I believe, the most important for a CR strategy to be conditions is becoming more and more important. Simply sion recognized this necessity soon enough and established successful, and therefore for its launching within a company. consider the TV programme “Markencheck” (Brandcheck), appropriate programmes. Most of the EU member states The production of fruit and vegetables has its peculiarities; of the “Erstes Deutsches Fernsehen” (German First Channel), follow these. It is worth pointing out that the German govyou have to always be prepared for any crisis. Which are broadcasted in prime time. Secondly, related to the transernment´s CSR programme that promotes CSR in SMEs is a the top three topics that come to your mind? parency: how important the carbon footprint of products very important project. is, and how can we reduce it? And finally, due to the strong I am very happy with the approach the European Commission In first place, the compliance with human rights, and how ecological tendency in Germany, the issue “fair produced gave to the CSR reports, since they consider CSR as constituent a company can carry out its production responsibly in counand treated products” will gain more importance, as it is task, where responsibility, sustainability and solidarity have tries where the political situation is unstable. Another point happening already in Great Britain and the Netherlands. the same importance as the competitiveness of companies in would be, especially in the food industry, the food safety. the European Economic Area. In Germany terms like “Shared There is no company that can rule out to 100 percent that There are companies which introduce a CR policy purely Value” or “Social Innovation” get lost because of the discussion no accidents ever happened. This is proven with what is because of image reasons, without truly believing in its about the announced duty of disclosure for some companies. happening right know in Germany, where dioxin was found values. Others take profit of social responsibility as a straFrom what I think, this would not be a true challenge for in organic eggs. Even if a company tries to do everything tegic resource. Do you think that companies have really most of the affected companies. possible to minimize these types of risk, it should be prepared exhausted all available resources, or is there still potential? for any unforeseen event, precisely because consumers and you already know our different CR activities very well. the media are more and more critical. Finally, I would like Using CR as an advertising strategy, the so-called Green-WashWhich projects do you think are the most interesting and to point out the provision of people with food. Especially ing, is not that frequent anymore, at least this is my imsuit our other business activities best? enterprises in the food sector should develop business projpression. Nowadays it would be too easy to reveal and be ects for people “at the base of the pyramid”. An intensive counterproductive, since our society is much more critical. In the first place, I would like to mention the activities that exchange will be necessary, with development companies, The contrary happens: companies are taking CR more and are being carried out in SanLucar which are very successful with societies of affected countries and with other compamore seriously. Those who have already started still have a and very evident, like trickle irrigation, for other companies, for developed approaches which are useful for both long way to go until reaching a CR potential that contributes nies they would be “flagship projects”, and absolutely not sides: the people and the company. to the success of the company, or even integrating CR into obvious. Moreover, I think it is admirable how you strive to the business model. boost innovations for the local communities in the countries SanLucar publishes each year a CR report. Why do you think where you have production. such a report about sustainability is important? An example would be the promotion of equal opportunities in Tunisia, through different qualification measures A CR report is important and almost essential for a lot “ TRANSPAReNCy AND PROACin the industry of cultivation, especially of tomatoes. This of companies, since it provides transparency for external commitment does not only help SanLucar to find qualified stakeholders. Besides a printed yearly report, other Internet TIve INfORMATION Of AND fOR people, but also the employees to progress and evolve in communication channels are more important, like Blogs and their job. SanLucar does not only worry about its employees, social networks, since they offer current information on CONSUMeRS (...) IS beCOMING but also about their families, offering educational grants, the one hand, and on the other hand, they make dialogue for example. possible, something a report is not able to do because of MORe AND MORe IMPORTANT.” SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 26 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 27 2.5 Risk Management It has always been important for us to analyze our business model and the way we grow, market and produce. In 2011 we went a step forward and created our Risk Management System, based on quality standards (ISO 9001, IFS, QS) and on international norms for the management of risks and crisis (ISO 31000). Establish context Assessment of iesgos Risks Identify risks Communication Monitoring and an consultation revision Analize risks Assess risks Our technicians in Tunisia Treat risks 3. Growing together Process of Risk Management Now, SanLucar has a detailed risk plan, which includes preventive performances, a reaction plan and a 24-hours crisis committee, as well as guidelines and specific communication channels. • What is sociocultural balance? • Road safety and sustainable For the campaign 2012/2013, risks will be assessed economically and in accordance with their impact, and the system will be introduced completely. Each detected risk is an opportunity as well, analyzed by our experts. Thus we can optimize • Training and development mobility our working methods, prevent crisis and avoid negative effects. • Our policies of equality and • Internal communication and diversity surveys about work climate • Our management system SA8000 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 28 Growing together Our colleagues are important to us and we care about them, because without their help our activity would not be possible. We all share the same values and show each day our commitment to 3.2 Training and development SanLucar, but also to our community, the society and the environment. In this sense, the SanLucans: At SanLucar, we support the abilities of our people to reach high levels of We also started our product days. At the motivation and performance. Each employee shall use his whole potential. beginning of each campaign, the teams of • understand that they make up a work team and an even bigger team: SanLucar; Good trained employees, with great knowledge, skills and competences are several departments (Quality, Packaging, part of our policy. They are perfectly prepared to assume responsibilities and Marketing, Sales and I&D Berries) make • spent more than 2,000 hours in volunteering activities; face challenges proactively. a presentation of their most interesting • participate in many charity events, as during Christmas (“Gifts for everyone”); and innovative projects, and are available The internal transmission of know-how is something obvious at SanLucar. Colleagues for any comments and questions from • collaborate to make projects possible that SanLucar promotes, like the Green Office; with a wide range of knowledge give internal courses about certain subjects. This all of us. • are the eyes of SanLucar all over the world thanks to the network of CR ambassadors. way we promote communication skills as well. During the campaign 2011/2012, more than 20 training courses were carried out, in several areas; like the SA8000, HACCP, product specifications, IT programmes, packaging processes of our fruits Nearly 150 people come every day to Puzol, where our headquarters are, approximately 20 km north or marketing workshops. of Valencia, and surrounded by citrus fruit trees. Here, in a dynamic and multicultural environment, we create new varieties and packaging to surprise our consumers, plan new campaigns, manage logistics and take care that our quality standards are being fulfilled. But this is only a small part of SanLucar. To this family we have to add 1,150 more workers who are distributed and represent us in Germany, Austria, France, Portugal, Tunisia, South Africa, Chile, Ecuador and Costa Rica. We are more than 1,300 workers with a common goal: offering the freshest and tastiest fruit and vegetables, in harmony with man and nature. 3.1 What is sociocultural balance? At SanLucar we value the importance of the work and attitude each one of us has, and how this affects life and the results of each team member and our company. We therefore support initiative and commitment, invest in professional developInternship programme at SanLucar ment, provide a safe and healthy work environment, guarantee equal opportunities for everyone and promote diversity. During these days, all SanLucans can see the packaging and taste the products. To date, there have been the Citrus Day Our ambition is that we all have access to the same opportunities, without taking into account gender, race, beliefs, (November 2011), the Berries Day (January and May 2012) and the Day of Stonefruits, Cherries and Grapes (June 2012). origin or conditions. Cultural and professional diversity is supported with exchange and development programmes, like our corporate volunteering programme. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 30 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 31 Growing together SanLucar also supports young talent and offers complete internship programmes of Moreover, in March 2012 we launched The targets of our equality and diversity Germany 6,62 % four to six months for students, trainees or young professionals. Nowadays, more our new online training platform plan are: Austria 2,27 % than 28 trainees yearly make their internship with us, mainly from German-speakSanLucar Academy. This platform helps ing countries, but also from other European countries or worldwide. Among the us to manage our training programmes, • A company committed with equal Belgium 0,13 % universities and coordination centres with mobility programmes, like the Leonarwhich are for employees, producer or opportunities for everyone. do-da-Vinci or Erasmus, we have achieved great prestige. We have been subsidized customers. Our first course is dedicated Czech Republic 0,07 % not in vain three times by the European programme EURODISEA. Our internship to road safety and efficient driving. More • Culture: mark the attitude of the Chile 0,20 % includes a continuous training programme. Besides the daily work in each departthan 20 people already took this course whole SanLucar community ment, there are also language courses and the opportunity to collaborate actively and assessed their knowledge. positively, not allowing any type Ecuador 0,07 % in several projects, participating with ones own ideas. The high training standards of discrimination. are proven with the incorporation of many of our former trainees into our staff – Slovakia 0,07 % nowadays they are employees and continue developing their career at SanLucar. • Equal opportunities for training, Costa Rica 0,07 % salaries and promotion possibilities. Actually, one of the main targets of the human resources department is the deSpain 7,49 % velopment of recruitment and selection programmes for the best candidates. In Estonia 0,07 % addition, guidelines have been worked out to be able to help and support new The pillars of the plan are: employees after their incorporation, providing them during their first weeks all our France 0,33 % know-how. This OnBoarding-Programme rose with the objective to make sure that • Our management system SA8000. welcoming, training and consolidation in the post were successful. Holland 0,20 % • Our Code of Ethics in six languages Italy 0,27 % in 30 countries worldwide. Poland 0,13 % • Training of the whole personnel in 3.3 Our policies of equality and diversity equality and diversity. Portugal 0,47 % South Africa 23,80 % • The integrated policy of SanLucar inAt SanLucar we think that equal opportunities are not just a legal duty, but social cludes aspects like equal opportunities Tunisia 57,62 % responsibility add a competitive advantage. The principle of equal opportunities for the incorporation and selection is present in each area at SanLucar, from the selection to the promotion, salary of employees, for the hiring, promoTurkey 0,07 % policies, training, work conditions, safety in the workplace, to the work schedule. tions, salary, access to training and Uruguay 0,07 % development. As another note, in a survey carried out in February 2011 about equality and diversity, 98 percent of the staff stated that diversity is a positive factor for them. • Development of policies, protocols Proportion of employees by nationality in the SanLucar Group Currently, there are people from 19 different nationalities working at SanLucar, and specific proceedings, for example and in 2011 we took the chance this richness offers us and published a monthly against sexual or moral harassment. article about cultural diversity. Each month, a colleague explains something important for his culture and gives his vision of the world. Thus, we can learn • The team for equality and diversity to value the different cultures and share this cultural richness at SanLucar. and the agent for equality (specific training regulated by the Ministry of • Support the promotion of women and • Same working conditions and safety We are convinced that a greater harmonization between the necessities of the Health, Social Services and Equality). their introduction into posts of high measures, but adapted to specific cases company and our employees helps with the innovation, development and enresponsibility (IESE Master for the de(pregnant women, for example). gagement. This is due to the fact that since 2010 we have had a plan of equality • Measure for hourly flexibility and velopment of directors). and diversity at SanLucar and signed the Diversity Charter, with which we are harmonization of personal and pro• Social projects with people living in completely committed to manage appropriately the cultural richness we are lucky fessional life (for example, “Home• Measures for the management of risk of exclusion/discrimination (for to have. We also promote this diversity through internal communication focused Office”, in certain cases). intercultural diversity (multicultural example, women in Valencia and on bilingualism (Spanish and German) or with the participation in language studies at SanLucar, monthly articles Ecuador). courses. During the campaign 2011/2012 more than 3,500 hours of language in LucaNova, our internal magazine). course were given. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 32 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 33 Growing together 3.4 Road safety and sustainable mobility We care about the safety of our employees, on the road as well. Therefore, in 2012 we started our first campaign for road safety at our headquarters in Puzol. We included in this campaign a module about efficient driving, thus, besides being more careful on the road, we save fuel and reduce emissions of greenhouse gases. Furthermore, in September 2012 we will start our new carpooling platform, because sharing cars promotes friendship and protects our environment. 3.5 Internal communication and surveys about work climate For SanLucar it is very important to Another communication tool that has changed slightly since 2006, this means optimize organizational processes and been introduced is an internal dictionary the evolution of the main aspects can support an active exchange between called Lucapedia, which also relies on be easily seen. all hierarchical levels and departments. the participation of the whole staff. 3.6 Our management system SA8000 In this way we improve motivation and In Lucapedia we can find explanations The two aspects which have scored best implication, and the evolution of a coron certain expressions, products, etc. in the survey in the last years have alporate culture and the information flow. that are part of the SanLucar world. ways been the general satisfaction at The international standard SA8000 certifies management systems that fulfil certain basic principles of social responsibility. New recruits especially appreciate this the company and the colleagues. Of It is made up of nine components based upon the principles of the international conventions for human rights ILO (InSince 2010 there has been an internal dictionary. There is also our suggestion especially positive value were the low ternational Labour Organization), and includes also the improvement of working conditions. SanLucar has been certified communication plan. Its objectives are box, which promotes the exchange of average age, the multiculturalism and according to this standard since 2010. progressed and checked every year. opinions and improvement. Suggestions the variety of the staff. The training or claims can also be made. This tool also and development are also very importChild labour The main internal communication platallows anonymous comments on more ant, which are two key aspects of the form at SanLucar is our intranet, comdelicate issues, as the SA8000 workers human resources policy of SanLucar. Forced labour plemented by a web page with internal representative are the only ones that Satisfaction with superiors and human Safety and health news, called LucaNova, which was inaucan read these communications. resources policy usually have a good gurated in spring 2010. The content and score as well, although remuneration Freedom of association and collective bargaining articles of LucaNova are written by our Finally, the survey about the work atmohas had better ratings in the last years. Discrimination own colleagues. It helps to give ongoing sphere analyzes the general satisfaction Worth mentioning is the flexibility of information about projects, changes or of the employees, as well as finding out the human resources policy and the Disciplinary means achievements that happen month after improvement opportunities. At SanLucar open mind of management for new Working time month. Moreover, at the end of each we want happy, motivated and loyal ideas. SanLucans have, in general, a article, there is the possibility to make employees. We are interested in their very positive image of the company. Wages a comment about the subject. Since its opinion and contributions to ensure Management Systems inauguration, more than 200 articles that we all give our best. on several topics have been written. Each month, a team of writers check the The human resources department interest each article had to see which summarises these results on the work These components are also reflected in the policy of the enterprise (checked in 2011) and the Code of Ethics of SanLucar. topics interest SanLucar employees the climate and makes improvement suggesA multidisciplinary team (Human Resources, CR, Quality & Production) works continuously for the improvement of the most, and what improvements have tions for those areas where necessary. integrated management system of SanLucar and the achievement of the objectives of social responsibility. been suggested. The structure of the survey has only This certification is checked every six months. The last audit took place in March 2012, and it was successfully passed. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 34 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 35 Sebastián Morcelo from Fresaflor, Master grower of SanLucar strawberries under the Andalusian sun 4. Only the best growers • The Llusar brothers talk about • The dialogue with our producers their great passion • Our German growers perfectly • The secret of the Giulianos’ complement our yearly product • Growing confidence offer • The price of responsibility SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 36 Best growers At SanLucar we work to conceive sustainable production systems, we get involved with our communities and work together with our partners to prevent and counteract direct or indirect consequences our behaviour might have upon communities and the ecosystem: our cultivation is in harmony with man and nature! Actually, our most important partner in the production of the best fruit and vegetables is nature. Our philosophy is based upon its care and protection, because only if we look after our fruit during its whole life until delivering it to the customer, we can get the best taste. This attitude and its daily application is an essential requisite for all those who work with and for SanLucar, regardless of the country they are from. When it comes to choosing our producers, we only work with growers who lead their businesses with passion and the same ambition than we do. To gain the best partners, fair play is the most important rule for us. Thus, in case any of crop loss, for example, we compensate our growers financially. The Llusar brothers talk about their great passion Javier and Jorge Llusar, Managers of Llusar The brothers; Antonio, Jorge and Javier are the heirs of a saga that started with their grandfather in France, nearly a century ago. Thanks to them, the name Llusar has reached prestige and is recongnised worldwide. For more information, please visit: http://www.llusar.com Here in Llusar, we always insisted eco-efficiency. Moreover, we count on results, campaign after campaign. Since we are children of growers, the value of the land has been instilled in to us from an early age. We were taught that quality is not the result of luck. excellent professionals who support us These results include not only quality what the plant needs and to take care of the crops, to get the sweetest, healthiest and most golden fruits. Working on Whether on the field or in the wareto improve day by day. This is why it is and saving of resources, but also carthe field is not easy, but every year, harvesting our oranges and mandarins, our effort, dedication and sleepless nights house, we do not lose sight of our main so important to care for them, to get the ing for environment. Thus, we startare generously rewarded. Our fruit reflect the spirit of the people who saw them grown. objective: a citrus of top quality, internal best from them. To be honest, I did not ed in 2011 collaborating with their As quality is an essential requirement for Llusar, so is the sustainability of the cultivation. We introduced, for example, as well as external. Therefore, we took know what corporate social responsibility corporate volunteer programme.« anti grass mesh and humidity sensors, limiting the use of water and energy to where it is strictly necessary, is very imthe tradition and knowledge our grandmeant, but, actually, it is something we portant to us.« parents left to us, and adapted it to the have always applied. Jorge Llusar, Manager of Llusar latest technologic innovations, which We are one with SanLucar, since we Javier Llusar, Manager of Llusar help us to improve our performance and make a joint effort to get the best SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 38 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 39 Best growers them form a family, we laughed with them, and help them The secret of the Giulianos’ through difficult situations. Therefore, it is our responsibility to understand their necessities and support them in anything »We beLieVe the beSt WAY This family of growers has worked for more than 50 years on a top quality grape, always with the highest of respect for we can. This is why we increased salaries, despite the crisis, people and nature. We talked to Vito Giuliano, Manager of Giuliano. Vito is an expert of agriculture, and loves good since we know that we are going through a hard time and iS the inteGrAtiOn Of bifruit. He told us what social responsibility and sustainability mean to him, and what kind of relationship Giuliano has we need them to be ok and happy. It is a mere exchange. with SanLucar. We also talked to some experts on his team. OLOGicAL peSt cOntrOL For more information, please visit: http://www.giulianopugliafruit.it You have spent a lot of time in the investigation and development of a considerate cultivation and a high quality methOdS…« product; do you think that the future lies in the appliGiuliano and SanLucar have been working together for cation of organic cultivation methods instead of pestinearly 20 years. According to you, which are the foundacides? What alternatives are you using on your fields? What does Giuliano do to show its commitment to the tions of this relationship of confidence? environment? What are your environmental targets? Vito: We should reduce the usage of pesticides. Each year, Vito: Besides a true friendship with Stephan Rötzer, forged Giuliano is working on it, and strives to integrate our Vito: At Giuliano we know how important it is to care for over the years, full of respect and mutual understanding, cultivations into the environment. For example, it is very the environment, to leave a healthy space for our children the foundation is sharing an innovative vision about the important to use beneficial insects, since this helps us to to live in. We also know that this care is the basis for a world of the fruit. reduce the damage from other insects, like the wasp. The good product. Therefore, it is an investment for our future. management of pest and disease of plants requires a huge We should not forget that Giuliano is a pioneer in this The project and the philosophy of SanLucar are founded knowledge and exploitation of the natural ecosystem to sector, since 2003 we have a system in place to manage on a very solid basis, like the knowledge about the sector optimize inputs and avoid the indiscriminate use of pesthe environment, based on European Regulation EMAS and the importance of the values, and your company knows ticides. As an example: our farm in Taranto is completely and the ISO 14001. how to foresee changes in the fruit market. We share the surrounded by natural ecosystems. There we have a mivery same cultivation and marketing philosophy, and we nor problem with pests, since the natural fauna helps to Each year we spend a lot of money and effort on the proare looking towards the future together. maintain the balance of the ecosystem. This happens with tection of our environment, for example, in alternative grapes as well as with stone fruits. energy. Some facts: more than 30 percent of the energy What is the secret that lies behind the quality of Giuliano’s our warehouses uses comes from renewable sources (phograpes? pier paolo Armagno (Quality Manager at Giuliano): The tovoltaic), and soon it will be 50 percent. Furthermore, the company Giuliano is very involved in current developments, construction structure has been built so that it is integrated Vito: There is no more secret than the daily work, the particularly with the Directive 2009/128/EC about the susin the landscape, avoiding any visual impact. passion and the sacrifice, sometimes even of your own tainable use of pesticides, developed by the PAN (nationprivate life, in order to get the best quality. al action plan for the introduction of the directive) of the We are also worried about the creation and the treatment »(...) We increASed SALAItalian Ministry of Agriculture. We are already a sustainable of residues. Therefore, the plastic we use for covers does At Giuliano we know that we can only get the best of the producer, from several points of view: ecological, social, not have any polyethylene additives, since it is harmful for plant, if we treat it with respect, like a human being, that rieS, deSpite the criSiS,« ethical, etc.. Moreover, we are protecting the native and plants and the environment. Instead, we use recyclable and is born, grows, breathes, reproduces and dies. We have to useful wildlife through IPM (Integrated Pest Management), more natural materials. We make sure that it is recycled, talk to the plant and understand it; since it lets us know that is, the introduction of organic and traditional cultivaclosing in this sense the circle of plastics. something. If we pay attention to its transformation, the philosophy of SanLucar is “taste in harmony with man and tion methods, respecting the “Greening” provided by the we can understand it and listen to what it has to tell us nature”. What does Giuliano do to carry out this philosophy? European Union of seven percent of the agricultural surface. Other residues are separated as well, to make recycling easier. anytime. Therefore, the task of the expert is to talk the Combining biological, physical and chemical parameters Moreover, we are considering turning pruning leftovers same language as the plant and listen to it. Vito: For us, the protection of the environment is like an for protecting plants is, as we believe, the best way. Over into biomass, reducing in this way the impact of the water obsession. We work with nature and people who work with the last years we participated in several investigation projand leaving it flow clean. The birth of a fruit is a wonder. The plant sprouts, blooms it; therefore it is our obligation to look after both. ects, researching the use of Bacillus turinghensis, Baciland gives us its fruit, which is its child. You have to treat lus subtilis, Bauveria bassiana, sulphur, copper and useful Giuliano is participating in a pilot project together with the the cluster like a child: you have to love and care for it Respect for those who work in the fields is essential. Those fauna. We consider that as well as climatic conditions, to university Degli Studi Di Bari, for the optimization of irrigauntil we deliver it to the customer, that’s when our work people are partners for Giuliano, not just simple workers. be able to decide which is the best moment for any intion and the use of fertilizers in our grapevines, thanks to the finishes. That is the only way to achieve a good fruit and Some of them have been working here for over 20 of 30 tervention or if it’s possible to avoid them at all.There is constant monitoring of several parameters, such as the relative the taste of love. years now, even throughout several generations. We saw still a lot to do and we keep working on the optimization. humidity, temperature, rainfall and humidity of the land. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 40 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 41 Best growers Together with our partners, we are working on environWe support the safety of our community with the project mental awareness and education, a very important part Protezione Civile A Cavallo. of our commitment. They have to be as convinced as we are about how important it is to respect nature. Only if »We WiLL StArt With the Since “se non dai, non hai”. (If you don’t give, you won’t receive). our environment is healthy, we are able to grow healthy fruit of the highest quality, our main target. intrOductiOn Of the SA8000 And We Will con»We inVeSt in the educAtinue WOrrYinG AbOut tiOn Of ALL Our pArtnerS, the Life Of Our peOpLe.« empLOYeeS AS WeLL AS possible thanks to the raising of awareness over months, SuppLierS.« sometimes even years. The corporate culture has changed, a long process, but essential to get the SA8000. Education and a continuous raise in awareness is a powYou know the code of ethics of SanLucar, and in June 2012 erful tool for Giuliano. Regular meetings between our you will be certified according to the norm SA8000. How technicians with suppliers make the necessary exchange are ethical and social principles created at Giuliano? How of experiences and a better understanding of innovations do you control their fulfilment? in the sector possible. Antonio balacco (Responsible of the SA8000 certification To check our system, we register the amount of incidents at Giuliano): As Vito already said, at Giuliano it is essential and measure the satisfaction of our employees with the that people enjoy their work; this is one of the commitsuggestions box. Thus we can see if we are working good ments of the Giuliano brothers. Vito himself gets up very or not. The main indicator of the success of the system is early in the summer to personally take care of the clusters that people want to work with us each campaign. of the Giuliano farm in Taranto, 80 km away from the headquarters. There, he treats people with familiarity and And looking towards the future, which are the main projects talks to them; the best way to understand their needs. Giuliano has planned for the 2012/2013 season? We know that this something is very difficult nowadays. Vito: We will comply with our agenda, to guarantee the This is why we, together with a group of experts, are carrysustainability of our cultivations and the quality of the work ing out an analysis for the sustainability of the salaries, in and life of the people who help us in the fields. accordance with the family responsibilities of our partners. This allows us to set objectives SA8000 regarding salaries, Regarding the environment, we are looking forward to and guarantee an appropriate living standard so that all seeing how the projects we are currently working on will our partners continue giving their best every day. develop, like the project for the optimization of the irrigation and reduction of fertilizer use with grapes. Another essential aspect for Giuliano is the security at work. We invest in the education of all our partners, employees Concerning the social aspects, we will start with the introas well as suppliers. We are always telling them that it is duction of the SA8000 and we will continue worrying about better to do things calmly, with care and safety. At the the life of our people, so that they work with a smile. We beginning we had to force them to put on their protective are convinced that this can be transmitted to our grapes. clothing, but they already understood its necessity and A small detail sometimes makes the difference. importance, and had already asked us for it. This is only SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 42 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 43 Best growers offer only the best for our customers. Furthermore, for a better monitoring of our producers and providers of packaging 4.1 Growing confidence and logistics, we carry out yearly audits of their systems and processes. If we detect any weak points, the appropriate corrective and preventive measures can be taken, to continuously improve processes according to the standards and requirements SanLucar establishes. This continuous improvement concept of our production is essential, thus, SanLucar SanLucar trusts in its growers. We do not only believe that they are the best, we are sure about it. This is based upon a defines every year new improvement plans. Excellence is our target. range of tools and processes, which give us a daily feedback about our quality. • Certifications according to international recognized standards like ISO 9001, IFS, QS, SA8000. Since 2008 SanLucar has introduced an integrated management system that guarantees the highest quality of processes and SanLucar products, as required by the strictest regulations and technical specifications. An external company assesses and audits the system every six months. 4.2 the price of responsibility • Certification according to Global G.A.P. in our production zones. • All SanLucar growers have to undergo an audit to assess following aspects: In our main markets, we have to face a very aggressive Confidence regarding compliance with food safety standards; price policy that makes the distributers sometimes expect concessions, which are hardly possible. Moreover, quality Quality management system and facilities; requirements of fruit and vegetables have increased in the last few years, affecting directly the structure of expenses Compliance with social and ethical aspects, as well as the environmental commitment of SanLucar. for their production. At SanLucar, we are convinced that a sustainable relationWith this information, the quality & production team will prepare a three-dimensional Producer Profile (quality stanship with our producers is only possible by offering them dards, ethical behaviour and environmental sustainability). With this tool, they will be able to determine the producer’s the necessary economical foundations, which allows them excellence grade and their commitment with SanLucar, as well as his ability to comply with our high standards. to produce fruit and vegetables in accordance with our philosophy, in harmony with man and nature. We think that • Different NGOs and independent institutions regularly check fruit and vegetables sold at points of sale. it is neither ethical nor sustainable to bring producers to their economic limit. • Some NGOs such as Greenpeace periodically carry out studies on the quantity and concentration of pesticide residues For SanLucar a fair price policy means, besides an appropriate on fruit and vegetables. SanLucar is proud to have frequently ranked within the top in the ranking tables and on some assessment of the product and of hired services, establishing ocassions in the first ranking position (minimal quantity and concentration). a strong relation between both parties and a commitment based on common objectives. Only this makes a fair collab• Independent organisms, like the German consumer magazine “Öko-Test”, have analyzed some SanLucar products for oration possible, and that efforts of all are rewarded. pesticide residues, like our strawberries in 2010, and our tomatoes from Tunisia in 2012. In both cases, we achieved the SanLucar establishes a link that allows rejecting any situation highest score in their category and gained the assessment excellent. This confirms that we are doing a great job. And to of imbalance, which means: achieve it, we adapt our varieties to the climate of the production zone, which allows us to produce a very tasty product of top quality, taking advantage of natural conditions that favour the reduction of chemical pest control treatments. • But without a doubt, our customers are the strictest. We have to strengthen their confidence day by day with the highest quality. To verify that the specified quality is kept throughout the process, our quality technicians carry out daily controls at all points where quality can be affected, checking all the time that the high standards we require are fulfilled, to be able to SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 44 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 45 Best growers We chat with Jose “Pepe” Saorín, Quality Technician at SanLucar. • Active listening to the needs of our partners. • A fair and transparent price policy as well as fair and transparent conditions. José Saorín has worked for 30 years as a Quality and Production Technician, and since 2010 for SanLucar. • Guarantee of fair treatment. • Open dialogue about remuneration of products and/or services. José you have over 30 years of experience as a quality and production expert. could you tell us what your daily • Checking of production costs to set a minimum price. tasks are as a Sanlucar quality technician? What do you • The possibility to make agreements for each campaign, update and adapt them to the current situations. like the best? • Appropriate payment methods and instalments for each partner. The daily work as a technician is the supervision of the prod• A price defense, sometime above market value, taking into account the work of our partners. uct quality of the several assigned producers. For example, I control the selection of fruit for SanLucar during their packing. This happens in the field, after a previous job, where I choose the plots that fulfil requirements of the quality department of SanLucar. Moreover, I help with the estabNo economic concessions will be made, without any exceptions, which reduce our quality or damage man and nature. lishment of new technologies and give advice to producers This is applied in all our sectors and points of the value chain, from the selection of the seeds, to the management of the about new cultivation methods, in order to optimize the use cultivation, until the employment of qualified staff. of resources and to get a top quality product. I enjoy being in constant contact with people: the growers, We also take care that the final consumers receive the information about why our fruit taste so good and what makes the people in charge of platforms and the packaging personthem so healthy. Thus, they know the effort and work that lies behind, appreciate the value and are willing to pay a bit nel. The quality technician is the link that joins producers, more, since they understand that something especially good and cared for has its price. sales agents and the customers, and we are the eyes of all departments involved in the production and marketing. This is an important, but very gratifying responsibility. As it any rights take place? is seeing a satisfied grower, happy because we achieved to 4.3 the dialogue with our producers comply with our objectives, or starting new projects. Each The criteria for the selection of a producer are very strict. campaign is a new step towards excellence, something that We take into account ethical aspects as well as regulations makes us all satisfied. for the working conditions, and we only work with those There is a team of 21 experts at SanLucar working continuously in ten different countries, and in more than 30 countries who comply with the legislation, without any excuses. Moreon an ad hoc basis during peak moments of campaigns. Our quality technicians are supported by technicians or service What are the biggest difficulties a quality technician has over, we also check if they comply with current legislation companies on site, thus we are able to assure SanLucar quality worldwide. in his job? concerning human rights and working conditions, as well Together with our growers, we take care of: as if they fulfil our SanLucar requirements (SA8000 and There are not those kinds of difficulties, since we choose our Code of Ethics), through ethical homologations. • Quality controls at origin. growers very thoroughly. They all understand our philosophy • Technical advice as well as development and research projects (for example new cultivation techniques, reduction of and appreciate it, something that makes our work very easy. how did the protection of the environment progress during pesticides, protection of the environment, new varieties). the last years? Are there any improvements, for example, • Quality control at destination. They help us to get information about the arrival of our products at the customer so we You work mainly in the south-east of Spain? What is charin the reduction of water usage, since this is one of the can forward this data on to our producers. acteristic of this area? issues consumers and society are most concerned about? Moreover, there is a Web portal available from which our customers and suppliers are able to check orders, delivery This area is very versatile; you can cultivate nearly all types There have been innovations, obviously. On one hand, benotes, invoices, specifications, quality and CR certificates, as well as the ethical homologations we do to comply with the of fruit and vegetables, since there is enough land and cause legislation required them, and on the other hand due SA8000 certification. more than 240 days per year of sunshine. to the progressive environmental awareness of growers. 100 percent of the area that produces SanLucar brand in in certain instances, we listen or read news about workthis area has localized irrigation systems, which optimize ing conditions on some Spanish fields. According to your the irrigation water, compared to other systems. Moreover, experience, what does SanLucar do to make sure that our all farms have humidity measuring systems to reduce the providers take care of their workers and no violations of consumption of water as well. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 46 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 47 Best growers In south-east Spain the soil is very sensitive towards the 4.4 Our German growers perfectly complecontribution of nitrate. Growers are therefore very aware and comply with the strict legislation for the reduction of ment our yearly product offer nitrate in cultivations. Water boreholes are all legal and sustainable. 60 percent For some years now, we have relied on German products to complete our Trying new varieties in German fields, of the water comes from the Tajo-Segura diversion, range of products available during the whole year. We created an enterprise we can support the German agriculture 20 percent from a well, and the remaining 20 percent from within the group only for this purpose. The team of SanLucar Deutschland is with our international knowledge and desalination. currently made up of three people, taking care of the production planning, develop new skills. We do not only quality controls and purchases and sales. For German products, our quality guarantee fair and stable prices, but and sustainable standards are also applicable. Thus, all our growers have to also the strengthening of the compet»it hAS been An AtYpundergo our Grower-Check during a test period. They are checked according to quality, social and environmental criteria. itiveness of our producer is part of the SanLucar philosophy. Since everything is icAL YeAr due tO the We grow our products where weather conditions allow us to use a small amount of resources, to be able to offer the freshest and healthiest fruit possible. easier in company, we also support the active exchange of knowledge between Sudden temperAture With an efficient cultivation, and shorter means of transport, we save carbon. Currently, we are focused on the cultivation of berries, cherries, tomatoes and our growers and organize visits to the facilities. Thanks to these customer chAnGeS« apples in different areas of Germany. Thus, we use the natural climate for the growing and the ripening of fruits. visits to the fields and warehouses, we create transparency in the production We search for good producers, who are willing to make real new projects towhile we support confidence in each gether with SanLucar. We seek long-term relations, in which SanLucar provides other. some of the investment. A joint growth, development of projects and trials the best and the worst of this campaign 2011/2012. how with varieties, these are the most important aspects in our collaborations. would you sum up this year with a few words? It has been an atypical year due to the sudden temperature changes, the intense frosts that affected us, especially our vegetable cultivations. It was very difficult to maintain our quality standards, on the field as well as in warehouses. the work of a quality technician seems very varied, i am sure there are plenty of funny stories. could you tell us any? Once, controlling merchandise in cold stores, an employee came and closed the chamber and turned off the light, without noticing that I was in there. I spent about only 30 seconds inside, but it seemed like an eternity. This shows how aware employees are about saving energy, but this does not make the experience any nicer. Anyway, we had a laugh afterwards! Karl-Heinz Enzenmüller, our cherry-grower on Lake Constance SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 48 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 49 Oswaldo Ramírez, banana producer in Ecuador, with his son Víctor 5. Commitment 4. Sólo los mejores to our community agricultores • SanLucar gets involved! • Our programme of corporate volunteering • The social development at SanLucar International SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 50 Community Our social commitment is not only for our colleagues or collaborators, but also with the society that Merry Christmas to all! surrounds us, with our communities, that is, where our colleagues live with their families, where Last Christmas, SanLucar once again showed its spirit of charity. Through the DASYC foundation, our colleagues in Puour producers live, and our customers and consumers. zol and the enterprise donated huge amounts of food and toys for disadvantaged families of Valencia. The Christmas campaign expanded in time and space. Everyone collaborated, our colleagues as well as our CR ambassadors (Marius in South Africa and Fernando Piza in Costa Rica and Ecuador), our customers and partners, too. From this date we have not At SanLucar, we have the so-called “Vitamin S”, the “S” for solidarity we live and transmit. In this printed Christmas cards and the money saved was also used for charity purposes. sense, our colleagues spend more than three percent of their time helping in social projects (corporate volunteering, charity campaigns and collaborations with several CR projects). We can therefore talk about solidarity actions in Valencia, Germany, Austria, Tunisia, Chile, South Africa and Ecuador. 5.1 SanLucar gets involved! During the campaign 2011/2012, SanLucar has collaborated with plenty associations, foundations and NGOs, like for example AFIM (that stands for Help, Training and Integration of the handicapped), DASYC foundation, Caritas Spain, Fundar, Asindown (Association for children with down syndrome), the Centro Reto in Rafelbunyol (Spain), Global2000, Caritas Austria, Rettet das Kind Österreich (Save the Child Austria), Association Pferde Stärken, World Vision parenthoods, social markets, Österreichische Sporthilfe (Austrian Sportshelp), Landesklinikum Thermenregion Mödling (university hospital), Die Tafeln e.V. , The Homestead, FUNDAMYF (Foundation for Andean women and families). The collaboration with these organizations was different for each case, like for example donations of fruit and vegetables, monetary aid as well as we helped with the organization of activities, projects or charity campaigns. We also work with the public administration for the social improvement of our communities. Some examples are: The balance: • Collaboration with the Valencian Government (Ministry for Justice and Social Welfare) and with our partner Llusar for the integration of women at risk of social exclusion in the labour market. • 150 kg of non-perishable food, 150 kg of fresh fruit and vegetables and more than 60 kg of toys for more than 300 disadvantaged families living in “La Malvarrosa” and “El Cabanyal”, two neighbourhoods of Valencia. • We work together with the South African government on projects for the improvement of accommodation conditions in Porteville (the community closest to our exploitation), where most of our workers live. Moreover, we • Clothes and shoes for eleven children and chocolate for 40 kids of Cape Town (through The Homestead). have also the intention to offer our employees new possibilities and support them in their personal development. Therefore, we bet on internal promotions and equality of opportunities. • Design and packaging of sports clothes for 19 children with scant economic resources living in the Pococí canton in Costa Rica (Santos de Guapiles category 2001). • 650 Euros worth of fruit and vegetables for “Der Tafelladen Ettlingen” in Germany (January and April). • 650 Euros worth of fruit and vegetables for Valencian families in need, together with Caritas (January to April). SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 52 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 53 Community Commitment to a healthy lifestyle and sports 5.2 Our programme of corporate volunteering Active people who are in good shape, have a healthy attitude and diet, we know Österreichische Sporthilfe, supporting For SanLucar volunteering is a very powerful tool of commitment and development. It allows us to transmit our values a lot about this. This is why SanLucar has frequently participated in sports activbright young hopes of sports, as well both inside and outside of our company, and it allows us to help with the improvements in our communities, with specific ities. Among others, we organized the third Charity SanLucar Golf Tournament, as top sportspeople on their hard way actions that make us grow each day. where 81,300 Euros we collected. Like years before, we donated this amount to their peak. to several organizations, for example, the therapeutic centre “Pferde Stärken”, In 2011, Fundar and the Valencian Government recognized our work collaborating with ENGAGE, and our corporate where therapy with horses for people with special needs is applied, and three Our colleagues do not rest either: Manvoluntary programme received the third price in the highly regarded CODESPA Awards in Spain. Already more than 40 childhood organizations of “Rettet das Kind”. Thanks to our contribution, the uel (Controlling) and Nicolás (SanLucar people participated in our corporate voluntary programme since we launched it in 2010. children enjoyed a trip to the amusement park “Europa-Park”, received twelve International-Commercial Area) reprebikes, spent holidays at the beach and got a new minibus. sented us in the local race Gran Fons of Puçol, and Carlos (Finance) and Abel We also participated in a charity football game in Ebreichsdorf, a golf tournament (Brand) ran the Vienna marathon on organized by Österreichische Sporthilfe and GTM-Trophy, and in the VCM-Marathon behalf of SanLucar. of Vienna, donating fresh fruit. For several years now we have been working with Commitment to the development of childhood and youth We continue this year with the four parenthoods we have attention to teach how to eat fruit “responsibly” and that Voluntary work for the society of Valencia with ENGAGE Valencia with World Vision, including extraordinary donations for students can learn how important sustainable production is. Christmas, as well as personal gifts for their birthdays. FurSince 2011, SanLucar is part of the European multi-programme ENGAGE-Cities, developed by Fundar (foundation for thermore, we have been in several kindergartens and in the This project is in accordance with the vision of SanLucar, solidarity and voluntary work). From the very beginning of our collaboration, our employees invested more than 2,000 “Kinderburgfestival Liechtenstein”, a festival for children trying to get involved and covering local needs in all our hours in voluntary activities for the “Comunidad Valenciana”. celebrated in the castle Lichtenstein, where we showed, countries of production. We want to include more schools even the smallest ones, how healthy fruit and vegetables in this project, to be able to support and help the commuBut at SanLucar we are not simply following a trend; we really get involved and find specific solutions for specific problems. are. Everyone, youngsters and adults, could cool down with nity of Ettlingen. In 2012, we developed a specific programme of social volunteering together with our partner Llusar, Fundar-ENGAGE SanLucar fruit for a small donation. All incomes went to the and the Valencian Government, with the clear purpose of creating a positive social value in our community, using our paediatric unit of the hospital “Landesklinikum Thermenknowledge of the sector and the commitment of the SanLucans: region” in Mödling (Austria). We also invited the three classes who won the Austrian Social Shops “Anti-Smoking” school campaign to spend one day on the • Thus, we designed and carried out a • Volunteers from our human resources • As a result, the women received an farm of our producer Gößl, in Steiermark. There they learnt It is very important for us that the whole society has access training course for the handling, clasdepartment explained to these women official certificate which allows them everything about the production of apples. to healthy food. This is why we donate fresh fruit and vegsification and selection of citrus fruits. how to find a job and keep it, and also to work in the sector, and at the same etables to “Die Tafelläden” in Germany, as well as to other 16 women living as women refugees, worked on their self-esteem. time improves their self-esteem and SanLucar also started with a new school project in Ettlingen, charity organizations in Spain. due to their difficult family situations, confidence, making their entrance where our logistic centre is. Together with the Pestalozzi participated. The courses were given by into the labour market easier. primary school and the Carl-Orff special school we created Thanks to these donations, institutions are able to offer volunteers of the quality departments a project that plans that 1,106 students will have fresh fruits people in exclusion risk or with low incomes a wide range of SanLucar and Llusar. Our colleague once a week. Teachers of domestic science will give special of food, for a symbolic price. Ramón Gargallo took a very active part in this project. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 54 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 55 Community We also organized a workshop for social entrepreneurship with creative ideas. Our volunteers showed these same 15 refuto contribute with their experiences to solve social probWhat is the best way to measure results of corporate volgee women a craft tradition with dried orange skin. Thus, they are able to make some incomes with organic handcrafted lems. ENGAGE is working not only in Valencia, but also in unteering programmes? jewellery. Anyway, besides this purpose, it was also important that the development of creativity gives self-confidence, the most important European capitals, and cities all over something that some of those women hardly have anymore. the world, like Johannesburg, Santiago de Chile and Hong The measurement is one of the great challenges for the Kong. growth of corporate volunteering. If we do not measure, This project will be introduced into a forum of social entrepreneurship (SocialNest) in 2013 and will have the opportunity we cannot plan or know what the impact of our actions is. to become a real business. Those women interested will receive courses in business management and languages. Which are, according to your criteria, the most importFor a good measurement, it is important to think about ant pros of voluntary services for companies and for the what, how and when to measure, before a programme starts. We are most concerned about the development of groups in risk of exclusion, as well as caring about the environment. society? Are there any cons or inconveniences? You can measure from the point of view of the beneficiaries As a result, on 2nd of June 2012 we spent a funny and productive morning in the outdoors. We could learn how to control of the programme, of the volunteers or from the point of rivers and improve their quality, and build nesting sites for birds, improving ecosystems and reducing the risk of procesIt dynamizes teams and promotes motivation and team view of the company. The achieved information can be used sionary pests in the forests, similar to we do with our productions. spirit. It allows that participants get a complete image of for improvements and suggestions. what surrounds them, it favours communication and the development of new skills, improves certain professional A general measuring system for corporate volunteering competences of the volunteers, removes barriers between programmes would make these tasks for participating comdepartments, increases ability to improve and start new panies easier. A common measuring tool would allow us to projects, supports relations of the company with its envimeasure the impact of programme, share experiences and ronment. have availability of similar indicators to inform on results. On “voluntare.org” you can find an online standard measurAccording to a Spanish study of 2010, the main problems ing tool that helps companies to measure their programmes with which companies have had to deal, regarding barriers, in four dimensions: design, inputs, execution and impact. were the difficulties to council volunteering and working We chat with Juan Ángel Poyatos, Vice President of Fundar hours, internal communication and the lack of an appropriate work climate. I would add the lack of the proper education SanLucar has been actively taking part in the programme ENGAGE for nearly two campaigns now. We participated in nearly all the voluntary lines throughout this year and a half and we are collaborating and understanding different realwithin a company to carry out such programmes strategically. »iT iS ESSENTiAL ThAT And even some NGOs have reservations towards these types ities from different perspectives. We even developed ad hoc voluntary programmes, using our knowledge of the sector and our network of partners. Juan Ángel Poyatos is vice president of Fundar, a foundation of Valencia in charge of the of voluntary programmes. AS MANy EMpLOyEES AS development and promotion of voluntary activities and charity and leader of the international ENGAGE project in Valencia. Which are the main elements for carrying out an excellent pOSSibLE kNOW T h E corporate volunteering programme? Good Morning, Juan Ángel. Tell us something about Fundar and ENGAGE. prOGrAMME« The key is a tough planning of the volunteer programme, dedicating the same professionalism than to other activities Fundar is the Foundation of Charity and Voluntary services of the company. Therefore, the support of the management Currently, there is a discussion on a European scale debatof the Valencian region. It is a private non-profit organizais an indispensable factor to be successful. ing if corporate volunteering is part of the Cr strategy of tion in which the Ministry of Justice and Social Welfare of Moreover, it is essential that as many employees as possible companies or if it is just another tool. What is your opinion? Valencia participates, as well as the bank Bancaja. Fundar know the programme and that there is a constant dialogue was created in 2001, with the target to boost, promote with them, to take their interest into account. I think that not too long ago corporate volunteering was a and support volunteer programmes for people in need, To reach a positive impact on the society, the company simple communication tool or it was only used for human and coordinate social work in Valencia. has to assess which are its strong points and where it can resources. Nowadays, there are more and more studies contribute with prospects of success. Results have to be about the strategic meaning that voluntary services have An important field is the “Corporate Volunteering“, volchecked at certain intervals, having as a target a constant within a company. Actually, there are enterprises developuntary services in enterprises, where ENGAGE comes into improvement of the programme. ing strategic corporate volunteering plans, and therefore, play, one of our main programmes to promote volunteerFurthermore, synergies and the support of the human executing their programmes with an added value. ing in companies. ENGAGE is boosted by “Business in the resources department and the corporate communication Community” that counts on local partners like us, to evolve department should be sought, and spent enough financial volunteering projects in enterprises, so that they are able resources, since volunteering programmes require a special management and time. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 56 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 57 Community Juan Ángel, in the last years there has been a growing worked with. These features are absolutely not common international volunteering work at SanLucar tendency of companies applying themselves to programmes which makes your merit even greater. of corporate volunteering. Where do you think this change At SanLucar we know that our activity is, the team of professionals worldwide With two consecutive announcements, of mind comes from? Congratulations for your work and keep on contributing has influence on the living conditions of with who we share values and the way already eight lucky people could live a all those great initiatives! local communities, but this influence can to live them day by day. We want to unique experience and contribute their Currently there are a lot of enterprises that want to particbe translated into a positive effect if it transmit those values to all our farms time, experience, effort and goodwill ipate in such programmes, a fact that several surveys have is managed appropriately and with the and our people and communities. Beto the improvement of the conditions confirmed. Companies are realizing that potential activities firm conviction that we all have rights cause of this, and because we think of the local communities and the ecolike these have and want to launch their own voluntary and have to be treated with respect and that volunteering is an opportunity of systems where SanLucar has a presence. programmes. Celebrations of last year, 2011, European year kindness, independently of where we growth and personal and professional On May 15th, the four grants of 2012 for the voluntary services, meant an important boost, but are from or who we are. development, SanLucar offers each year were published. it is not just a passing fashion. This year is already proving between three to six grants of internathat this phenomenon is growing stronger. We like to talk about our Family, that tional voluntary cooperation. Which is the future of volunteering? If we analyze what is happening in other countries, possiEcuador Our colleagues Jessica Peyressatre (ComAgriculture Organization of the Unitble corporate volunteering tendencies could be a greater mercial Area) and Davinia Puchades (Fied Nations) for the strengthening of action in natural disasters or caused by men, including In September 2011, collaborating with nance) went to Cape Town where they the so-called “free-fairs” (small local the participation of consumers, and in general, of third the foundation “Women and Families helped this NGO in their work with the markets). The final purpose is to help parties. More and more retired people, former employees, in the Andes” (FUNDAMYF), our colchildren and poor families. They spent small traders and producers to recogrelatives and friends of active employees are participating leagues Lisa Ebben (Quality) and Silvia their time with the children showing nize the situation of their businesses in voluntary programmes of companies. Soro (Administration) travelled to Ecthem how to live a healthy life and to and apply improvements. uador, land of the SanLucar banana. grow with motivation and helped women Collaborations between companies are very frequent as There, they participated in a project that to improve their incomes with a Facewell, producing very important synergies to get a higher helped Ecuatorian Andean families to book site for selling local craftwork. Our social impact, like ENGAGE. live sustainably from local cultivations. colleagues Marie Schaper (Brand) and They also developed education coursMatthias Lozano (Finance) will be our We can see that corporate volunteering programmes are es for women of the villages, making special envoys to South Africa in 2012. required by the employees themselves and do not emerge special emphasis on issues like health, They will develop and apply a plan for from unilateral decisions. self-esteem and the care of the family. the production and marketing of organic craftwork made of materials from citFinally, we can point out that there are more solid and South Africa rus fruit production, mainly orange skin. long-term alliances with several NGO, to achieve specific Furthermore, they will visit the farm we development purposes and use technology more efficiently. “The Homestead” is a South African local recently bought in Rooihoogte (Western NGO that takes in children from the street Cape Town) and take care of the children What do you think about the evolution of SanLucar conand gives them the opportunity to learn of our colleagues, carrying out leisure cerning the development of our volunteering activities and improve their situation, to return and free time activities, since we have during this year and half of intense collaboration? afterwards to their families or continue kindergartens. in the shelter and keep on learning and The evolution of SanLucar has been exemplary regarding developing. They also work with women Chile its implication of employees, but especially because you of the community for the creation of small provide very good ideas and initiatives to achieve objecbusinesses (social entrepreneurship). They In July and August 2012, our colleagues tives followed by ENGAGE, and because of your ability to have a small workshop of handcrafted Manuel Blickle (Controlling) and Patimply other stakeholders of SanLucar, like producers and jewellery (http://www.ubunyebeadworks. rick Rühlemann (Commercial Area) will provide your know-how for the several beneficiaries you co.za/ourpeople.htm). collaborate with the FAO (Food and SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 58 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 59 Community Which do you think is the greatest challenge of the FAO in Our main concern is, worldwide, the fight against hunger We chat with Mr. Alan Bojanic, representative of the FAO in Chile (Food and AgriLatin America and the Caribbean? and the support of rural development, to guarantee that there is enough food for everyone. culture Organization of the United Nations) Without any doubt, this year 2012, the countries of these regions are going to strengthen their commitment for a Traditional rural agriculture versus agricultural innovations? What is the FAO? What are its main activities in Chile and Latin America without hunger. The FAO will confirm this Are these concepts compatible? in the Latin American area? initiative again during this year’s regional conference. The challenge will be to develop national development plans More than compatible, they should be complementary, since The FAO is an organization of 191 member nations, besides about food and nutritional safety to fight malnutrition, it is in the family agriculture where the greatest development the European Union. It is an intergovernmental organization: which is chronic undernourishment as well as overweight potential lies. This can only be reached if we are able to countries pay fees to belong to it, and their contributions or obesity. These programmes have to be developed on legbring innovations to the field, that means if technological depend on the resources of the country. With these funds, islative and executive levels, as well as on the participation advanced are available for peasant, small farmers and farmers. the organization carries out activities for the benefit of of the civil society and the private sector. its members. The FAO does not make donations or gives This is important especially when it comes to the current loans, all its activities depend on the resources provided Another challenge is supporting the several regional inisituation of price volatility. If we reach to increase availby the partners and other donors like financial institutions tiatives that contribute to food safety of the region. This ability of food, international prices should be more stable. or international organizations. Thus, the FAO is not an inmeans basically supporting organizations like CELAC, CIICA, dependent organization, it answers to the necessities and MERCOSUR, UNASUR, CARICOM, which are gaining more Therefore, it is essential that states recover an important demands of its member countries, it acts by express request. importance in food safety matters. This includes subjects role in the innovations, and thus, the neediest farmers will like dynamization of intraregional food trade, food safety have access to innovation results. The FAO is a centre of experts of all sectors: agriculture, and harmlessness and other issues specific of the region. forestry and fishing. We publish technical guidebooks and Besides, the south-south cooperation has to be promoted Which responsibilities, do you think, do enterprises of the training, offering practical information. Thus, governments and intensified, that is that affected countries shall exchange agriculture and food sector have against hunger and poverty? can achieve better results in the fight against hunger. their experiences. All sectors have a huge responsibility in the fight against A third challenge is the adaptation of agriculture to clihunger, since it is impossible that the FAO alone fights against mate change. This challenge does not only affect the year this pest. The only way to eradicate hunger is that all secshares its long term experience with other countries for »ThE FAO prOVidES TEChthe elaboration of agricultural policies, as well as for the 2012, but also following years. This year is marked by the Rio+20 Earth Summit. The FAO shall make policy and practical tors, from government, entreprises, NGOs to civil societies and international organisation, join efforts and promote writing of efficient laws and the design of national stratNiCAL kNOW-hOW, ANd egies in order to reach rural development aims and the recommendations for carrying out the adaptation process to the climate change of agriculture, livestock, forestry and the initiatives that seek for the progressive reduction of hunger and extreme poverty. reduction of poverty. iS SOMETiMES A SOurCE fishing sectors. A strategic starting point for us is the family agriculture, which needs support to face climate change. It is very important to know that no sector, on its own, is able Offer a meeting place for countries: Regularly, there are meetOF FiNANCE.« ings in the FAO headquarters, or in their offices all around to fight against hunger and extreme poverty, and that only intersectorial alliances can help change the unacceptable the world, of dozens of people in charge of formulating reality of having more than 900 million starving people all policies, and experts of the whole world, with the purpose of forging agreements about the main questions about food »NO SECTOr, ON iTS OWN, over the world. Activities of the FAO in Chile, Latin America and in the world and agriculture. The FAO, in its neutral position, offers the Which is the governments role regarding food sovereignty? covering four main spheres: appropriate conditions for developed countries to meet with developing countries in order to reach agreements. iS AbLE TO FiGhT AGAiNST What responsibility should they assume? huNGEr « Offer information: The FAO works like a network of knowlThe FAO deals with food safety, more than with sovereignedge that uses the experience of its personnel -agronomists, Take the knowledge to the field: The FAO experts’ knowlty. Therefore, we think that states are responsible for the forestry engineers, fishing, livestock and nutrition experts, edge has to stand the test of thousands of field projects all establishment of laws to guarantee an appropriate diet of social scientists, economists, statisticians and other profesover the world. The FAO mobilizes and manages millions of their population. The FAO is completely available to help sionalsto collect, analyze and spread information that dollars provided by industrial nations, development banks countries in the formulation and introduction of such laws. helps with the development. and other sources, to be able to guarantee that projects Which are the biggest concern of the FAO, in Chile as well Through the “Hunger Free Latin American and the Caribbean fulfil their intention. The FAO provides technical know-how, as internationally? Initiative”, for example,we boost the campaign “ParliamenShare specialized knowledge in policy matters: The FAO and is sometimes a source of finance. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 60 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 61 Community tary Fronts against Hunger”, which group legislators of the whole region motivating them to discuss and support 5.3 The social development at SanLucar international the development of political plans concerning food safety. One of our own main production centres is in Tunisia. There we grow several varieties of fruit and vegetables: tomatoes, FAO Chile and SanLucar are going to collaborate within the melons, strawberries and raspberries. In 2012 we started also with the cultivation in South Africa, from where we will framework of the programme of international corporate get the tastiest citrus fruits, grapes and stone fruits, among other products. volunteering. Why do you think it is important that companies of the sector get involved with the local communities At our farms we apply our philosophy: passion for taste in harmony with man and nature. Thus, all our farms are they work in? Global G.A.P. certified, that promotes good cultivation practices of the land, to reach safe and sustainable products. And we make sure that the work with our plants is carried out with integrity, equality, safety, responsible use of natural As I mentioned before, it is essential that all sectors join and resources, and taking into consideration work safety, as well as the best social and working conditions and a long-term contribute in favour of rural development and the eradidevelopment for our workers. cation of hunger. This is why we consider that SanLucar is carrying out a very good task, supporting the management Moreover, we would like to start with an ambitious project in 2013, with which we want to promote the production of the FAO in Chile. and marketing of traditional handcrafted products of the region (like basketry and plaiting), complying with the following sustainable aspect: long-term improvement of the economic situation of the local population and a sustainable We think that there are several ways to promote the agrimanagement of palm trees. culture of a country, and any other effort will be even more successful if we join forces between all sectors. Our oasis in Tunisia SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 62 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 63 Community We chat with Santiago Galán, CEO of SanLucar International The areas where SanLucar started to develop its business are for, was already a reality at SanLucar Tunisia. Even so, we Tunisia and South Africa, why do you think these countries increased communication with the teams and are always have been chosen? ready to listen to them and support them, thus, there has Santiago Galán knows exactly what SanLucar is and what it represents. He is in charge of the development of the business been a positive effect. Tunisia is a well formed society that on the international scale. Moreover, he participated actively in the introduction of the SA8000 management system. These are areas with huge agricultural traditions. Both coundemands more participation and better social conditions, He knows perfectly the importance and the necessity a responsible management has, thus Santiago gets involved daytries are in different hemispheres, something that gives something SanLucar will always support. to-day in reaching it. us the possibility to produce one product during twelve months per year. And above all, there are countries that South Africa is a very different case. They have the democratic Santiago, 2011 was a very special year for SanLucar, since welcomed us warmly. SanLucar does not only want to take foundations, but as they explain, social disparity is huge. we went for a strong strategic development of the interland and produce, we want to introduce new agricultural They are probably one of the world’s countries with the national business. Where do you see SanLucar in five, and development models, with an effect on the social develhighest social disparity. SanLucar is already working on the in ten years? opment of all people, a development of the communities. equality of opportunities, starting with our own structure, These are not just simply words, in Tunisia they are already where no economic difference exists for functions of the I think that this international spirit is part of the DNA of a tangible reality and in South Africa we are about to see same post because of gender or race reasons. Our upcoming SanLucar, and already in 2008 we set the foundations with the first results. challenge is preparing people without white skin to face our establishment in Tunisia. What we are seeing in 2011 more and greater responsibilities, which would make their and 2012 are the first results of the time and work many We go for the innovation of our production system, together personal and professional development easier. The advanced people spent there. with the involvement of all collaborators in the development. steps we have made until now are already showing their This gives us a competitive advantage if we know how to first results. Everyone can see that at SanLucar we fight for The work of a great team is continued, and this is why the make the most of it, and will add a great value to local areas. equality of opportunities and no other position is accepted. SanLucar as we know nowadays, will be very different in Even if it takes time, I am sure we will reach it. five years, not to mention in ten. It is impossible to avoid changes. In five years we want to have 3,000 ha as production Another, more difficult issue is bringing this position to area, with prospects of another 5,000 ha. And approximately 5,000 people will be working at SanLucar, and in ten years »EVEryThiNG ThE SOCithe communities, but if we can convince other production enterprises that with this system people work better, they maybe even 15,000! feel better, and their value increases, we think that it will ETy CLAiMEd FOr, WAS be established slowly, step-by-step, since there are centuries We will be represented and producing in more than ten of inequality. countries in four continents and there will be people working for the company of more than 30 nationalities. ALrEAdy A rEALiTy AT SanLucar has a Code of Ethics and started in 2011 a plan All this will change what we currently know, but thanks to for equality and diversity. Can these SanLucar principles be what we are right now, we will be able to face this exciting »(...) (ThE ChALLENGE iS) SANLuCAr TuNiSiA. « applied in all countries? challenge. What is the greatest challenge of SanLucar regarding its FiNdiNG ThE ApprOpriThey are 100 percent applicable and we should not deviate even one percent from this objective. This is the spirit we international development? ATE pEOpLE ANd MAkE up Tunisia and South Africa, both countries whose recent and current history is marked by fights for more rights. How work with and everyone who belongs to this project knows it is going to be this way. This is a principle that leaves no Without a doubt it is the one about finding the appropriate people and make up of the teams for the different counOF ThE TEAMS FOr ThE does SanLucar deal with this situation? room for discussion and are valid everywhere, Spain, Austria, Germany, Tunisia and South Africa. tries and areas we would like to be in. Agricultural land or an office can be purchased from today for tomorrow, but diFFErENT COuNTriES« These are incidents we are living very closely, and as long as they are carried out with respect, we support them to What have been the main social projects and achievements in breathing life into all of it, this can only be done by the 100 percent. Tunisia until now? how was the evolution? What is planned people. Making up a well organized team, that knows and to be done soon? lives the values of SanLucar, requires a lot of time, and is, In Tunisia, we have been in the middle of the revolution, without any doubt, the most difficult, but also the most helping our colleagues and made means available so that I think that the main achievement is considering our workmotivating challenge we have in front of us. their work and development were not affected. We adapters as people with rights and obligations. We are working ed to schedules and other requirements, to show that we restlessly upon this basis. were supporting our team. Everything the society claimed In almost four years now, since we bought the farm in TuSanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 64 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 65 Community nisia, we provided means that are obvious for us, but were South Africa is a great challenge, with a lot of social disFocusing on our production, we are working on water saving a surprise for our colleagues when we arrived there, like parities and problems like lack of safety in cities, drugs and policies, recycling irrigation water, we work on the selection appropriate lavatories, modern changing rooms, dining alcohol, high accident rates, etc. how is SanLucar going to of waste for its recycling, besides that this practice is not rooms with high hygienic conditions and comfort, protection face this challenge and create a positive effect on a longvery spread in the countries where we are establishing, and training for the labour risk prevention system, transterm basis? we carry out audits for saving energy, and more. But the port to their villages to make access to the labour market most important is that all our actions are steered towards easier, training grants, subsidies for the education of their In the former question we already talked about this disparity sustainability. This is only possible if we all believe in what children, seniority bonuses to reward the fidelity of the situation and social underdevelopment, and I repeat what I we transmit and our team gets involved completely in these team, performance bonuses, salary improvements 30 percent said: where we have the chance to act, we will, where not, actions. above the average of our sector, medical services with an we will try to have an influence within our possibilities. own nurse for monitoring, prevention and help in cases of Which three qualities help the CEO of SanLucar international diseases or injuries. We are going to eliminate the traffic of substances harmful to carry out a good job in the whole world? In fact, on the 14th of June 2012 the Prime Minister Hamfor the health, since we consider our exploitation as a place madi Jebali rewarded us with a prize we are really proud to work and to learn and not as a place damaging for health As responsible for this area, my role is acting with the of, the FIPA Award for the creation of stable employment, and cohabitation. Thus, we will support the people of our SanLucar criteria and representing the company the best social development and investment and richness in the most teams in detox programmes, with the help of the authorities way possible. This means: Be able to adapt to local culture, difficult moments of Tunisia. and local organisations. We want to work with our teams to understand the vision they have of the world, their beespecially on their education and professional and personal haviours. Only if we are able to understand each country development, since education is our main tool to leave no and its people, we will be successful. We want to transmit space for harmful issues. Right now, we are negotiating our understanding of agriculture, providing avant-garde »SANLuCAr iS ALrEAdy with local administrations to give our employees a better life quality and accommodations within their villages, fasystems, sustainability and quality, as the best way of offering our customers a good job. Team work: reach out to those WOrkiNG ON ThE EquALvouring in this sense their integration. individuals that look at the group as the only one able to achieve results and successes, creating structures able to iTy OF OppOrTuNiTiES « These are difficult issues the majority of the civil society wants to eradicate, as well as the public administration. We work with people who can lead. Communication, Quality and Excellence: finally you must be a facilitator, thus all think that only with the joint work of all of us, and being areas at SanLucar can contribute with their knowledge to very close to the people, it is possible to reach this. help in the improvement of each project’s development. Now we are working tirelessly on the internal training SanLucar has an enterprise policy which includes a sustainwith our engineers, thus everything is carried out correctly ability and an environmental policy. how does SanLucar within all teams. We want to support participation and guarantee environmental sustainability in its business dethe cohabitation with the creation of a sports zone, to orvelopment areas? ganize competitions and other events, and we are going to try to boost economic development of families of the As it happens with our Code of Ethics, these are undisputable area marketing local handicrafts (basketry), searching for subjects. We believe in the development of all our actions aesthetic packaging alternatives, taking into account social within the frame of sustainability, and we transmit these and cultural aspects of the region. To sum up, we want to criteria on to all our partners. continue with our principle of giving value to the people and offer opportunities to grow. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 66 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 67 Our Point of Sale 6. Our customers and consumers – our best guarantee • Edeka Südwest and SanLucar • Transparent quality • REWE International AG about • The dialogue with our customers sustainability and consumers • Social innovation in packaging • Fresh communication SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 68 Our customers REWE International AG about sustainability. We chat with Tanja Dietrich-Hübner, Sustainability Manager at REWE International AG. Since when has REWE Group committed to sustainability Fruit and vegetable consumers demand fresh, tasty, healthy and 100 percent safe products. We, and corporate responsibility? Which projects and activities as well as our partners, are convinced that a good product depends on a responsible behaviour. are being developed? Thus, SanLucar and its growers are assessed under the same criteria to guarantee the highest In 2008, sustainability was established as an important acquality of our products. We do not only share the same vision with our producers, but also with tion field for the REWE Group. The group has been the first Austrian food enterprise in introducing sustainability our customers, who are the most demanding judges. They are accomplices as well, and facilitators in its business strategy, something that has an impact on who make sure that our philosophy and actions reach other consumers and become a decisive all marketing and business sectors. The sustainable strategy has four essential aspects: tool at the sales point. Green products Energy, Climate and Environment Our colleagues Social commitment This means, for example, being able to offer to our customers products with an additional value respecting a healthy diet, What meaning does PRO PLANET have for your enterprise? environmental and climatic protection, biodiversity, social commitment, etc. and offer our employees preventive mediEdeka Südwest and SanLucar With PRO PLANET we label a group of conventional products cal checks, special discounts in their daily purchases amongst that during its production, handling and use contaminate other things. An objective for the climatic protection is, for Do something together! We love food and, thus, the environment and society much less. All aspects of sustainexample, reducing 30 percent of specific carbon emissions by freshest fruit and vegetables as well, like SanLucar, our ability are respected during the value chain. 2015, respecting the basis year 2006. partner with who we have been working with confidence The objective is promoting sustainable consumption in the and closely with for years. At SanLucar, fruit and vegetamass market, and offering products with an additional susbles are grown in harmony with man and nature. Aspects tainability value, to attractive prices. To carry our PRO PLANET like environmental protection and social commitment are strongly linked to our corporate philosophy, as it happens projects, the REWE Group works with independent experts, »REWE INTERNATIONAL AG in Austria, for example, with GLOBAL 2000 and Caritas. in SanLucar. These concepts join us and make of us a good team.« Thus, we are able to offer orientation and support for all TAkES ITS RESPONSIbILITIES those consumers who want to help the environment with Christhard Deutscher, Director of Corporate Communicatheir purchase and contribute to a smaller social impact. vERY SERIOuSLY TOWARdS tion at EDEKA Handelsgesellschaft Südwest mbH. You spend one week of the year on the subject “sustainSOcIETY ANd fuTuRE GENability”. What are the objectives? ERATIONS« To be able to inform about the huge variety of activities and objectives concerning sustainability, every two years the REWE Group publishes a sustainability report. As Austrian leaders in the food and drugstore products sector, REWE International Why do you think corporate responsibility is so important AG takes its responsibilities very seriously towards society and in the food sector? future generations, and is committed to drive the issue of sustainability forward. Such an ambitious task can only be carried The business commits itself to total transparency of products out together with our partners responsible in the industry. and information for customers. Thanks to the pioneering SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 70 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 71 Our customers work in the sector of organic products and the expansion Which corporate responsibility activities of SanLucar attract of the range ”Ja! Natürlich” to 1,100 products, REWE Inyour attention? 6.1 Social innovation and packaging ternational AG has made a considerable contribution to raise awareness of consumers respecting sustainability. Besides the certification SA8000, your first sustainability At SanLucar we want all our customers to have access to the best information about our products. In this sense, the packaging Sustainability in the food sector is decisive in the moment report in 2011. and CR departments have been working since 2011 in a project for the introduction of Braille in the labels of our products. of purchase of every second customer, as studies showed, This would help blind and visually impaired people in their purchases in the supermarket and to find the products at home. made in 2009 and 2010 for REWE International AG about An enterprise can only be sustainable if it happens in harfood culture in Austria. In this sense, concepts like certificate mony with the value chain. how does the REWE Group To better understand the necessities of blind and visually impaired people, and thus comply with objectives of the projof provenance, certifications, quality seal, and others are guarantee highest quality of its value chain, and how is it ect, we talk and collaborate with associations for visually impaired people in Germany and gaining more and more importance. communicated? Austria (BSVH Blindenverein Hamburg and Blindenund Sehbehindertenverbands Österreich), as well as with the Spanish foundation ONCE, to find out if the produced labels Where is the difference between a responsible enterprise In the document “Leitlinie für Nachhaltiges Wirtschaften“ are legible and useful. We are also assessing other technological developand an enterprise that does not take corporate responsi(Guidelines for a sustainable business), published in 2011, ments, alternatives to the Braille, which make sure that information bility that seriously? REWE Group explained the values it supports. This includes is accessible for the blind and visually impaired. the whole value chain and the aim is that all REWE Group Sustainability should be incorporated into the corporate partners act sustainably where they have an influence. We will start with the “Fiesta” tomato for the next campaign in Tunisia, strategy and linked to specific objects. A continuous and starting in November 2012, and we will be increasing it to other products credible communication with several groups of interests is What ideas and plans does REWE Group have for its futhat use the same label format from that moment on. also very important. ture campaigns? We want to continue with the sustainability weeks. Together with our partners, we would like to present attractive offers »SuSTAINAbILITY ShOuLd of sustainable products to customers of BILLA, Merkur, PEN6.2 Transparent quality NY, BIPA, and ADEG, and thus, promote a healthier lifestyle bE INcORPORATEd INTO ThE among Austrians. Everyday our quality department works to make all information concerning quality of our products available for the cORPORATE STRATEGY« customer and to comply with European regulations on traceability and food safety. With the purpose of achieving maximum transparency, we work with a collaborative platform called Web portal. This portal allows our growers to send all their information relative to the product (production volume, traceability, field treatments, post-harvest treatments, analysis, etc.). Once the documentation is sent, it is made available for our providers to check, thus they Which communication channels are important for establishing have complete visibility of all production and quality processes of all the merchandise they receive in their platforms. contact with consumers and create long-term confidence with brands like REWE and SanLucar? Maintaining a regular communication is very important for the sustainable development of REWE International AG. This is the only way to create transparency and confidence. This is the only way for creating transparency and confidence. To know necessities and wishes of stakeholders, we keep a constant exchange with customers, employeess, partners, providers and To enter the Web portal, you only need other groups. REWE International AG participates in several a browser with internet access, in adprojects, networks and initiatives, like ARGE Gentechnik frei, dition to a user name and password. a group for non genetically modified food, or respACT, an The URL is: austrian platform for CSR and sustainable development, for http://extranet.sanlucar.com many years now, to work together with other companies and experts for the commencement of solutions. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 72 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 73 Our customers Moreover, traceability of our products is one of the principles at SanLucar, our experts for quality, logistics, IT and packTo study the satisfaction of our customers and suppliers, during the campaign source of information we take into aging work together to reach a transparent process. At SanLucar we never lose sight of our products, we never neglect 2011/2012 we introduced a SanLucar survey platform which allows us to send account to constantly improve our them, from the seed until the supermarket, the production and distribution chain is always under control. Therefore, simultaneous satisfaction surveys to all our customers, getting detailed reprocesses and to always offer the our identification and IT management system of the merchandise allows us to know at any point of the supply chain sults by customer and comparative graphs of each question raised in the surbest service. the whole history of the merchandise, being able to identify the product, volume, address of the grower and plot, sales veys. This online tool renews and makes analysis of satisfaction easier, and it unit, weight, date of harvest, packing date, dispatch date, pallet number, haulier, registration number of the truck, allows us to optimize processes, besides establishing conclusions very quickly, Our consumers can contact us as well intermediate stops and address. something that helps us to constantly improve. through the comment field on our This platform also allows us to carry out a satisfaction survey of other stakeSanLucar Blog, our SanLucar Faceholders, like our production partners, or to carry out market studies about a book Fanside and through the form We distinguish three types of traceability: certain product or new packages. on www.sanlucar.com. Our commitDuring the 2011/2012 campaign, we improved the proceeding with which we ment with the final consumers is • Traceability backwards: documentation and labelling to the field. manage complaints. We made it more transparent, more efficient and fastspeed and transparency. Any doubt • Traceability forwards: documentation and labelling to the customer. er. SanLucar created a new complaints department, in charge of this process they might have about our products • Internal traceability. and of getting greater satisfaction from our customers and suppliers in this has to be solved by our professionprocess. als as soon as possible and with the To guarantee the good functioning of the system, our quality technicians check The quality department is in charge of analyzing received complaints, writrigour our customers deserve. daily the correct identification of the merchandise of our producers. Thus, we ing a monthly report, not only to document them and analyze their historic are able to locate and identify each pallet whenever necessary. evolution, but also to assess the reasons and, if necessary, start specific improvement plans. Reports are transmitted to our commercial departments and product managers, to optimize our processes and services. The survey platform and our complaints department are a very important 6.3 The dialogue with our customers and consumers Knowing and understanding expectations of our customers and consumers, and our key account managers work every answering to them, is important for us, and it is the basis of our commitment day together with SanLucar distributers 6.4 fresh communication for the highest quality, a quality focused on the customer. Our daily task is “to and customers, all those people who fill the consumer with enthusiasm”, that is, not only complying with their exsell our product to final consumers, inWe know that our SanLucar fruits speak for themselves, but a good marketing pectations, but to beat them (supply guarantee, quality guarantee). forming them about innovations, giving and communication strategy will help to understand them better. The marketThus, we offer a product of confidence and of premium quality, but we also ofregular training courses to the staff of ing mix of SanLucar includes several communication tools that help us reach fer communication to improve day after day. The satisfaction and loyalty of our supermarkets, explaining to them our the different members of the public. customers have priority at SanLucar. It is a responsible consumption of fruit and philosophy, our values and sustainability. vegetables, and the best information for our consumers. Because of all of this, The team of key account managers with their PoS consultants in Austria and Germany have direct contact with the staff of the shop, giving them advice for selling our products. For the professional public, there is a weekly SanLucar newsletter informing about the arrival of products, innovations, evolution of campaigns and corporate news interesting for the distribution. The meeting point with our consumers is the sales point, especially cared for is the presentation of our products the way they deserve. With special information posters and leaflets, we provide inspiration and information about our products. The packaging has a special role in the presentation of our products. We use packages which respect the environment, something that gives an additional value to our products. Many of our packages have a recipe on the back side with ideas of how to cook these products. Every two months SanLucar publishes a magazine called SanLucar Magazine, where our products play the leading role: recipes, advice, facts about our fruit and vegetables. Our KAMs and PoS Consultants SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 74 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 75 Our customers Together with all of these activities, SanLucar also does radio campaigns, articles in magazines, events, sponsorships, promotions and competitions. The team of Our educational trips – bringing the farm public relations is in charge of contacting through communication means and closer to the supermarket carrying out market research with focus groups of consumers, to understand better their purchase motivations. Our commercial department has excellent professionals who work with passion and a wide knowledge about fruit and vegetables and about its cultivation. They can and have to transmit what they know to their customers, since only if we know the product very well, are we able to offer it and inform our customers appropriately. Therefore, at SanLucar we invest in continuous and specialized training of the staff at the sales point. During the year, we travel several times with different groups of fruit and vegetables sales agents to the different cultivation areas, in order to introduce them to the secrets of producing the best fruit and vegetables, as our grapes of Southern Italy, the clementines of Spain or the apples from Austria. These The SanLucar online community trips are an excellent training tool for the employees of the shops. They are also a way to instil our philosophy and values into our partners and create For SanLucar, the online communication is an excellent opportunity to have a queries, complaints and experiences links between producers and the staff at the sales point. closer contact with the community of the consumers of our products. with SanLucar. Furthermore, it is also perfect for getting feedback on new Since 2005, more than 1,000 Austrian and German supermarket employees The corporate web page, www.sanlucar.com, offers for each stakeholder a projects and to promote our products have visited our producers. specific communication channel and the most relevant information. Thus, the at the right time. With more than 8,000 consumer can search the nearest supermarket that sells our products, people fans, the SanLucar Facebook Fansite interested in working with us can upload their résumé and send it directly to is an essential means to be in contact our human resources department, growers can check our quality and sustainwith our community. ability requirements, and clients can find out something about our production areas and our master growers. Moreover, the former SanLucar Blog, written This is not the only social network During the campaign 2011/2012, we made the following training trips: exclusively by the SanLucans, has been integrated completely into the new web where SanLucar is present. We startpage, offering a closer and more personal vision of the enterprise since 2009. ed a project called “Fruity Facts” on When Who Where SanLucar is also in contact with its customers and consumers through Facebook. Twitter (http://twitter.com/fruityfacts), It is an interactive communication tool where both parties can share information, which informs on facts or unexpect12. 16.07.2011 Fresaflor (ES) Köln, Ettlingen, München ed data of fruit and vegetables of 19. 21.07.2011 Merkur (AT) Giuliano, Bari SanLucar. Obviously, SanLucar has its 17. 20.08.2011 Doego (DE) Giuliano, Bari own YouTube channel with all our vid17. 19.10.2011 Rewe Richrath (DE) Gößl, Steiermark eos (http://www.youtube.com/user/ 19. 21.10.2011 Scheck-In (DE) Gößl, Steiermark SanLucar2009). 13. 15.11.2011 Merkur (AT) Llusar, Castellón/Valencia 20. 22.11.2011 Dornseifer (DE) Llusar, Castellón/Valencia 27. 29.11.2011 Billa (AT) Llusar, Castellón/Valencia 15. 17.03.2012 Wasgau (DE) Fresaflor, Huelva 20. 22.04.2012 Edeka (DE) Fresaflor, Huelva 20. 22.05.2012 Adeg (AT) Fresaflor, Huelva We are sure that this internal coaching method is an important contribution for the sale of fruit and vegetables, since the vendors themselves, accordingly motivated and trained, are the best for informing final consumers about the food. The feedback we received is very positive and shows us that we are on the good path: SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 76 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 77 »I saw the pictures of the plantations, and some of our promoters are already explaining to customers and partners the added value SanLucar has to offer. A very successful programme!« Christian Deisenroth (Wasgau) »We are sure that this trip will motivate all participants to get involved in our test even more.« Bernhard Schnitzer (Edeka test markets) »Such an interesting programme, well-planned, for all the public, with professionals, where no incidents happen only deserves all respect and praises, and it represents perfectly the SanLucar philosophy.« Roland Bartel (REWE International AG, group leader Category Management Fruit & Vegetables ADEG) José Luis Jiménez, vegetable’s grower in Almería 7. Nature – our most valuable partner • In harmony with nature • Protection of the atmosphere • Innovative packaging • Green Office SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 78 Nature To support our obligations to sustainability, we have currently developed a number of actions along our value chain: 1. Water: Minimization of water consumption To SanLucar, ecological sustainability is not only an advertising slogan. Since the company was founded, a • Our growing areas are cultivated with intelligent irrigation systems, which respectful balance with nature has been our utmost priority. Our growing areas are chosen with a focus on reduce water consumption: both perfect growing conditions as well as the possibility to cultivate our products with minimal resources. Treatment and reusage of drainage water Drip irrigation on our fields For SanLucar, nature is an indispensible partner that we respect and care for throughout the entire lifecycle Use of rain water through reservoirs of our fruit. Only with this perspective are we able to obtain fruit and vegetables with the quality and taste • Our fields are equipped with humidity sensors to optimize irrigation and ferthat we would like to serve our customers. tilization to reduce eluviations as much as possible. • Climate data management helps us to optimize irrigation (e.g. at Giuliano). • On our cultivated areas for citrus fruits we laid out mats, which avoid growth 7.1 In harmony with nature of weeds. Simultaneously, water evaporation is reduced and hence the percentage of wetlands is increased. Moisture and heat improve the development Use of new technologies to save resources (eco efficiency), realization of sustainof the root system and reduce water and fertilizer consumption. Efficiency is able agricultural methodologies and measures for saving ecosystems as well as the improved by approximately 20 percent. recycling concept play an essential role in implementing our environmental policy. 2. Soil: Preserve structure and soil life • Practices are applied that do not require tillage. In this way, soil structure is preserved and erosion is minimized. • Soil pollution • Plant • Reject • Energy (cold • Energy • Material, • Consumption • Soil texture is respected. In this manner, negative impacts on rain water are and efficiency protection (product) storage rooms) water and diminished. products • Water energy • Waste • Waste consumption • Water • Waste • Organic material that is produced in the course of pruning the plants is shredded consumption • Greenhouse • Waste gases • Hazardous and distributed on the ground. This mulch increases the proportion of organic • Energy materials • Noise consumption material and improves the soil structure. • Emissions Sowing Growth Harvest Storage and Packaging Administration Presentation transport at the PoS, 3. Emissions: Reduction of greenhouse gases conventions Nature in our value chain and events • We calculate the CO2 footprint of our products to enhance our knowledge on the impacts of our activities and improve our processes. Only this way can we find targeted solutions. At the moment, we are calculating the CO2 footprint of Every part of our planet is characterized through specific climate zones and soil properties, which influence plant development, our lemons grown in Murcia in collaboration with a consulting firm specialized in this area. Our goal is to reduce the energy consumption and nutritional requirements. Therefore, the selection of cultivable land is an essential requirement for CO2 emissions directly along our value chain or initiate compensation projects in the countries we grow our fruit and an ecologically and economically sustainable production. This approach is the only way to conserve natural resources and vegetables. reduce the use of chemical substances in agriculture. Production at SanLucar incorporates the plant requirements in a natural way. We look for synergies with nature and show respect for our environment. • Innovation in packaging: our Light Weight Box®, which is made out of corrugated paper, is lighter and more environmentally friendly. The entire process from the selection of varieties to the quality control requires an enormous effort that can only be handled by true experts. These experts are our growers in collaboration with our technicians, who know the operation of nature. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 80 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 81 Nature 4. Energy: Reduction of energy consumption and usage of renewable energy R&D: We carry out experiments in our own fields. We test biological products to reduce the usage of chemical substances even further. • Tunisia: in the campaign of 2011/2012 an energy audit was implemented to target measures for improvement e.g. usage of geothermal energy as a natural source of energy. 6. Recycling: Waste prevention and waste management • Spain: educating the workforce on how to drive more efficiently with the goal of reducing fuel consumption. In Sep• By-products or waste that we produce is recycled and disposed of by authorized companies. tember 2012 we start our online car sharing platform: Carpooling. • We preserve the environment through a better understanding of the consequences of our office • Innovation in packaging: reduction of packaging weight and volume so that the number of boxes per truck could be activities (waste separation and recycling, measures to reduce paper and energy consumption). increased and hence achieve savings in fuel consumption. 7. Protection of biodiversity • Growing citrus fruits: gradual renewal of our vehicle fleet to reduce fuel consumption. • With our „Zero-Residue“projects as well as through reducing the treatment with chemical sub5. Protection of cultures stances we protect the biodiversity of our ecosystems. In nature, one can find many useful insects that help to control vermin. Vermin transmit plant diseases and threaten the quality of production • We continuously diminish the use of agricultural pesticides by reducing the or even the entire harvest. number of treatments per field and abolish the application of products, which are particularly harmful to the environment. • A well-planned production system respects the natural fauna, environment, health of workers, the local communities and the final consumer. Above all it capitalizes on the application of useful • Through a targeted application and limited number of treatments, the usage can insects. Only if it is clear that those insects are not able to control pest infestation, do we deploy be reduced by up to 30 percent, with little to no residues on the final product. alternative products in very limited amounts. They only target vermin and volatilize the course of the plant’s growth phase. • R&D: A lemon test field in Murcia which is produced according to a protocol developed by SanLucar that aims to grow lemons with “Zero-Residues”. The test field has already existed since 2009 and was expanded after positive results of the campaigns 2009/2010 and 2010/2011. The goal of this protocol is to avoid the application of chemical substances. The only case where the application of these substances is permitted is in case of a massive pest infestation. • “Zero-Residues“: During the campaign 2011/2012, we expanded the test field according to the “Zero-Residues” protocol without reducing external quality compared to traditional production methods. To make sure that our products contain “Zero-Residues”, we base our approach on the following: We analyze output curves for the individual substances to track the legally permitted usage of plant protectants for citrus fruits. Only if there is a threat of high crop loss, we use plant treatment as a remedy, but only the minimum necessary amount. All treatments are tracked and controlled so that they do not have any negative effects on quality. This is not only a necessary requirement for an intact yield, but also helps our growers. We use biotechnical control methods: traps for coupling disruption, organic products, pruning, irrigation and fertilization and release of beneficial organisms for pest control. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 82 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 83 Nature waiting for the right time to harvest and a system without We chat with Carmen Nicolás, Director of Quality and Production at SanLucar extensive use of technology. What does quality mean to SanLucar in general and for What were the most important projects of the quality deyou as Director of Quality and Production in particular? partment in the campaign 2011/2012? Quality means absolute satisfaction of every single customer. The introduction of a proprietary SanLucar quality seal, the It is based on numerous factors, for instance excellent quality company certification, the “Zero-Residues” project which with regard to taste of our products, freshness guarantee, a will be expanded across the whole range of citrus fruits diversified external appearance and packaging which preand the CO2 footprint project. serves the product’s quality as well as enhances the product’s presentation at the point of sale. Care for the environment And looking towards the future, which projects are planned and societal aspects in the entire product cycle also play a for the next campaign? major role, beginning with plantation and spanning as far as the sale of the final product. We want to develop and introduce a seedless lemon into the market. Moreover, we would like to establish a test How does a SanLucar product differentiate itself from othfield for all of our berries. There we do not only want to ers? What distinguishes us from our competitors? grow our new varieties but also try out new cultivation techniques. The goal is to optimize the production method, We differentiate ourselves through the development and the reduction of necessary analyses and efficiency increase. selection of varieties at the point of harvest. It is a selection Additionally we would like to test an extendible roof to of exclusive external quality and an exceptional product Our growers have been our partners for a long time. We improve on the factor of climate protection. Good weather presentation. have to maintain our excellent relationship to be able to conditions can be exploited; in case of bad weather the achieve what we think is right; this means that we have to plantation can be protected. How does SanLucar manage the control of its value chain? comply with our quality standards. We have built a trusting relationship with our growers. We assist them in all occasions Our technical experts control each step of our value chain. instead of controlling them. We are not satisfied with a positive outcome at the end of the value chain, we demand an “OK” from ourselves 2011 was a difficult year for agriculture. For example, what at each step and phase. Therefore we invest a lot of time did the the eHeC alarm mean for your quality department? and power and establish controls so that the safety of our products can be assured. The EHEC alarm in Germany was an opportunity for us to prove the absolute reliability of our control system. In less than four days we provided analyses and documentation of traceability to our customers. In this way we were able »We Have buILt a truStINg to guarantee that our entire product range was perfectly fine from a food security perspective at each step of the reLatIoNSHIP WItH our value chain. This was a major effort as we are talking about 80 products from 400 growers in 35 countries. groWerS.« SanLucar focuses on innovation without forgetting about tradition. What does that mean from your perspective? there are companies in our industry that act as “policemen” We are innovative in improving the plant material, product along their value chain. others rely on trust and good relife or with regard to product characteristics. The same applies lationships. What is SanLucar’s and its quality technicians’ to growing methods that are more environmentally friendly approach to assure best products with highest quality and simultaneously increase the security of supply. But at guarantee? the same time we focus on a thorough harvest, meaning SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 84 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 85 Nature 7.2 Protection of the atmosphere Apart from improvement on our growing fields and innovative measures with compared to fluorinated cooling liquid regard to packaging, the atmosphere needs to be protected. This requires ophas a minor impact on global warming timization in our logistics system. and a minor decomposition effect on Our logistics center in Ettlingen, which we opened in 2011, allows us to improve ozone. the control over the usage of trucks. Today, the contractor delivers an extensive amount of pallets from the same grower. This reduces the number of locations SanLucar is currently working on a pilot at which the carrier needs to unload along the route. Moreover, groupage transproject to calculate the CO2 footprint port is avoided and a better controlled transportation system can be deployed. compensation based on common stanFurthermore, the cooling system in Ettlingen does not use any fluorinated cooldards (PAS 2050) with the example of ing liquids, but water. This brings major environmental advantages, as water lemons. 7.3 Innovative packaging SanLucar has an own department with packaging specialists, who focus exclusively on innovation and development of SanLucar’s packaging. They are true experts when it comes to packaging material and its production. As we have an obligation towards the environment, our projects focus is on the reduction of our environmental footprint to reduce the environmental impact of our worldwide production. If one solely considers the direct emissions during transport, we save 3.7 mg CO2 per box. This data might seem irrelevant, but if we only think about the one single campaign on citrus fruit from Spain, the 3.7 mg converts itself into 14,195 kg CO2. This number gives us an idea on what we can accomplish with a yearly consumption of eleven million boxes per year. Lighter and more environmentally friendly packaging made out of corrugated card board The Light Weight Box ® is introduced step-by-step. In 2014, it should reach a 75 percent share of all boxes used by SanLucar. This translates into approximately 8.5 million boxes. SanLucar’s Light Weight Box® preserves resources because it: • is 5 to 15 percent lighter. It is extracted from first class birch wood paper that is very stable despite its lightness. Program on reduction of the use of plastics • is made out of PEFC certified wood, which originates from woods in Sweden, where paper pulp is produced. This way in our primary packaging we contribute to our forests being cultivated sustainably. In our next campaign we start our program on reducing the consumption of • needs fewer natural resources. The Light Weight Box® has the same volumetric capacity as traditional boxes, but weighs fossil raw material. Packaging elements like plastic frames are going to be considerably less. In this way we can both reduce the amount of raw material necessary as well as the amount of waste replaced with 100 percent recyclable and compostable corrugated card board. per box. With an average consumption of eight million plastic boxes per year, we can • needs less chemical substances. For labeling the Light Weight Box®, we only use one type of color to keep the impact estimate a saving of plastic material of 200 tons. Our goal is to reach 85 peron the environment to a minimum. cent of this amount. • reduce the CO2 emissions. As the box is lighter, the CO2 emissions produced during transport are minimized. One aspect we should always bear in mind is: exceptional packaging quality is necessary to be able to protect the products and preserve outstanding quality on the way from fields of production to the final consumer. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 86 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 87 Nature employees can separate packaging out of plastic, card board and glass, organic 7.4 Green Office waste, printing paper and used batteries. SanLucar in collaboration with the integrated waste management providers like In 2011, the departments office management, information technologies, mainte“Ecopilas” arrange recycling of these wastes according to specification. nance and corporate responsibility initiated the project “Green Office” with the Since the relocation of our distribution platform to Vall d’Uixó, we started recyintention of establishing a “Green Office” by 2015. To achieve this we defined cling all warehouse material: carton, wood, plastic, tapes etc. are separated and five major goals: picked up by a recycling firm. 1. goal: reduction of paper consumption 3. Goal: Environmental office material Since 2008, SanLucar has reduced its paper consumption continuously. This is attributed mostly to the introduction We gradually exchange our office material with ECO-LINES products from various of new technology in the IT area. Almost every work station is equipped with two screens to facilitate the working producers or environmentally compatible alternatives. without paper print outs. Incoming and outgoing faxes are no longer automatically printed but are saved in the AX system directly. Additionally we are working towards a reduction of toner consumption and other technical material (DVD, CD). The result is positive: since the beginning of the campaign 2006/2007 we have reduced the paper consumption by 56 percent per employee! 4. goal: Minimizing energy consumption We also consider the environmental impact when utilising our air conditioning and heating. Thus, the lowest temperature in our office is 25° C during the warm50 est time of the year and 21° C in the winter season. During the times when the external temperature is moderate, we use natural ventilation. 40 Moreover, through optimization of our system infrastructure (IT), we could also save a lot of energy. The extension of the device lifecycle and the procurement Paper/employee in kg Paper consumption at SanLucar’s office in of more efficient devices permitted us exponential energy savings. Puzol 30 Furthermore, SanLucar also fosters the energy saving behavior, for example by switching off computers and screens in case one leaves their work station for more 20 than three hours, by exploiting energy saving mechanisms and of course: the last one to leave the office turns off the lights! 10 Ultimately, when carrying out future modernization projects, we will rely on 2005/06 2006/07 2007/08 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 latest office technology and a bioclimatic architecture (lighting by sector, motion Campaign detector etc.). Nonetheless, at the end of the week we still remove 80 sheets of paper as waste from the printers. Our goal is that only 5. goal: Support an environmental culture what is absolutely necessary is printed while also assuring that there is no waste produced in the printers. That is why we will change system settings at each computer during the months of July and August, selecting double-sided printing All the “Green Office” projects are based on raising awareness in the workforce and safe printing as standard. for protecting the environment. SanLucar’s employees understand that even small daily gestures concerning environmental protection can have a valuable impact 2. goal: Increase in recycling share on our future generations. With conferences, presentations, banners and internal articles we work towards On 5 of June 2011 (world environment day) we officially started to separate our waste. For this purpose we placed the th spreading this culture across all SanLucar employees and to raise awareness through necessary bins at various locations in the office: Containers and bins in different colors and shapes. In this way the SanLucar this action. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 88 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 89 8. Appendix • GRI Table 92 • Communication on Progress Report (CoP) 113 • Corporate data 115 • Contacts 120 • Certifications 121 • Glossary 122 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 90 Appendix 1. GRI Table Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 Human Resources and 2.8 Scale of the reporting Chapter 1 and 3 Code Definition or pages in the CR Report Finance organization and quantiAppendix 3 ty of products or services General Indicators provided. Executive Board 1.1. Statement from the most Foreword from Stephan Rötzer, founder and holder Excecutive Board 2.9 Significant changes during Restructuring of the department and areas of senior decision maker of of SanLucar. the reporting period reSanLucar, purchase of the production facilities in the organization (e.g, CEO, garding size, structure, or South Africa in March 2012 and the movement of chair, or equivalent senior ownership. our warehouse from Puzol to Vall d’Uixó (Castellón) position) about the relein May 2012. vance of sustainability to the organization and its strategy. All departments 2.10 Awards received in the FIPA Award 2012 Tunisia, reporting period. Appreciation from ENGAGE and the third place in the Executive Board 1.2 Description of key impacts, SanLucar already has a risk management system, Codespa Award. risks, and opportunities. which analyses and alleviats risks of the company. Risks exist related to commercialization, legal risks, CR 3.1 Reporting period (e.g, Campaign 2011/2012 (tax year from July 2011 to image risks as well as country specific risks (e.g. politfiscal/calendar year) for June 2012) ical risks). information provided. Behind every risk is a chance for constant improve3.2 Date of most recent previPublication in September 2011 ment of the management. ous report (if any). See Chapter 2.5 3.3 Reporting cycle (annual, Per annual campaign Executive Board 2.1 Name of the organization. SanLucar Fruit, S.L, corresponding to Grupo Consolibiennial, etc.). dado SanLucar Fruit S.L. (consolidated group) 3.4 Contact point for questions Appendix 4 Brand 2.2 Primary brands, products, Brand SanLucar regarding the report or its and/or services. Other brands: Sunnyboy, Sunnyberries, ClemenRed contents. Chapter 1 3.5 Process for defining report Foreword Human Resources 2.3 Operational structure of Chapter 1.3 content. Diversity: our basis for long-term stability the organization, including main divisions, operating 3.6 Boundary of the report SanLucar Fruit S.L, SanLucar Deutschland GmbH, companies, subsidiaries, and (e.g, countries, divisions, SanLucar Import GmbH, SanLucar Vertrieb, SanLucar joint ventures. subsidiaries, leased faciliObst und Gemüse Handels GmbH, SanLucar Portugal ties, joint ventures, suppliSociedade Unipessoal LDA, La Cinquième Saison SA Human Resources 2.4 Location of organization’s Serra Llarga 24, 46530 Puzol ers). See GRI Boundary Proheadquarters. tocol for further guidance. Resources Area, Quality & 2.5 Number of countries where Chapter 1.2 3.7 State any specific limThere are activities which SanLucar Fruit S.L. has just Production and Commercial the organization operates, itations on the scope or accomplished and applicable indicators. Area and names of countries with boundary of the report. either major operations or that are specifically relevant 3.8 Basis for reporting on joint The information of this report was principally related to the sustainability issues ventures, subsidiaries, to SanLucar Fruit S.L, SanLucar Deutschland GmbH, covered in the report. leased facilities, outsourced SanLucar Import GmbH, SanLucar Vertrieb, SanLucar operations, and other enObst und Gemüse Handels GmbH, SanLucar Portugal Legal Services 2.6 Nature of ownership and SanLucar Fruit S.L. tities that can significantly Sociedade Unipessoal LDA and La Cinquième Saison legal form. affect comparability from SA. Commercial Area 2.7 Markets served (including Chapter 1 and 6 period to period and/or geographic breakdown, between organizations. sectors served, and types of customers/beneficiaries). SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 92 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 93 3.9 Data measurement techThe calculation of the indicators based on our 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair Stephan Rötzer is CEO, founder and holder of niques and the bases of management system and the protocol of the Global of the highest governance SanLucar. calculations, including Reporting Initiative. body is also an executive assumptions and techniques officer (and, if so, their underlying estimations function within the organiapplied to the compilation zation’s management and of the Indicators and other the reasons for this arrangeinformation in the report. ment). 3.10 Explanation of the effect of any restatements of 4.3 For organizations that have See Indicator 4.1 information provided in a unitary board structure, See Appendix 3 of the CR Report – Data of employees earlier reports, and the reastate the number and and Assembly of the executive and management sons for such restatements gender of members of the board (e.g, mergers/ acquisitions, highest governance body change of base years/pethat are independent and/or riods, nature of business, non-executive members. measurement methods). Is not given, because it is the first year of using the CR 4.4 Mechanisms for shareThe employees in the head office have a lot of 3.11 Significant changes from GRI method in our CR Report. holders and employees to mechanism: Platform for suggestion SA8000, human previous reporting periods provide recommendations resources, CIA and an employee representation. in the scope, boundary, or direction to the highest In all other companies we are still in the introductory or measurement methods governance body. phase. applied in the report. 3.12 Table identifying the locaResources Area 4.5 Linkage between compenNot exist. But it will be considered in the coming tion of the Standard DiscloContent of the CR Report and table in appendix. sation for members of the strategic plan. sures in the report. highest governance body, senior managers, and exe3.13 Policy and current practice The CR Report was verified by us. The application cutives (including departure with regard to seeking level A of the report had been explained by the comarrangements), and the external assurance for the pany itself. organization’s performance report. If not included in the (including social and enviassurance report accomronmental performance). panying the sustainability report, explain the scope 4.6 Processes in place for the and basis of any external highest governance body to assurance provided. Also ensure conflicts of interest explain the relationship beare avoided. tween the reporting orga4.7 Process for determining nization and the assurance the composition, qualificaThis aspect will be considered in the strategic plan, provider(s). tions, and expertise of the on which we are currently working. Resources Area 4.1 Governance structure of SanLucar developed their own strategic plan in which members of the highest the organization, includall company objectives are defined. governance body and its ing committees under the committees, including any highest governance body reThe executive board consists of Stephan Rötzer, consideration of gender and sponsible for specific tasks, Carlos Seguí, Jorge Peris, Santiago Galán and Jaime other indicators of diversity. such as setting strategy or Olleros (external consultant). CR 4.8 Internally developed stateChapter 2.2 organizational oversight. ments of mission or values, Since 2011 SanLucar has an integrated policy, which The executive board meets at least once a year and assumes information and adversary activities. codes of conduct, and prinincludes aspects from the area of human resources, ciples relevant to economic, quality, environment and sustainability. environmental, and social performance and the status of their implementation. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 94 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 95 Resources Area 4.9 Procedures of the highest Annual preparation and authorization of the CR 4.17 Key topics and concerns that Chapter 2.3 -> The Model “From the inside to the governance body for overReport. The CEO has approved the corporate policy have been raised through outside” seeing the organization’s and has constantly monitored the integrated manstakeholder engagement, Chapter 4 -> Stakeholder: Employees identification and manageagement system. and how the organization Chapter 5 -> Stakeholder: Growers ment of economic, environhas responded to those key Chapter 6 -> Stakeholder: local Community mental, and social perfortopics and concerns, includChapter 7 -> Stakeholder: Customers and Consumers mance, including relevant ing through its reporting. Chapter 8 -> Stakeholder: Environment risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 Code Definition or pages in the CR Report 4.10 Processes for evaluating the This aspect will be considered in the strategic plan, Economic Indicators highest governance body’s on which we are currently working. own performance, particuFinance EC1 Direct economic value See Appendix 3 larly with respect to ecogenerated and distributed, nomic, environmental, and including revenues, operatsocial performance. ing costs, employee compensation, donations and other Risk Committee 4.11 Explanation of whether Chapter 2.5 Risk Management community investments, and how the precautionary The integrated management system of SanLucar retained earnings, and payapproach or principle is addefined the mechanism for excellent management ments to capital providers dressed by the organization. through forecast of risks and their continuous imand governments. provement. CR EC2 Financial implications and Measurement of our products‘carbon footprint, CR 4.12 Explanation of whether Signing of the Global Compact other risks and opportunistarting with our lemons. Climate or meteorological and how the precautionary Signing of the Charter of Diversity ties for the organization’s changes including the following risks: thunderstorms, approach or principle is adChapter 2.4 and 5 activities due to climate ambient temperature, water availability, health and dressed by the organization. change. production related impact on employees. All these CR and Resources 4.13 Memberships in associations Chapter 2.4 -> SanLucar act! risks are included in our risk management system. (such as industry associaChapter 5.1 -> SanLucar is actively involved! tions) and/or national/international advocacy organiHuman Resources EC3 Coverage of the organizaPension plan, extra payments for continuing acazations. tion’s defined benefit plan demic education, medical insurance and other social CR 4.14 List of stakeholder groups In July 2010 SanLucar carried out a stakeholder obligations. advantages for employees. engaged by the organizaanalysis, which was verified and improved in a joint See Chapter 3 and 5.3 tion. workshop with UPJ. We put all protocols of the Finance and Legal Services EC4 Significant financial Public institutions‘subsidies. stakeholder dialog into the archives and integrated assistance received from From Ministry of Health, Ministry of Social Affairs and it in our management system SA8000. government. Secretary of State for Equality and the introduction 4.15 Basis for identification and See Foreword and Chapter 2.3 of an equality plan -> 7.740 Euros selection of stakeholders From VEX (Valencian Institute for Export) and from with whom to engage. the Ministry of Agriculture, Fisheries and Food to support the export and the introduction of an inter4.16 Approaches to stakeholder See Indicator 4.17 national brand -> 90.430.72 Euros engagement, including frequency of engagement Human Resources EC5 Range of ratios of standard The wage of SanLucar is orientated on the salary by type and by stakeholder entry level wage by gender scales from collective agreements. If these do not group. compared to local minimum exist, we are orientated by usual job dependend wage at significant locasalaries in the respective country. To gain qualified tions of operation. employees, SanLucar often surpasses these salaries. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 96 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 97 Resources Area and EC6 Policy, practices, and proThe company has fixed quality specifications for fruit Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 SanLucar International portion of spending on and vegetables; the products‘purchase occurs in 34 Code Definition or pages in the CR Report locally-based suppliers at different countries from suppliers which are homolosignificant locations of opergated by our criteria. A supplier just gets a contract, Environmental Indicators ation. if he complies with our criteria and can guarantee Packaging and Commercial EN1 Materials used by weight or See Appendix 3 the delivery with our quality standards. Area volume. The purchasing of materials to the continuation of EN2 Percentage of materials See Appendix 3 the business activity and the production is made used that are recycled input The materials which are supplied directly to superin the respective country, taking into account the materials. markets are recycled by valid local systems. The maprice-performance ratio. terial which is supplied directly to the consumer (ca. 20%) is largely recycled. This showed a study about The local purchase has priority, if the material is the consumption in Germany and Austria (our main available for a rational price. This is laid down in the markets). company’s policy. Finance and responsibles EN3 Direct energy consumption SanLucar Fruit: 427.159 kWh Human Resources EC7 Procedures for local hiring SanLucar always gives preference to local contracts in the headquarters and by primary energy source. SanLucar Austria: 430.003,76 kWh and proportion of senior and promotes cultural exchanges. subsidiaries Site Ettlingen: electric energy 427.440 kWh and gas management hired from the All managers are contracted locally. 25.543 m3 (1st January 2012 to 30th June 2012) EN4 Indirect energy consumplocal community at locations tion by primary source. of significant operation. Chapter 3 – Grow together Tunisia: 0,7 tons oil/year (for the canteen) and 2.353 tons CO2/year (used for cultivation) EN16 Total direct and indirect Resources Area and EC8 Development and impact of See Appendix 3 and Chapter 5 greenhouse gas emissions SanLucar International infrastructure investments Up to now a company inventory of greenhouse gas by weight. and services provided priMore than 4% of our investments in Tunisia were emissions was not carried out. EN17 Total direct and indirect marily for the public benefit part of the responsible investment. The investments greenhouse gas emissions through commercial, in for the improvements of the infrastructure, the by weight. kind, or pro bono engagesocial services for the employees and the local comment. munity were achieved as a part of SanLucar’s social All departments EN5 Energy saved due to conThe first audit about energy saving in Tunisia was policy. servation and efficiency undertaken in 2011. improvements. Resources Area EC9 Understanding and deSanLucar develops a business plan for each producSee Chapter 7 Nature our most valuable partner EN6 Initiatives to provide energy scribing significant indirect tion project that includes economic impacts. efficiency or renewable economic impacts, including energy based products and the extent of impacts. With our risk management system we measure services, and reductions in the economic consequences and do an approach energy requirements as a towards the indirect economic impact. result of these initiatives. Positive: Job creation in the region Foreign investments Export (receiving of foreign currency) Corporate tax Negative: If we discover negative effects we use measures to convert them into indirect positive effects. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 98 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 99 Resources Area and Logistics EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect SanLucar prefers the use of telephone and video EN11 Location and size of land Our farm in Portugal which is dedicated mainly to energy consumption and conferences to save costs and travel, so we can reowned, leased, managed the trials of new varieties, is located in the southreductions achieved. duce the global carbon footprint. in, or adjacent to, protectwest nature park “Parque Natural do Sudoeste ed areas and areas of high Alentejano e Costa Vicentina” with an area of SanLucar´s travel policy says that the colleagues have biodiversity value outside 110km. It consists of an area of 74,415 hectares to communicate with each other and travel together protected areas. from which 56,953 hectares are land surface. In the if they have common meetings or travel routes. whole park there is a mixture of Mediterranean, For this reason we introduce the internet site Atlantic and African plants. There are about 750 “carpooling” this year. All employees are informed kinds. 100 of them are endemic, very rare and hard about local and regional public transport and we to find. Twelve of them can only be found in that generally prefer the train instead of using a plane. area. In the whole park area there are species which If it is still necessary to fly, we try to do it with the are considered as vulnerable and others which are fewest possible stops. We consider the accommoprotected in Europe. dation and restaurants which are close to the event The farm lies on 22 hectares and is located in and in advance we inform our colleagues about the Herdade da Bica, 7630-736 Zambujeeira do Mar, local situation to avoid unnecessary movements. Portugal. This zone is traditionally used for agriculture. To protect the environment our local team of Through our carpooling system we will reduce our engineers takes care that the environmental effects emission in the displacement to work. are reduced to a minimum. CR EN12 Description of significant SanLucar is not a threat to the species at the red list For the transportation of our goods we look for impacts of activities, prodof IUCN (International Union for Conservation of transport services, which have initiatives of energy ucts, and services on biodiNature) and other national lists. Our activities are in consumption. versity in protected areas accordance with the standard of Global G.A.P.. Furand areas of high biodiverthermore we have additional procedures to ensure See Chapter 7 sity value outside protected minimal impacts with the main attention on the areas. protected habits. Finance and responsibles EN8 Total water withdrawal by Water consumption: in the headquarters and source. SanLucar Fruit S.L.: 2.618 m3 See Indicator EN11 and EN13 subsidiaries Site Ettlingen: 559 m3 (1st January 2012 to 30th June See Chapter 7.1 2012) Tunisia:101.185 m3/year (mainly for irrigation) EN13 Habitats protected or restored. See Chapter 7 EN14 Strategies, current actions, Quality & Production and EN9 Water sources significantly In Tunisia we have made a study about the enviand future plans for managSanLucar International affected by extraction of ronmental impact. The study shows appropriate ing impacts on biodiversity. See Chapter 7.1 and the interview with Giuliano. water. conditions to ensure sustainability like the usage of EN15 Number of IUCN Red List the groundwater. species and national conOur partner Giuliano works with an environmental servation list species with organisation on the recovery and the cleaning of a Not applicable for other countries or activities. habitats in areas affected mountain range in Conversano. by operations, by level of extinction risk. EN10 Percentage and total vol30% of the water from our automatic watering ume of water recycled and device in Tunisia consists of recycled water (drainage reused. water). The utilization area has 21 hectare (50% of the total area). Many of our growers also use rainwater which is gathered through a special water collecting systems from the greenhouse roofs to the watering devices. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 100 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 101 Quality & Production, CR, EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenSanLucar measured the CO2 footprint of his lemons Quality & Production EN23 Total number and volume Nothing was accidentally spilt. Information Technologies, house gas emissions and from Murcia and will proove the amount of CO2 per of significant spills. Commercial Area and Loreductions achieved. gram during the next campaign. CR EN24 Weight of transported, imThe empty toner cartridges and the WEEE (Waste of gistics ported, exported, or treatElectrical and Electronic Equipment) which accrues in the In 2011 SanLucar started to implement a logistic coned waste deemed hazardcentral office are properly disposed of in accordance with trol system, which analyzes the kilometres driven. ous under the terms of the the current environmental laws. Basel Convention Annex I, Used batteries are collected by the “Fundación para la Furthermore, SanLucar analyzes how many plane kiII, III, and VIII, and percentGestión Medioambiental de Pilas” (Foundation of envilometres were used. Our travel agency has registered age of transported waste ronmental management of batteries), which guarantees all kilometres since March 2011. shipped internationally. a correct disposal in line with the current laws. See Chapter 3.4 and 7 Waste from pesticide packaging is always managed by an authorized waste manager from a local authorized company. Quality & Production, CR EN19 Emissions of ozone-depletSanLucar renewed in this campaign the old cold and responsibles in the ing substances by weight. storages, which use R22, against new ones, which use SanLucar does not carry out any maintenance of vehicle headquarters and subsidNH3 (liquid ammonia). This is a liquid, which requires fleets and does not use any treatments which produce iaries more preventive controls concerning the safety of the dangerous waste. employees. But the impacts on the environment are lower concerning the ozone layer and the greenThe olive oil of SanLucar is the only product which house effect. requires processing. The olive pomades is converted into We will give more information about the NH3 conenergy (biomass). sumption in the next report. EN25 Identity, size, protected See EN12 and EN13 status, and biodiversity EN20 NOx, SOx and other signifOur activities are in general natural and not indusvalue of water bodies and icant air emissions by type trial. Therefore, our contribution to NOx and SOx is related habitats significantand weight. relatively low. ly affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of Our cooling system in the logistic centre in Ettlingen water and runoff. is running with water and salt. Our forwarders signed our environmental commitment (included in the Quality & Production, CR, EN26 Initiatives to mitigate Chapter 7 Code of Ethics). Packaging and Logistics environmental impacts of For example: Resources Area (administraEN21 Total water discharge by The waste water of our office buildings is directed into products and services, and • A lemon’s carbon footprint is measured. tive Data), Quality & Producquality and destination. the municipal sewerage network. extent of impact • The packaging is innovated. tion and SL International mitigation. • The quantity of used pesticides is reduced and we (data of production) The dosage and concentration of fertilisers are adaptare just using environmental friendly ones. ed in accordance to the needs of the plant, the ground • With the help of mulches the moisture can be mainand the climatic conditions to avoid an overdose. tained in the ground. Tensiometer controls the level SanLucar has measures to minimize the ground water of humidity and regulates the availability of water. (Global G.A.P.). We save 20% of water. The surface of the warehouses is sealed and accrued to avoid the seepage into the nature soil. The use of calibrated equipment reduces the drift to Data about the volume of waste water does not exist. 30% during the treatment. EN22 Total weight of waste by SanLucar separates waste in all subsidiaries. Packaging and Commercial EN27 Percentage of products See EN2 and Appendix 3 type and disposal method. Since March 2012, when the warehouse moved from Area sold and their packaging We cannot know, whether the end consumers Puzol to Vall d’Uixó, a recycling service was entrusted materials that are reclaimed recycles our packaging or not. But we know, that to separate cartons, wood, bands and edge protecby category. our supplied markets have an integrated waste and tions. The information about the weight of the waste recycling system. in Vall d’Uixó will be accumulated in the next report. We recycle all waste in our warehouses in Vall d‘Uixó In Tunisia storage areas were built for carton, plastic and our logistic centre in Ettlingen. and wood that we sell to an authorised recycling See Chapter 7.3 company. The plastic of the greenhouses will be Legal services EN28 Monetary value of significant There was no detection of any non-fulfilment of laws collected by a recycling company if our stock area is fines and total number of or regulations. We were not sanctioned. complete. The wood palets are reused. non-monetary sanctions for See Chapter 7 noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 102 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 103 Logistics and Human ReEN29 Significant environmental SanLucar do not have their own vehicle fleet to LA4 Percentage of employees 100% sources (headquarters and impacts of transporting transport our products. We work with forwarders covered by collective barIf a collective agreement does not exist, the work subsidiaries) products and other goods which are managed by the logistics department. This gaining agreements. constitution act or the local labour legislation is and materials used for the department works constantly to reduce environapplied. organization’s operations, mental pollution due to transportation. The goods and transporting members of SanLucar are transported by: plane (0.25%), ship LA5 Minimum notice period(s) Specified in the collective agreement or the local of the workforce. (19.41%) and truck (80.34%). regarding operational labour legislation. changes, including whether Notice period regarding the Spanish collective The logistic, controlling and IT departments work it is specified in collective agreement: together for calculating automatically the emissions agreements. manager/middle management 60 days of the transport routes to optimize them. All of our technicians 30 days forwarders sign our Code of Ethics. administrative employees/workers 15 days Human Resources (headLA6 Percentage of total workEstablishment of security and health committee of We work on a new Internet site for carpooling in quarters and subsidiaries) force represented in formal SanLucar Fruit in February 2010. The committee Spain. This platform allows measuring the impact of joint management–worker consists of 8 people, which represented through 4 the way from our home to the workplace and helps health and safety commitemployees (not leading position) and 4 of middle to reduce fuel consumption and greenhouse gas tees that help monitor and and high management level for the office in Puzol emissions. advise on occupational and the warehouse in Vall d´Uixó. There have been 4 health and safety meetings last year. In Tunisia we offer our employees a bus service. programs. At the end of the year 2012 we plan the establishment of a safety and health committee in Tunisia. We measured the carbon footprint of our lemons, In Austria one person is responsible for safety and including also the transport to Ettlingen. health. It consists of a plan of work safety and health measures as well as three people with first aid eduFinance EN30 Total environmental proSee Appendix 3 action. tection expenditures and In Germany we plan the establishment of a safety investments by type. and health committee in 2013. At the moment one person is responsible for these tasks. Human Resources (headLA7 Rates of injury, occupational The absence rate (all days of non working/days of quarters and subsidiaries) diseases, lost days, and working*employees) are currently not measured. The absenteeism, and number next CR Report will provide more details. of work related fatalities by region and by gender. Spain: Accidents without notification of sickness 7; Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 accidents with notification of sickness 2. Code Definition or pages in the CR Report Austria: There were no accidents and incidents. Indicators for labour standards Human Resources (headLA1 Total workforce by employSee Appendix 3 Germany: Absentee days: men 40 and women 45. quarters and subsidiaries) ment type, employment contract, and region, broTunisia: 933 Failure days through notification of ken down by gender. sickness. LA2 Total number and rate of The average fluctuation rate in: new employee hired and headquarters in Spain: 3% employee turnover by age office in Austria: 6.25% group, gender, and region. office in Germany: 24% (because of restructuring) Fluctuation rate = notice of withdrawal/number of employees*100 LA3 Benefits provided to fullEverybody gets the same social security. 80% of emtime employees that are ployees have a fixed contract. not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by See Chapter 3 significant locations of operation. LA15 Return to work and retenComplete reemployment, in some cases part-time tion rates after parental and home office. leave, by gender. Therefore 100% See Chapter 3 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 104 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 105 Safety & Health Committee LA8 Education, training, counAnti-smoking-campaign in Austria. LA13 Composition of governance See Indicator 4.3 and Chapter 3.3 and Appendix 3 and CR seling, prevention, and Donation of blood campaign and medical examinabodies and breakdown of risk-control programs in tion in Puzol. employees per employee place to assist workforce Nurse and a medical prevention team in Tunisia. category according to genmembers, their families, Information meeting about sexually transmitted disder, age group, minority or community members eases in Ecuador (international voluntary program). group membership, and regarding serious diseases. Training of hygiene and manipulation of groceries. other indicators of diversity. Number of programs for prevention of working risks LA14 Ratio of basic salary and The salary of men and women is equal in the differIn Spain: remuneration of women to ent categories of staff with the same responsibility as • Office safety 71 men by employee category, well as determined through the collective agreement • Working with danger of explosion 4 by significant locations of and the labour law. These are established in the Code • Grocery manipulator 1 operation. of Ethics and are applied to the corporate policy. • Security in maintenance positions 1 See Chapter 3.3 • Security in quality positions 1 • Correct use of protection clothing 6 In Austria: Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 • 16 hours IFS/HACCP or pages in the CR Report Code Definition • 48 hours first aid education Indicators of human rights Campaigns for the prevention of sexually transmitLegal Services HR1 Percentage and total num80% of supplier contracts for goods and services. Since ted diseases in South Africa are previewed. ber of significant invest2010 SanLucar´s set of clauses in the supplier contracts, ment agreements and conrequired that a supplier does not violate these princiHuman Resources and LA9 Health and safety topics tracts that include clauses ples in our Code of Ethics. Safety & Health Committee covered in formal agreeSee LA6 incorporating human rights See Chapter 4.2 and 6.6 ments with trade unions. concerns, or that have undergone human rights Investment agreements (21st of December 2011): In Human Resources LA10 Average hours of training 35 hours of training per employee and year, regardscreening. the agreement of the acquisition of a farm in South per year per employee by less of gender. Africa the law of “Black Economic Empowerment” gender, and by employee Two women attend the training of specific abilities (BEE) is applied. The law served to improve the concategory. in the campaign 2011/2012 that represented a total ditions of the disadvantaged population during the of 638 hours. apartheid. LA11 Programs for skills manageChapter 3 and 5.2 ment and lifelong learning Quality & Production HR2 Percentage of significant See Chapter 4.1 that support the continued Training program Austria: 29 English lessons suppliers, contractors and employability of employees other business partners that 100% and assist them in managTraining program Spain: have undergone human ing career endings. • 638 hours: Manager Coaching, Master of Agrorights screening, and The audit of homologation for our growers, carriers ecology actions taken. and intermediate platforms includes ethic, environ• 3,493 language lessons ment and quality aspects. The signed contract of our partners also includes a clause of observance to our Code of Ethics. This Code of Ethics is based on the LA12 Percentage of employees 100%, regardless of gender international SA8000 standard and the principles of receiving regular perforThe benefit system of SanLucar is managed online the Global Compact. mance and career developwith a new computer program. ment reviews, by gender. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 106 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 107 Human Resources HR3 Total hours of employee 90% are trained – 26 hours of training in the last Risk Committee HR10 Percentage and total numSee HR1 training on policies and campaign. ber of operations that have Our risk management system includes the “Ethical procedures concerning Training for aspects of SA8000, to 100% by the embeen subject to human Risk” aspects of human rights that ployees of SanLucar Fruit. rights reviews and/or imare relevant to operations, We already started with the introductory phase of pact assessments. including the percentage of SA8000 in SanLucar Deutschland GmbH, SanLucar employees trained. Import GmbH, SanLucar Vertrieb, SanLucar Obst und Legal Services HR11 Number of grievances reThere were no complaints and claims in response to Gemüse Handels GmbH. lated to human rights filed, human rights. addressed and resolved through formal grievance Quality & Production HR4 Total number of incidents of There were no incidents reported with regards to mechanisms. discrimination and correcdiscrimination, child labour, urgent or obligatory tive actions taken. work. All of theses are monitoring indicators of SA8000. See HR2 Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 Code Definition or pages in the CR Report SanLucar signed the Global Compact in 2011 and has been certified by SA8000 since March 2010. All Social Indicators supplier contracts include a liability clause to comply SanLucar International SO1 Percentage of operations with See Chapter 5 with the principles of the Global Compact and the and CR implemented local commuPolitics for local attitude and activities with the HR5 Operations and significant Code of Ethics of SanLucar. suppliers identified in nity engagement, impact ascommunity. which the right to exercise sessments, and development freedom of association and programs. Our identification and review process for ethical collective bargaining may risks are defined through our integrated system, SanLucar International SO9 Operations with significant There are no negative effects in the local community be violated or a significant taking account of SA8000, ISO 9001 and IFS. and Risk Committee potential or actual negative identified. Moreover, through our activities a positive risk, and actions taken to impacts on local communities. influence is observed. support these rights. Furthermore, the “Ethical Risk” is included in our SO10 Prevention and mitigation HR6 Operations and significant risk management system. measures implemented in suppliers identified as operations with significant having significant risk for potential or actual negative incidents of child labor, and impacts on local communimeasures taken to contribties. ute to the effective aboliRisk Committee SO2 Prozentsatz und Anzahl Signing of the Global Compact and the Code of tion of child labor. der Geschäftseinheiten, die Ethics. HR7 Operations and significant auf Korruptionsrisiken hin We analyse the manipulation risk with the applicasuppliers identified as having untersucht wurden. tion of our risk management system. significant risk for incidents See Chapter 2.5 of forced or compulsory SA8000 Committee SO3 Percentage of employees All staff know the Code of Ethics from SanLucar (Point 10 labor, and measures to trained in organization’s are the anti-corruption measures). contribute to the eliminaanti-corruption policies and tion of all forms of forced or procedures. In the next campaign we start training for our risk compulsory labor. management system and emphasize the important SanLucar International HR8 Percentage of security Tunisia: 16 risks for our company. Just 13% of SanLucar Fruit personnel trained in the South Africa: 12 and 1.5% of the SanLucar Group were trained (Risk organization’s policies or It is an external company that also gets training Committee and the holder of the risks). procedures concerning about our Code of Ethics. aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations. Legal Services SO4 Actions taken in response to No incidents of corruption. Legal Services HR9 Total number of incidents of SanLucar International has just set up administrative incidents of corruption. violations involving rights of activities in cities and developed agro-projects in indigenous people and rural areas, which are asigned for agricultural proCR SO5 Public policy positions and This year SanLucar has participated in: actions taken. duction. participation in public policy • International CSR-Conference in Berlin development and lobbying. • Presentation of the program: Participation of young It exists no incidents. people against climate change. Organized from the university EARTH and the government of Costa Rica. SanLucar signed the Global Compact and the Charter of Diversity. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 108 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 109 Finance (headquarters and SO6 Total value of financial and There were no contributions of this type. PR3 Type of product and service We maintain the labelling specification of SanLucar, subsidiaries) in-kind contributions to information required by which is based on the legislation of: Commission political parties, politicians, procedures, and percentimplementing regulation (EU) Nº 543/2011 of 7 June and related institutions by age of significant products for fruit and vegetable marketing, regulation (EU) country. and services subject to such nº 1169/2011 of the European Parliament and the Legal Services SO7 Total number of legal actions There were no anticompetitive behaviour and moinformation requirements. council of 25 October 2011 on the provision of food for anticompetitive behavior nopoly practices. information to consumers, and various norms of the and monopoly practices and United Nations Economic Commission for Europe their outcomes. UNECE). We save specific information through our traceabiliSO8 Monetary value of signifiThere were no fines and sanctions of this type. ty system (see Chapter 6.2). cant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions Is used on products to 100%. for noncompliance with laws and regulations. PR4 Total number of incidents It has not happened. There are no breaches. of noncompliance with regulations and voluntary Prevention system and checkpoints between all codes concerning product processes. and service information and labeling, by type of outSee Chapter 6.2 Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 come. Code Definition or pages in the CR Report PR5 Practices related to customSee Chapter 6.3 Product-related Indicators er satisfaction, including Quality & Production PR1 Life cycle stages in which 100% results of surveys measuring health and safety impacts ISO 9001, QS, IFS, APPCC, Global G.A.P. customer satisfaction. of products and services are assessed for improvement, Program to reduce pesticides: The prime and constant Corporate Communication PR6 Programs for adherence to SanLucar sells fruit and vegetables, a healthy and and percentage of signifigoal is reducing the number and concentration of and Brand law, standards, and volunnot forbidden product. cant products and services pesticide residues. We analyzed the residues of the last tary codes related to SanLucar has a responsible marketing, which is based categories subject to such campaign and looked for alternatives with our technimarketing communications, on international and own standards. Our marketing procedures. cians and just select the best growers. These are some including advertising, prostimulates our consumers to eat healthy food and applied measures to reach our “Zero-Residues” motion, and sponsorship. as a result develops creative ideas (for example with product goal. new recipies). Reducing the consequences: The use of products of PR7 Total number of incidents In the campaign 2011/2012 we received an official organic origin, sustainable production measures, of noncompliance with regnotification for our confusing advertising with the resistant varieties and fields are selected regarding low ulations and voluntary product “Vitamin-C Bomben”. We defined the propest pressure. We are committed to use integrated and codes concerning marketcedure to be followed in the next campaign. sustainable pest control for health aspects and environing communications, includmental reasons. ing advertising, promotion, It gives records of residue dedected to verify the conand sponsorship by type of stant improvement and to make corrective measures at outcomes. any time. This program is applied to all products from Information PR8 Total number of substantiData privacy statement (LOPD-Ley de Protección de Chile, Spanish strawberries and citrus fruits like the Technologies ated complaints regarding Datos). Italian grapes (34.48% of SanLucar products in the case breaches of customer priMechanism for our Web portal was implemented. of the sales volume in the campaign 2011/2012). vacy and losses of customer SL Technologies subjected to an external audit. data. PR2 Total number of incidents of It has not happened, nor any breaches. noncompliance with reguLegal Services PR9 Monetary value of sigIt has not happened. There are no breaches. lations and voluntary codes Our preventive system: Selection and unblocking nificant fines for nonconcerning health and safety of the parcels, which comply with specifications to compliance with law and impacts of products and ser100%. So that health and safety are guaranteed. regulations concerning the vices during their life cycle, We already select our products in the field acomprovision and use of prodby type of outcomes. plishing our standards and specifications. The table ucts and services. of parcels with the information are available for all clients on our Web portal. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 110 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 111 Appendix 2. Communication on Progress Report (CoP) Area of responsibility Indicators Results of the campaign 2011/2012 Principles of Global Compact Progress Code Definition or pages in the CR Report Nr. Principle Projects and appropriate Relevant Indicators Initiatives SanLucar Indicators Human Rights Quality & Production SL1 Percentage of the suppliers 100% of our growers were audited in ethical and sub-contractors who standards. 1 Businesses should support In this case the progress exsists on 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, were audited to the ethical 100% of our forwarders, intermediate platforms and and respect the protection the assumption that everybody has 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, LA4, and environmental other service providers were audited for ethical and of internationally the same rights. For this, our Code LA6, LA7, LA8, LA9, LA13, standards from SanLucar. environmental standards. proclaimed human rights. of Ethics is translated into six lanLA14, EC5, HR1, HR2, HR3, <1% of the growers were audited in our new guages and specific programs for HR4, HR5, HR6, HR7, HR8, developed grower profile (quality, ethics, countries where we do business HR9, SO5, PR1, PR2 environment) which starts in the campaign (e.g. Tunisia). 2011/2012. 2 Businesses should make sure SanLucar has a Code of Ethics 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, Our goal is to audit 100% of the growers, which they are not complicit in which is applied to all levels, an 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, HR1, have worked with us more than three years, with human rights abuse integrated management system HR2, HR3, HR4, HR5, HR6, the grower profil until the end of the campaign which is also based on the norm HR7, HR8, HR9, SO5 2012/2013. SA8000 and a worldwide network of CR Ambassadors. Furthermore, SL2 Percentage of activities 100% SanLucar carries out an ethical which fulfilled international homologation to all suppliers best practice approaches. The corporate certification project starts during the and has a grower profile with Parts of the SanLucar campaign 2011/2012 with the following aims: three levels (quality, ethics, activities, which fulfilled the • Improvement of the certification process of the environment). international excellence actual management system of SanLucar. standards (provided for the • Certification of all processes in the newly estabLabour integrated management lished farms which are based on the structure system). extension in the production areas since campaign 3 Businesses should uphold SanLucar has a Code of Ethics 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, 2011/2012. the freedom of association which is applied to all levels, an 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, LA4, • In March 2012, SanLucar Vetrieb was affiliated to and the effective recognition integrated management system LA5, HR1, HR2, HR3, HR5, SO5 the IFS certification and gave the starting point for of the right to collective which is also based on the norm their own corporate certification. bargaining. SA8000 and a worldwide • In September 2012, we will have completed the 4 Businesses should uphold network of CR Ambassadors. 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, certification of ISO 9001 in SanLucar Fruit S.L., the elimination of all forms Furthermore, SanLucar carries out 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, HR1, SanLucar Vertrieb, SanLucar Deutschland GmbH and of forced and compulsory an ethical homologation to all HR2, HR3, HR7, SO5 SanLucar Fruit Import GmbH. Apart from SanLucar labour. suppliers and has a grower profile Fruit S.L., all others have been certified for the first with three levels (quality, ethics, time in a cooperative certification process. environment). 5 Businesses should uphold 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, • In April 2013 we will have completed the certiSanLucar has an equality plan and the effective abolition of 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, HR1, fication of the IFS Norm in in SanLucar Fruit S.L., an equality committee with a repchild labour. HR2, HR3, HR6, SO5 SanLucar Vetrieb, SanLucar Deutschland GmbH and resentative (Stefanie Müller) SanLucar Fruit Import GmbH. The last two have who is assembleing regulary with been certified for the first time in a cooperative the management board and the 6 Businesses should uphold employee represantives to avoid 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 4.7, certification process. the elimination of sexism and all other forms of dis4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 4.13, EC7, discrimination in respect of crimination. LA2, LA13, LA14, HR1, HR2, CR SL3 Countries where SanLucar 4 (Spain, Austria, Tunisia, Costa Rica) employment and occupation. HR3, HR4, SO5 In Tunisia we pay a school bonus developed social projects. in order that the children of our employees can go to school and the wages are higher than the national average. Furthermore we work on the economical development of the community with concrete projects, like the promotion of traditional craftsmanship. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 112 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 113 Environment 7 Businesses should support a The risks of environmental problems have been 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, Appendix 3. Corporate data precautionary approach to identified with the risk management as well as 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.11, environmental challenges. preventive measures defined (assessment of 4.12, 4.13, EN18, EN26, environmental aspects and impacts). EN30, EC2, LA4, EN26, EN30, SO5 Financial profile 8 Businesses should undertake A better environmental practice and the spread 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, initiatives to promote of our environmental policy is the best way to 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, greater environmental promote environmental responsibility between 4.13, EN1, EN2, EN3, EN4, responsibility. employees, customers, growers and suppliers. EN5, EN6, EN7, EN8, EN9, Continuously sensitising through internal EN10, EN11, EN12, EN13, Sales development in Million Euros communication and trainings of the key persons. EN14, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19, EN20, EN21, EN22, EN23, EN24, EN25, EN26, EN27, EN28, EN29, 300 293,82 EN30, SO5, PR3, PR4 9 Businesses should encourage A committment of SanLucar with the growers is to 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 263,26 the development and know and promote the best technology. Sharing 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, diffusion of environmentally knowledge and supporting the implementation, 4.13, EN2, EN5, EN6, EN7, 250 233,46 friendly technology. wherever necessary. EN10, EN18, EN26, EN27, EN30, SO5 200 Anti-Corruption 10 Businesses should work SanLucar has a Code of Ethics which is applied to all 4.1, 4.2, 4.3, 4.4, 4.5, 4.6, 150,95 against corruption in all its levels, an integrated management system which is 4.7, 4.8, 4.9, 4.10, 4.12, 150 forms, including extortion also based on the norm SA8000 and a worldwide 4.13, SO2, SO3, SO4, SO5, and bribery. network of CR Ambassadors. Furthermore, SanLucar SO6 carries out an ethical homologation to all suppliers 100 and has a grower profile with three levels (quality, ethics, environment). We carry out a detailed assessment before we start 50 working together with new partners, whereby we always act with our values and principles. 0 2008/09 2009/10 2010/11 2011/12 (9 months) Corporate Responsibility Investment (Society and Environment) in Euro Company Since campaign 2011/2012 2008/2009 SanLucar Fruit S.L. 177,056.69 La Cinquième Saison SA 2,180,000 780,000 SanLucar South Africa 40,000 Citrus (Pty) Ltd* Other investments 50,000 (Corporate citizenship in Austria) Total 1,047,056.69 * Corporate activities since April 2012. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 114 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 115 Distribution of sales by countries Employees Campaign 2011/2012 4% 1% 2% 23 % 2% Number of employees (consolidated data) Professional status Men Women Total Quota of women Executive 5 0 5 0.00% Germany Directors 9 5 14 35.71% Manager 28 17 45 37.78% Austria Admin. staff 17 66 83 79.52% Spain Technicians 82 47 129 36.43% France Commercial/Sales staff 16 27 43 62.79% Great Britain Warehouse staff 373 782 1155 67.71% Others Total 530 944 1474 64.04% 68 % Spain Professional status Average number of employees Men Women Total Executive 3 0 3 Directors 6 2 8 Manager 8 12 20 Admin. staff 5 38 43 Distribution of sales by products Technicians 42 34 76 Campaign 2011/2012 Commercial/Sales staff 5 9 14 Warehouse staff 2 1 3 Total 71 96 167 6% 4% Strawberries 4% Citrus 24 % Grapes Portugal 6% Professional status Average number of employees Tomatoes Men Women Total Stone fruits 6% Executive 0 Vegetables Directors 0 Berries Manager 1 1 8% Bananas Admin. staff 1 1 21 % Pineapples Technicians 1 1 2 Others Commercial/Sales staff 0 8% Warehouse staff 2 1 3 Total 4 3 7 13 % SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 116 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 117 Austria South Africa Professional status Average number of employees Professional status Average number of employees Men Women Total Men Women Total Executive 0 Executive 1* 0 Directors 1 1 Directors 1 1 Manager 0 Manager 3 2 5 Admin. staff 4 3 7 Admin. staff 1 3 4 Technicians 0 Technicians 5 5 Commercial/Sales staff 3 4 7 Commercial/Sales staff 1 1 Warehouse staff 17 0 17 Warehouse staff 153 186 339 Total 25 7 32 Total 163 192 355 Germany Professional status Average number of employees Men Women Total Executive 1 0 1 Packaging material used: Directors 2 0 2 Manager 4 0 4 Admin. staff 1 9 10 MATERIAL WEIGHT (KG) Technicians 14 4 18 TRANSPORT PACKAGING 3,218,530 Commercial/Sales staff 6 8 14 WOOD 1,090,151 Warehouse staff 1 0 1 PLASTIC 709,263 Total 29 21 50 CARTON 688,070 PAPER 127,506 HASSIAN SAC 9,527 Tunisia GLASS 7,095 Professional status Average number of employees WICKER 537 Men Women Total STRAW 503 Executive 1* 1 CORK 36 Directors 2 2 NET 27 Manager 12 3 15 Total 5,851,245 Admin. staff 6 12 18 Technicians 20 8 28 Commercial/Sales staff 1 6 7 Warehouse staff 198 594 792 Total 238 625 863 DESTINATION OF THE MATERIALS CONSUMER SUPERMARKET Total CARTON (box) 366,968 4,599,627 4,966,595 PREPACK (Packaging which goes to the 781,989 102,661 884,650 consumers) Total 1,148,957 4,702,288 5,851,244 * Same person in charge in Tunisia and South Africa. SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 118 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 119 Materials which goes to the consumers (prepack) Appendix 5. Certifications Certifications: SA8000, ISO 9001, IFS, QS Hassian Sac 1 % Paper 3 % Glass 1 % Plastic 91 % Others 9 % Carton 4 % Appendix 4. Contacts Ilka Hein Delia García Nancy Daiss Head of Communication, PR and CR Corporate Responsibility Manager Corporate Responsibility Project Office Germany Office Spain/International Developer Ilka speaks German and English Delia speaks Spanish, English, German Office Spain/International Mobile: +49 170 913 6882 and Portuguese Nancy speaks German, Spanish, English E-Mail: ilka.hein@sanlucar.com Phone: +34 961 42 40 40 | Extn. 2192 and French Mobile: +34 648 039 692 Phone: +34 961 42 40 40 | Extn. 2258 Fax: +34 961 424 247 Mobile: +34 618 902 836 E-Mail: delia.garcia@sanlucar.com Fax: +34 961 424 238 E-Mail: nancy.daiss@sanlucar.com SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 120 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 121 Appendix 6. Glossary Corporate Social Responsibility SA8000 The European Commission published a new definition of CSR as: “[...] the responsibility of enterprises for their impact on society. To The Social Accountability Standard SA8000 was launched in1997 and is based on the International Human Right Conventions fully meet their corporate social responsibility, enterprises should have in place a process to integrate social, environmental, ethical, and the recommendation of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The main objective is to improve the worker conhuman rights and consumer concerns into their business operations and core strategy in close collaboration with their stakeholders ditions worldwide, especially in supplier companies in developing countries. Representatives of NGOs, workers, trade unions with the aim of: and companies of all sectors were involved in developing the standard. • maximising the creation of shared value for their owners/shareholders and for their other stakeholders and society at large; The standard is based on a number of existing international human rights` standards including the Conventions of the Inter• identifying, preventing and mitigating their possible adverse impacts.“ national Labour Organization (ILO), the United Nations‘Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child. The compatibility of existing management system such as ISO 9001 (quality management) and ISO 14001 series were also considered in the devoloping process of SA8000. Stakeholder SA8000 is composed of 9 requirements: Stakeholders are various internal and external interest groups of a company which are influenced directly or indirectly by the corporate activities. The relationship is often reciprocal, so that stakeholders can also exert an influence on the company. Stakeholders of SanLucar are employees, growers and suppliers, clients and costumers as well as the local communities. • Child labour is not permitted • Forced labour is not permitted • Health and safety have to be assured GRI Indicators (Global Reporting Initiative) • Freedom to organize and collective bargaining have to be guaranteed GRI creates a reporting framework for sustainability reporting through globally applicable guidelines. The reporting frame• Discrimination is not permitted work includes a guide that sets out the principles and indicators that organizations can use to measure and communicate their • Disciplinary practices are not permitted economic, environmental and social performance. • Working hours shall not exceed 48 hrs a week, with a maximum of 12 hrs overtime • Remuneration shall be sufficient www.globalreporting.com • Management systems shall guarantee that the requirements are effectively satisfied. Global Compact The Global Compact consists of ten principles covering the areas of the declaration of human rights, the core labour conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO) and the Rio Declaration (in the field of environmental protection) as well as the UPJ UN Convention against corruption. Companies which signed the Global Compact recognize the need to follow these principles: UPJ is a network of committed companies and charitable intermediary organizations in Germany. Organizations like companies, public administration and charitable organizations support each other in developing and implementing your Human Rights corporate citizenship and corporate responsibility activities. http://www.upj.de/ 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour BEE – Black Economic Empowerment 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Black Economic Empowerment was introduced as a legal measure by the South African Government in January 2004 and collective bargaining; is an instrument of policy for equality. The main objective of the program was to strengthen the opportunity for equal4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ity in the labour market through the promotion of education, the creation of property, filling management positions, 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and socio-economic development and public procurement from in organizations from previously disadvantaged communities 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. (Black, Coloured, Indian/Asian). Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; KAM (Key Account Manager) 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and The main task of a key account manager is the management of the custumer relationship which is a key success factor 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technology. for every company. The KAM has to gain a thorough understanding of key customers and represents their interests in Anti-Corruption the company. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. www.unglobalcompact.com SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 122 SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 123 HACCP (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) © All rights reserved. No part, content or images of this report may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted in any form, or by any means without the written permission of HACCP is a systematic preventive system to ensure the safety of food. The concept includes process and product specific meaSanLucar Group. surements for the protection of the health of the consumers. The information of this report belongs to the activity period comprehended between July 1st 2011, IFS (International Food Standard) and June 30th 2012. IFS is a common internationally accepted audit standard for foodstuffs of the German and French retail trade which was To facilitate the reading of this report, the masculine form of the pronoun has been used in some created to indroduce integrated assessment criterias for all producers with own brands. sentences. We note that all statements apply equally to women and men. GLOBAL G.A.P. Contact: SanLucar Fruit, S.L. | Serra Llarga, 24 | 46530 Puzol | Valencia | Spain GLOBAL G.A.P. is a private sector organization that sets voluntary standards for the certification of agricultural products around E-Mail: CR-Team@sanlucar.com the world. The certification contains key reference standards for Good Agricultural Practice, whereby the certification is based on the consumer requirements for agricultural production. QS (Quality and Security) The “QS Qualität und Sicherheit GmbH” created a system for certified quality assurance from production to marketing. The QS is a cross stage system that ensures the quality and origin of the entire supply chain and involves the production, processing and marketing of foodstuffs. There for each firm will be controlled periodically for compliance with the specific criteria for production, transport, storage and hygiene. Traceability Under the regulation (EU) 178/2002 traceability means, that: “the ability to trace and follow a food, feed, food-producing animal or substance intended to be, or expected to be incorporated into a food or feed, through all stages of production, processing and distribution.” SanLucar Corporate Responsibility page 124 Follow us in: This report has been self-verified regarding the standard GRI, in its version 3.1. We have self-declared our reporting to be Application Level A.
