Lakewood Asset Management: Communication on Progress (March 2012 to March 2013) Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Lakewood Asset Management Ltd and its partner companies reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to affirm membership of the Global compact on our internet webpages and relevant company communication tools and to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Kind Regards, Wiehahn Gerber Chief Executive Officer Principles 1 & 2 Assessment, Policy & Goals Lakewood Asset Management respects human rights in our daily operations and with all the market counterparties that we deal with. We support the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and continuously commit not to conduct any business in any country or regime where flagrant human rights abuses are known. The corporate culture does not allow victimisation, bullying or harassment. Implementation Our corporate culture dictates awareness and relevance on the topic of human rights. We maintain a flat management structure whereby employees are free to voice their opinions and whereby any input are valued. Our workforce is encouraged, through corporate communication, to learn more on the value of human rights and its importance in the development of a sustainable business. Outcomes In the past year Lakewood Asset Management has not been subject to any investigation, legal cases or any incident involving human rights Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 Assessment, Policy & Goals We conduct our business in accordance with UK law and any applicable country where we conduct our business. We aggressively support ILO core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation who uses forced child labour. All Lakewood employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms and conditions of employment and in particular their pay rates, sick leave, bonus structures, maternity and paternity leave, etc. All of these are fair and fully comply with the UK’s laws and regulation. Furthermore, employees are furnished with Employee Manuals which describes the company’s culture, our commitment to labour rights and personal development. Implementation The management team at Lakewood continuously consults with staff at all levels. We maintain a flat corporate structure where all levels of the labour force have access to top management. This is made partly possible due to the company’s current SME profile. Employees are made fully aware of Health and Safety laws and notices of this kind are placed at key points within our office to ensure compliance with these regulations on a constant basis. Employees are constantly coached to ensure personal growth and development and informal reviews are conducted to ensure a free flow of information between employee and employer. Lakewood, also communicates its commitment to fair labour practices to our stakeholders, in particular, the projects that we promote. Outcomes Lakewood Asset management has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year neither have there been any noted events such as investigations or legal cases to the contravention of Global Compact Labour principles. It’s our aim this year to maintain this record, whilst further implementing measures to aid in the personal and professional development of our workforce. Principles 7, 8 & 9 Assessment, Policy & Goals Lakewood supports sustainability in all its forms and is an ardent supporter of the WWF and the Woodland Trust in the UK. We aim to reduce our own carbon footprint and subscribe to measures of waste disposal that are not only in compliance with municipal regulations, but also aid the recycling process. We identify investment targets that have sustainable environmental impact and consider it of vital importance to adhere to this. Implementation Staff within our company is encouraged to communicate with one another and external stakeholders through electronic means as opposed to unnecessary usage of paper. The use of emission reduction units such as carbon credits has been advocated throughout the firm as a means to offset carbon footprint and to reduce ultimately reduce CO2 emissions. Only investment targets with a robust socialand environmental impact is chosen. Outcomes Lakewood Asset management employs a strict waste disposal policy in accordance with regulations by the Local council. We have not had any reportable environmental incidents within the last year and has not been subject to any statutory notices or prosecutions. Principle 10 Assessment, Policy & Goals Our corporate culture creates an awareness of the topic of ant-corruption and its relevance in our market. We are fully compliant to the UK’s Bribery Act of 2010 and do not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. We support the UN Convention Against Corruption and do not conduct business with any corrupt organisations. With our global expansion we make an active effort to communicate this principal to our key staff and broader workforce Implementation Our workforce is constantly encouraged to report potential corrupt activity – particularly in relation to the dealing with external stakeholders. Internal policies on the acceptance of gifts from clients, awarding of contracts to suppliers are communicated in order to prevent corrupt activity. Outcomes Lakewood Asset Management has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption or bribery.
