COP – Communication On Progress in AKTOR SA 2012 AKTOR, as the main and largest subsidiary of ELLAKTOR Group, publishes its environmental, social and business performance through ELLAKTOR’s Sustainability Reports. The publishing of Sustainability Reports has been interrupted for 2011, because of the general economical – social situation in Greece and for the 2012 will be published soon in the web sites www.aktor.gr and www.ellaktor.gr. The Sustainability Reports conforms to the criteria and requirements of UN Global Compact (UNGC) GRI 3.0. By the publication of the Sustainability Reports, we aim at a continuous contact of the company with the stakeholders, having as a target the information about subjects relative to the environment, the human employee and the economic development. AKTOR’s and ELLAKTOR’s performances are reported separately in each annual Sustainability Report which include all actions that took place in order to adapt the UNGC 10 Principles and every commitment against these Principles. There for, concerning the actions taken for the support – implementation of the UNGC 10 Principles, AKTOR presents a continuous improvement in environmental, labor and social subjects. Especially concerning:  The acceptance of human rights and their violation as reported in the UNGC Principles 1 and 2, AKTOR has adopted all aspects of human rights declaration, preventing violations of human rights, while equal opportunities are given to all employees. These responsibilities are stated on the Environmental Statement 2012, chapter 9.  Discriminations in employment, child and forced labor, as mentioned in Principles 4, 5 and 6 of the UNGC, in AKTOR child and forced labor as well as any discrimination in employment are forbidden. These responsibilities are stated on the Environmental Statement 2012, chapter 9.  Initiatives for the encouragement of further environmental responsibility as it is mentioned in the UNGC Principles 7, 8 and 9, AKTOR implements EMP certificated by EMAS II and ISO 14001 and publishes the environmental actions and benefits for the environment on the internet www.aktor.gr, the website of the European Union http://ec.europa.eu/environment/emas/index_en.htm and in the website of the Hellenic Environmental Ministry www.minenv.gr/emas/ and through the verified Environmental Statement 2012. Also, in the AKTOR’s Environmental Statement of 2012 of the company we set a table, Chapter 8.7.1, with the energy consumption and the energy saving we have, from the measures taken. Based on the energy saving we announce the reduction of CO2 air emissions and company’s contribution in greenhouse effect containment and to less burden on our planet. Loukas Giannakoulis Vice – president AKTOR SA
