BEYOND THE NUMBERS Registered Office: The Indian Hotels Company Limited, Mandlik House, Mandlik Road, Colaba, Mumbai 400 001. INDIAN HOTELS COMPANY LIMITED Tel.: 91 22 6639 5515, Fax.: 91 22 2283 4922 CORPORATE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012-13 www.tajhotels.com For any feedback/queries, please contact: Mr. Vasant Ayyappan Director Corporate Sustainability Tel.: +91 22 6665 1000 Email: vasant.ayyappan@tajhotels.com BEYOND THE NUMBERS ABOUT THE REPORT At Taj Hotels, we have always believed in giving back to This report tells you all about Indian Hotels Company society what we earn from it. Which is why, over the last 11 Limited’s (IHCL) sustainability impacts and performance. CONTENTS decades, we’ve made corporate citizenship integral to who Published annually, our tenth sustainability report covers we are. the performance data and information for the financial year 2012-13. This report is based on the Global Reporting Whether it’s our efforts in environmental preservation or Initiative’s G3.1 Guidelines and also serves as our our community building initiatives, our legacy restoration Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global programs or our education drives, every little thing we do is Compact. This year, we have also aligned our report with with the intent of making a difference to the lives of others. the National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business, released by The Corporate Sustainability Report 2012-13 bears Ministry of Corporate Affairs, India. testimony to the fact that at Taj, goodness is not an afterthought it is a habit. Each day, in all that we do, we The report is prepared keeping in mind our different make sure to look beyond the numbers and focus on the stakeholders and their needs for information on our bigger picture to make change happen. sustainability agenda and performance. It is structured in such a way that our initiatives and performance on Message from the Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer 3 Which is why, for this edition of our Corporate prioritised critical issues are highlighted, both of which are Sustainability Report, we’ve created a unique ‘Give Back’ of importance to us and our stakeholders. font that uses significantly lesser ink when printed. Each Our Legacy 6 page of this report uses this special font, so that between The analysis of our performance is presented in individual the hundreds of copies of this report that are distributed, sections of the report and references, where appropriate, 110 Years of the Taj 8 we still do our bit to preserve the environment. Every are made to additional sources of information like our character in the font has been inscribed with websites, annual report and earlier sustainability reports. micro-hexagons, inspired by the Taj logo, that most printers The GRI content index, UNGC index and NVG-SEE mapping A Foundation of Ethics 12 can print without distortion thereby saving a significant presented in the report are intended to methodically amount of ink. This is just another small way in which we’re guide the stakeholders to find relevant information on Towards a Sustainable Future 16 furthering our commitment to the planet and sustainability aspects that may be of specific interest strengthening our belief of how simple it is to make the to them. Focusing on Growth & Profitability 19 world a better place. To get the freely distributed font for your use please A Culture of Delight & Surprises 21 email us on: giveback@tajhotels.com Our People, Our Power 28 Creating Safe Environments 33 Preserving the Planet 36 Community & Compassion 45 Assurance Statement 52 GRI/UNGC/NVG-SEE Content Index 55 Glossary 59 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS OF OUR ACHIEVEMENTS IN LAST THREE YEARS MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR & CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 17 new hotels launched 92.4% increase in INR 104.8 million renewable based direct CSR energy consumption expenditure 71 hotels certified 10.4% reduction in 7,217 under-privileged by EARTHCHECK TM total CO2 emissions, youth certified for Environment per room night sold employability certification 47 hotels use solar energy, 5.8% reduction in 38 hotels have zero water consumed, discharge of wastewater, per room night sold 18 hotels harvest rainwater 10,925 employee volunteers 02 MESSAGE FROM THE MANAGING DIRECTOR & been cited as one of the best examples in the UNGC publication efforts have been recognized by leading travel publications such as CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER ‘Growing in Your Sustainability Commitments: A Roadmap for Impact Conde Nast and Travel & Leisure. and Value Creation’. Dear Reader, All our sustainability efforts together reaffirm how strongly we feel I am glad to present to you our 10th Corporate Sustainability Report At the helm of our growth story are our dedicated associates. As a about creating a better world. I am confident that, with the continued and share with you insights on how we conduct our business people company, we do our best to help them grow in a vibrant and support of our stakeholders, we will leap into the future as a model responsibly, while creating lasting value for our stakeholders. This inspiring work environment, by bringing out the best of their potential enterprise that is committed to sustainable development. As always, I report is a reflection of our sustainability performance for the year and suitably rewarding them. The safety and security of our people, welcome constructive feedback on this report that will help us further 2012-13 and is developed based on GRI G3.1 guidelines, conforming to assets and communities is another aspect of our business that remains refine our processes to serve the best interest of all stakeholders. the ‘A+’ application level. It also serves as Communication on Progress, uncompromised. Robust safety management systems, along with training and awareness on these systems, are aimed at making safety in support of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact and security integral to our everyday operations and establishing a (UNCG) principles, and is externally assured by KPMG. work culture that’s sensitive to these issues. Whether it’s about minimising the chances of accidents and injuries, or going the extra Over the past 110 years, IHCL has evolved tremendously in keeping mile to ensure our female associates and guests are always safe, we do with the times and our guests. And while we believe it is this agility what we must and more to make our workplaces and hotels that has made us one of the largest and most respected chains of comfortable in whatever way we can. hotels in South Asia today, what has remained unchanged over all Raymond Bickson these years is our value system. Inspired by the Tata legacy of Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer Beyond our immediate working environment, we’re also aware of our entrepreneurship for greater community good, we’ve always sought responsibility towards the external environment at large. We to look at profits beyond the numbers. Rather, we’ve tried to constantly work towards reducing our environmental footprint, by understand and do what we can to profit the society and environment adopting hotel designs and technologies that are smart, thoughtful within which we function. The passion of our associates, who and considerate. While our existing hotels continually take up energy relentlessly work with integrity to delight guests, empower and environment projects under the EARTH initiative, upcoming new communities and conserve nature, is what defines our culture and is hotels have green features embedded right at the design stage to also our core strength & competitive advantage. create environmentally sustainable infrastructure. Energy, water, waste and biodiversity management are key focus areas of our green Travel and tourism as an industry continues to grow and impact the endeavours and our focused efforts on these aspects, complemented economy significantly. Among the many direct and indirect economic by the heightened environmental sensitivity of our associates, help us impacts of this industry, the ones of note are its contribution to GDP, in protecting the environment. The EARTHCHECK TM certification the supporting and creating of jobs, its impact on foreign exchange process that we follow reaffirms our commitment towards creating a and increased investments. By 2023, this industry is expected to greener and better planet. Till date, 61 of our hotels have achieved the contribute around 10% to global GDP and employment a figure that EARTHCHECK TM Silver certification, while 10 hotels have achieved the assures us of the huge role it has to play in the days to come. Industry Bronze certification. trends, in fact, suggest that growth is likely to be driven by emerging economies, with China being expected to overtake USA as the largest As a hospitality company, we also understand that it is not just our travel and tourism economy. These future prospects excite us, despite guests whom we’re meant to serve. Which is why ‘Building Sustainable the impact of economic volatility on the hospitality sector in the recent Livelihoods’ is the cornerstone of our corporate responsibility agenda. past. Having understood these trends, we are strategically making Our livelihood initiatives aim to empower the rural and less-privileged investments to seize these growth opportunities, by catering to new youth with skills that make them employable in the hospitality sector. destinations both, in India and abroad. And we’re confident that our This also serves to meet the increasing industry demand for skilled and exciting philosophy of customer delight, together with our unique and well-groomed manpower. Towards this goal, we work with various exhaustive brand architecture, will deliver value at differential price like-minded partners, including corporate organisations, government points to a varied set of guests and will be our game plan to stay ahead agencies and developmental institutions, to deliver vocational training of the curve. programs. Additionally, the Taj Public Service Welfare Trust continues to selflessly render support to victims of terror, natural calamities and While we continue to grow and explore new destinations, I believe other tragic events that inflict damage to life and property. We are that the way in which we grow is equally important to determine our committed to the development of socially disadvantaged sections of future sustainability. We intend to further our legacy by operating society through Affirmative Action (AA) initiatives. To promote the responsibly, promoting transparency, taking care of our people and arts, culture and heritage of India, we provide platforms for local communities, and minimizing our impact on the environment. Beyond artisans and cultural troops to showcase their talent and keep these our operations, our sustainability efforts are also focused towards invaluable traditions alive. And to make sure that our associates and contributing to greener and safer destinations, and encouraging partners are also involved in community development, we’ve designed responsible tourism. And it gives me great pleasure to share that our a ‘Give Back’ campaign that helps them collaborate and spare their approach of integrating sustainability with our business practices, has time, knowledge and efforts towards causes they care about. Our 04 05 OUR LEGACY “We do not claim to be more unselfish, more generous or more philanthropic than other people. But we think we started on sound and straightforward business principles, considering the interests of the shareholders our own, and the health and welfare of the employees, the sure foundation of our success.” Jamsetji Tata, Founder Tata Group “No success or achievement in material terms is worthwhile, unless it serves the needs or interests of the country and its people, and is achieved by fair and honest means.” JRD Tata, Ex-Chairman “What I would like to do is to leave behind a sustainable entity of a set of companies that operate in an exemplary manner in terms of ethics, values and continue what our ancestors left behind.” Ratan Tata, Chairman Emeritus “We must differentiate ourselves from our competitors through a greater understanding of customer needs and a culture built around customer centricity, innovation, and a focus on profitable growth. We will need to be relentless in our pursuit of improving our competitiveness and in addressing the small issues that are often overlooked, but end up making a significant difference in the value proposition of our products and services. In doing so, we will have to carry along all our key stakeholders employees, shareholders, suppliers, lenders, partners, communities we are present in, governments and do so in the sustainable Tata way. After all, ultimately our very purpose is long-term stakeholder value creation.” Cyrus Mistry, Chairman Tata 07 A 110-year-old legacy of impeccable service and inimitable hospitality. GLOBAL FOOTPRINT A brand that stands for warmth and care. A culture that’s rooted in • 12 Countries Indian traditions and a vision that seeks to reinvent them. A global 110 YEARS OF THE TAJ presence that graces iconic landmarks, important industrial towns and • 119 Hotels cities, beaches, hill stations, historical and pilgrim destinations, and • 14,423 Rooms wildlife sanctuaries. These are some of the few things that define who we are and also the reason why we are Asia's largest, finest and deeply • 3,194,206 Room Night Sold loved chain of hotels. • 25,060 Associates • 708 Mega Joules (MJ) energy consumed per room night • 92 Kilograms CO2 emissions per room night • 1.95 Kiloliters water consumed per room night North America Europe Middle East & India South Asia Australia 3 hotels 2 hotels Africa 102 hotels (except India) 1 hotel 572 rooms 428 rooms 4 hotels 11,830 rooms 7 hotels 100 rooms 520 rooms 793 rooms To know more about us, visit www.tajhotels.com 09 Luxury India & International TajSATS Luxury (luxury full-service hotels, resorts and palaces) is our flagship TajSATS is a joint venture of IHCL and SATS (formerly known as brand for the world's most discerning travellers seeking authentic Singapore Airport Terminal Services) and the market leader in airline experiences. Taj Exotica (luxury leisure resort and spas) is found in the catering in South Asia. With state-of-the-art technology and advanced most exotic and relaxing locales of the world, defined by a sensibility kitchen equipment that ensure hygienic food production and handling, of intimate design, varied and eclectic culinary experiences, TajSATS provides in-flight catering in Mumbai, Delhi, Chennai, Kolkata, impeccable service and authentic Indian spa sanctuaries. Taj Safaris Amritsar, Goa and Bangalore, and manages airport lounges in Mumbai (wildlife resorts) offer India's first and only wildlife luxury lodge circuit, and Chennai. providing guests with the ultimate, interpretive wildlife experience To know more about TajSATS, based on a proven sustainable eco-tourism model. visit www.tajsats.com To know more about Taj Luxury Hotels Resorts and Palaces, visit www.tajhotels.com/Luxury Vivanta by Taj Jiva Spas Vivanta by Taj is designed for the work-hard-play-hard traveller Jiva Spas by the Taj Hotels is a unique wellness concept that is rooted looking for a contemporary and imaginative take on hospitality. in ancient Indian healing knowledge. Sensitively expressed by trained Snazzy, sophisticated and chic, these hotels offer experiences that therapists, the award-winning, all-natural Jiva Spas promise a whole promise to energise, invigorate and inspire guests, while they immerse new experience of tranquillity and redefine soul-searching in the world themselves in a sensory lifestyle. Every stay exudes vitality, vivacity of the modern traveller. and vividness, and presents the normal with an unexpected twist To know more about Jiva Spas, of surprise. visit www.tajhotels.com/jivaspas To know more about Vivanta Hotels and Resorts by Taj, visit www.vivantabytaj.com The Gateway Hotels & Resorts Taj Khazana The Gateway Hotels & Resorts (upscale/mid-market full service hotels Taj Khazana, a chain of luxury lifestyle stores located across select Taj and resorts) offers business and leisure travellers consistent, quick and Hotels, celebrates the arts and cultures of India, by showcasing the crisp service to satisfy their needs for comfort, familiarity and creative talent of local artisans. The stores stock a diverse collection of flexibility. Keeping things simple, the hotels are designed to relax and artifacts created by master craftsmen, each trying to capture a refresh guests with contemporary experiences across eight zones regional flavour with their work. Taj Khazana works with artisans and enter, stay, hangout, meet, work, workout, unwind and explore. weavers across the country to support them by providing sustainable market access. To know more about The Gateway Hotels and Resorts, visit www.thegatewayhotels.com To know more about Taj Khazana, visit www.tajhotels.com/taj-khazana.html Ginger Ginger (smart basics) is uniquely designed to deliver intelligent, well-thought-out facilities and services at a ‘value’ pricing. It caters to new-age travellers who value simplicity, convenience, informality, style, warmth, modernity and affordability. To know more about Ginger Hotels, visit www.gingerhotels.com 10 11 Name of the Director Status Mr. Ratan N. Tata (Ex-Chairman) [a] Promoter, Non-executive A FOUNDATION OF ETHICS Mr. Cyrus Mistry (Chairman) [b] Promoter, Non-executive Mr. R.K. Krishna Kumar (Vice Chairman) Promoter, Non-executive Mr. K. B. Dadiseth Independent, Non-executive Mr. Deepak Parekh Independent, Non-executive Mr. Jagdish Capoor Independent, Non-executive Mr. Shapoor Mistry Independent, Non-executive Mr. Nadir Godrej Independent, Non-executive Ms. Anu Aga [c] Independent, Non-executive Mr. Guy Lindsay Macintyre Crawford [d] Independent, Non-executive Mr. Raymond N. Bickson Executive Mr. Anil P. Goel Executive Mr. Abhijit Mukerji Executive [a] Retired as Director & Chairman, effective December 28, 2012 [b] Appointed as Director & Chairman, effective December 28,2012 [c] Resigned as Director on June 6, 2012 [d] Appointed as Director, effective March 27, 2013 A FOUNDATION OF ETHICS The first thing that comes to anyone’s mind when you say ‘Tata’ is To ensure the organisation functions smoothly and in order to report trust. It is by far the most important aspect of the brand and we are effectively to the Board and our stakeholders, we have established proud to be at the roots of this lineage. Governance plays an various business processes and controls. The Strategic Planning important role in shaping our organisation’s culture and our Process (SPP), based on the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM), governance model is inspired by the Tata legacy of ‘leadership with helps us in establishing our objectives, strategies and standard trust’. Also at the core of our governance model are the Tata Code of operating processes. These objectives set measurable targets for the Conduct (TCoC) and Tata Value System, both of which guide to operate brand, for our hotels and for individuals through a Balance Scorecard with ethics and integrity. Corporate governance, adopted as a way of approach. This year, Balance Scorecards across hotels and key life at IHCL, directs us to discharge our duties towards our stakeholders corporate functions have been automated, so that managers across in a fair, transparent and accountable manner. levels can access data and information relevant to their role and responsibility easily. The internal audit framework, surveillance audits, At the helm of company affairs is the Board of Directors. The Board is mystery audits, Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM) assessments, responsible for shaping our growth and success strategically and for benchmarking and certification processes help us measure how reviewing our performance. It is important that the Board of Directors effective systems are and improve them constantly. The outcomes of comprises people who can always act in an unprejudiced and fair all these business processes and controls form critical input to the manner, in the interest of all stakeholders. Which is why we make sure Board and senior leadership reviews. we comply with the corporate governance standards of the listing agreement with Bombay Stock Exchange (BSE) and National Stock To know more about our risk management framework and Exchange (NSE), and have constituted a Board with Executive, management system, refer to our Corporate Sustainability Report Non-executive, as well as Independent Directors. Currently, the Board 2010-11 (Page 21-24), accessible at is constituted of people with varied experiences from banking and www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Company-Information/8th-Corporate-S hotel management, to finance, social service and architecture. Such an ustainability-Report.pdf eclectic mix of people, we believe, proves to be of immense value in guiding us in our economic, environmental and social affairs. Feedback To know more about our risks and concerns, mitigation plans, internal from stakeholders is also critical, as it helps the Board understand their controls and adequacy, refer to our Annual Report 2012-13 expectations and concerns. The analysis of stakeholder feedback (Page 27-29), accessible collected through various engagement methods is appropriately www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/Annual-Reports.html presented to the Board. 13 Recognition of our business excellence Since adopting the Tata Business Excellence Model (TBEM)as an reinforce the ethical values at all levels. During the year, a total of important tool to drive business excellence and deliver results, we 27,514 person-hours were spent in training associates and other have been assessed on various criteria. Accordingly, each Tata Group relevant stakeholders on TCoC. We have also established an efficient company is measured on process improvements, new initiatives, process to implement, monitor and review the adoption of TCoC, not innovation projects and business results every year. Business results just by our associates, but also by relevant stakeholders. Similarly, the are based on various aspects of TBEM, such as leadership & Whistle Blower Policy, Prevention of Fraud and Misappropriation of governance, innovation, operations, customer focus, workforce focus Funds Policy and Sexual Harassment Redressal Policy set expectations and supplier/vendor focus. Over the years, the model has evolved to and norms of ethical behaviour. We also have processes in place to include emerging and relevant business topics of climate change and track and resolve concerns, if any, on these matters when reported by sustainability. These assessments are used to compare the companies associates or other stakeholders. that consistently try to infuse business excellence in their culture. The winner takes home the coveted JRD QV Award, established in honour To know more about Tata Code of Conduct, visit of JRD Tata a visionary who tirelessly pursued perfection and www.tata.in/aboutus/articles/inside.aspx?artid=NyGNnLHkaAc= excellence. Our relentless efforts to drive business excellence through our ‘Guest First’ business approach fetched us the prestigious JRD QV To know more about implementation of Tata Code of Conduct at IHCL, Award this year. refer to our Corporate Sustainability Report 2010-11 (Page 17), accessible at Ethical Behaviour ww.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Company-Information/8th-Corporate-Sus Ethical behaviour is what defines us visa-versa others in a fiercely tainability-Report.pdf competitive corporate world and is part of our DNA. Our ethical IHCL SHE Governance Structure culture is defined by thousands of associates who live our values each Compliance with all regulatory and legal requirements is the minimum and every day. We have adopted the Tata Code of Conduct (TCoC) at criteria we always meet in all our processes, while we continually try to the policy level to support our value system. TCoC has definitive perform at industry best benchmarks. Our risk management ED Hotel Operations clauses on a host of Tata Group values including ethics and integrity, framework and various management systems are designed to and helps senior leaders, associates and other stakeholders proactively help us identify new statutory/legal requirements or understand what is expected of them. At the enterprise level, TCoC events that might potentially affect the company and take action to values are integrated across our processes. At the people level, the mitigate/address the same. For instance, we proactively implemented culture is driven from the top. Leaders are encouraged to be the role Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP)/ISO SHE Corporate Council models of our values, to create an environment where associates act 22000/SafeKey Audits in advance, the requirements of which were on beliefs. Sensitising associates on TCoC is a continuous process, to then adopted by Food Safety and Standards Authority of India (FSSAI) DirectorGM Project Director as a resolution regarding food safety. COOs Sr. VP HR VP Projects Security Safety Sustainability Hotel SHE Committee Chief Learning & GMs HR Manager Security Manager Engineer Development Manager We have three committees at the Board level to assist them in us. To oversee the consistent deployment of Safety, Health and overseeing the company’s performance and discharging their fiduciary Environment (SHE) standards across our hotels, we have formed a SHE & other responsibilities. These committees are: committee headed by Executive Director Hotel Operations. • The Audit Committee • The Share Transfer & Shareholders’/Investors’ Grievance Committee To know more about our Corporate Governance, visit • Remuneration Committee www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/corporateThe Board of Directors is assessed to evaluate their individual and governance.html overall performance. The assessment is basec on their attendance, privacy and conflicts of interest, industry knowledge, succession To know more about our Board of Directors and Board Committees, planning, and involvement with leadership. The results of this refer our Corporate Governance Report 2012-13, accessible at assessment help the Board better its own performance. Sustainability www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/corporatematters concerning safety, security and environment are of priority to governance.html 14 15 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Our stakeholders are an important aspect of our organisation. In fact, concerns. Beyond this, we also constantly evaluate the effectiveness our core competence of ‘Building Relationships’ is strengthened by of our engagement methods to better ourselves in serving the needs TOWARDS A SUSTAINABLE FUTURE how we engage with our stakeholders. Stakeholder engagement of our stakeholders. The outcome of stakeholder engagement is linked draws from our culture and values to build, sustain and nurture to the prioritisation of sustainability critical issues for IHCL. Almost all relationships at different levels. To engage well with our stakeholders, our stakeholder engagement processes rely on two-way we simply listen to them through different channels of communication communication, wherein we also communicate to the stakeholders and understand their expectations. Their feedback helps us the action plans/decisions emerging out of the engagement. The continuously refine our business planning, by addressing their stakeholder engagement map presented below highlights our engagement process with various stakeholders. Stakeholder Engagement Frequency of Agenda of the Process to Verify Group Mechanisms Engagement Engagement Effectiveness Shareholder Annual General Meetings Annual Financial performance, Transcript of broad future strategies, teleconference, minutes Quarterly reports to Quarterly address concerns, of Annual General shareholders shareholders’ approval as Meeting questions required Analyst meets Twice a year Guest Strategic level meetings As per calendar Guest feedback, Minutes, action plans, with key customers acquiring business, 3-tier reviews, guest building relationships satisfaction tracking Advisory boards survey Guest contact Investors and Partners Partner meets, investor Annual Financial performance, Minutes, action plans, meets broad future strategies, 3-tier reviews Quarterly address concerns, visits to potential sites Government Meeting with As required Relationship building, Minutes, action plans, government and apprising Govt. agencies 3-tier reviews ministries, participation on industry constraints & in advisory meetings suggesting ways ahead boards Suppliers/Vendors Vendor meets, rate Annual, as required Expectation setting, Minutes, action plans, negotiation meetings address of concerns, 3-tier reviews partnering for innovation Community/Society Meeting with As required CSR initiatives Minutes, action plans, government agencies, communication & letters (feedback), NGOs, community capturing societal management of business representatives concerns ethics Associates Print, E-communique, Daily Organisation information Employee Satisfaction video clips, hotel visits by Taj & Tata, hospitality Survey, action plans, senior leadership teams Quarterly industry, best practice reviews & walkthroughs, annual sharing, organisation function & strategy As required goals & values, priorities, meets/3-tier reviews, action planning, coaching town halls, skip-level opportunities, feedback, meetings, pre-shift addressing concerns, briefings idea generation, rewards & recognition, sharing & learning 17 PRIORITISING CRITICAL ISSUES existing systems and aim to always excel. Safety is driven across the Our effective engagement with our internal and external stakeholders organisation as a cultural and behavioural shift. The involvement of helps us identify critical issues that are important to both us and our the Board through the apex level SHE (safety, health and environment) stakeholders. However, these issues are dynamic in nature and may committee, headed by Executive Director Operations, shows how FOCUSING ON GROWTH vary based on changing stakeholder preferences and market serious we are about safety. & PROFITABILITY conditions. Developing Human Capital Our engagement model are designed in a manner that lets us At IHCL, we understand that our ‘Guest First’ culture is driven by our consolidate stakeholder feedback and understand these dynamic associates. Associate engagement is the pillar on which our customer issues. The issues are analysed against key risks, challenges and experience rests, a notch above the rest. The central theme of our strategic priorities at the enterprise and hotel levels, to understand human capital strategy, associate engagement focuses on talent their impact on our company and our stakeholders. The results of this attraction, retention & development, workforce deployment, analysis are the prioritised critical issues, which our stakeholders employee engagement, compensation architecture, workplace expect us to address as a part of our strategy. This report is structured environment, leadership and succession planning. The consistent high to highlight our complete range of actions and related performance on performance of our associates is linked to the effective the following critical issues: implementation of human capital plans. We always do what we can to shape and develop our associates, so that they imbibe our culture of • Optimising revenues customer delight. • Focusing on customer delight • Ensuring safety Ensuring Environmental Excellence • Developing human capital A pristine environment with rich biodiversity enhances tourism and • Ensuring environmental excellence makes for more memorable guests experiences. Needless to say, • Creating sustainable livelihoods along being our moral responsibility, environment conservation also makes a strong business case for us. Consumption of natural Optimising Revenues resources, energy & water, generation of emissions, effluents, & Shareholders and investors invest in us to rightfully earn returns. We wastes, and our impact on biodiversity constitute our environmental are, responsible for managing and growing the business in an efficient, footprint. By efficiently managing our assets and resources, however, ethical and sustainable manner while generating profits. Our future we try to constantly increase our environmental productivity and investments as part of our Game Plan, coupled with difficult market minimise our impact on the environment. The use of renewable conditions and growing competition, have contributed to increasing energy, energy conservation and waste management programmes cash outflow. Hence, revenue management remains one of the top have helped us in this regard. On the water management front, we priorities at IHCL. Optimisation of revenues, as we understand and continue to improve our water efficiency by enhancing water recycle have practised, is attained through effectively managing people, & reuse measures and ensuring zero or minimal discharge to the materials, services and infrastructure, without cutting corners or environment. Generating energy from organic waste through limiting capabilities. composting is another area of focus for us. In fact, our upcoming hotels have green features inbuilt in the design stage itself, to ensure Focusing on Customer Delight minimal environmental impact right from the start. Our signature and legendary ‘Taj Experience’ is all about creating unforgettable memories for our guests that they cherish over a Creating Sustainable Livelihoods lifetime. These experiences stem from our ‘Guest First’ culture, where We believe that organisations that connect their business needs to the our focus always remains on delighting our guests. Serving guests with economic and social development of communities are truly products and services that exceed their expectations, proactively responsible and sustainable. Translating our belief into action, we have listening to their feedback and paying attention to detail is how we developed ‘building sustainable livelihoods’ as the core theme of our work towards enhancing customer satisfaction. Every aspect of our corporate responsibility agenda. This theme aims to bridge the brands are designed in a manner that will help us achieve this goal. growing need for trained & groomed manpower and able local This proposition is strongly supported by our lifecycle approach vendors in the hospitality industry by creating livelihood opportunities. (pre-, during and post-use), where feedback from our guests helps us We are actively involved with governments, industry partners and civil better ourselves in providing unmatched and memorable guest society organisations to leverage our combined strengths and experiences. capabilities. The sections that follow from hereon give details on each of the above mentioned priotized areas of focus. Through our Ensuring Safety programmes and associations, we hope to create sustainable The safety and security of our guests, associates, communities and communities by empowering our target groups to be independent assets is paramount at IHCL. We set high standards for safety and earning members of society. We also continue to promote the rich security, and do not compromise in our commitment to safeguard heritage of India and support local artisans, to showcase their people and assets. Our safety and security management systems are indigenous art and culture to the world. improved upon continuously as we learn from the past, review our 18 FOCUSSING ON GROWTH & PROFITABILITY Industry Overview A CULTURE OF DELIGHT Travel and tourism the world over has been gaining importance, as 8.21%. This was due to improved turnover from certain domestic people have started taking a keener interest in exploring new subsidiaries and the benefit of forex conversion at a higher rupee rate. & SURPRISES destinations. As per the United Nations World Tourism Organisation Consolidated PAT aggregated to INR (43.24) billion for the year. (UNWTO), the international travel and tourism industry showed moderate growth and international tourist arrivals, worldwide, grew To know more about our economic performance, refer to our Annual Report 2012-13 (Page 30-34), accessible at by 4% in 2012 compared to 2011. At the same time, the estimates of www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/Annual-Reports.html World Travel and Tourism Council (WTTC) highlight the growing importance of the travel and tourism sector to the global economy. Future Prospects The growth in international tourist arrivals was relatively higher in The UNWTO expects growth to continue in 2013 at 3%, in line with emerging economies compared to developed economies, which now their long-term forecast. This growth is primarily expected to occur in has been a long-term trend of the industry. The hospitality industry’s Asia Pacific and America, while pressure will continue in the European performance in India witnessed a decline in 2012, in terms of overall and Middle East markets. As per WTTC, Foreign Tourist Arrivals to rates, occupancies and revenue per available room. This could be India are forecast to grow at a rate of 8% 9% in the next few years mainly because of the increased supply in the marketplace and this and it is predicted that India will receive 14 million tourists by 2023. We trend is expected to continue for the next few years, given the anticipate that the volatility in the rupee valuation will drive further gestation period for new hotel supply. growth in foreign tourist influx, across business and leisure segments. Meanwhile, the increasing discretionary spends of the domestic Indian Our Performance traveller will continue to drive domestic travel and tourism as well. This year, our total income grew moderately by 3.22% to INR 192.48 Reports have estimated that the Asia Pacific region will add 0.38 billion in 2012-13, while the operating expenses increased by 5% from million rooms, with the hotel development pipeline comprising over INR 151.67 billion to INR 159.65 billion. Some of our long-term strategic 1,700 hotels and including an addition of 54,478 new rooms in India. investments continued to be impacted by unabated global recessionary conditions. Owing to this, the Profit After Tax (PAT) during We have positioned our brands to benefit from this expected growth the year reduced to INR (27.66) billion. We have also invested INR in the international and domestic markets. While we have launched 14.24 billion during the year towards capital expenditure for our new seven hotels during the year, we will continue our foray into over 15 projects and ongoing renovations at certain hotels. new destinations in the domestic market. Our brand is also poised to Our consolidated income along with that of our subsidiaries, joint strengthen its presence in the Middle East with the signing of a Taj ventures and associate companies increased to INR 380.35 billion by luxury hotel in Dubai. ECONOMIC IMPACTS OF TRAVEL AND TOURISM INDUSTRY 9.3% of 6.6% Indian global GDP GDP INTERNATIONAL TRAVEL AND TOURISM INDUSTRY DOMESTIC TRAVEL AND TOURISM INDUSTRY US$ 6.6 INR 6.4 trillion GDP trillion GDP 1 in 11 7.7% of jobs total Created employment Contributed 260 million 39 million jobs jobs US$ 764 2012 INR 1.76 billion trillion investments investments 5% of 6.2% of global investments investments US$ 1.2 INR in india trillion in 1 trillion in visitor exports visitor exports 5% of total 4.2% of total exports exports Contribution (direct, indirect and induced) Impact (direct, indirect and induced) Source: World Travel & Tourism Council 20 A CULTURE OF DELIGHT & SURPRISES At Taj, customer delight is at the very core of what we do. Across our different brand offerings, our focus has always been on creating unique, memorable experiences that delight and surprise our guests. Even our warm and inviting restaurants, with their diverse and authentic flavours, have always been culinary landmarks in their own right, in the cities and towns where we operate. Our ever-evolving products and services are a direct outcome of proactive guest engagement. Each of our brands is crafted to translate customer insights into guest experiences, and brand building events continue to be part of our key customer engagement strategy. We value the Voice of Customer (VOC) and have systems in place to capture it across the lifecycle phases of customer interactions (pre-, during and post-use phases). Trends in the hospitality industry, market research, business development market scans, etc. are used to sense the pulse of customer expectations in various segments. Our unique customer delight programs like Taj Inner Circle, Surprises Campaign, Vivanta Avatars, etc., complement the efforts to enhance customer loyalty. In addition to the well-established VOC mechanism, we have recently also deployed Online Reputation Management processes. Taj Forever Jodhpur polo season flagged off with an event at Taj Lands End Mumbai These processes are supported by an Internet marketing team, which analyses reviews and feedback for our products and services on social media sites. Customer satisfaction measurement is extremely vital for us to consistently deliver the ‘Taj Experience’. We have institutionalised an online guest feedback mechanism the Guest Satisfaction Tracking System (GSTS). We regularly send out online questionnaires via email to our guests and the results are aggregated at corporate, brand and hotel level. We also monitor the customer delight performance of our competition through CSMM and Brand Equity Track (BET) survey Vivanta Avatars Divas of Rock scores. Measuring customer dissatisfaction helps us better understand guest needs and prevent recurrence. The dissatisfaction is measured through an online Customer Feedback System (CFS), which is linked to Gateway’s Active Food campaign to highlight the innovative health cuisine GSTS, and appropriate action steps are taken to address it. New coffee table book on Rambagh Palace Vivanta Motifs 22 23 Awards & Recognition Taj Upgrades Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces was Rambagh Palace was conferred the Taj Falaknuma Palace won the conferred the T+L Global Vision Rajasthan Energy Conservation prestigious NDTV Good Times Award for Leadership, for our Award, 2012 by the Government of Lifestyle Hotel/Resort of the Year New Launches Corporate Social Rajasthan, for its outstanding efforts Award, 2013. Also ranked first on the Responsibility activities. towards energy conservation. list of Overseas Leisure Hotels in Asia and the Indian Subcontinent at the Conde Nast Traveller UK Readers' Travel Awards, 2012. Taj Exotica Resort & Spa, Maldives Conde Nast Traveller India Readers’ US Conde Nast Traveller Hot List Cinema Suite at 51 Buckingham Gate ranked 1st on the Conde Nast Choice Awards The Taj InnerCircle 2013 Jiva Grande Spa at Vivanta by Traveller USA Readers' Choice was voted the ‘Best Loyalty Taj, Bekal was rated among ‘Best Awards, 2012 list of Top 15 Resorts Program’ in 2012. The Taj Group New Spas in the World’. It was the in Asia. was also conferred the Award for only spa included in the list Brand Excellence. from India. Taj Palace Marrakech, Morocco Mahua Kothi Jungle Lodge was Business Traveller Awards 2012 Conde Nast World Savers Award honoured as the ‘Most Inspirational Best Business Hotel Chain in India 2013 Taj Group won the World Eco Lodge of the Year’ at the 2012 Taj Hotels Resorts and Palaces Savers Award, 2013 Poverty Relief Tour Operators for Tigers (TOFT) for our exemplary efforts in creating Wildlife Tourism Awards. jobs for the youth in rural India. New Ballroom at Taj Coromandel, Chennai Taj Palace, Marrakech and Vivanta The Wasabi (Taj Mahal Palace and Gallup Global Great Workplace by Taj Madikeri, Coorg made it to Tower, Mumbai), Varq (Taj Mahal Award for fourth year in succession. the Travel + Leisure USA ‘IT List’ Hotel, Delhi) and Karavalli (The 2013 The Best New Hotels of 2013. Gateway Hotel, Bengaluru) featured Vivanta by Taj Madikeri, Coorg in San Pellegrino's list of 50 best restaurants in Asia. Refurbished floors in the Tower wing of the Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai Vivanta by Taj Gurgaon, NCR For the complete list of awards and accolades, refer to our Annual Report 2012-13 (Page 35-37), accessible at www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/Annual-Reports.html 24 25 Vivanta by Taj Upgrades TAJ A PREFERRED CHOICE OF WORLD LEADERS Vivanta Motifs Host to the world’s eminent leaders, celebrities, and royalty and some Each Vivanta by Taj has unique experiences to offer to guests of the Heads of States who chose to stay at Taj hotels during the year signature ‘must dos’ and ‘must sees’ that represent an include: imaginative take on destinations and their cultures. These are • HE Julia Gillard, Prime Minister of Australia at The Taj Mahal Hotel, Vivanta Motifs just another way in which Vivanta seeks to New Delhi redefine hospitality with an inspired twist Gateway Upgrades • HE Khalifa bin Salman Al Khalifa, Prime Minister of Bahrain at Taj Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad • HE Daniel Kablan Duncan, Prime Minister of Côte d’Ivoire at Taj Palace, New Delhi • HE Francois Hollande, President of France at The Taj Mahal Palace Mumbai and Taj Palace, New Delhi • HE Mohammed Waheed Hassan, President of the Maldives at Taj Upgraded Oriental restaurant ‘Memories of China’ at Vivanta by Taj, Bengaluru Palace, New Delhi • HE Thein Sein, Prime Minister of Myanmar at The Taj Mahal Hotel, New Delhi • HE Juan Carlos I, King of Spain at Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai • HE Mahinda Rajapaksa, President of Sri Lanka at Taj Palace, New Delhi Newly renovated Pan-Asian restaurant and bar at the Gateway Hotel, Ernakulam • HE Emomalii Rahmon, President of Tajikistan at Taj Palace, New Delhi Timeless Weddings at Taj • HE David Cameron, Prime Minister of UK at The Taj Mahal Palace, A wedding is one the most important and cherished events in Mumbai and Taj Palace, New Delhi a person’s life and Taj makes it even more special with the grandeur of a royal setting. Staying in tune with the growing wedding market in India we sought to immortalise this special day by coming out with a new identity ‘Timeless Weddings at Taj’ which encompasses weddings, renewal of vows, New restaurant ‘By the Bay’ at Vivanta by Taj, Bekal anniversaries, honeymoons and more. Re-launched the speciality restaurant Pancharatna at the Gateway Hotel, Nashik New guest rooms at Vivanta by Taj, Bentota, Sri Lanka Vivanta by Taj Madikeri, Coorg Vivanta by Taj Madikeri, Coorg entices guests to discover the glory of Nature at her luxurious best. Nestled in the living rainforest of Coorg, this 180-acre expanse is built to co-exist with nature and uses eco-friendly designs and materials in construction. This Vivanta by Taj property was developed along the natural lay of land, without displacing a rock or Newly renovated Ayurvedic Spa at the Gateway Hotel, Calicut cutting a hill. Each cottage, suite, villa and room opens up to a breathtaking view of the rainforest at an altitude of 4,000 feet. It is a perfect example of luxury bundled with nature. Our Taj Safari lodges in Madhya Pradesh are built on the same ethos. 26 27 Our culture of customer delight trickles across every level of our IHCL Associates (Genderwise) organisation, right down to our associates. In fact, the relationships We have one of the highest gender ratios among the Tata Group companies our associates build with our guests are pivotal to our ‘Guest First’ culture and hence associate engagement forms a vital part of OUR PEOPLE, OUR POWER strategies to achieve our ‘Game Plan’. Our HR plans are aimed at 3531 14% engaging, developing and empowering our associates encouraging them to actively delight our guests in all that they do. We have developed a HR Strategy which supports our Vision, Game Plan and Values and is inspired by the Tata culture of being an 21529 86% employee-friendly organisation. Associate hiring and diversity of experience is driven by both, the need to have the right number of people to carry out current operations and also to meet our Game Plan growth requirements. Our workforce strategy pays attention to Female Male the diversity of skills, talents and cultural backgrounds, which in turn shapes our hiring and development practices. We have developed a IHCL New hires leaving within 12 months structured on-boarding process ‘TAP-ME’, which meets specific 60 requirements of different associate groups. Taj has been, for a long 50 time, known has an employer of choice, thanks to our strong reputation for providing excellent training and lateral mobility through 40 the vast Taj and Tata group network. Our retention efforts are focused 56.85 Percentage 30 on a core group of associates who provide the stability and knowledge 49.16 base for the organisation. Our attrition rate during the year was 20 27.03%, which is well below the industry average of 35%. During the 30.95 10 year, we had 4,003 new hires, of which 30.95% left the organisation within a year of joining. 0 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 The decreasing trend of new hire attrition shows the effectiveness of our IHCL Associates (Gradewise) employee engagement processes Over 25,000 associates across the globe 3993 Knowledge, competency and leadership development are vital for 6224 25 % 16 % organisational stability and continuity. We have defined a competency framework, which includes a skill dictionary and a competency manual for various functions and levels. The learning and development efforts are focused on addressing the areas of improvements based on the 5834 9009 23 % 36 % analysis of Voice of Customers. The learning & development delivery mechanisms are customised to meet the associates’ needs & desires, learning & education and leadership development in line with the business growth strategy. The effectiveness of the delivery Executive Others (Trainees, apprentices etc) mechanism is assessed through training feedback forms, on-the-job FTC Supervisors & Staff assessments of acquired skills and competency, employee satisfaction surveys, guest satisfaction measurements, etc. IHCL Associates (Brandwise) 649 1292 3003 2176 8166 9774 Corporate Luxury International Vivanta by Taj Gateway Luxury India Ginger 29 IHCL – LEARNING & DEVELOPMENT SYSTEM Percentage of associates trained in functional skils Red Hot Chef 105 The ‘Red Hot Chef’ contest has taken an innovative approach 100 Needs Identification & Classification to learning and development of the chefs at our Gateway hotels. Thoughtfully designed, the contest aims to develop 95 Percentage Individual Needs (Executives) different skills and talent of chefs, by pushing them beyond 90 their area of expertise. The three levels of the contest with 25 Organizational Needs challenges were structured to test and train the chefs on key 85 Individual Needs (Staff) aspects such as commitment to hygiene and quality, 80 knowledge of ingredients and ACTIVE Foods, creativity, 92 85 93 100 attention to detail, teamwork and customer focus. Spanning 75 Luxury Luxury Vivanta by Taj Gateway over 6 months, the chefs had to reinvent themselves at each International India Design level to stay in the competition, while learning something new Industry average 83.3% (Source: Indian Hotel Industry Survey 2011-12) from other contestants. Individual feedback from an expert Brand Specific Approaches; Hotel Specific Approaches; Function Specific Approaches; e learning modules/courses panel of judges and more than 45 master classes by expert We have a significantly higher percentage of employee training vis-a-vis industry average. customized to associate groups/segments chefs helped the contestants raise the bar of their culinary skills. The top five contestants earned the opportunity for an Our performance management system supports workforce international cuisine exposure at Lebua one of the finest engagement and aims to build a high performance work culture. The luxury hotels in Bangkok. While at the individual level chefs, goals are aligned to our vision, game plan and values, and are who otherwise have limited exposure beyond their area of cascaded down based on the overall objectives of the company. The Delivery expertise, gained a great learning experience, the performance review is a two-way dialogue process with mid-year and organisational results were visible through improvement in year-end reviews for executives. The rewards and bonus payouts for the brand average for food index for The Gateway. executives are linked to their own performance, as well as organisational performance. 360 degree feedback is an important tool Associate Needs & Associate Learning & Leadership “I was the captain for the team challenge. I learnt how to to provide managers inputs on their leadership style and Desire (Training) Education (all levels) Development share the responsibility among my team members and effectiveness. This year, we have extended the 360 degree feedback process for our mid-level managers. motivate them to do their best to win.” N. Ramachandran, The Gateway Hotel, Coonoor. PACE Effectiveness Measurement PACE is our enhanced performance management system that leverages technology and integrates it with the fundamentals • Reaction Feedback Happy (Feedback) Sheets, Participant Feedback Forms of our performance review mechanism. This new online • Learning assesment Testing skills and knowledge system is aimed to help us conduct performance reviews in a • Transfer of learning testing skills and knowledge more efficient, consistent and transparent manner, while • Evaluation of Return On Investment (ROI) on training ESS Training Effectiveness empowering the associates with ease and flexibility to track • Adult using GSTS/CFS score & comment; 360� evaluation; Q12 score GSTS Courtesy; GSTS Efficiency and manage their performance development. The system is supported by an embedded guidelines manual, which details the activity schedule for each phase of performance management. To further create awareness among associates on the features and benefits on this new PACE, we have Associate & Leadership Learning And Development Evalution introduced e-learning modules on PACE and leadership videos. Feedback through Employee Satisfication Survey, Performance Management System, Career Development Process, Taj Program During the year, we delivered a total of 1.28 million person-hours of trainers and currently over 58% of our executives are certified training, compared to 1.25 million person-hours last year a 2.7% departmental trainers. Our e-learning platform, ‘MiUniversity’, is a increment. The talented pool of Departmental Trainers (DTs), who are powerful system that combines technology with pedagogy to provide groomed through Certified Taj Departmental Trainers (CTDT), form the associates with more than 300 courses ranging from operational to backbone of the signature learning and development culture of Taj. managerial areas, from universities like Harvard and Cornell, along These trainers provide skills’ training to both our permanent associates with the American Hotel & Lodging Educational Institute. and contracted staff. We continually strive to increase these qualified 30 31 We have institutionalised many first-in-the-industry and Career progression and succession planning are key components of award-winning employee care and recognition programs. While ‘Taj our HR strategy. To facilitate growth and break career stagnation, key Awards for Business Excellence’ (TABE) recognises best performing operational positions are rotated every 2-3 years for high and medium hotels and teams across categories, ‘Special Thanks and Recognition performers. The Special Program for Employee Education and CREATING SAFE System’ (popularly known as S.T.A.R.S.) is an employee recognition Development Plus (SPEED+) is an initiative taken to meet the career ENVIRONMENTS and reward program that aims at building a culture of customer aspirations of associates at staff and contract level. Identifying delight. Similarly, ‘Year of the Associates+’ is a set of initiatives aimed hi-potential associates for succession planning is done through the at enhancing the quality of employees’ lives at work and beyond. It ‘Emerging Leaders Taj’ process, which is rooted in the use of comprises initiatives that are focused more on long-term outcomes assessment-development centres. Through this process, we were that directly impact our associates like the education of their children, successful in filling 95% of vacant positions from within the becoming computer literate, etc. organisation, which also includes many ‘first-time’ leaders. A constant churn out of ‘first-time’ leaders through the ‘Emerging Leaders Taj’ process reflects the effectiveness of the process to identify Making a difference at Taj high-potential associates and develop them as future leaders. We also JRD Tata, our previous Chairman, inspired thousands of Tata participate in the Tata leadership development process, where eligible associates and millions of Indians by his sheer personality of executives are evaluated by the Executive Committee to leverage simplicity with integrity, passion with perseverance and possible opportunities within the Tata Group. leadership with compassion. In commemoration of his spirit, we launched a two-week campaign on his birthday 29th Assessing employee satisfaction is crucial to better our people July to appreciate and thank colleagues who have made a systems and be the employer of choice to attract, retain and groom difference to an associate’s professional or personal life. The the best talent. We conduct annual Employee Satisfaction Surveys campaign was run through a specially designed web portal (ESS) to gauge and analyse the employee satisfaction trends. Emerging through which more than 20,000 appreciation notes were from this analysis are also the areas for us to innovate and improve, to exchanged across the organisation. We believe that each meet the expectations of our associates. associate exhibits a positive attitude to inspire others and this campaign salutes this quality that defines the Taj family. For the fourth straight year, we are with the prestigious Gallup Great Workplace Award an honour that recognises organisations that best engage their employees. We are proud to be one of only 32 organisations in the world to win the Gallup Great Workplace Employee Benefits: Award, 2013. We are the only Tata and hospitality company to win Defined Employee benefits arising out of the award four years in a row. contribution contributions include Provident Fund, Gallup Awards Ceremony 2013 schemes Superannuation, Social Security, etc. Gratuity Separate funded and unfunded schemes for gratuity benefits. In respect of funded schemes, annual contributions are made to funds administered by the trustees for amounts notified by the funds. PostPost-retirement pension scheme, retirement wherever applicable, is actuarially benefits determined based on the projected unit credit method. Compensated Compensated absences absences for employees. Other Long service awards, leave travel employee allowance, educational allowance, loans benefits at subsidized rates. 32 CREATING SAFE ENVIRONMENTS natural disasters, health risks and other threats to business continuity, In our hotel kitchens and catering units, we strictly adhere to IS0 including data security and backup, guest & associate safety and 22000 (food safety management systems) standards to ensure the Among other things, safety is one of those of our day-to-day offices, hotels, products and services. These specifications are also safeguarding of property & assets. highest levels of food safety. 51 of our hotels are certified for ISO functioning that we never compromise on. The safety and security of regularly reviewed to incorporate changes in the regulatory 22000 standard. Additionally, at TajSATS, stringent monitoring our guests, associates, vendors, communities and assets is paramount requirements, industry trends, external conditions, availability of How well we perform in this regard and how safe & secure we’re mechanisms ensure only the highest food safety standards are to us. We have identified and defined standard safety and security newer and secure technology, capability needs of our associates and perceived to be by our guests tells us how well these systems are maintained through production and transportation, right up to specifications, which have been incorporated into the design of our guest requirements. performing according to our stakeholders. ‘Safe and secure consumption. Regular audits of all our facilities and suppliers' facilities environment at the workplace’ is one of the parameters in our annual are conducted to ensure the safety and hygiene of our products and ESS, through which employee satisfaction in the workplace services. In-house microbiological laboratories constantly monitor Safety and Security Management Framework at IHCL environment is measured. In the last ESS conducted, we maintained a food production processes and hygienic conditions of all equipment. high score of 89. We use GSTS to track guest comments on the safety Training for security preparedness is a key imperative and a core team Crisis Management Safety Management of our hotels. This year, we further improved our scores to 64 from 60 of security managers has been trained to mitigate security risks. At Crisis Management Advisory Team Enterprise Level SHE Council last year. To learn from good practices within Tata Group, the Safety every hotel, we also ensure regular training of associates in first aid, Crisis Management Action Team Council carries out regular benchmarking exercises. fire fighting and disaster management. Some of the essential topics covered through these trainings include fire emergency and Safety and security at our hotels is driven by the commitment of all our evacuation, guest floor patrolling, access control policy, first aid and Crisis Management Team Hotel Level SHE Committee associates, supported by the safety management system. The risk care in emergency, safety measures during leakage and flooding, risk assessments at hotels are periodically reviewed to improve them. assessment and safety analysis, etc. Monthly audits by the Safety Committee are conducted at hotels and appropriate risk mitigation measures are reinforced. To promote awareness, regular safety awareness workshops and ‘safety weeks’ are conducted by independent safety experts at our hotels. In order to SAFETY instil a culture of safety within the organisation, we have instituted an PERFORMANCE 2011-12 2012-13 award for the hotel performing best on safety aspects. We have also provided special safety measures for our female associates, with Near Miss Cases 1,218 2,144 residential pick-up and drop facilities for those working late shifts. (NMC) Safety tips are shared on a daily basis to drive cultural and behavioural Medical Treatment 2,753 1,333 change. Safety Procedure Cards are placed in all guest rooms to Cases (MTC) educate guests on what they should do in case of an emergency. Emergency Procedure Credo Cards, which act as ready reference for Lost-time Cases 613 410 (LTC) emergency situation response, are distributed to all associates. Lost-time Injury 9.87 9.45 This year, the injury frequency rate across hotels for lost-time injuries Frequency Rate was 9.45 per million man hours worked a 4.25% improvement Fatalities 2 0 compared to lost-time injury frequency rate of 9.87 last year. Lost-time injury is defined as an injury that restricts associates from returning to work in the same work shift of the occurrence of the injury. Our Million Man-hours 62.11 43.4 Worked ongoing efforts to further strengthen the safety systems, coupled with enhanced safety awareness among associates, have helped us achieve zero fatality and reduction in lost-time injury frequency rate. The increase in near miss cases reported reflects the improved safety Safety performance included for Luxury India & International, Gateway and Vivanta by Taj hotels awareness among associates, where they were able to identify and report unsafe conditions which could have lead to potential lost-time IHCL Associates covered for training in 2012-13 injuries. Fire safety is a critical aspect of our safety management. We continually strive to reduce the probability of fire incidents by 2906 proactively identifying fire-related risks and ensuring appropriate mitigation measures are put in place. Across hotels, 180 minor fire 12654 incidents were reported and resolved during the year. The incidents We review our safety management systems periodically to make sure have been assessed by an external agency for security risks and 16256 were investigated through root-cause analysis and learning from these they’re performing effectively, through internal and external audits. subsequent mitigation plans are being implemented. Crisis analyses has been shared with all the hotels to avoid the recurrence of We have engaged with Tata Consulting Engineers to conduct Safety management teams are also deploying emergency preparedness/crisis 5704 similar incidents. Periodic safety audits by internal and external Audits with a scoring system, to assess the performance of each hotel. management plans. These plans are periodically tested and updated agencies are organised to ensure compliance with safety norms and So far, we have conducted safety audits for 63 hotels in India and will based on national and international security alerts. In addition, crisis identify improvement areas. soon do the same for our international hotels as well. All our hotels management manuals describe processes to address emergencies, First-aid Fire fighting Food safety & hygiene Refresher training on food safety & hygiene 34 35 PRESERVING THE PLANET We co-exit with our natural ecosystem to provide an enthralling Energy and Climate Change PRESERVING THE PLANET experience to our guests who want to unwind in the arms of nature. Energy is critical for our operations and our endeavour is to optimise While environmental excellence always has been our moral obligation, energy requirements leading to a reduced environmental footprint it is also part of our business strategy. As a company that promotes and higher operational efficiency. We generate energy from direct travel, conserving and restoring the environment boosts tourism to sources such as diesel, petrol, liquefied petroleum gas, piped natural certain destinations. ‘EARTH Environment Awareness and Renewal at gas, fuel oil, light diesel oil and charcoal, while solar, biogas and Taj Hotels’, our approach to environment management, has today biomass are the main sources for direct renewable energy. Indirect transformed into an organisation-wide movement that integrates our energy is primarily sourced from electricity grids, while agro power operations and product design with optimal use of natural resources. and hydro power are the main sources of renewable indirect energy. Adoption of environmental management systems and external Energy-efficient designs of new hotels, coupled with energy efficiency certifications systemically guide to identify environmental risks and improvements at our existing hotels, helped us save a total of 45,777 adopt mitigation plans. EARTHCHECK TM certification is a globally GJ of energy. However, our total energy consumption this year grew recognised certification for environmental excellence in the hospitality by around 5.39% compared to last year, due to the opening of 6 and tourism industry. The certification is a result of extensive domestic hotels during the year. Our direct energy consumption assessments and audits on key performance parameters like energy, increased by 12.64%. This was primarily due to frequent power water and waste management, chemical and pesticide use, and outages resulting in restricted grid power availability, especially for management of social and cultural issues. We have initiated the hotels in the southern Indian states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil EARTHCHECK TM certification process for all our hotels, to benchmark Nadu. Hence, we have had to rely more on self-generated direct ourselves against the global best on environment management energy to meet the requirements of growth in room nights sold. We parameters. The Luxury International, Luxury India, Vivanta by Taj are steadily increasing our renewable energy consumption through and Gateway hotels have been included in the EARTHCHECK TM focused efforts. Currently, 22 hotels use solar energy. Renewable certification process. energy, both from direct and indirect sources, contributes 6.77% of our total energy consumption. Owing to our concerted efforts on renewable energy, we were able to increase the total energy that is 61 Hotels EARTHCHECK TM renewable based by 92.9% 61 Hotels EARTHCHECK TM to 2010-11, giving Certified Silver an indication of our energy conservation efforts. Environment excellence continues to be a strategic differentiator. Energy and emissions, water and effluents, and waste are our focus areas towards managing our internal environmental impacts. We achieve this by choosing an optimum mix of fuel and grid power, tapping renewable energy resources, recycling water and treated effluents, recovering energy from organic waste and more importantly creating awareness among associates to embed this into organisational culture. Biodiversity conservation and restoration finds high priority, especially for hotels that are located in and around eco-fragile or high biodiversity value areas. Regular revenue and capital expenditure projects are taken up to upgrade technology with cleaner and best available eco-technologies. New and upcoming projects are being developed as green infrastructure, by incorporating environmental excellence aspects right at the design stage. This holistic environment management approach has yielded results for us with continual improvement in our environmental performance, while we strive to continue to better ourselves year on year. Towards these green endeavours, we have invested INR 109.70 million during the year. 37 Total Energy 3000000 7.75% increase from 2010-11 Green Power at Taj Rambagh Palace Taj Rambagh Palace used to source power through the grid of 2500000 Rajasthan State Electricity Board, wherein more than 55% of 2000000 1203624 the electricity is generated by thermal power stations. The Giga Joules 1291370 1247019 hotel explored various options to reduce their carbon 1500000 footprint by sourcing energy from renewable sources. 1000000 Towards this green endevour, Taj Rambagh Palace during the 500000 1079090 1209770 year installed a 2.1 MW wind turbine generator at a wind farm 1104752 at Kaladongar in Jaisalmer, which currently supplies 70% of 0 the annual electricity requirements of the palace. The efforts 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 have not resulted in reduced carbon footprint but also enabled better cash flow management during the lean Direct Energy Indirect Energy summer months by reducing the energy cost. Total Energy Per Room Night 0.80 1% reduction from 2010-11 0.70 Giga Joules Per Room Night 0.60 0.50 0.38 0.38 0.40 0.36 0.30 0.20 0.35 0.33 0.32 0.10 0.00 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Direct Energy Indirect Energy Renewable Energy (Percentage of Total Energy) 7.00 88.94% increase from 2010-11 6.00 5.00 Percentage 4.00 3.00 6.33 5.24 2.00 3.35 1.00 0.00 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Renewable Energy Direct Energy Fuel Wise (Giga Joules) 2012-13 555475, 349521, 187335, 34890, 33556, 27104, 7892, 6219, 4962, 2796, 46% 29% 15% 3% 3% 2% 0.65% 0.51% 0.41% 0.23% High Speed Diesel Natural Gas Liquefied Petroleum Gas Fuel Oil Charcoal Petrol Chaff Fuel Light Diesel Oil Renewables Firewood 38 39 As a Tata enterprise, we have been one of the few companies in Indian Air Emissions Stack 120 Sustainable Sourcing at Taj Tashi, Bhutan industry to recognise climate change as a significant business issue. At 100 Days to Give Back to Planet Earth In a unique partnership with local organic farm producers, Taj the Tata Group level, we are part of the Steering Committee on Celebrating Earth Hour at IHCL is not just a one-hour affair it is 100 Tashi signed an MoU with Druk Organic Growers Cooperative Climate Change, formed by Tata Quality Management Services to a reinforcement of our commitment towards the larger cause 80 at Lumitsawa, Punakha Dzongkhag and Talung Yak Sungchorp focus on measuring and mitigating climate change impact of the group of environmental protection. All our hotels and associates used companies. Climate change poses a significant risk to the tourism this opportunity celebrate this initiative innovatively. From Tons 60 Detshen from Haa Dzongkhag. This partnership, under the 75 103 aegis of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forest, requires these sector in particular, as the changing weather patterns, rising sea levels switching off lights to lighting candles, conducting awareness 94 40 producer groups to supply select organic vegetables and and related environmental and biodiversity complexities will impact campaigns to planning green theme guest & associate 20 Gouda cheese to Taj Tashi. The production and supply of the the tourism business. Through our environmental and energy engagement activities, we enthusiastically participated by produce/products will be done under the guidance of National management initiatives, we track and reduce GHG emissions per room carrying out a slew of activities that increase awareness and 0 Organic Plan, following the Bhutan National Organic Standards night. Raising associate and stakeholder awareness on climate change, bring about a positive change towards energy conservation. SPM SOX NOX (BNOS 2011). The Bhutan Organic Assurance System, a local energy-efficient hotel designs and operations, increasing focus on use system of guaranteeing organic food for the local market, will of renewable energy and generating energy from organic waste are To keep this momentum going, we launched a unique initiative Material Efficiency and Waste Utilisation be executed in these producer groups and their products will some of the measures through which we continue to reduce our ‘100 days to Give Back to Planet Earth’. As part of our EARTH Our major materials consumption involves perishable products like be marketed under the Bhutan Organic Mark. Though these emissions-related impacts. (Environment Awareness and Renewable at Taj Hotels) and grocery, meat, fish, poultry, vegetables, fruits, milk and milk products, producers will currently meet only a part of hotel’s ‘Give Back’ employee volunteering programs, a 100-day to a large extent. We store them at optimum levels to reduce wastage requirements, we believe that this partnership nurtured While our total energy consumption per room night sold marginally campaign was launched on March 18th, 2013. The campaign, as they have a low-shelf life. Apart from these items, we also consume carefully will grow in size and boost the local economy. increased by 2%, the total GHG emissions per room night sold through the ‘Eco-Innovate’ contest, urged associates to a wide variety of beverages and alcohol. Housekeeping activities reduced by 5.7%, on account of increase in the renewable energy undertake innovative ways of addressing climate change, as involve the usage of solid and liquid chemicals. We consciously use component of our total energy mix. well as reassess current policies and practices to help reduce eco-friendly chemicals for all housekeeping activities and always look A significant proportion of waste generated across our hotels is our hotels’ operational impact on the environment. As part of for ways in which we can reduce our material footprint. We also organic in nature. We have adopted measures to reduce the Total GHG Emissions this contest, 15 hotels were shortlisted and five hotels made it proactively engage with our suppliers in order to promote sustainable 5.33% decrease from 2010-11 generation of waste and enhance its recyclability & reusability. This 350000 to the final round. With an innovative solution to address business practices. year, we generated 12,223 tons of kitchen waste and 3,518 tons of 300000 garden waste menace by converting it to fuel briquettes, horticulture waste. Around 16% of this organic waste has been 250000 Vivanta By Taj Holiday Village, Goa won the first ever composted through vermi-composting and anaerobic/aerobic ‘Eco-innovate’ award at the Taj Business Excellence Award Tons CO2 200000 digestion to generate bio-gas and manure, as compared to 11% last 256154 228727 ceremony. Vivanta by Taj Lucknow has developed a unique 248919 150000 year. While paper waste of 85,187 tons was sold to scrap paper ‘Herb Garden’ initiative, which has environment, health, 47 Hotels using 100000 solar energy vendors, burnt oil and waste lubricant oil of 6,248 KL was disposed of associate engagement and guest delight elements to it. The at IHCL safely through authorised vendors. The other contributors to our 50000 73476 campaign unearthed the huge potential of innovative ideas 71588 81434 waste footprint include bottles, containers, metal scrap, electrical and 0 that can be implemented and we will continue to drive 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 electronic waste, batteries and debris generated during hotel eco-innovation across the organisation. renovation. Depending upon the category of waste, we use Rambagh Palace, appropriate methods to ensure its safe disposal. Electrical waste like Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions Jaipur 51 Buckingham Palace, London Taj West End, Bangalore fused bulbs, tubes, switches, kitchen appliances and electronic waste Apart from GHG emissions, we also track consumption of ozone Taj Campton Place, San Francisco like computer parts and television parts are disposed in an depleting substances (ODS), particulate matter (PM), oxides of sulphur Vivanta By Taj, 26 Ginger hotels Ambassador, Delhi environmentally safe manner through authorised e-waste recyclers. (SOx) and oxides of nitrogen (NOx) from stacks and suspended Taj Lake Palace, GHG Emissions (Per Room Night) Udaipur 10.33% reduction from 2010-11 particulate matter (SPM), oxides of sulphur (SOx) and oxides of Gateway, Khajuraho Vivanta By Taj, Bangalore 120.00 nitrogen (NOx) in ambient air. ODS are primarily used in our hotels for Taj Mahal, Delhi 100.00 air conditioning and refrigeration. We have made constant efforts to Vivanta By Taj, Waste to Energy Gateway, Nashik Begumpet, Hyderabad substitute these gases with zero ODS potential gases. This year, we Taj Mount Road, The Vivanta by Taj Holiday Village, Goa has lush green 80.00 Chennai Vivanta By Taj, procured only 0.82 tons of CFC-11 equivalent ODS gases. We gardens which are well maintained for guest delight. The Kgs CO2 Gateway, Surat Fishermen’s Cove, Chennai 60.00 80.03 maintenance of these gardens generate significant garden 75.87 continually engage with external agencies to measure air emissions Taj Palace, Delhi Vivanta By Taj, 68.10 waste and the hotel was spending close to INR 0.1 million to 40.00 such as SPM, SOx and NOx at our hotels, which are well below the Gateway, Varanasi Hari Mahal,Jodhpur permissible emission levels prescribed for all our operations. Taj Umaid Bhavan Palace dispose of it. The hotel took the initiative to manage this 20.00 Gateway, Vivanta By Taj, 22.15 23.49 Vishakhapatnam waste in an environmentally sound manner, by converting it 21.30 Malbar, Cochin Taj Wellington Mews, 0 Mumbai into fuel blocks under the leadership of Chief Engineer, Jerome 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Lobo. The hotel converts the garden waste into char by thermal decomposition (Pyrolysing), further mixing it with Direct Emissions Indirect Emissions suitable binders to create fuel briquettes. These briquettes are currently being used in the tandoori fire grill and stand as an example of what eco-innovation can do when people are environmentally aware and motivated. 40 41 Water Management 38 Zero Water Discharge Hotels The dearth of clean drinking water across the world is a huge global Innovative Use of Plastic Waste Gateway, Agra Taj West End, Bangalore problem today. Water is also a critical resource for our operations and PET (Polyethylene terephthalate) is commonly used for we try to utilise water wisely, while maximising water harvesting, making soft drink bottles, which are discarded as trash after Gateway, Chikmagalur Vivanta by Taj, Aurangabad recycling and reuse. Rivers, lakes, seas, harvested rain water, tankers, use. But when PET bottles are filled with sand, they can be Gateway, Jaisalmer Vivanta by Taj, Bekal, Kerala municipality supply and ground water serve as primary sources of stacked and bundled to form structures replacing traditional Gateway, Jodhpur Vivanta by Taj, Bentota, Sri Lanka water withdrawal for our hotels, where the latter three together bricks. Taj Coromandel, Chennai, in association with Samarpan meets about 98 percent of our total water requirement. Rainwater Gateway, Madurai Vivanta by Taj, Coral Reef, Maldives Foundation (NGO) built sand-filled, PET bottle structures in harvesting systems are in place at many of our hotels to reduce fresh the Redhill area of Chennai to create educational cum Gateway, Nashik Vivanta by Taj, Dal View, Srinagar water intake and we were able to reduce our water consumption per recreational facilities for the local less-privileged children. As a Gateway, Vadodara Vivanta by Taj, Exotica, Goa room night by 4.5% compared to last year. All our new hotels have start, the project garnered a donation of 30,000 PET bottles Gateway, Varanasi Vivanta by Taj, Fisherman’s Cove, Chennai water recycle and reuse measures as part of the hotel design, while during the year. Hotel associates have extended this concept existing hotels are also exploring further opportunities to recycle and Gateway, Varkala Vivanta by Taj, Fort Aguada, Goa to build park benches at the hotel premises, as part of their reuse the water. This year we recycled and reused 2.17 million kiloliters volunteering initiative. Rambagh Palace, Jaipur Vivanta by Taj, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow of water, which is equivalent to 33% of our water consumption. This is Taj Bengal, Kolkata Vivanta by Taj, Hari Mahal, Jodhpur also evident from the fact that we discharged fewer quantities of Taj Cape Town, South Africa Vivanta by Taj, Holiday Village, Goa waste treated water, totalling to 2.4 million kiloliters outside hotel boundaries a 11% reduction compared to last year. This year, 38 Taj Chandigarh, Chandigarh Vivanta by Taj, Kumarakom, Kerala hotels have declared zero water discharged outside hotel premises, up Taj Coromandel, Chennai Vivanta by Taj, Malabar, Cochin from 33 last year. 18 hotels have tapped rain water through water Taj Falaknuma Palace, Hyderabad Vivanta by Taj, Madikeri, Coorg harvesting initiatives. Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur Vivanta by Taj, Sawai Madhopur Lodge Water Consumption per Room Night Taj Lands End, Mumbai Vivanta by Taj, Surya, Coimbatore 2.5 5.77% reduction from 2010-11 Taj Umaid Bhawan, Jodhpur Vivanta by Taj, Trivandrum Kiloliter per room night 2 Taj Wellington Mews, Mumbai Vivanta by Taj, Usha Kiran Palace, Gwalior 1.5 18 Hotels with Rain Water Harvesting 1 2.07 2.04 1.95 Gateway, Coonoor Taj Deccan, Hyderabad 0.5 Gateway, Ernakulam Taj Exotica, Maldives 0 Gateway, Khajuraho Taj Lands End, Mumbai 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 Gateway, Madurai Taj Mahal, Delhi Gateway, Mangalore Vivanta by Taj, Ambassador, New Delhi Gateway, Vadodara Vivanta by Taj, Fisherman’s Cove, Chennai Gateway, Varanasi Vivanta by Taj, Gomti Nagar, Lucknow St. James Court, London Vivanta by Taj, Malabar, Cochin Taj Bengal, Kolkata Vivanta by Taj, Usha Kiran Palace, Gwalior Water Consumption (Kiloliters) 2012-13 3117899, 2132082, 1276195, 81715, 38252, 47% 32% 19% 1% 0.58% Municipality Supply Borewells/Ground Water Tankers Harvested Rainwater Desalinated Water 42 43 Coral Rehabilitation at Vivanta by Taj Coral Reef, Maldives Sounds of Coorg Exploring the Rainforests of South India Corals form an important part of the marine ecosystem, ‘The Sounds of Coorg’ project at Vivanta by Taj, Madikeri, was especially in Maldives, which is rich in marine biodiversity. an interesting innovation, designed to engage employees by COMMUNITY & COMPASSION Vivanta by Taj has undertaken a coral rehabilitation project asking them to capture the rainforest at its mystical and around the hotel. The target areas were divided into three charming best. An interactive microsite was developed where zones Zone I, II and III. Each of the zones contained beds on employees posted the elusive sights and sounds of rainforests which coral seeds were planted and the progress of the same within the vicinity of Vivanta by Taj, Madikeri. Some of their were monitored periodically by experts. The second findings were truly mesmerising and reflect the majesty of the measurement in February 2011 revealed that there were over rainforest with such rich biodiversity. This project has now 400 coral fragments, some of which almost grew double in size been extended to our guests as well, with a blog cum from the first measurement. Around 90% of the coral microsite that talks of rainforest experiences. A first-of-its-kind fragments are still alive since the original planting in Zone I. initiative in the hospitality industry, this unique idea integrates The third measurement was done in July 2012. In Zone I, our commitment to the environment deeper into our culture 95.83% coral fragments were alive and growing. Zone II had by involving our employees and our guests. 237 of the original 270 coral fragments planted as alive, while Visit www.soundsofvivantacoorg.com Zone III showed similar results with 79 of the original 90 coral fragments being alive. With encouraging positive results, we will continue to monitor the coral fragments, while promoting coral reef restoration to add to the natural beauty of the place. Investing in a Greener Future As one of the most renowned hospitality chains in Asia, we understand flushing, cooling towers, cleaning of solar towers and gardening. that our guests expect indulgent and luxurious experiences from us. Water harvesting through rooftop rainwater collection will help us Part of this experience stems from the natural environs within which reduce the intake of fresh water and further improve our water we function. Which is why our ‘guest centric’ approach is built-in right efficiency. from the conception of a new hotel. Hotels are designed to ensure maximum guest indulgence, safety and security, with minimal impact Another key aspect that is integrated in the overall project design is on the environment. Our new hotels, which are in their project phase, building safety, so that personal safety especially in the kitchens, are aesthetically designed to co-exist with nature, and all our sauna rooms and banquets is incorporated in the design stage itself, upcoming hotels, too, are going to be marked by their simple yet keeping in mind the safety of our guests and associates. thoughtful designs. A unique example of how natural elements can be used to create The Building Management System (BMS), IT and other cabling infrastructure that complements nature is demonstrated at our requirements are designed to override the fibre network, which will upcoming hotel at Andaman and Nicobar islands. significantly reduce the requirements for cables and conduits. The The key features include: BMS also features smart temperature controls for maximum guest • Rammed (unbaked) earthen walls, using local material, to improve comfort with minimum energy requirements. The Taj guest room the cooling effect with switch logic, optimum planning and the use of dimmers with • Waste heat recovery from diesel power generators, utilised for LED or CFL lighting will reduce the lighting load. Measures such as water heating purposes heat recovery from power generator sets and laundry condensate • Kitchen waste composting to generate biogas and the use of high efficient Variable Frequency Drive chillers and • Landscaping through dense vegetation to suit the local setting and low energy kitchen equipments will further reduce the energy load of enable natural cooling which reduces air-conditioning load the hotels. Sensors are installed in most areas of the hotels, including • Maximising water harvesting through rooftop rainwater collection guest rooms, behind the hotel and public places to optimise power and storage in tanks, and ground water recharge through wells, as consumption. well as percolation pits Emphasis is also laid on the use of renewable energy sources like solar energy, which will complement the hotel heating as well as grid power requirements. To promote the optimum use of water, we use high efficient plumbing fixtures to regulate water flow. We aim to maximise water efficiency by completely reutilising treated wastewater for toilet 44 COMMUNITY & COMPASSION We at the Taj understand that as one of India’s most respected hospitality chains, our responsibility doesn’t just end with our guests Centre of Excellence ITI, Lonavala and our people. Having found our place in the tourism industry, we are Sharan is a 24-year-old 10th standard drop-out, who hails from aware of the potential we have to drive ‘inclusive growth’, by creating the village of Killari in the district of Latur, Maharashtra. He business supply chains, livelihoods and economic benefits in and currently works in the Taj Corporate office pantry. On Friday, around the destinations where we operate. Corporate responsibility April 19th, 2013, Sharan got the opportunity to witness the has been a part of our culture even when there was no name for it in inauguration of Taj’s new Centre of Excellence at the Industrial business parlance. Staying true to our legacy and beliefs that were first Training Institute campus in Lonavala, by Mr. Prithviraj Chavan, advocated by Mr. Jamsetji Tata, we know that we need to work Chief Minister of Maharashtra. Sharan couldn’t help but think together with successful businesses like ours to empower the of how he too, like the current batch of students he saw at the community. Corporate responsibility is not a business obligation, but a inauguration, could alter the chart of his life if he was to train moral obligation that, as the more privileged strata of society, we and get certified at the new Skill Training Academy. After 8 must fulfil. It is up to us to enhance the potential of the unemployed years of being away from school, Sharan has today decided to and underprivileged, and make them self-reliant. retake his 10th Standard English exam, so he can qualify to do a short-term course in Food & Beverage service at this Keeping this in mind, we have evolved our corporate responsibility vocational training institute. The setting up of the Centre of strategy to address challenges, most pertinent to our society, around Excellence (CoE) for hospitality skills at ITI, Lonavala, has been our areas of operations. We leverage our core business strengths and inspired by our efforts towards providing long-term and competencies through our CSR theme of ‘Building Sustainable sustainable rehabilitation to the victims and dependents of the Livelihoods’. Our commitment is patiently crafted keeping in mind the 26/11 Mumbai terror attack. The CoE is an outcome of a Taj unique value we add across touch points including our NGO and partnership with the Directorate of Vocational Education and government partners while contributing to sustainable society. Training (DVET), with further support from the World Bank and the State Government of Maharashtra. This Centre boasts of world-class infrastructure with state-of-the-art facilities for Training of Trainer Program classroom and practical training. Cross learning from the Trainers are, needless to say, crucial to effectiveness of our Institute of Hotel Management, Aurangabad, through a virtual training programs and how well participants acquire new e-classroom, is an added advantage for the students. To make skills. Our partners are spread across the country, from metro the CoE more effective, we have also partnered with other cities to remote towns. The trainers, especially from remote Tata enterprises to offer a range of short-term, regions, often lack the resources to continually hone their industry-relevant skill courses in the same premises. The CoE skills and keep up with the dynamic industry requirements. In aims to train 1000 youths within the 1st year of its operation. an endeavour to help these trainers become more effective We believe that this CoE will alter the pedagogy of vocational and contribute continuously, we’ve developed a 10-day training by introducing world-class facilities and providing Training of the Trainer (ToT) program. This intensive course livelihood opportunities to youngsters like Sharan who need covers various facets of technical and soft skills required for an and would most benefit from it. effective trainer. Our first Trainer of Trainer workshop was attended by 31 trainers from various regions across the Inauguration of Taj’s new Centre of Excellence country. The success of this training program laid the by Mr. Prithviraj Chavan, Chief Minister of Maharashtra foundations for another ToT program in Kolkata, to specially As you make your way into the luxurious beach resort of Vivanta by school drop-outs in hospitality trades in partnership with focus on catering to trainers from the East and North East Taj, Holiday Village, Goa, you and family are welcomed with shell like-minded government and non-government organizations to regions of India. The program saw 16 participants from the garlands. These artistically hand-made shell garlands are sourced by make them employable. Post lunch, you and your family make way training centers in these regions. the hotel from the local underprivileged community of artisans so as to the Activity Centre, where you come across an exhibition. This to help them generate revenue. Post check-in, you then make your exhibition is held by the local weavers who under Taj’s revival of way into your room. Once you get to the room, you put on the indigenous art forms and promotion of local art & culture program Training workshop bedroom slippers that are nicely stacked in a bag and take the local are supported through pro-bono venue sharing and no-markup newspaper also nicely placed in a translucent bag to read in the open charge in the revenue earnings. Lastly, when you go back to your foyer. The Newspaper and bedroom slipper bags as well as the ladies’ room, you decide to give your sand battered clothes to the laundry. amenities kit that you find in the bathroom are sourced from partner This laundry service at the Goa hotels is sourced to partner NGO, NGO, Women India’s Trust (WIT) an NGO that provides livelihood ARZ. This NGO works towards the economic rehabilitation of support to the women in the State of Maharashtra. After relaxing for survivors of commercial sexual exploitation. Associates of Vivanta by a bit, you and your family make your way down to the coffee shop, Taj, Holiday Village and Fort Aguada volunteered to impart their skills where a 22-year-old bright-eyed boy by the name of Nitesh Rane and knowledge to help ARZ set up its own self sustaining laundry takes your order. Nitesh, who comes from the interiors of the State of business, called Swift Wash. This social business generates an annual Maharashtra, got affiliated with the hotel through Taj’s Hospitality turnover of over INR 6, 00,000/through this engagement with Taj Skill Training program, which skills and trains underprivileged rural North Goa hotels. 46 47 Empowering India’s Rural Youth Our skilling endeavour As the hospitality industry continues to grow, so does the need for 42 skills development centres, in association with like-minded cause-based organisations skilled manpower. To us, this is the answer. By imparting the right skills Recognition for Employability Programmes to the unemployed and less-privileged youth, we can help them lead Every year, the Tata Affirmative Action initiatives of each Tata fuller lives, while also meeting the industry’s needs for human capital. enterprise undergo an annual cross-Tata assessment. This helps Hence, our ‘Building Sustainable Livelihood’ theme has skill recognise exemplary efforts in this area and share best development as an important component to create a win-win practices. Our efforts towards employability initiatives have situation. The Taj Hospitality Skill Training Program imparts skills on fetched us the laurels for best practice in employability at the 2013 Annual Affirmative Action Convention and Assessors’ industry traits like Food & Beverage Service, Food Production, Bakery, JAMMU & Recognition Meet. The award was recognition for our pursuit to Spa, House Keeping, etc. To capitalise on the strengths and capabilities KASHMIR establish and manage skill development training centres, in of various institutions already working towards this cause, we tie up regions with a high population of people from marginalised and with industry partners, governmental agencies and voluntary socially disadvantaged backgrounds in association with our organisations to deliver skill development initiatives. With a humble partners. The efforts manifested into our outreach pan-India, BUILDING SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOODS beginning of just three skill training centres in 2009, today we deliver with 42 skills’ development partnerships covering the remote our program through 41 skill training partnerships across India. We regions of North East as India well. We will relentlessly continue also provide knowledge support through customised training to expand our programs, while recognitions such as this will curriculum, train-the-trainer programs, on-the-job training boost the morale of all our associates. Dadri opportunities and guest faculty visits from our volunteers. Pilani DELHI Empowering the Marginalised Sections of Society The lack of sensitivity and appropriate skills’ training is a major RAJASTHAN Kishangarh Dibrugh For over centuries, India’s 300 million odd scheduled caste/scheduled impediment in the employment of differently-abled people. However, UTTAR PRADESH Jodhpur Jaitran tribe (SC/ST) communities have been victims of discriminatory the hospitality industry has various operations that can accommodate Kalimpong Guwahati ASSAM NAGALAND Lucknow them, which is why our livelihood and recruitment program trains Luni Siwan Dimapur wrongdoings and injustices. To address the prevailing social inequities BIHAR MEGHALAYA in India, the Tata Group introduced the Tata Affirmative Action people with disabilities to make them employable in the Hospitality Mithapur Udaipur Umran industry. Provided with the right atmosphere, these associates have Programme (TAAP), committing to integration and inclusive growth of GUJARAT Khajuraho truly excelled in their jobs across many of our hotels and we are proud JHARKHAND the poorest section of society. We use the Tata Affirmative Action Ahmedabad MADHYA PRADESH Kolabera of their contribution in our success. Chandkheda WEST Monsuka Program as a plank to empower people from marginalised and socially Bhopal Bandhavgarh BENGAL disadvantaged backgrounds, and create an equitable society. We Vadodara Kodinar Kolkata strategically use our business competencies, combined with pan-India Story of Lawrence from petrol pump cleaner to CHATTISGARH presence, to deliver the initiatives for these sections of society. The hotel laundry associate ORISSA initiatives are designed to focus on four core themes of the Group Nashik Khultabad Dhamtari Lawrence, deaf-mute by birth, hails from a poor family. He has Affirmative Action policy employability, entrepreneurship, a young daughter to support and recently lost his father. As a MAHARASHTRA Gopalpur Mumbai employment and education. Through our Skills Development Program, petrol pump cleaner earning meagre wages, it was difficult for Lonavala we identify deserving youth from these backgrounds and integrate him to support his family. Spotted by our Taj Club House, Pune Chinchwad them in our livelihood generation efforts. Our sourcing strategies Chennai CSR team, he was offered a livelihood opportunity Satara promote income generation opportunities by sensitive sourcing from that changed his life. He was trained in Taj’s laundry Cros Sindhudurg local entrepreneurs and promoting local artisans, cause-based department and, a year later, has now mastered the art of Hyderabad pressing, folding and tagging. More importantly, he is now organisations and art & culture groups. Employment opportunities are GOA ANDHRA provided to deserving candidates. Educational and health support for able to support his family with regular income. PRADESH KARNATAKA children from these backgrounds is provided through scholarships and nutrition kits. All these initiatives together, we believe, contribute to Bangalore SKILL DEVELOPMENT ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT narrowing economic and societal disparity. Enabling Enterprise Development Mangalore Social enterprises, Self Help Groups and NGO’s Livelihood Generation Chennai programs are revenue generators for millions at the bottom of the pyramid. We understand as a responsible hotel group, we have Calicut TAMIL NADU numerous opportunities by which we can support such programs. KERALA Through responsible purchases of good and services directly from Cochin such NGOs and Self Help Groups, we strive to support their causes and Ernakulam local development in and around our areas of operaton. Our employee Kovalam volunteers as well as business partners support in aspects ranging from product development to planning for cost efficiencies to training and development of staff – based on our partners’ requests and requirments. Over the last 3 years, Taj sourced INR 120 million worth of goods and services from such organizations. *Map not to scale, only for representation purpose. 48 49 Promoting Arts, Culture and Heritage Give Back India’s arts, cultures and heritage are as diverse as its landscapes and Give Back is our corporate employee volunteering initiative that Sr. No. Taj Group Impact Building Sustainable Livelihoods 2009-10 2010-11 2011-12 2012-13 charm everyone with new surprises. We thrive on this fact to provide a engages our associates at the corporate office and Mumbai hotels. different flavour of India at each of our hotels, making them distinct Through this program, volunteers spend a minimum of five hours and refreshing. Promoting local arts, cultures and heritage has been a every month supporting a cause they feel strongly about. Regular 1 No. of Beneficiaries Trained in Hospitality Skills And 1451 2036 2385 4435 part of our corporate ethos, which is backed by our corporate campaigns, posters and emails are sent to associates, to inform and Made Employable responsibility agenda to provide support to local artisans, cause-based encourage them to participate in Give Back initiatives. organisations and arts & culture groups. We provide a platform for these people to showcase their art and help them earn a decent living, 2 No. of Differently Abled Persons Benefitted Through 291 87 90 122 while preserving these invaluable traditions. Our efforts in this regard Hospitality Trainings & Recruitment include procuring gifts of local art value, exhibitions of local arts and crafts, and performances by local arts and culture troops. These initiatives are also linked to our approach to procure more goods and 3 Taj Support to Local Artisans/Karigars/ 234 227 390 370 services from local people and organisations that help the local Cultural Troupes (Numbers) economy benefit from tourism-linked businesses. 4 Sourcing goods/services from Small Scale Entrepreneurs/ 39.1 127 41.1 33.5 Supporting Tribal Artisans Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur local Self Help Groups/NGOs' Income Generation Since the medieval times of Maharanas, Udaipur has been a Programmes (value of goods sourced in INR million) centre for music in various forms including dance arts, vocal & 5 Direct Programme Expenditure by Group Hotels 12.8 22 46.4 36.3 instrumental music, and handicrafts. With the passage of time and modernization, the art & culture troupes of Udaipur strive for CSR (INR million) to keep the dying art forms alive as a result from living in Running for a Cause @ Mumbai Marathon economically dire conditions. The Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur, We continue to support NGOs through our participation in Asia’s 6 Total No. of Employee Volunteers supporting Charity & 10307 5466 1532 3927 enables the livelihood of these artists by engaging them in largest cause-based fundraiser the Standard Chartered Mumbai Theme Based Initiatives guest entertainment activities. Guests staying at the Palace Marathon. This year, our team of 100 runners participated in the 10th are enchanted by Udaipur’s various art forms such as dance, edition of the Standard Chartered Mumbai Marathon, supporting vocal & instrumental music, and handicrafts showcased by the Mumbai Mobile Crèches an NGO which provides educational and 7 Total No. of Volunteering Hours supporting Charity & 92759 81990 192926 241718 tribal artisan communities. Taj Lake Palace, Udaipur, has monetary support to children of construction workers. Theme Based Initiatives supported 23 artisans helping them generate revenue of 1.53 million annually. Celebrating National Bee Day In line with our endeavour to support the cause of ‘Bee Keeping for Poverty Alleviation’, we collaborated with partner NGO, Under The Going Beyond the Cubicle in-to the Community Taj Public Service Welfare Trust Mango Tree for India’s second National Bee Day, to spread awareness Taj’s Give Back volunteers come from different departments in the “For me volunteering has been so much more fulfilling than just The Taj Public Service Welfare Trust was established with a purpose to of the importance of Bees in our lives, held at Maharashtra Nature Corporate Office and the 4 Mumbai hotels. The one common thread donating money because it enables me to be personally involved and support victims of terror, natural calamities and other tragic events Park, Dharavi, on Sunday, February 24, 2013; the day saw 300 plus that binds them together is their zeal to venture once a week out of to see the results firsthand”. Avril Picardo Learning & Development that inflict damage to life and property, post 26/11 terror attacks in people come together to learn about bee-keeping and innovative their office cubicle to make a difference in their local communities. Manager, Taj Corporate Office. Mumbai. The trust has since then focused attention on relief and usages of organic honey. Bee walks, panel discussion led by rural These volunteers use the Give Back platform to help address the long-term rehabilitation measures, for victims and dependents who farmers, five from our project in Bandhavgarh, photo exhibitions taken needs of the underprivileged children and youth of India’s maximum needed support to earn their livelihood and become self-sustainable by urban and rural bee-keepers, bees movies, honey tasting, face city Mumbai. Their goal is to help empower and engage with these again in various disaster situations. The trust continues to reach out to painting, bee costumes and quizzes for kids and Cooking with Honey’, youngsters in association with partner NGOs ‘Vidya’ and ‘Salaam survivors and victim’s families across geographies in India where volunteer, Chef Surendra Khambra, of signature French Baalak Trust’ (SBT) to help chart out a sustainable future for these kids. restaurant, Zodiac Grill of The Taj Mahal Palace, Mumbai, showcased With ‘Vidya’, the Give Back volunteers help students of the Bombay Internal Campaigns Driven to Renew the Culture of Volunteering at Taj innovative usage of honey, all of which created a joyful day of learning Municipal High School in class 7 & 8 develop their English language In addition to the core focus areas of our corporate responsibility for one and all. skills. In addition, they impart creative and educational skills to the agenda, various other campaigns and initiatives are undertaken at the children of SBT, an organisation that provides a holistic environment corporate and individual hotel level, to address some key local social for the 2, 00,000 plus street, slum and runaway children, by addressing issues. Our hotels regularly conduct employee volunteering programs, their educational, creative, cognitive, social and vocational needs. The NGO exhibitions during festive seasons and donation drives to support team of volunteers also provided around 25 children of SBT a unique local communities. opportunity to celebrate ‘Children’s Day’ at the Taj Corporate Office. The eventful day ended with a visit to the Taj Mahal Palace hotel an experience that the kids will cherish for lifetime. 50 51 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT appropriate evidence to determine that the selected performance information is not materially misstated. We have undertaken: To the Management of Indian Hotels Company Limited • An evaluation of the existence and operation of the systems and ASSURANCE STATEMENT methods used to collect process and aggregate the selected Introduction performance data presented in the Report. We also tested the KPMG was engaged by the Indian Hotels Company Limited (‘IHCL’, ‘the reliability of underlying data and information for the selected Company’) to provide assurance on IHCL’s 2012-13 Corporate performance data within the scope of our assurance; Sustainability Report (‘the Report’), in line with the “Limited Assurance” • Conducting visits to domestic hotels and audio conferences with requirements of ISAE 3000 (Revised), Assurance Engagements Other international hotels as below: Than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information by International Federation of Accountants’ (IFAC) International Standard Site Visits for Assurance Engagements › Ahmedabad Gateway Hotel, Ginger › Bengaluru Vivanta by Taj Whitefield, Ginger Whitefield, Assurance scope TajSATS The scope of assurance covers data and information on economic › Hyderabad Taj Falaknuma Palace, Taj Krishna, Taj Banjara, Taj (excluding financial), environmental and social indicators presented by Deccan, Vivanta by Taj Begumpet IHCL in the Report for the financial year 2012-13, in line with the › Kolkata Taj Bengal, TajSATS requirements of GRI – G3.1 (2011) guidelines on sustainability › Mangalore Gateway Hotel, Ginger reporting. › Mumbai Taj Mahal Palace, Vivant by Taj President, TajSATS Specific limitations and exclusions Audio Conference Our assurance process was subject to the following limitations as we › USA Taj Campton Place have not been engaged to: • Determine which, if any, recommendations should be implemented • Checking the Reports’ content to ensure consistency with the GRI • Act on behalf of management in reporting to Board of Directors, or application level requirements of A+; Audit Committee • A review of the Report draft to ensure there are no disclosures that • Develop/ prepare of source documents are misrepresented or inconsistent with our findings. • Verify the Company’s financial performance indicators • Verify the Company’s statements that describe expression of Conclusion opinion, belief, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention Based on our assurance process, as described above, nothing has come provided by the Company to our attention for us to believe that the information presented in The Report is unfairly presented, in accordance with the reporting criteria. For the locations that were not visited, we confirmed that the data supplied by IHCL was correctly reported and aggregated at corporate Key observations office, but did not verify the underlying reliability of this data on site. Without affecting the conclusion presented above, we would like to draw readers’ attention to the following: Standards and reporting criteria • The Report presents six critical sustainability issues of material We conducted our work in accordance with ISAE 3000. We conducted significance to IHCL and its stakeholders. IHCL can establish our engagement in compliance with the requirements of the IFAC Code company-wide objectives, goals and targets on key sustainability of Ethics for Professional Accountants, which requires, among other performance indicators and present the performance against the requirements, that the members of the assurance team (practitioners) objectives, goals and targets in future reports. as well as the assurance firm (assurance provider) be independent of • IHCL has defined procedures to monitor and collate information on the assurance client, including not being involved in writing the Report. safety performance at the hotel-level and corporate-level. The Code also includes detailed requirements for practitioners • There is an opportunity to further strengthen IHCL’s sustainability regarding integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, data management process including adherence to compliance confidentiality and professional behaviour. KPMG has systems and requirements at hotel-level in order to enhance consistency and processes in place to monitor compliance with the Code and to prevent reliability of data and information. conflicts regarding independence. • IHCL can conduct specific training and awareness sessions on sustainability at the hotel-level in order to create a better Work undertaken understanding of the reporting requirements. Our procedures include assessment of the risks of material • Based on our review the Report meets the A+ application level misstatements of selected performance indicators and disclosures and criteria of GRI G3.1 guidelines. underlying internal controls relevant to the information published in the Report. Our procedures were designed to gather sufficient and 53 Responsibilities GRI/UNGC/ NVG-SEE Content Index The management of IHCL is responsible for preparing the Report and the information and statements within it. IHCL’s management is also responsible for identification of stakeholders and material issues, for defining commitments with respect to sustainability performance, and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance Section GRI Indicators Additional UNGC NVG-SEE management and internal control systems from which reported Name Covered Information Principles Principles information is derived. Beyond the Numbers 3.1,3.3,3.5,3.8,4.12 3.2 Our previous report Our responsibility is to express our conclusions in relation to the above was for year 2011-12 scope. We conducted our engagement with a multidisciplinary team 3.7 Specific limitations including specialists in ISAE 3000, stakeholder engagement, auditing (if any) pertaining to the environmental, social and financial information and with experience in performance indicators reported have been similar engagements in the hospitality sector. detailed in the individual sections. This report is made solely to IHCL in accordance with the terms of our 3.9,3.10 The 'per room engagement. Our work has been undertaken so that we might state to night' calculations IHCL those matters we have been engaged to state in this report and exclude TajSATS which is for no other purpose. To the fullest extent permitted by law, we do not into airline catering business. We have accept or assume responsibility to anyone other than IHCL for our reviewed and restated work, for this report, or for the conclusions we have reached. the energy consumption and related GHG emissions for 2011-12 to ensure consistent reporting across years. 3.11 This year, we have included the performance of newly Santhosh Jayaram opened hotels Authorized Signatory KPMG August 30, 2013 Message from the 1.1 Managing Director & Chief Executive Officer Our Legacy 4.4 Refer our Corporate Sustainability Report 2010-11 (Page 07) for our Vision and Values 11 Decades of Taj 2.1-2.3,2.5,2.7,3.6 2.4,3.4 Back cover, 2.6 Refer our Annual Report 2012-13 (Page 47-48) for the shareholding pattern A Foundation of Ethics 4.1-4.7, 4.9, 4.10, 4.13, EN28, SO8, PR9 There Principle 1, 2 – Human Principle 1 Ethics, DMA HR, DMA SO, LA13, were no monetary or Rights Transparency and HR3, SO2, SO3, SO4 non-monetary sanctions Accountability levied on us in the Principle reporting year for any 10-Anti-Corruption non-compliance with laws, regulations and voluntary codes SO6There was no financial contribution to any political party or politician made during the year SO7There have been no legal actions against us for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 54 55 Section GRI Indicators Additional UNGC NVG-SEE Section GRI Indicators Additional UNGC NVG-SEE Name Covered Information Principles Principles Name Covered Information Principles Principles Towards a Sustainable 1.2, 3.5, 4.4, 4.14-4.17 4.13, SO5 We are Principle 4 Stakeholder Our People, Our Power DMA EC, DMA LA, DMA EC3 Refer our Annual Principle 3, 4, 5, 6 Principle 3 -Employee Future represented in key Engagement, Principle 7 HR, EC7, LA1, LA2, LA3, Report 2012-13 (Page Labour Well-being industry and trade Policy advocacy LA4, LA5, LA10, LA11, 90-91) for defined associations. Through LA12 benefit obligations. these associations, we work with other industry LA14 We are an equal partners on various opportunity employer, issues concerning and everything else tourism and hospitality being equal, the ratio of industry. salaries of men to women is 1:1. Focussing on Growth & DMA EC, EC1, EC9 EC4 We did not receive Profitability any significant financial LA15 In 2012-13, 393 assistance from associates availed government parental leave of which 293 returned to work. EC5 We comply with all national regulations of HR2, HR10 While none wage payments and pay of our operations have equal to or above been screened for minimum wage human rights requirements at all our assessments, all our hotels. The entry level hotels and suppliers are wage for males and mandated to follow the females is equal. TCoC which includes clauses on human rights. A Culture of Delight & 2.10, DMA PR, PR5, PR8 PR1 Since we are in the Principle 9 Customer Surprises hospitality industry, we Value HR4 There have been continuously monitor the no incidents of safety and air quality of discrimination reported our hotels to ensure the in the reporting year. safety of our guests and employees HR5 None of our suppliers have been PR3 We follow all laws identified as those of the land regarding prohibiting the freedom service information of collective bargaining. required. HR6, HR7 All our hotels PR2, PR4, PR7 There prohibit the employment were no incidents of of child labour and non-compliance with forced labour. regulatory or voluntary codes concerning health All employees, including and safety impacts, contract employees, are labelling and marketing screened to ensure that communication of our no child is employed in products and services. our premises. PR6 We adhere to all HR11 There have been mandates of the no grievances related to Advertising Standards human rights filed in the Council of India regarding reporting year. our marketing communications. SO4 There were no reported instances of corruption during the year. 56 57 Section GRI Indicators Additional UNGC NVG-SEE GLOSSARY Name Covered Information Principles Principles Creating Safe DMA LA, LA6, LA7, LA8 Environments Preserving the Planet 4.11, DMA EN, EC2, EN1, EN2 These Principle 7, 8, 9 Principle 2 Product EN1-EN30 indicators are not Environment Lifecycle Sustainability, materially significant, Principle 6 Environment since we are in the hospitality industry EN17 Partially reported EN23 There are no significant spills during the year EN24, EN25, EN27 Not applicable Community & DMA SO, EC6, EC8, EC9, SO9, SO10 During our Principle 8 Inclusive Compassion LA11, SO1 studies in and around Growth and Equitable our locations of Development operation, we did not come across any potential or actual negative impact on local communities due to our presence Assurance Statement 3.13 GRI/UNGC/NVG-SEE 3.12 Content Index Glossary Our Annual Report 2012-13 is accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Investor-Relations/Annual-Reports.html Our Corporate Sustainability Report 2011-12 is accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Company-Information/Communication-on-Progress-new.pdf Our Corporate Sustainability Report 2010-11 is accessible at http://www.tajhotels.com/About-Taj/Company-Information/8th-Corporate-Sustainability-Report.pdf 58 GLOSSARY • CSMM Customer Satisfaction Measurement and Management • CSR Corporate Social Responsibility • ESS Employee Satisfaction Survey • FTC Fixed Term Contract • GRI Global Reporting Initiative • GSTS Guest Satisfaction Tracking System • HR Human Resources • IHCL Indian Hotels Company Limited • ISO International Organisation for Standardisation • ITI Industrial Training Institute • MJ Mega Joules • NVG-SEE National Voluntary Guidelines on Social, Environmental and Economic Responsibilities of Business • ODS Ozone Depleting Substances • OHSAS Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series • PAT Profit After Tax • PET Polyethylene Terephthalate • SHE Safety, Health & Environment • SPP Strategic Planning Process • TABE Taj Awards for Business Excellence • TBEM Tata Business Excellence Model • TCoC Tata Code of Conduct • UNGC United Nations Global Compact • UNWTO United Nations World Tourism Organisation • VOC Voice of Customer • WTTC World Travel & Tourism Council 60
