OUR COMMITMENT TO GREEN Sustainability Report 2012 OUR COMMITMENT TO GREEN Sustainability Report 2012 OUR COVER RATIONALE This year’s cover theme promotes MRCB’s emphasis on “OUR” positioning, on collective and honest commitment to green. This commitment runs throughout the Company and has become the heart and lifeblood of our day-to-day operations. All members of the Company have provided their individual contributions by offering their skills and knowledge for the success of this common goal. Our collective effort to protect the environment has united our internal and external stakeholders in a remarkable way. We strive to work cohesively in a unified effort for a greener tomorrow. Contents OUR Cover Rationale 2 OUR Approach to Reporting 4 OUR MRCB 6 OUR Corporate Structure 8 OUR Organisational Chart 10 OUR Chairman’s Message 16 OUR Stakeholders 19 OUR Materiality Analysis 20 OUR Corporate Governance 24 OUR CSR 25 OUR Awards and Recognition 25 OUR Commitment to the UN Global Compact 26 OUR Environment 36 OUR Community 44 OUR Workplace 58 OUR Marketplace 64 OUR Pledge 65 GRI Index 78 Assurance OUR APPROACH TO REPORTING This is the sixth Sustainability Report produced by PRINCIPAL GUIDELINES Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad (MRCB). This Report covers our responsibilities to our GRI-G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Framework stakeholders and the contributions we have made to sustainable development. ADDITIONAL GUIDELINES ABOUT THIS REPORT • Bursa Malaysia’s Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Framework This Sustainability Report is consistent with our Annual Report and previous Sustainability Reports. • Silver Book: The Putrajaya Committee GLC This Report continues to feature Disclosures on Transformation Manual Management Approach (DMA) and provides information on the nature of our business in • ACCA Malaysia Sustainable Reporting each area of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guidelines for Malaysian Companies Guidelines. Our strategies, achievements and future plans for sustainability management are • ISO 26000: Guidance on Social Responsibility all aligned with these guidelines especially in the areas of sustainable environmental management, RELIABILITY OF INFORMATION DISCLOSED community, social contributions, ethics and corporate culture. The Report’s reliability has been examined by SIRIM QAS International Sdn Bhd and assessed by the Where group-wide information is not available, we GRI for how comprehensively the latest GRI-G3.1 have provided performance data and case studies guidelines have been applied to achieve a top which are representative of our general approach. application level of A+. Our assurance approach is In this Report, we have also tracked data and completely transparent, bias-free and independent. statistics of our performance to date and evaluated The conclusions are presented in an Assurance our progress in achieving targets. Statement which can be found at the end of this Report. There is no conflict of interest between the Our transparency efforts are not limited to this report preparation process and verification process. Report. Other material issues such as Corporate Governance and detailed data of our internal FEEDBACK operations and business activities are reported in our Annual Report and are not repeated here. This Report is available to all stakeholders in hard copy on request and can be downloaded from SCOPE OF REPORT MRCB’s corporate website. For further information and comments, please contact: REPORTING PERIOD: January to December 2012 MOHAINI MOHD YUSOF General Manager REPORTING CYCLE: Head of Corporate Communications Annually Malaysian Resources Corporation Berhad Level 22, 1 Sentral COVERAGE: Jalan Travers, Kuala Lumpur Sentral The MRCB Sustainability Report covers our P.O. Box 12640 entire organisation and includes quantitative and 50470 Kuala Lumpur qualitative data for 2012. Where group-wide Malaysia information was unavailable, selected site data has been used. Some indicators are partial and only Tel: +603 2786 8080 relate to certain divisions or activities as indicated Fax: +603 2780 5883 in the text. www.mrcb.com.my 2 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Platinum Sentral, 1st Platinum BCA Green Mark in Malaysia OUR MRCB MRCB is a private limited company that was ENGINEERING AND CONSTRUCTION incorporated in Malaysia on 21 August 1968. DIVISION (E&C) – PROJECT MANAGEMENT & The Company was listed on the stock exchange CONSULTANCY in Malaysia on 22 March 1971 and is presently listed on the Main Market of Bursa Securities. The E&C is a division of the Company that has On 12 October 1981, the Company assumed its been active in carrying out a wide range of works present name. including the construction of buildings and roads such as the Permai Psychiatric Hospital, Marlborough Principally an investment holding company. College and the Eastern Dispersal Link (EDL) in Johor MRCB also engages in construction related Bahru. E&C designed & built the 552 km. National activities, infrastructure, property development Transmission Grid in Peninsular Malaysia and the 273 and investment and provision of management km Sabah East West Interconnection Grid, 48 km road services to its subsidiaries. Through its upgrade to 4 lane “dual carriageway” Federal Route subsidiaries, associated companies and 5 between Ipoh and Lumut in Perak and as turnkey jointly-controlled companies, the Company is also contractor for retail and commercial properties. involved in property development and investment, building services, environmental engineering, INFRASTRUCTURE, CONCESSION & infrastructure and engineering and construction ENVIRONMENT DIVIS ION (ICE) related activities. ICE is a division that excels in high profit margin MRCB LAND works involving infrastructure developments with concession rights and environment based projects. MRCB Land is the property division of MRCB ICE’s main toll concession rights are the Duta-Ulu that currently has geographically diversified Klang Expressway (DUKE) and Eastern Dispersal developments in Malaysia which are mainly in Link (EDL). The successful coastline and river Kuala Lumpur, Selangor, Perak, Penang and Negeri rehabilitation projects have restored the degraded Sembilan. In 2012, MRCB Land provided the beaches and rivers in Penang and Pahang including largest revenue contribution to the Company. The the tourist beach on the island of Tioman, Pahang. property division has a sustainable track record ICE is currently working to rehabilitate three rivers: from the development of office and commercial the Perai River in Penang, Pahang River and Kuantan developments, high rise residential properties, River in Pahang. retail complexes and a transportation hub. In terms of building “Green” buildings, MRCB Land BUILDING SERVICES DIVISION (BSD) has tenaciously adopted internationally and locally recognised green building design standards for BSD was certified with the MS ISO 9001: 2008 Quality developments in Kuala Lumpur Sentral such as Management System certificate for the services that it the US Building Council’s Leadership in Energy is delivering. BSD continues to maintain and manage and Environmental Design (LEED) for 348 Sentral, both building and facilities (including car parks) for Green Mark standard of Singapore’s Building private and public sectors such as the EPF, Maybank, and Construction Authority (BCA) for Platinum Axiata, MIDA and Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur. Sentral and Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) for Q Sentral. 4 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OUR CORPORATE STRUCTURE PROPERTY Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (74%) Unity Portfolio Onesentral Park Sdn Bhd (100%) Sdn Bhd (100%) Prema Bonanza Sdn Bhd (51%) MRCB Utama Sdn Bhd (100%) Malaysian Resources Development Sdn Bhd (100%) Seri Iskandar Development Corporation Sdn Bhd (70%) Bitar Enterprise Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Sentral Properties Sdn Bhd (100%) Sooka Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Excellent Bonanza Sdn Bhd (60%) Cosy Bonanza Sdn Bhd (65.70%) Nu Sentral Sdn Bhd (51%) MRCB Land (Australia) Pty Ltd 348 Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) (70%) 59 INC Sdn Bhd (100%) Country Annexe Sdn Bhd (70%) ENGINEERING & CONSTRUCTION MRCB Engineering Sdn Bhd (100%) Milmix Sdn Bhd (100%) Transmission Technology Sdn Bhd (100%) Region Resources Sdn Bhd (100%) 6 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 INFRASTRUCTURE, CONCESSION & ENVIRONMENT MRCB Prasarana Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Lingkaran Selatan Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Southern Link Berhad (100%) MRCB Environmental Services Sdn Bhd (100%) MRCB Environment Sdn Bhd (5 ((55%) 5%)) BUILDING SERVICES Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Services Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Parking Sdn Bhd (100%) Semasa Sentral (Penang) Sdn Bhd (100%) INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY MRCB Technologies Sdn Bhd (100%) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 7 OUR ORGANISATION CHART BOARD OF DIRECTORS SECRETARIAL AUDIT COMMITTEE GROUP MANAGING DIRECTOR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GROUP CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER Chief Financial Officer Corporate Finance Human Resource Infrastructure, Communications Concession & Environment Corporate Finance Legal Safety, Health & & Business Environment Development Total Quality Procurement/ Management/ Business Admin & IT Customer Relationship Development Management & Government Relations Divisional Head Of Finance 8 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Chief Operating Officer Chief Operating Officer (Property) (Engineering & Construction) Engineering & Group Retail Assets Property Marketing & Sales Building Services Construction MRCB Technologies Sdn Bhd SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 9 OUR CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE “We continue to maintain high standards of Quality, Safety, Environment and Value Engineering in our projects for the benefit of our customers, society and the nation.” I am pleased to present MRCB’s Sustainability Report 2012. Malaysia. It features 982,000 square feet of office campus It has been an honour and privilege to serve the Company which incorporates green features such as natural ventilation, over the past eight years. At the heart of our company is a efficient lighting control, rainwater harvesting, solar energy, strong commitment to provide clients with an optimum automated waste disposal system and green landscaping. world-class service distinguished by technical project management expertise. During 2012, we continue to maintain high standards of Quality, Safety, Environment and Value Engineering in our projects for the benefit of our customers, society and the nation. Our team continually strives for excellence against the ever-increasing challenges of the industry. We devote our full attention to exceed our customers’ expectations. Commitment, hard work and perseverance have helped the Company to be on par with international standards for the performance and quality of its projects. Platinum Sentral, which was completed in 2012, is Malaysia’s first Platinum-rated Building with Singapore’s BCA Green Mark. The project has also been certified with Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) and is one of the first commercial buildings to deploy an intelligent connected Real Estate solution in Platinum Sentral, 1st Platinum BCA Green Mark in Malaysia 10 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MRCB has a rich and diversified project portfolio across the We place great emphasis on creating value for all our industry’s core growing sectors. New windows of opportunity stakeholders; our customers, investors, employees and are being presented and we are prepared for an eventful suppliers. In 2012, the Company continues to actively pursue future marked with important milestones. I am excited to numerous CSR projects under five key CSR programmes: announce that we have at least five more green building Education, Environment, Employee Welfare, the Community projects scheduled for completion next year with more to and Philanthropy. This amounted to RM1.14 million. follow in the coming years. Our focus during the past years was on the timely completion and delivery of our projects. This was positively reflected in MRCB’s performance and financial results. During 2012, we handed over the newly completed Permai Psychiatric Hospital in Johor Bahru. This is a significant achievement as the facility is the country’s second largest psychiatric hospital worth RM550 million. Education MRCB also took a more proactive role in educational and community-based social activity in 2012. This is in-line with the goverment’s SL1M Management Training Programme initiated by Khazanah Nasional Berhad. This programme provides on-the-job graduate training in a live business environment. Permai Psychiatric Hospital It is my pleasure to announce that the Group recorded a profit of RM134 million before tax for the financial year 2012. The positive growth in profitability is attributable mainly to the strong contribution from the property division driven by recognition of progressive works on the ongoing property development projects at Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD. Nevertheless, the Company realises that the long term sustainability of strong and profitable performance rests not only on revenue growth but also effective cost management. We continue to pursue an optimum operating cost environment to increase our future revenues. SUSTAINABILITY AND US PINTAR Graduates MRCB remains fully committed to its corporate social obligation in 2012. We comply fully with the framework outlined in the “Silver Book – Achieving Value through Social Responsibility”, which we adopted in 2007. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 11 OUR CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE In 2012, MRCB entered its fourth year of participation in the Global Earth Hour movement by switching off all non-essential lights for one hour, in buildings and property under its management. These include the iconic Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD development, comprising landmark office tower 1 Sentral MRCB’s Headquarters and Malaysia’s largest and busiest transport hub, the iconic Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur and its Shah Alam property Plaza Alam Sentral. A school benefiting from our PINTAR programme Our recently completed project, the Eastern Dispersal Link Expressway (EDL) in Johor Bahru was successfully opened to traffic on 1st April 2012. In support of the government’s agenda in developing the nation, it is operating toll free for the time being with the hope that it will benefit the lower-income group. We are working closely with the government to resolve the EDL matter as soon as possible. The expressway is a dual three-lane carriageway that stretches Global Earth Day Minutes before lights off from the Pandan interchange on the North-South Highway to the new Customs,Immigration and Quarantine (CIQ) complex. It is officially the Bangunan Sultan Iskandar, located in Bukit Chagar. Global Earth Day Lights off EDL Expressway We continue our educational support programme for nine schools under the Promoting Intelligence, Nurturing Talent In 2012, we witnessed the official ground breaking of and Advocating Responsibility (PINTAR) programme. The Little India’s multi-storey car park project. We hope to resolve schools are SK Bagan Jermal, Penang; SJK (T) Ladang the lack of parking in the Brickfields area, reduce congestion Mayfield, Penang; SK Iskandar Perdana, Perak; SK La Salle and encourage additional business opportunities. This is 1, Brickfields, Kuala Lumpur; SK La Salle 2, Brickfields, Kuala in-line with the conception of the ‘Little India Project’, which Lumpur; SK Tebrau Bakar Batu, Johor; SK Indera Shahbandar, aims to increase the income of the Indian community and Kuala Pahang, Pahang; SK Serandu, Kuala Pahang, Pahang; promote Indian cultural heritage. The car park project will and SJK (C) Yoke Hwa, Kuala Pahang, Pahang. All the schools complete early next year. are located close to our areas of operation. 12 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Little India’s multi-storey car park project OUR CHAIRMAN’S MESSAGE In promoting the colourful culture and heritage of our country, we support various celebrations in Malaysia. In 2012, these included the Chinese New Year, Hari Raya Open House and Deepavali. Chinese New Year, celebration at 1 Sentral 14 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MRCB was honoured with a certificate of merit for being selected as one of the top finalists at the National Corporate Reporting Awards (NACRA) under the Bursa Malaysia’s Annual Report award category. This is the first time MRCB was selected as the finalist in the overall category. We won the Best CSR category in 2008, 2009 and 2010 consecutively. MRCB is a communicating member of the UN Global Compact and continues to serve as a committee member of the Malaysian chapter. This is in keeping with our aim of adopting international standards for our CSR programmes and vision. Our goal is to incorporate all 10 UNGC principles on human rights, labour rights, environmental sustainability and antiAn activity by the Sport and Recreation Club of MRCB corruption into the Company’s operations and strategies and to report regularly on their implementation. At MRCB, we are driven by a passion to improve people’s everyday lives. As a responsible corporate citizen, supporting humanitarian efforts is core to our commitment to developing social and economic change. We continue to provide financial and non-financial aid to less privileged communities throughout the country. The Sport and Recreation Club of MRCB, also known as SPARC raised funds for the Silaturrahim Nurul Qana’ah Orphanage. The donations were made in conjunction with its Majlis Berbuka Puasa held at Platinum Sentral. The Edge-PAM Green Excellence Awards 2012 National Corporate Reporting Awards (NACRA) ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS The continued success of MRCB would not be possible without on-going support from its shareholders, customers, business associates and relevant authorities. On behalf of the Board of Directors, I would like to extend my appreciation to all stakeholders. Finally, my utmost appreciation goes to our dedicated management team and employees for their continuous commitment and contribution to the overall AWARDS AND RECOGNITION achievement of the Company’s goals and objectives. The Company continued to receive recognition and accolades in 2012. MRCB was awarded The Edge-PAM Green Excellence Awards 2012 for its green development, Platinum TAN SRI AZLAN ZAINOL Sentral. It also received three of the Editors Choice Property CHAIRMAN Awards 2012; Platinum Sentral won the Best Green Office Development Award and Best Green Initiative Award. Our Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD development was accorded the Best Integrated Development for the year 2012. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 15 OUR STAKEHOLDERS SHAREHOLDERS & INVESTORS CUSTOMERS ANALYSTS / MEDIA EMPLOYEES INDUSTRY PEERS GOVERNMENT VALUE CHAIN / REGULATORY PARTNERS AUTHORITIES COMMUNITY AND THE PUBLIC We define our stakeholders as those who have direct, indirect are considered to be a priority for our stakeholders and have a or potential impact on MRCB. We also consider those groups potential impact on our business. These issues are integrated who are directly or indirectly affected by our operations. into our business strategies. Our stakeholder mapping exercise identifies these people, organisations or entities so that we employ the correct A combination of external stakeholder engagement and engagement approach. Each stakeholder group is managed internal strategic alignment ensures that this process is by a dedicated division whose duty is to regularly engage, transparent and credible. We focus on the long-term value respond to queries, address concerns and formulate strategies drivers of our business and stakeholders at large. to serve their needs more effectively. The main engagement methods employed by MRCB are At MRCB, materiality analysis identifies social and summarised in the following table. This list is not exhaustive environmental challenges, and opportunities that are important but outlines the core channels of engagement. to our stakeholders. We define material issues as those which 16 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Stakeholder Method of Engagement Area of Interest MRCB’s Approach Group Customers • Customer Satisfaction • Project features • MRCB conducts Customer Survey description and services Satisfaction Surveys (CSS) for newly • Customer complaints • Green building projects completed projects and those it platform maintains. • MRCB publishes information in various online and printed media for its customers and the public. Shareholders & • Results announcement • Return on investment • MRCB holds regular briefings for Investors meetings • Financial performance investors and analysts. This forms • Annual General Meetings • Branding part of its IR initiatives to enter • Regular communication into dialogue with the Community • Investor road shows and other constituencies. The main • Reverse road shows objective is to inform and update potential investors and current stakeholders of MRCB’s economic position and gain their confidence in the Company’s management. Analysts / • Regular communication • Ongoing and future • We engage with our media Media • Media interviews, press projects partners and analysts regularly at our release and website postings corporate events and launches. We • Official launches and events provide first hand project • Open dialogue information. Industry Peers • Conferences and meetings • Ongoing and future • Our Annual Report, Sustainability • Industry workshops projects Report and corporate website • Networking events • MRCB’s involvement in provide up-to-date information on society our performances, event calendar and other Company news. Value Chain • Contract bidding and • Fair procurement • We practice fair and transparent Partners procurement management • Sustainable partnerships procurement practices. Our tender • Training and communication with MRCB procedures incorporate elements of • Site visits • Adoption of Green sustainability and do not only focus • Development of Green Standards, on technical expertise and price. Buildings BCA Green Mark, Singapore, US Green Building Council (LEED) USA, GBI, Malaysia Community and • Community engagement • Societal contributions • We regularly contribute to society the Public • Philanthropic activities • Socio-environment impact especially the local community • Open dialogue from operations where we operate by providing and educate better standards of living and education. Our social contributions extend beyond philanthropic activities. MRCB conducts an internship programme which mutually benefits the organisation and society. In 2012, MRCB also collected funds for various charitable causes at Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 17 Stakeholder Method of Engagement Area of Interest MRCB’s Approach Group Employees • Employee representatives and • Career development • We employ best practices in the committee meetings opportunities workplace including competitive • Employee Grievance System • Benefits and remuneration benefits, advance career • Employee training opportunities, work-life balance and • Employee Satisfaction most importantly a safe working Survey environment. • Quarterly newsletters • Intranet • Management meetings • Other events including annual dinner, functions and informal gatherings Government • Regular communication • Compliance • It is each department’s responsibility / Regulatory • Reports and compliance • Supporting government to ensure compliance with all Authorities • Adoption of Green Standards initiatives relevant regulations. We continue to develop the Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD by obtaining certifications from local and international bodies including the US Building Council’s Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED); Singapore-based Building and Construction Authority (BCA) Green Mark and Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI). In society, MRCB supports the Government’s SL1M Management Training Programme which trains graduates making them more employable. Nu Office tower night view Nu Office tower main lobby 18 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OUR MATERIALITY ANALYSIS We analysed issues to determine their societal and business relevance. This helped identify areas that could represent current or future opportunities or risks. This analysis examined the potential impact of specific sustainability issues. A topic of material interest is considered relevant and significant from both MRCB and its stakeholders’ perspectives. We use a formal process to help identify the most material sustainability issues to our business and stakeholders. Relevant issues and indicators are those that reflect the economic, environmental or social impact of the organisation or that can influence the decisions of stakeholders. The materiality analysis considered a broad range of stakeholders input, both direct and indirect. A range of issues that our stakeholders said were important during the year were assessed to determine their significance to MRCB. Structured reporting resulted as we were able to focus on the most strategically important issues. Materiality represents the threshold beyond which an issue and/or indicator becomes sufficiently significant to be included in the report. The materiality matrix below displays the material sustainability issues identified. The strategic significance of these issues was evaluated and arranged in order of priority. The materiality level dictates the amount of disclosure in this Report. • Project features: Current & upcoming • Safety and Health HIGH • Carbon Emissions • Business’s impact on community and SIGNIFICANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS environment • Societal contributions MEDIUM • Sustainable supply chain • Being an employer of choice • Industry comparison LOW • Biodiversity • Freedom of Association & Collective Bargaining LOW MEDIUM HIGH SIGNIFICANCE OR POTENTIAL IMPACT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 19 OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE The Board of Directors of MRCB (“the Board”) firmly believes Roles and Responsibilities that sound corporate governance practices are essential for sustainable business performance and value creation for The Board oversees the business affairs of the Group and is the Company’s shareholders. The Board is committed to principally responsible for strategic planning, risk management, achieve the highest standards of business integrity, ethics succession planning, oversight of operations and reviewing the and professionalism across the activities of MRCB and its adequacy of the management information and internal control subsidiaries (“the Group”). In this regard, the Board and the systems of the Group. The Board is guided by a Charter which Management Team remain committed to ensuring that good was reviewed and adopted on 20 November 2012. Amongst Corporate Governance practices are implemented throughout others, the Board Charter sets out the principal role of the the Group. These practices are refined and improved to Board, the functions, roles, responsibilities and powers of ensure their continued relevance and effectiveness in meeting the Board and its various committees. The contents of the the challenges of its dynamic business environment. In this Board Charter can be viewed at the Company’s website, statement, the Board is pleased to set out its application of www.mrcb.com.my. the principles set out in the Malaysian Code of Corporate Governance 2012 and also relevant requirements set out in The following matters have been reserved by the Board for the Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad’s Main Market Listing its decision: Requirements (“MMLR”). • Corporate plans and programmes; MRCB’S BOARD STRUCTURE • Annual budgets, including major capital commitments; • New ventures; Composition of Members • Material acquisitions and disposals of undertakings and properties; and As at 31 December 2012, the MRCB Board has seven (7) • Changes to the management and control structure of the members, comprising the Chairman (non-independent Company and its subsidiaries, including key policies. non-executive), five (5) independent directors and one (1) non-independent non-executive director. With the resignation The Executive Director is responsible for the day-to-day of Datuk Mohamed Razeek Hussain, the Chief Executive business operations of the Group. The Non-Executive Directors Officer of the Company, on 18 August 2012, there is no are responsible for bringing independent judgement and executive director sitting on MRCB’s Board as at 31 December scrutiny to the decisions made by the Board; they also make 2012. The profile and designation of each board member and objective challenges to management. The Non-Executive membership of Board Committees are set out in our Annual Directors do not engage in any business dealings with the Report 2012. Group to show they are capable of exercising independent judgement and act in the best interests of the Group and its The members of the Board bring with them a diversity shareholders. and depth of experience in corporate strategy, finance, business management, property development and property The roles of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer are management. Together with their strong networking in held by separate individuals and there is a clear division of the public and private sectors, the members of the Board responsibilities and authorities. The Chairman, who is a provide effective oversight and strategic leadership to the non-executive director, is responsible for leadership, ensuring Management Team. effective functioning of the Board and providing oversight over the operations of the Group. The Chief Executive Officer With its composition as at 31 December 2012, the independent is responsible for making and implementing operational directors constitute 71% of the Board and these independent decisions and the day-to-day management of the Group. The directors provide effective debate and uphold the principles Chief Executive Officer charts the overall business direction of of objectivity and integrity during Board deliberations. The the Group, reports and communicates key strategic matters higher proportion of independent to non-independent and proposals to the Board, and implements decisions made directors ensure that no individual or group dominates the by the Board. The Chairman is also responsible for chairing decision making process. the meetings of the Board and ensuring that there is adequate deliberation and evaluation of proposals and information provided by The Management. 20 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Board of Directors Meetings Directors are required to disclose any conflict of interest situations or any material personal interest that they may have The schedule of Board of Directors meetings for each year in the affairs of the Group as soon as they become aware of it is established before the end of the preceding year along and abstain from any deliberations. with a schedule of matters to be discussed in these meetings. Apart from the scheduled meetings, additional meetings may Directors’ Training and Continuing Education Programme be requested by the Chairman to deliberate on urgent or important matters that require attention. The Board members are mindful of the need to continuously upgrade and improve their knowledge and enhance their skills A total of ten (10) Board of Directors meetings were held for the benefit of the Group. All new Directors are required to between 1 January 2012 and 31 December 2012. All Directors attend the Mandatory Accreditation Programme as required attended more than 50% of the Board meetings during this by Bursa Malaysia Securities Berhad. In addition to that, the period. Board assesses the training needs of its Directors from time to time and ensures that the Directors have access to continuous Board Committees education programmes. The Board has established five (5) committees, each with Remuneration Policy for Directors and Senior Management specific authorities and responsibilities, to assist the Board in discharging its duties and responsibilities effectively. The roles, The remuneration of the Chief Executive Officer and designated functions and authorities of these Committees are clearly set senior management personnel are based on the Remuneration out in their respective terms of reference. Committee’s review and assessment of the achievements and contribution of each member measured against their These Committees review and deliberate on strategic issues. respective Key Performance Indicators. Recommendations are The Chairman of the various committees reports on their then made by the Remuneration Committee for a decision by respective deliberations and recommendations to the Board the Board on suitable remuneration for each personnel. at the next Board meeting. The Board is ultimately responsible for decisions made by the committees. Non-executive Directors receive a fixed base fee as a consideration for their Board duties. The aggregate These committees are the Audit Committee, Executive amount of Directors’ fees paid to Non-Executive Directors Committee of the Board (“EXCO”), Nomination Committee, is recommended by the Board for the approval of the Remuneration Committee and the Employees’ Share Option shareholders at the Company’s Annual General Meeting. Scheme (“ESOS”) Committee. Performance Evaluation BOARD CONDUCT The Board, through the Nomination Committee, reviews and Code of Ethics and Conduct for Board Members evaluates its performance, the performance of individual Directors and the various committees regularly. In 2012, the The Directors are expected to meet the highest ethical Board engaged the services of a professional consulting firm standards. All Directors and employees of the Group are to conduct a Board Effectiveness Evaluation. This evaluation, given a copy of the Executive Handbook and the Code of which was conducted through written questionnaires and Business Ethics upon their appointment. Compliance with the interviews with the directors, covered the effectiveness of the provisions in these documents is deemed to be part of the Board including the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the terms and conditions of their service. Amongst others, the Board Committees and individual Board members. Executive Handbook and Code of Business Ethics set out the expected standards of conduct and behaviour when dealing with external customers, suppliers and conflict of interest situations; and in preserving the confidentiality of company information. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 21 OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RELATIONSHIP OF THE BOARD WITH MANAGEMENT ETHICAL CONDUCT The relationship between the Board and Management Relationship with External Auditors remained strong and cohesive during the year under review. The Board continues to have direct and unrestricted access The Company maintains a transparent and professional to the management team of the Group. The Board supports relationship with its auditors through the Audit Committee. the Management by providing leadership, and the setting During the year, the Company engaged its external auditors of business targets through Key Performance Indicators and for statutory audits, tax-related matters and to conduct the Balanced Scorecards for senior management personnel. The evaluation of Board effectiveness. Board also serves a check-and-balance function by challenging and debating decisions made by the Management before they The Audit Committee meets regularly with the External are endorsed and approved. To do this, an established and Auditors to discuss and review the Audit Plan, quarterly and structured reporting system has been introduced to regularly annual financial results, reports of examination and any audit brief and update the Board on the Group’s performance. This findings that are highlighted by the External Auditors for the system allows the Board to closely monitor the achievement Audit Committee’s attention. of targets set. Rewards to the Management and employees, such as bonuses and ESOS allocation, are based on financial In recommending the External Auditors for re-appointment, performance and achievement of key business targets. the Audit Committee reviews their performance, suitability and independence. For 2012, the Audit Committee has obtained a Full Access to Information written assurance from PricewaterhouseCoopers, the External Auditors, that they have maintained their independence in In the course of discharging their duties, the Directors always accordance with the provisions of the By-Laws on Professional have: Independence of the Malaysian Institute of Accountants. i. Full and unrestricted access to timely and accurate Prevention of Fraud information. The agenda and a full set of Board papers are typically distributed at least seven days The Board has also put in place the Prevention of Fraud Manual before Board or Committee meetings. This process which serves to guide the Management and employees on ensures that the directors have enough time to review, maintaining the highest standards of conduct and integrity in consider and if necessary, obtain further information all dealings. It also details the Management’s responsibility to on the matters to be discussed so that they are establish proper control processes to prevent and detect fraud. properly briefed and prepared for the meetings; It defines what constitutes fraud and fraudulent activities, and develops a framework for preventing fraud. ii. Unrestricted access to the advice and services of the Company Secretary and other members of senior The Prevention of Fraud Manual also has a specific section management; and on the Code on Whistleblowing. It outlines the avenues and procedures for whistleblowers to communicate their iii. Unrestricted advice and services of external and concerns to the Board (either through the Chairman of the independent professionals, made available to Board Audit Committee or the Head of Corporate Governance) members individually and collectively. This advice without Management’s intervention and interference. and services are made available independent of The Whistleblowing Code also describes the subsequent Management’s intervention. procedures to be taken for investigating and dealing with fraud cases. In order to enhance the accountability of the Board and Senior Management, the Group has in place Limits of Authority approved by the Board. This sets out the limits of transactions each level of Management is authorized to approve, and transactions that need to be approved by the EXCO or the Board. 22 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Code of Business Ethics Conflict of Interest MRCB has developed a comprehensive Code of Business It is important that business decisions and actions are based Ethics (the Code) in English and Bahasa Malaysia. It serves on the best interests of MRCB and not motivated by personal as a guide and reference to assist our employees in adhering considerations or relationships. We ensure that relationships to our high ethical business standards. The Code provides with prospective or existing suppliers, contractors, competitors guidance on the way we conduct business and duties in a or regulators do not affect our independence when making manner that is efficient, effective and fair. Key issues and the decisions on behalf of MRCB. Declarations to our management relevant policies, procedures and resources are identified to must be made in situations that are, or appear to be, a conflict help employees conduct business and duties in line with our of interest. standards. MRCB’s full time employees cannot work for, or receive payment for services from any of its competitors, customers, distributors without prior approval of the management. MRCB does not permit conflicts of interest and employees are unable to become involved with one. Public Policy and Political Donations MRCB employees must not propose making a political contribution without first checking it is lawful. Also such a proposal must receive the express approval or concurrence of the Board of Directors before it is expedited. No direct or indirect political contributions using MRCB funds or other resources can be made to a candidate or party except where such contributions are permitted by law and expressed permission has been given by Board of Directors. MRCB held its 41st Annual General Meeting (AGM) at Hotel Istana, Kuala Lumpur on 3 April 2012, with more than 2,000 shareholders attending the meeting. After the briefing session, the Board of Directors and staff socialised with the shareholders. * This Statement is a summary of the Statement on Corporate Governance made by the Board of Directors in accordance to its resolution dated 26 February 2013. Full disclosure of this Statement on Corporate Governance can be found in our Annual Report 2012. Efficient, effective and fair SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 23 OUR CSR MRCB is committed to contribute to the nation’s growth and to enhance their qualities of life and align our development interests in tandem with its core business activities. The Group goals in support of the Government’s principles of sustainable provides social assistance in terms of monetary or in kind to development. Our CSR guidelines below are applicable to all society, needy individuals and the nation. The Company aims companies and subsidiaries under MRCB. FOUR CORE ACTIVITIES IT DEVELOPMENT EDUCATION M MRCB’S CSR SR FOCUS NATIONAL AND COMMUNITY CHARITABLE PROJECTS ORGANISATIONS 1. IT Development royong and other activities that enhances society’s Sponsorship of IT programmes – computer literacy needs approved by the Director General of Inland campaign focusing on rural people, schools and orphanages. Revenue, Malaysia. In kind contributions are made to relevant schools and • Commitment by MRCB to help in the construction and orphanages, such as the donation of computers, printers, equipping of three 1Malaysia Libraries. These libraries scanners and other necessities. will be developed at locations with a high concentration of the poor in Lembah Pantai, Titiwangsa and Wangsa Maju. Although this commitment was made in 2012 by 2. Education the Ministry of Federal Territories and Urban Wellbeing, • Establish Resource Centre – providing used books these projects are ongoing. We hope to report on the and newspaper distributions to selected schools progress of these libraries in our next Sustainability and orphanages situated within the vicinity of MRCB Report. projects. • High Achievers Awards – monetary incentives to best 4. National and charitable organisations students who are children of MRCB employees. • National organisations • Malaysian Government endorsed charity activities 3. Community Projects • Relevant Ministries activities • Charitable programmes within the vicinity of MRCB • Local orphanages projects, namely Majlis Berbuka Puasa, Donation to • Organisations for the disabled Surau & Mosques, Majlis Kesyukuran/Doa Selamat on • Relevant foundations recognised by the Malaysian completion of MRCB projects. Government • Visits to old folk’s homes, donations to poor families, • Entrepreneurial activities organised by the National donations to orphanages activities and the disabled. Chamber, Malay Chamber or relevant associations • Blood donation campaign by MRCB staff, gotong• Recognised charitable organisations 24 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 OUR AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Green Excellence Awards Malaysia Investor Relations Survey On 18th October 2012, Platinum Sentral, a green building The 2012 Malaysia Investor Relations Survey by Thomson development located in the Kuala Lumpur Sentral Reuters Extel, working in partnership with the Malaysian development, was announced as the 2012 winner of The Investor Relations Association (MIRA) was published in April Edge-PAM Green Excellence Award, at an award ceremony 2012. We are pleased to report that our Investor Relations held at Hilton Kuala Lumpur. Officer Mr. Zulkifli Mohd Salleh Sabai was recognised for his achievements and named as one of the Best IR Professionals, Developed by MRCB Sentral Properties Sdn Bhd, a subsidiary in the category of middle capitalised company listed on the of MRCB, Platinum Sentral is the first Platinum-rated BCA Main Board of Bursa Malaysia. Green Mark (Singapore) Building in Malaysia. It has also received Malaysia’s Green Building Index (GBI) certification. Finalist for NACRA 2012 Awards Editors Choice Property Awards 2012 On 1 November 2012, MRCB was honoured with a certificate of merit by virtue after being selected as one of the top finalists MRCB was nominated at Editors Choice Property Awards 2012 at the National Corporate Reporting Awards (NACRA) under and received three exclusive awards at the Gala prestige dinner the Bursa Malaysia’s Annual Report award category. on 23 November 2012. The event was organised by Malaysian Reserve and Property Times at Sunway Resort Hotel and Spa, This is the first time MRCB was selected as the finalist in Petaling Jaya. MRCB won Best Green Office Development and the overall category. Previously, we have won the Best CSR Best Green Initiative for Platinum Sentral. It also was awarded category in 2008, 2009 and 2010. the Best Integrated Development for year 2012 for Kuala Lumpur Sentral Central Business District (BCA). OUR COMMITMENT TO THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT MRCB became a signatory of the UN Global Compact on • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and 4th September 2008. The UN Global Compact’s ten principles compulsory labour; in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and anti-corruption enjoy universal consensus and are derived from: • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. • The Universal Declaration of Human Rights • The International Labour Organisation’s Declaration on Environment Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work • The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development • Principle 7: Businesses should support a • The United Nations Convention Against Corruption precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Human Rights environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: Encourage the development and • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Anti-Corruption • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion Labour and bribery. • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Collective Bargaining; SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 25 OUR ENVIRONMENT Our commitment to a greener Central Business District is apparent in our green building initiatives. Our environmental contributions are reflected in our continuous efforts in monitoring the environmental impact of our operations. We ensure that our systems and procedures adhere to all applicable local and international standards. OUR ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT We recognise the emerging risk of global climate change and the impact it could have on our industry and global citizens. We have a strong corporate commitment to energy efficiency, both in our operations and in our green project investments. We will continue to develop our understanding of the climate and energy. Action will be taken to protect the environment and strengthen our businesses. Our involvement in environment protection has included: • Improvements in the ecological balance of flora and fauna • Protecting human and marine lives from further damage • Creating business opportunities for tourism-based industries • Creating a safer and better environment for local communities • Raising public awareness on alternative waste disposal and recycling methods • A greater sense of responsibility for environmental preservation As one of the leading proponents of green development, the Group will continue to pursue sustainable development in our core property business. We have consciously initiated the adoption of a green development strategy for all future developments in Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD. As a contractor, we are also advocating a green development strategy for our clients. This strategy has been implemented in all current projects in our iconic landmark Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD development including 348 Sentral, Lot G and Platinum Sentral. Energy Management MRCB monitors its energy usage for projects and operations. The Company believes it cannot manage what it cannot measure. During 2012, we have increased our scope for energy use monitoring to include more projects and subsidiaries. These improvements are ongoing and we hope to increase this scope further in the future. Energy Consumption (kWh) Company 2010 2011 2012 KLSD * 98,231.35 103,854.22 104,447.09 MRDSB 566,059.00 652,185.00 697,245.00 MUSB * 4,448.00 MSPSB 30,514,422.77 25,711,932.79 39,850,964.25 SIDEC 43,474.00 33,444.00 80,902.00 MRCB Engineering 1,720,299.00 2,638,443.00 2,772,791.20 TTSB 164,680.10 5,377,728.00 682,112.00 MRCB HQ 126,516.02 94,093.60 95,526.01 MRCB Prasarana / ICE 54,847.04 51,352.85 48,044.50 SSKL 17,947,926.89 19,982,693.33 17,453,693.61 Milmix Sdn Bhd 254,620.00 403,118.00 247,760.00 Total 51,495,524.17 55,048,844.79 62,033,485.66 * The meter reading is from the bulk meter which includes Semasa Sentral area, KTMB and common areas. ** MUSB was handed over to the owner and no longer manages this facility. 28 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Green Building The BCA Green Mark Scheme was launched in January 2005 as an initiative to drive Singapore’s construction industry In December 2009, Prime Minister Datuk Seri Najib Abdul towards more environment-friendly buildings. It promotes Razak announced that Malaysia has agreed to reduce its sustainability in the built environment and raises environmental carbon dioxide emissions by up to 40% by 2020 compared awareness among developers, designers and builders. These with 2005 levels. Our green developments contribute to this principles are applied from project conceptualisation and vision through: design, through to construction competition. • Enhancing and synergising government transportation All new projects undertaken by MRCB Land since 2009 mode and connectivity issues conform to the global standards stipulated by reputable • Enhancing the image of building construction activities green accreditation bodies. The Malaysian Green Building which are often seen as a public nuisance Index (GBI), US-based US Building Council’s Leadership in • Increasing control of building thermal comfort and utilising Energy and Environmental Design (LEED) and the Green available daylight Mark by Singapore’s Building and Construction Authority • Minimising and structuring energy use and consumption, (BCA) have been implemented. Platinum Sentral was the first and reducing building contribution to heat island effect development in Kuala Lumpur Sentral to obtain its green • Controlling and reducing light pollution in Kuala Lumpur certification; BCA Green Mark (Platinum) and GBI (Certified). • Educating and promoting waste management and green materials The built environment dramatically affects the natural environment, human health and economy. We maximise The LEED Green Building Rating System is a certification both economic and environmental performance by adopting programme designed to support green building design, green building strategies. Green construction methods are construction and operations. It promotes a whole-building integrated into MRCB’s buildings at all stages from the design approach to sustainability by recognising performance in and through the construction. sustainable site development, water savings, energy efficiency, materials selection and indoor environmental quality. Platinum Sentral won numerous green building awards in 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 29 OUR ENVIRONMENT Economic benefits Environmental benefits (i) Reduce operating costs (i) Energy efficiency (ii) Create, expand and shape markets for green product (ii) Conserve and restore and services environmental resources (iii) Improve occupant (iii) Minimise environmental productivity impact from operations (iv) Optimise life-cycle economic performance Social benefits (i) Enhance occupant comfort and health (ii) Improve overall quality of life Waste Management The most common construction materials can be recycled including concrete, porcelain, rigid plastics, tile, lumber, Our practices in the management and disposal of our waste metals, masonry, plastic, rock, carpet and insulation. are based on the national waste hierarchy. The fundamental principal of our waste management includes: Our Platinum Sentral project adopts the Pneumatic Waste Collection System. Solid waste is transported pneumatically at • Reducing the use of primary materials, prioritising those high speeds via reticulated pipes to a central plant. It is stored which damage health or give rise to waste generation in sealed containers and sometimes compacted before it is • Reusing materials when possible transported for disposal as secured landfill. Advantages of this • Disposing of remaining waste in a responsible manner system include: which is in compliance with the requirement of relevant licenses and other obligations • Hygienic no more exposed filth and contamination • Environmentally Health no more bad odours General waste such as industrial, commercial and domestic • Convenient regular round the clock waste removal waste is controlled under the Local Government Act 1976 and Refuse, Collection, Removal and Disposal By-Laws under the Waste Data for Lot G and 348 Sentral in 2012 Act. The following measures have been followed especially when handling wastes from construction sites: Domestic Waste (m3) Scrap Iron (m3) Lot G 25,552.50 17.132 • General municipal wastes are stored in containers and collected 348 Sentral 12,457.50 222 • Contractors are encouraged to minimise odour and litter impact • Scrap metals are recycled • No construction wastes can be burnt on site 30 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Water Management Water consumption (m3) at Lot G and 348 Sentral project sites in 2012 As part of our commitment to drive operational efficiency, we focus on reducing water withdrawal and studying the use of 71,922 alternative water sources wherever possible. MRCB uses a multi-pronged approach to realise and sustain water savings. This includes awareness campaigns, measuring and monitoring water usage, sharing results and engineering interventions. Specific actions include: 18,803 • sharing information through notice boards and emails to reinforce the water saving concept to employees • using a water measurement system to monitor water usage in the various sections of our buildings Lot G Lot 348 Water sub-meters are employed to monitor water usages for Noise Monitoring irrigation, water features and domestic water usage at our Platinum Sentral project. All sub-meters provided are being A noise measurement programme ensures compliance with linked back to the Building Management System (BMS). Schedule 6 of the Department of Environment’s Planning A rainwater harvesting system has been introduced to reduce Guidelines for Environmental Noise Limit and Control, 2004. the dependency on potable water for landscape irrigation The noise level monitoring for both Lot G and 348 Sentral is throughout the entire site. A good filtration system will conducted by Alam Sekitar Malaysia Sdn Bhd using a Larson be incorporated into the irrigation system. In addition, rain Davis sound level meter, which was calibrated acoustically sensors will be provided as part of effective site irrigation using a Larson Calibrator. system (100% automated irrigation). Part of Nu Sentral roof garden SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 31 OUR ENVIRONMENT Lot G Noise measurement is carried out in accordance with The This legislation stipulates that noise levels at the project site Planning Guidelines for Environmental Noise, Limits and boundary must be controlled at all time to ensure the levels Control issued by the DOE in 2004. 24 hour measurement is do not exceed 65dB (A) for L90 and 75dB (A) for L10 during made continuously with daytime (7AM to 10PM) and night daytime. The monitored parameters and the frequency are as time (10PM to 7AM) segregations as specified in the guideline. tabulated below. Day/ Noise Level Baseline (June 2009) As sampling stations N1 and N2 are situated close to Jalan Tun Sambanthan and Kuala Lumpur Sentral Bus Terminals, Night dB(A) dB(A) noise sources are mainly from the passing vehicles, buses, Month dB(A) Point N1 Point N2 Point N1 Point N2 pedestrians and human activities in this area. It also includes the construction activities at the adjacent project site. JAN Day 77.6 69.5 60.9 60.2 2012 Night 75.1 67.0 58.1 56.3 Sound Level, Noise Data Baseline FEB Day 68.7 72.8 60.9 60.2 Month dB(A) Point N1 Point N2 Point N1 Point N2 2012 Night 60.0 73.3 58.1 56.3 JAN L A10 65.5 77.0 80.3 73.0 MAR Day 79.1 67.7 60.9 60.2 2012 L A90 55.5 63.5 50.8 56.1 2012 Night 71.1 63.8 58.1 56.3 APR L A10 93.5 85.0 80.3 73.0 APR Day 66.7 68.3 60.9 60.2 2012 L A90 59.5 70.0 50.8 56.1 2012 Night 58.3 56.3 58.1 56.3 OCT L A10 70.7 71.0 80.3 73.0 MAY Day 65.1 69.9 60.9 60.2 2012 L A90 65.0 61.0 50.8 56.1 2012 Night 67.2 57.6 58.1 56.3 Compliance Schedule 6 of DOE’s Planning Guidelines for Day 65.7 68.8 60.9 60.2 Limit Environmental Noise Limit and Control, 2004 JUN Maximum Permissible Levels of Construction, 2012 Night 61.7 66.7 58.1 56.3 Maintenance and Demolition Work by Receiving Land Use Day 60.9 60.2 JUL 2012 Night 58.1 56.3 348 Sentral In order to comply with Kelulusan Pelan Kerja Tanah given by AUG Day 60.9 60.2 DBKL, the noise level 15 metres from the piling work area must 2012 Night 58.1 56.3 be controlled between 8:00 and 18:00 to ensure the noise level does not exceed 96 dB(A). Monitoring is carried out at SEP Day 60.9 60.2 two points, N1 and N2. The monitoring has been conducted 2012 Night 58.1 56.3 throughout 2012. Details of the sampling are shown in the table below. OCT Day 60.9 60.2 2012 Night 58.1 56.3 Station Description Day 72.1 68.7 60.9 60.2 NOV Site N1 At the east of construction site outside the boundary 2012 Night 71.4 77.6 58.1 56.3 Site N2 At the north west, 7th Floor of Suasana Sentral Loft DEC Day 68.7 75.7 60.9 60.2 2012 Night 32.5 59.1 58.1 56.3 Compliance Schedule 6 of DOE’s Planning Guidelines for Limit Environmental Noise Limit and Control, 2004 Note: Noise readings for July to December are unavailable 32 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Air Monitoring Lot G The points located at A1 and A2 were selected and Total Suspended Particles (TSP) were measured for 24 hours using a MiniVol sampler. The monitoring of TSB was conducted by Alam Sekitar Malaysia Sdn Bhd. The monitored parameters, frequency and results are presented below. Summary of Monitoring Programme Parameters monitored Location * Total Suspended Particulates (T.S.P) A1 At the northwithin construction boundary A2 At the westwithin construction boundary Air Quality Distribution for Point A1 and A2 T.S.P Baseline Parameter A1 A2 A1 A2 (µg/m³) (µg/m³) (µg/m³) (µg/m³) (µg/m³) FEB 2012 198.41 238.10 81 61 260 APR 2012 277.78 291.67 81 61 260 OCT 2012 166.70 250.00 81 61 260 The TSP measured at Points A1 and A2 were found to exceed the Recommended Malaysian Air Quality Guidelines (RMAQG). This is mainly due to heavy machineries operating in the area. The air quality measured in October and February complied with the RMAQG. 348 Sentral T.S.P Baseline RMAQG Parameter A1 (µg/m³) A2 (µg/m³) A1 (µg/m³) A2 (µg/m³) (µg/m³) JAN 2012 79.37 138.89 198.41 41.67 260 FEB 2012 178.57 218.25 198.41 41.67 260 MAR 2012 228.17 307.54 198.41 41.67 260 APR 2012 49.6 198.41 198.41 41.67 260 MAY 2012 167.67 194.44 198.41 41.67 260 JUN 2012 194.44 250.00 198.41 41.67 260 JUL 2012 198.41 41.67 260 AUG 2012 198.41 41.67 260 SEP 2012 198.41 41.67 260 OCT 2012 198.41 41.67 260 NOV 2012 198.41 41.67 260 DEC 2012 198.41 41.67 260 Note: T.S.P. data for July to December is unavailable SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 33 OUR ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS Scope 1 GHG emissions from company-owned vehicles are monitored Earth Hour 2012 by tracking and tabulating all fuel purchases used for Earth Hour is a worldwide event organised by the World company-owned vehicles. This year, we have improved our Wildlife Fund which encourages households and businesses reporting processes by performing separate calculations for to turn off all non-essential lights for one hour to raise petrol and diesel. The emissions factors for diesel and petrol awareness on the need to take action on climate change. have been derived from the Intergovernmental Panel for MRCB supported this event for the fourth year on 31 March Climate Change (IPCC) Guidelines for National Greenhouse 2012. MRCB switched off all non-essential lights for one hour Gas Inventories. in its building and property under its management to create awareness of the threat of global warming. This includes the Car bon Diox ide e qu iv ale n t e missions ( M T ) f ro m iconic Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD development, comprising Company-Owned Vehicles in 2012 landmark office tower 1 Sentral, the iconic Stesen Sentral 359 Kuala Lumpur and Shah Alam property Plaza Alam Sentral. 277 Petrol Diesel Scope 2 We improved our data monitoring and gathering processes throughout 2012. This year, we have included electricity from more sites and subsidiaries. The data was obtained from the monthly electricity invoices issued for Kuala Lumpur Sentral Sdn Bhd (KLSD), Malaysian Resources Development Sdn Bhd (MRDSB), MRCB Utama Sdn Bhd (MUSB), MRCB Sentral Global Earth Day Properties Sdn Bhd (MSPSB), Seri Iskandar Development Corporation Sdn Bhd (SIDEC), MRCB Engineering Sdn Bhd, Our Carbon Emissions Transmission Technology Sdn Bhd (TTSB), Malaysian Resources MRCB fully supports Malaysia’s pledge to reduce its carbon Corporation Berhad (MRCB) Headquarters, MRCB Prasarana dioxide emissions by up to 40% by 2020. This is the fourth Sdn Bhd / ICE, Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur (SSKL) and Milmix year that MRCB is reporting its GHG emissions. Sdn Bhd. All data inputs are in kWh and cover a period of three years from January 2010 to December 2012. The emissions MRCB’s emissions accounting is based on the GHG Protocol. factor has been derived from the Malaysian Green Technology Direct GHG emissions are produced from sources that Corporation CDM Electricity Baseline for West Malaysia. The are owned or controlled by us. Indirect GHG emissions are carbon emissions arising from the electricity consumption are emissions that are a consequence of our activities, but occur as follows: at sources owned or controlled by another entity. Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from Purchased Emissions Scope Category MRCB’s Emissions Electricity in 2012 42,368.87 Direct GHG Company-owned 37,598.36 Scope 1 35,171.44 Emissions vehicles Indirect GHG Scope 2 Electricity Emissions Air travel and Indirect GHG Scope 3 employee-owned Emissions vehicles 2010 2011 2012 34 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Scope 3 Carbon Dioxide equivalent emissions (MT) from employee GHG emissions resulting from air travel were measured from owned Vehicles and Air Travel from 2011 to 2012 point to point including the number of employees on board, 2,046.53 flight class and distance. All short and long haul flights were included in the GHG calculation. Online tools derived from the World Resource Institute (WRI) Greenhouse Gas Protocol have been used to estimate the CO2 emissions from Air Travel. 1,573.57 Emissions resulting from employees’ own vehicles have been estimated from primary data derived from a survey of 217 employees conducted in early 2013. Respondents were asked questions to determine the type, make, model, year and fuel type of each vehicle. Questions were presented to estimate the average distance of daily business travel. A Mobile Combustion GHG Emissions Calculation Tool from the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative was used to calculate the emissions. It has been assumed that each employee works 46 weeks on average each year. The chart opposite compares 105.85 emissions from employee owned vehicles and air travel in 78.09 2011 and 2012. 2011 2012 Employee Owned Vehicles Air Travel Rivermouth Project in Sg. Tekek, Pulau Tioman SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 35 OUR ENGAGEMENT WITH THE COMMUNITY At MRCB, we are passionate about developing the communities in which we operate. We provide financial and non-financial support for a variety of good causes. As a good corporate citizen, we support government initiatives which enhance communities for current and future generations. OUR COMMUNITY COMMUNITY The PINTAR programme covers a wide range of activities aimed at providing tuition or additional classes to weaker and As a Government-Linked Company (GLC), we have an financially disadvantaged students. A motivational English and economic and social responsibility to contribute positively Science workshop, Klinik UPSR, Portal Guru.net and EZ Math to the communities and Malaysia as a whole. We develop are provided to these children. partnerships with the local communities in fostering socio-economic development of the people who live near our In 2012, we continued our sponsorship of an English Newspaper operations. pull out, DIDIK, to all schools. This initiative was prompted by the Government, which encourages the use of English in Our Children Our Tomorrow PINTAR learning. These newspapers and pull outs have become a useful tool in improving students’ English language skills. PINTAR – Promoting Intelligence, Nurturing Talent and Advocating Responsibility – is a collaborative social Contributing to Charity Events responsibility initiative by the PINTAR Foundation. PINTAR works in collaboration with GLCs and private corporations MRCB Contributes RM30,000 to Persatuan Kebajikan in Malaysia to foster academic and non-academic excellence, Anak Melayu Pulau Pinang particularly for underserved students nationwide, through its MRCB contributed RM30,000 to Persatuan Kebajikan Anak school adoption programme. Melayu Pulau Pinang on 19 January 2012. The event was held at Hotel Royale Chulan, Kuala Lumpur. It saw the TYT In 2012, MRCB continued to support this cause by contributing Tun Dato’ Seri Utama (Dr.) Haji Abdul Rahman bin Haji Abbas a total of RM308,000.00 to nine schools. The funds provided accepting the donation from MRCB on behalf of Persatuan educational assistance at these schools in the form of Kebajikan Anak Melayu Pulau Pinang. Other guests of honour motivational help and tuition. MRCB donated school uniforms, included YABhg. Tun Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, YB. Tan Sri Nor shoes and bags to help alleviate the economic burden of Mohamed Yakcop and YB. Dato’ Raja Nong Chik Dato’ Raja these underprivileged children’s parents and their transition Zainal Abidin. to school. MRCB also provided additional motivational and academic assistance in the form of educational materials, ‘Jelajah Janji Ditepati’ Carnival tutoring and monetary incentives for high achievers. MRCB donated RM70,000 to Jelajah Janji Ditepati on A ‘Young Leaders Campaign’ was also introduced to provide 17 June 2012 in Taiping, Perak. The carnival is a nationwide school uniforms, bags, shoes and stationery for poor primary tour organised by the Media Prima conglomerate. The event school students in rural areas. connects the people with the latest transformation initiatives through various government departments and agencies. PINTAR kids at KidZania Kuala Lumpur 38 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Collections for Humanitarian Causes at Stesen Sentral Malaysia Achievement Summit and Awards 2012 Kuala Lumpur MRCB sponsored RM10,000 for the Gala Dinner and Awards Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur is the largest railway station in for the first-ever Malaysia Achievement Awards (MACA) Southeast Asia. Most of Kuala Lumpur’s passenger rail lines held on 23 February 2012. The gala night commemorated serve Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur, while many intercity trains the nation’s unsung heroes of 2010 and 2011. It featured serving Peninsular Malaysia and Singapore start there. prominent figures that have been successful in the local and international arena. Since 2005, MRCB has conducted activities which directly collect public donations for all causes based on national The MACA is a registered independent non-government interests and concerns. The amounts collected from 2005 to organisation that liaises between the government and 2012 are as follows: individuals to promote high-level achievements by Malaysians locally and internationally. Total Collected Year Cause FIABCI Malaysia Property Awards (RM) MRCB sponsored the FIABCI Malaysia Property Award Bandar Aceh Tsunami 20,700 2012 Award Ceremony and Gala Dinner for a value of 2005 RM5,500. This event was held on 10 November 2012 at the Pakistan Earth Quake 10,000 One World Hotel Kuala Lumpur. 2006 Yogyakarta Tsunami and Earthquake 10,000 2008 China Earthquake 6,000 4th International Conference on World Class Sustainable Cities 2012 2010 Fund for Gaza 2010 15,000 MRCB was a corporate partner for the fourth International 2012 Donations for Gaza 2012 30,000 Conference on World Class Sustainable Cities 2012. The conference discussed innovative solutions for developing Other Welfare, Charitable and Sponsorship in 2012 and improving the quality of urban life through the provision MRCB also actively contributes to various welfare, charitable of basic necessities. It addressed solutions for meeting and sponsorship requests. This is done through our support citizens’ expectations that may be compromised due to the for the non-profit organisations including charities and NGOs ever-increasing population size and spatial area. in our communities. The Edge-PAM Green Excellence Award 2012 for Platinum Sentral Each request is carefully evaluated to determine alignment with our CR strategies to ensure that we are investing in sustainable and worthwhile causes. Because of our limited resources, MRCB cannot fund every worthy cause and our grant competition is extremely competitive. Sports and Recreational Club MRCB’s Sports and Recreation Club (SPARC) collected and donated RM8,000 as part of its contribution to the Silaturrahim Nurul Qana’ah Orphanage Home. The donation was held in conjunction with its breaking of fast event held at Platinum Sentral. The Malay Mail Care Fund Charity Golf 2012 MRCB supported sport by sponsoring the Malay Mail Care Fund Charity Golf 2012 for RM10,000. MRCB’s contribution formed part of the overall initiatives to raise funds for a variety of good causes which included Befrienders, Hospice and MyKasih. Federal Territory Hari Raya Open House Celebration MRCB donates RM15,000 “duit raya” to 150 less fortunate people at the Federal Territory Hari Raya Open House Celebration. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 39 OUR COMMUNITY A list of philanthropic contributions made by MRCB during the Promoting Health and Wellbeing year is as follows: Permai Psychiatric Hospital Amount MRCB handed over Permai Psychiatric Hospital to the Ministry Purpose (RM) of Health on 30 January 2012. Chief Executive Officer, Datuk Mohamed Razeek Hussain handed over the newly Sponsorship to MPH Group for the publication of Book completed hospital to representatives from the Ministry of “Taking The Road Less Travelled A Journey of Self 15,000 Health at the special ceremony in Johor Bahru. The event Examination and Discovery was a symbolic gesture of the successful development by Dato’ Dr Mohd Shahari Ahmad Jabar of Malaysia’s second largest psychiatric hospital worth Donation to Persatuan Kebajikan Anak Melayu Pulau RM556 million. 30,000 Pinang Sponsorship to the Industry Award for Best Blood Donation Drive Students in the Faculty Of Business Management & On 20 June 2012, MRCB and Cisco Systems Malaysia Sdn Bhd 1,000 (CISCO) conducted a successful “Donate Blood. Save Lives” Professional Studies, Management & Science University Convocation campaign at Sooka Sentral for the Kuala Lumpur Sentral community. The campaign attracted 94 people to donate their Donation to Muslim Community in Cambodia by Kolej blood which surpassed the campaign’s target of 50 units of 3,000 MARA Seremban blood. Sponsorship to Malaysia Achievement Summit & Awards 10,000 (MACA) 2012 Blood donation at Sooka Sentral Donation to Persatuan Orang Cacat Johor Bahru 1,000 Sponsorship to Yayasan Nurul Yaqeen for a charity 5,000 musical “Broadway Bites” Donation to education and welfare of orphans, underprivileged and disabled children in Hulu Langat, 500 Selangor by Addin Islamiah Management Contribution to SMK Vivekananda, Brickfields, school fund 3,000 Contribution to Malaysian AIDS Foundation 35,000 Contribution to Persatuan Sukan Orang Buta 1,000 Kuala Lumpur Contribution to the Police Administrative and Civilian 500 Staff Union in conjunction with the Police Day 2012 Contribution to Malaysia Diabetes Association 1,000 Contribution to support the House Build Project 2012 in 2,000 conjunction with the World Habitat Day 2012 Donation to Parent-Teacher Association Fund for 1,500 Sekolah Kebangsaan Bota Kanan, Perak Contribution to the Fire and Rescue Department of 11,000 Malaysia, Kuala Lumpur Contribution for Education & Welfare Fund to 1,000 Persekutuan Guru-guru Melayu Negeri Johor Contribution to the Society for the Advancement of the 2,000 Blind Malaysia Contribution to Tabung Bantuan Rakyat initiated by 2,000 Persatuan Kerabat DiRaja Kedah 40 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Supporting Malaysian AIDS Foundation and the Global Kembara Mahkota Johor 2012 Poverty Project MRCB donated RM50,000 to Setiausaha Kerajaan Johor MRCB supported the Sapura & Kencana Petroleum Red for Kembara Mahkota Johor 2012. The Kembara Mahkota Ribbon GP Ball 2012 by purchasing a dinner table at a cost Johor is an annual royal motorcycle tour programme held by of RM35,000. The event was held on 22 March 2012 at the the state government of Johor under the direction of the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Kuala Lumpur. The two beneficiaries DYMM Sultan of Johore. The royal expedition was participated of the proceeds were the Malaysian AIDS Foundation (MAF) by a group of motorcyclists led by DYMM the Sultan himself. and the Global Poverty Project (GPP). MAF supports the The convoy travelled hundreds of kilometres through all 10 government’s efforts to maximise the community’s response districts of Johor The Kembara Mahkota Johor is held to to HIV/AIDS. The GPP is an international education and engage with Johoreans and provide monetary contribution to advocacy organisation. the poor. Larian Bersama Bomba 2012 Young KL Singers’ Poppzical Concert MRCB supported the Fire and Rescue Department Malaysia, MRCB donated RM1,000 to the Young KL Singers’ Poppzical Kuala Lumpur (JBPM) by donating RM11,000 to its Larian Concert, which was held from 29 August to 2 September Bersama Bomba Ke-10 2012. The event was held on 6 May 2012. “POPZZICAL” celebrates the 10 year journey of the 2012 in conjunction with World Fire Fighters Day 2012. Young KL Singers through songs from the genres of Pop, Various activities were held by JBPM to enliven the celebration Jazz and Musical Theatre. including 7 km and 10 km fun runs. The event received an overwhelming public response which targeted a total of 5000 participants to take part in the run for all categories. Cultural and Festivals Federal Territory Day Celebration Parade On 28 January 2012, MRCB supported the Federal Territory Day Parade by sending a contingent of 54 marchers to the event. A total of 94 contingents took part with some 8,000 people from various sectors including residents associations, government bodies and school children. The event’s theme, “Rakyat Bersatu Wilayah Persekutuan Maju” was in line with the 1Malaysia concept. MRCB utilises their corporate uniforms to represent unity and togetherness. MRCB ushers the coming of Chinese New Year with Lion Dances MRCB sponsored two Lion Dances, which performed at Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD on 2 February 2012. This cultural dance ushered another year of prosperity for the Chinese community. The lion dance performances were conducted at Sooka Sentral and the 1 Sentral building, signifying the bringing of wealth and prosperity to both businesses and people. Federal Territory Day Parade SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 41 OUR COMMUNITY Supporting Education MRCB’s PINTAR Schools visit KidZania as part of Educational Trip MRCB Internship Programme 100 students from MRCB’s PINTAR schools were treated to MRCB conducts an internship programme which mutually an educational trip to KidZania on 15 October 2012. This benefits the organisation and society. This programme provides trip formed part of the schools extracurricular programme in local university students with essential work experience which addition to its motivational and academic programmes. is required for the completion of degree courses. These students are given a stipend throughout their time with MRCB KidZania Kuala Lumpur is an indoor family edutainment to help with their living and travelling costs. centre. It offers an interactive learning and entertainment experience for children. This kid-sized city delivers the MRCB believes in the programme as it exposes students to first-of-its-kind edutainment fun. The KidZania experience industry and on-the-job training. Society as a whole benefits as is about real-life experiences, empowering, inspiring and the nation’s skills are enhanced. MRCB considers the suitable educating kids through role-play. students for full time positions subject to the job description, criteria, vacancies and suitability. The PINTAR students were allowed to “play grown-ups” by performing real life activities that usually only adults would SL1M Management Training Programme experience. These included going to work, smart spending Every university graduate’s output is a national asset. The and independence. Government has implemented measures to improve the employability of graduates, particularly through programmes administered by the Ministry of Higher Education. These programmes have succeeded in reducing the mismatch between the university and the needs of industry. The Government launched the Skim Latihan 1Malaysia (SL1M) initiative based on the success of a similar programme conducted in Bank Negara Malaysia. MRCB supports this initiative along with other GLCs and private sector companies as part of its CSR Programmes. The programme trains these candidates and increases their self-confidence which makes them more employable by large companies. Graduates are provided with a stipend of RM1,000 medical benefits and one day of leave per month. Study visits by institutions of higher learning MRCB recognises the role of industry in higher education and is happy to share its knowledge of construction with these academic institutions. A future TV host in the making On 22 March 2012, we welcomed a group of students from the University of Nottingham, Malaysia Campus on an educational tour of Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD’s Lot G retail mall site. Students gained practical information of construction site work to complement their theoretical knowledge. The areas of sustainable construction and green buildings were introduced as MRCB representatives shared the environment concerns of the construction industry. 42 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Learning the ropes of a real-world occupation Investor Relations Investor Relations (“IR”) is an area of communication where public disclosures are unravelled for clarity primarily in relation to the Company’s business strategies, concepts, ideas, risk management and key performance indicators. These are exchanged during discourses mainly with the investment and financial stakeholders which ultimately contribute to the fair valuation of the Company’s securities. Generally, the stakeholders include shareholders, institutional investors, fund managers, analysts, bankers, research houses, stock broking houses and the investing public. MRCB’s practice of IR attempts to dispel any confusion and clarify situations based on feedback or market reaction to the Company’s existing and future business operations through: • Timely, consistent, orderly and fair dissemination of information in accordance with Bursa Malaysia’s Listing Requirements; • Accurate portrayal of the Company in a transparent manner, its accountability and responsibility as a corporate citizen Charity Musical for Medical Education that adheres to the practice of good corporate governance; MRCB donated RM5,000 to a charity musical ‘Broadway • Identifying market concerns of the Company’s prospects Bites’ in aid of Projek Hati Nurani — Program Sekolah Dalam and managing issues that might have adverse impact on Hospital. the Company’s financial standing; and • Maintaining a good working relationship with the It provides structured yet flexible education programmes investment and financial community. specially tailored for pre-schoolers to upper secondary pupils undergoing extensive periods of medical care in hospitals. Public Policy Development The project, launched in July last year, is being implemented MRCB supports the government’s efforts on social and in Hospital Kuala Lumpur, Hospital Serdang and Hospital national development. The “Silver Book Achieving Value Ampang. through Social Responsibility” has been adopted since 2007. This document provides guidelines and principles The project was a joint initiative between the Education for GLCs to contribute to society and manage their social Ministry and Yayasan Nurul Yaqeen, which is under the obligations. This methodology is in line with our commitment patronage of YABhg Puan Sri Noorainee Abdul Rahman, the to supporting public policy development. MRCB has made wife of Deputy Prime Minister YAB Tan Sri Muhyiddin Yassin. no significant contributions to or maintained any links with political organisations during the reporting period. We also School Fund Donations received no significant contributions from the government. MRCB contributed RM3,000 to the Parents and Teachers Our ad-hoc engagement activities include entertainment Association (PTA) of SMK Vivekananda in Brickfields. comprising luncheon and dinners; visits to relevant ministry RM2,000 was also donated to the PTA of SK Kajang Utama or government agencies; sponsorships and donations; events School Fund. MRCB donated a further RM1,000 to the and direct mailing letters. Publishing Club of Universiti Teknologi MARA (UiTM) Shah Alam. Compliance We are pleased to report that there were no incidents or Other Humanitarian Causes penalties for violations involving anti-competitive, anti-trust or MRCB also made contributions to other humanitarian causes. monopoly practices at any time in the history of our operations. A donation of RM2,000 was made to Persatuan Kerabat There have been no incidents or penalties for non-compliance Diraja Kedah for its Tabung Bantuan Rakyat. An additional with laws and regulations reported at any time during this contribution of RM3,000 was made to Kolej MARA Seremban period. No violation or incidents of fraud, corruption or for the Muslim community in Cambodia. non-compliance with anti-corruption were reported in 2012. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 43 OUR EMPLOYEES ARE OUR GREATEST ASSET Caring for our employees provides symbiotic benefits to both MRCB and its workforce. We focus on developing employees’ career opportunities within the Company and monitoring their satisfaction. Our respect for diversity is reflected in providing equal opportunities for all sections of the community. OUR WORKPLACE WORKPLACE Supporting Local Talents MRCB sets no formal guidelines for the hiring of locals and We focus on developing our employees’ careers as we expand foreigners although we prioritise the hiring and development and add new opportunities. We provide our employees with of local people. We opt to use local supply chains wherever on-board training from day one to help them get on track. possible. MRCB participates in various career fairs to attract MRCB achieves its goals by helping its employees achieve the best people from the industry. We participated in various theirs. This is an integral part of growing our company career and job fairs in 2012 including: and rewarding deserving employees with compensation and advancement opportunities. Security and safety is an • Barisan Nasional (BN) Youth Job Fair, Kuala Lumpur from important part of our culture. We encourage our employees 16 to 18 November 2012 to make it their personal responsibility to make sure that our • BN Youth Job Fair, Kuala Lumpur from 11 to 13 May 2012 work environment is safe. • MY Career Fair, Universiti Putra Malaysia on 25 February 2012 Labour Practices and Decent Work An estimated 400,000 to 500,000 job-seekers attended the Work-life balance three-day job fair. Candidates from school leavers to fresh At MRCB, we passionately believe that promoting a positive graduates attended the fair, which was launched by the Prime work-life balance has noticeable benefits for the Company and Minister, Dato’ Seri Najib Tun Razak. its employees. Employees who are able to maintain a work-life balance are more productive. They are also more loyal to the Benefits Company which saves both the time and money involved in At MRCB, we offer an attractive benefits package in addition to recruiting new staff. our basic salaries. The health and wellbeing of our employees is a chief concern for us. We provide comprehensive medical In an anonymous survey conducted in early 2013, we asked benefits to our employees. All employees have access to free our employees if they believe MRCB has the right balance medical consultations, treatment and medicines prescribed between family and work life. We discovered that 72.35% by our panel clinics. In emergencies, the treatment cost from were satisfied with the balance between family and work. Only any registered medical practitioner is reimbursed by the 5.07% were dissatisfied with this. Company. This coverage is extended to employees’ spouses and children if they do not enjoy medical cover from their own places of work. Employees are entitled to sick leave upon producing a medical certificate from our approved panel clinics or during an emergency by any registered medical practitioner. Employees may be granted sick leave without hospitalisation up to a maximum of 28 working days per year. Hospitalised employees may take sick leave up to a maximum of 60 days, provided it is recommended by our panel of doctors. Female employees are eligible for maternity leave on full pay for 60 consecutive days. All female employees are also entitled to a maternity benefit payment for each delivery. Two days Paternal Leave is also provided to employees who are fathers. MRCB grants Compassionate Leave for various reasons. Employees are given three days Marriage Leave for their first legal marriage. An employee may be granted three days for a family bereavement. Two days are granted in the event an employee suffers a natural disaster. Examination leave may be provided with full pay for employees Infiniti Gym at Sooka Sentral is a stone throw from MRCB in the course of study related to their work. MRCB will also head quarters 46 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 reimburse the cost of relevant education up to a maximum defines its scope and responsibility and shows clearly how of RM6,000 per course. This covers all courses up to degree training and development is expected to contribute to the level. achievement of goals. This policy is essential to the planning and implementation of a training function. Without it, Employees are eligible for Pilgrimage Leave up to 40 days. each training and development module will be conducted As part of the Caring Management Policy, Muslim employees in isolation without considering the overall needs of the may opt for the early withdrawal of their retirement benefit to organisation. perform the Haj. Employees must have served for more than five years and it is granted only once during a lifetime. All MRCB personnel are eligible to attend internal in-house training programmes based on Training Needs Analysis (TNA) A festival subsidy is given to all employees celebrating various and nomination by their respective division or department festivals to further enhance the good relationship between heads. MRCB and its employees. Each employee is entitled to one festival subsidy voucher worth RM50. This is redeemable at External courses are attended to MRCB staff after nomination selected departmental stores for the following festivals: by their respective head of division or department and by the Human Resource Department. These courses are usually No. Festival Employee for a long period and lead to a professional certification examination such as a diploma. 1 Hari Raya Puasa All Muslim employees 2 Chinese New Year All Chinese employees Our Human Resource department conducts a customised 3 Deepavali All Indian employees training programme for our employees on a yearly basis to meet the current industry standards. Our internal and external 4 Christmas Staff celebrating Christmas programmes are designed to develop our employees’ careers by providing them with the necessary hard and soft Eligible employees will be reimbursed the monthly subscription skills required to succeed. This tailored approach equips our fee for one professional membership club. A daily Outstation employees with knowledge relevant to their roles to further and Overseas Subsistence Allowance including travel and enhance our workforce. accommodation is given to employees depending on their travel work assignment destination. We are interested to learn how our benefits programme is received so that we can improve it. We conducted a formal survey of employee responses of those entitled to various benefits during 2013. 64.06% of employees were satisfied with the medical benefits they received. 60.37% of employees were satisfied with the group insurance scheme that covers employees’ life, hospitalisation, surgical costs and personal accidents. 59.26% were satisfied with the level of additional specialist medical care made available to all employees and their immediate family members. Competitive Salaries MRCB is committed to compensating all employees at a level that is at least equivalent to the industry average for both the construction and property management sectors. The Group also regularly reviews employees’ salaries and benefits packages as the needs arise. Training and Development Training and development is an important aspect in the growth of MRCB. A formalised and comprehensive Training and Development Policy has been formulated. This document Quality moments with colleagues SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 47 OUR WORKPLACE Examples of training programmes attended in 2012 Internal Training External Training Contract Administration 2nd International Conference on Water Resources First Aid & CPR Training 5 Days QMSlac/ISO 9001 Training Course Handling Disciplinary Issues Confined Space Authorized Entrance Finance For Non Finance Fraud, Bribery & Corruption A Global Issue Business Communication & Report Writing Skills Forensic Accounting And Financial Crime Project Management Occupational Health & Safety (OH&S) Process Based Internal Auditing HIRADC OSH Best Practice Indoor Work Environment Qlassic Awareness Quality Assessment System in Construction We conduct internal training programmes and team building Year activities for our employees. At MRCB, the development Teambuilding Improvement Area of good team-building skills unites our employees around 2011 2012 a common goal and generates greater productivity. We Improved my people skills 76.23% 77.60% understand that without them, we are limiting our employees Improved my management skills 58.20% 67.20% to the effort each individual can make alone. Encouraged a new working culture 68.03% 75.20% We conducted a survey to gauge employee job satisfaction Created a sense of company pride and ascertain the levels to which their training and career 64.75% 78.40% and loyalty development programmes fulfil their needs. This online survey was carried out anonymously by independent consultants More detailed analysis of the data found that 88.80% of during early 2013. It was hoped that this approach would help employees agreed that the programme had improved one document our employees’ views more accurately and clearly. or more areas. We are pleased the effectiveness of our teambuilding programmes has improved from the previous 125 of the 217 respondents had been involved in some way year. 13.65% more employees believe the team building with MRCB’s team building activities. These employees were programmes helped create a sense of company pride and asked if they thought the team building programmes has loyalty. 9% and 1.37% more consider their management and helped them in five key areas. The percentages of respondents people skills have improved respectively. 7.20% more thought helped by these programmes for the last two years are these programmes encouraged a new working culture. presented in the following table. Engaging the Brickfields community 48 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Employee Satisfaction The objective of the review process is to provide systematic Employee behaviour is often influenced by the working evaluation of an employee’s job performance. This process environment, colleagues’ behaviour, leadership and encourages quality performance by rewarding those who management policies. At MRCB, we believe that our perform well and improve current performance by giving management must be aware of employees’ attitudes, opinions workers feedback. It also identifies training needs and initiates and satisfaction levels. This allows us to optimise employee fair disciplinary proceedings. This process provides useful outcomes and set realistic goals and KPIs. channels of communication between managers and their subordinates. MRCB conducted a survey to measure the satisfaction, motivation and loyalty of employees. The survey was At MRCB, we conduct an annual performance appraisal conducted in February 2013 for the year 2012. This was based in addition to informal periodic and ad hoc reviews. This on a similar survey performed in March 2012 for the year 2011. engagement ensures that regular feedback is obtained to help These surveys aim to identify HR focus areas and activities in motivate the strong performers and discover performance the coming years and both were conducted by an external gaps. During the appraisal reviews, the overall performance consultant. rating that has been determined based on the period’s performance is discussed. Emphasis is given to the individual’s Results of Employee Satisfaction Survey for 2011 and 2012 competencies, achievements, training and development needs. 74 At MRCB, performance management is an on-going, year 71 71 72 71 71 round interactive process between managers or supervisors 70 and their employees. Our performance management system 68 67 encourages ongoing coaching, counselling and development 66 through open discussion on career opportunities. 64 63 Working General Communication Leadership Strategy Benefits Environment Satisfaction Effectiveness 2011 2012 The survey results suggest our employees are much happier than before. The largest increases relate to the effectiveness of communication in MRCB and the strength of the Company’s leadership. The Company’s strategy, working environment and general satisfaction levels have also improved significantly. We are pleased that our employees are increasingly happy and hope to sustain these high standards in the future. Performance Development Reviews Performance Development Reviews are means of appraising employees’ performance. At MRCB, it is defined as a procedure which sets work standards, assesses employees’ actual performance relative to these standards. The review process provides feedback to motivate employees, eliminate performance deficiencies and continue performing above Continuous performance review provides channels of average. communication among employees SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 49 OUR WORKPLACE Step Three Review Committee Human Resource discuss with individual Company/Division on Step Two Verification and the justification of the grading Checking for each Executive at the levels Human Resource checks for Step One Distribution and stated above if the ratings do completeness and accuracy Completion of the PDR Forms not follow the set guidelines. of the PDR forms before The Performance Development tabulating the final report. Re v i e w (P DR ) for m s a re The above process is completed distributed to the respective within two weeks. Head of Companies / Head of Divisions by the first week of October together with the set guidelines. The immediate superior arranges for a suitable time for the Performance Review interview with individual employees. The result of the appraisal process is mapped across five levels This initiative is in line with the overall goal of improving of performance ranging from A to C. The summary results morale, inculcating passion towards MRCB and improving obtained in 2012 are: interdepartmental relationships. There were a total of 653 members registered as at 31 December 2012. A AB+ B BC Various events were held during the year to promote the spirit Percentage of Employee (%) 5% 1% 15% 73% 5% 1% of sportsmanship, teamwork and fun among its members. These activities include: Semasa Sentral Staff Recognition Day Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd, a subsidiary of MRCB celebrated its 11th anniversary as the station manager of Stesen Sentral Date Event Venue Kuala Lumpur (SSKL) on 24 April 2012. In conjunction with Cosmic Bowl, the commemorative event, it also held a staff recognition 7 JAN MRCB Bowling Mid Valley Megamall, day which recognised its customer-facing employees with a 2012 Tournament Kuala Lumpur special Staff Excellence Award. The award was presented by MRCB’s CEO, Datuk Mohamed Razeek Hussain. FELDA D’Saji, 27 MAR Netball Friendly Jalan Semarak, Promoting Wellbeing of Our Employees 2012 Match with FELDA Kuala Lumpur MRCB Sports Club and Recreational Pertandingan At MRCB, we believe in nurturing a work-life balance culture 12 MAY Dewan Dato’ Haji Badminton Terbuka that provides all employees with an equal opportunity to 2012 Sidek, Kuala Lumpur 2012 make healthy choices. MRCB Sports Club and Recreational was established in 1996 with the following objectives: Iftar Bersama 15 AUG Anak-anak Rumah Platinum Sentral • To increase motivation levels, promote healthy lifestyle and 2012 Silahturrahim Nurul morale of employees for future endeavours Qanaáh • To maintain and improve relationships and teamwork in 3-4 NOV MRCB MRCB Race 2012 Gold Coast, Morib 2012 • To complement the Teambuilding activities across Divisions 50 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Listening to our Employees Workplace Diversity Our grievance policy and procedures are important to At MRCB, all employees are responsible for fostering an prevent a single person making decisions arbitrarily that are atmosphere that promotes good relations between one prejudicial to the interests of employees and the Company. another. Managers are required to oversee their subordinates These procedures allow employees to voice their problems in the most effective and efficient manner. They are expected or complaints to higher levels of management. The aim is to make fair decisions which are free from discrimination to settle grievances as close as possible to the root cause. based on MRCB guidelines and policies. Employees must Employees are encouraged to discuss their grievances with not discriminate against any individual or group because of their immediate superiors first. If a satisfactory response is not race, religion, gender or disability. They should not use their received, appeal procedures can be followed. position or other advantage, such as seniority or physical size, to harass or intimidate others. Harassment Abusive, harassing or offensive conduct is forbidden at MRCB Total number of employees whether it is of a verbal, physical or visual nature. Examples 1221 include derogatory comments based on racial or ethnic 1218 characteristics and unwelcome sexual advances. We are all encouraged to speak out when a fellow employee’s conduct makes us feel uncomfortable and report harassment when it occurs. Objectionable material must not be transmitted or 1136 downloaded and doing so is considered a serious breach of the Code of Ethics. Offensive materials from the Internet of religious, political, racial or gender perspectives are classified as objectionable material. These include materials that have the potential to incite hatred or ill feelings of various parties. Objectionable material also includes pornography, gambling and insensitive religious, sexist, political and racist comments. 2010 2011 2012 Close relationship makes MRCB a great workplace SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 51 OUR WORKPLACE WOMEN EMPOWERMENT Breakdown of employees by type I joined MRCB in 2007 as a Project Director. My experience 708 685 throughout my career life with MRCB has been great. (58.13%) (56.10%) 635 There is no gender discrimination and we are assessed (57.31%) on performance. The Company respects our rights and flexibility is given. As a female employee, this is very useful as I have a career and a family to look after. A flexible 536 working arrangement is given by the Company which 501 510 (43.90%) allows overtime to be converted to replacement leave. (41.87%) (42.69%) MRCB has always been supportive in developing my career. There are in-house training programmes which provide us 2010 2011 2012 with basic functional skills. A generous budget is allocated for developing our technical expertise in areas relevant to Permanent Staff Non-permanent Staff our field. MRCB is a diverse Company. I can see and feel the support from our CEO given to employees regardless Breakdown of employees by gender of gender. In fact, I have seen increasing numbers of female colleagues holding positions in building servicing, 854 851 construction and maintenance which used to be male (69.94%) 806 (69.87%) dominated. (70.92%) It was no doubt a challenge for me when I first joined this ‘male-oriented’ department. However, I believe that women can do an equally good if not better job as we are well-known to be more fussy and detailed. At MRCB, 330 367 367 security and safety of employees is always a priority. There (29.98%) (30.13%) (30.06%) is always a security person who follows us whenever we go for site visits and we can never visit site areas without 2010 2011 2012 proper Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). Female Male To all females, remember that the key to success is to believe in yourself. You need to make your presence Employee Turnover felt and always articulate your opinions clearly. It can be challenging for us women as we are expected to do a 23.42% 23.18% little bit more to prove ourselves. So just go beyond those boundaries. Nooraini Mohamad Rashidi Vice President Property Development 14.20% MRCB is an equal opportunities employer which does not discriminate against women. Due to the nature of MRCB’s operations, there are naturally more men than women. MRCB is considering introducing various programmes to encourage 2010 2011 2012 more women in management and aims to deliver various training courses to promote women empowerment. The table above appears to show large fluctuations in employee turnover. However, these figures include contract workers who are employed on a project basis. Our employee turnover rates are naturally affected by the natural expiration of these workers’ contracts. 52 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Human Rights 2010 2011 2012 Our Human Resource Policy covers a wide range of human Employees rights related topics. This Policy is also incorporated in our Total number 1136 1218 1221 investment and procurement practices, with human rights screening adding value during suppliers and contractors screening. Once a sub-contractor has been awarded work, only Executive 672 674 653 legal workers can be employed. Foreign workers must have a Non-Executive 464 544 568 valid work permit and comply with statutory regulations. We are pleased to report that there have been no incidences Permanent Staff 501 510 536 of discrimination or risk to freedom of association and Collective Bargaining during the year. Our operations are Non-permanent staff 635 708 685 mainly in areas of urban development which do not affect the rights and lives of the indigenous communities. MRCB complies with the Children and Young Persons (Employment) Female 330 367 367 Act 1966 which prohibits the employment of the underage Male 806 851 854 group. There were no incidents of violations involving discrimination, child labour, forced or compulsory labour risks. Age group Students from Nottingham University visited our project site <30 454 516 521 30-50 624 638 630 >50 58 64 70 Diversity Malay 1004 1088 1090 Chinese 69 65 63 Indian 42 43 37 Others 21 22 31 Employee Turnover Employee Turnover Rate 266 173 283 Executive 55 84 143 Non-executive 211 89 140 Notice Period of Operational Change Women in Management Any restructuring of operations is usually done after consulting % Women in management 1 1.1 1.2 with managerial and supervisory employees. The impact of the changes is also assessed when appropriate. If the Company % Women in top management 0.1 0.1 0.1 makes any operational changes which potentially affect its employees, MRCB tries to give a minimum of two weeks’ notice to the relevant employees. If possible, the Company would provide a longer notice period for more significant operational changes. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 53 OUR WORKPLACE Health and Safety MRCB’s Health and Safety Policy has been developed to assure that business activities are conducted with full concern for the safety of its facilities. This is to protect the safety and health of its employees, communities adjacent to our operations and the general public. We are committed to providing a safe and conducive work environment. We deliver appropriate safety and health training and require strict adherence to safety rules and procedures. MRCB also provides qualified safety and health personnel with appropriate equipment to support management in carrying out its objectives and goals. Total Hours Accident Data Accident Data Project (on Man total project) (MRCB Staff) (Contract Staff) Injury Death Injury Death LOT 348 (under construction) 2,185,590 0 0 3 0 KUALA PAHANG ENVIRONMENTAL PROJECT 245,537 0 0 0 0 (completed) LRT AMG LINES PACKAGE B (under construction) 258,096 0 0 0 0 4TH LANE WIDENING-PACKAGE E 196,160 0 0 0 0 (under construction) LOT A CIMB OFFICE TOWER (under construction) 1,153,830 0 0 3 0 LOT G (retail) (under construction) 2,822,700 0 0 3 2 MUARA SG PERAI FASA 3 (under construction) 154,610 0 0 0 0 EASTERN DISPERSAL LINK EXPRESSWAY 2,340,368 0 0 0 0 (completed) We are pleased that there were no injuries or fatalities sustained In Lot G retail, three incidents occurred resulting in three by any of our employees in 2012. Projects included our sites at injuries. In the first incident, one worker was injured when he Kuala Pahang Environmental, LRT AMG Lines Package B, 4th fell from a height of 3.1 metres while striking formwork. In the Lane Widening Package E, Muara Sg Perai Fasa 3 and EDL. second incident, a contractor was injured when he was hit by a steel bar which fell four levels. In the third incident, a worker Unfortunately, three contract workers were injured in the was injured as he lost his balance and fell six metres avoiding construction of Lot 348. A bricklayer unintentionally dropped the lifting chain. MRCB immediately took care of these injured an object from Level 5 which injured a worker below. A general workers by taking them to hospital to ensure their wellbeing. worker was sprayed in the face by hot water coming out from a forklift truck’s radiator. He suffered minor burns to his face. Unfortunately, two contract workers were fatally injured: one A third worker lost his footing and fell to level 33 from 35. It is who fell five metres while taking a short cut and another who thought he may have lost consciousness due to fasting. was hit by an MS splice plate which fell six metres. We covered the expenses of these contract workers to be returned to Three contract workers also sustained injuries in the their home countries. We notified DOSH and the other construction of Lot A CIMB Office Tower. In the first incident, relevant authorities and these incidents were found to be one worker fell onto the starter bar underneath the stairs. This due to contractors’ negligence. MRCB strives to reach a zero worker sustained cuts to his right thigh and received stitches accident level and we take all incidents extremely seriously. as on outpatient in a local clinic. In the second incident, power We continue to improve our safety procedures and take all cables were torn when scaffolding was raised. One person was possible measures to reduce our incident levels. bruised when he fell on the AHU control panel; another was bruised as the scaffolding sagged towards the control panel. 54 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Safety and Health Committee The committee inspects the place of work following any accident, near–miss, dangerous occurrence, occupational In Malaysia, companies with forty or more persons employed poisoning or occupational disease. A Safety and Health at the place of work are required to establish a safety and Officer (SHO) reports his findings to the Chairman as soon health committee. MRCB has established such a committee as is practical. In a case where no SHO is employed, the to adhere to these regulations to secure the safety, health and authorised manager assumes this role. Recommendations of welfare of all employees and workers. The committee: the measures to be taken to prevent the recurrence of the incident are made to MRCB. • Assists in the development of Safety and Health rules and safe systems of work; MRCB operates in a high-risk environment. It is our • Reviews the effectiveness of Safety and Health programmes; responsibility to practice high standards of safety control • Carries out studies on the trends of accidents, near-miss to safeguard our employees and other people that may be accidents, dangerous occurrences, occupational poisoning affected by our operations. In general, more than 45% of the or occupational diseases that occur at the place of work. members of each Occupational Health and Safety Committee It reports any unsafe acts or unhealthy conditions to the are site workers. The structure of our Occupational Safety employer together with recommendations for corrective & Health and Environment Committee for each project is actions; illustrated below. • Reviews the Safety and Health policies at the place of work and makes recommendations to the employer for any revision of such policies. The committee conducts ad hoc inspections to ensure that GROUP CHIEF there is nothing prejudicial to the Safety and Health of persons OPERATING OFFICER at the place of work. Observations made by members of the committee are discussed as soon as practical. Rectification recommendations are recorded. Safety briefing to visitors SENIOR MANAGER, SAFETY & HEALTH EXECUTIVE, SAFETY & HEALTH PROPERTY/BUILDING TRANSMISSION ENGINEERING & SERVICES TECHNOLOGY SDN BHD CONSTRUCTION INFRASTRUCTURE, GROUP SUPPORT CONCESSION & SERVICES ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 55 OUR WORKPLACE Safety and Health Assessment System In Construction Employees’ obligations for a safe and healthy workplace MRCB continuously upgrades its health and safety At MRCB, it is everyone’s responsibility to promote safe performance. We are currently working towards achieving behaviour. Accidents, injuries, and unsafe equipment, practices the Construction Industry Standards (CIS 10:2008) which is or conditions must be reported to a supervisor or another a safety and health assessment system in construction. This designated person. All employees must report for work free comprehensive certification adopts several components from the influence of any substance that could prevent them including Occupational Safety and Health Act and Regulations from conducting work activities safely and effectively. Threats (OSHA) 1994 (Act 514), Factory and Machinery Act (FMA) or acts of violence or physical threats on fellow employees are 1967 (Act 139), Occupational Health and Safety Management prohibited. System (OHSAS 18001:2007), and Occupational Safety and Health Management System, MS:1772:2005. We must follow all rules and regulations governing safety matters. We must also influence and persuade others to do the The Safety and Health Assessment System In Construction same and report cases of non-compliance. All safety rules and (SHASSIC) evaluates a number of areas including our OSH regulations must be adhered to. Any non-compliance must policy, OSH Organisation, Hazard Identification, Risk be reported to the Safety and Health Committee. Employees Assessment and Risk Control (HIRARC), Training and are encouraged to use common sense and best judgement to Promotion, Machinery Management, Emergency Response ensure safety. Plan (ERP), Material Management, Accident Investigation and Reporting, Records Management and Performance Fire and Rescue Department visits Monitoring. On 16th July 2012, the Fire and Rescue Department of Malaysia This certification also involves inspection of the workplace to (BOMBA) visited Stesen Sentral Kuala Lumpur (SSKL) as part ensure the certification is credible. The main areas which are of its inspection visit and familiarisation study. Personnel from inspected are the machinery, colour code of signage, notices, Semasa Sentral Sdn Bhd, the Stesen Manager of SSKL, brief ventilation, housekeeping, lighting, fire protection, Personal the BOMBA team. The visit ensured the premises in SSKL Protective Equipment (PPE), barrication for hazard area, adhered to fire safety and allowed BOMBA to familiarise access, working tools, electrical safety, hazardous substances, themselves with its design and outlay. This helped coordinate perimeter hoarding, Vehicular Traffic Management and and analyse the effectiveness of response plan according to sanitation. the code of standards practiced by SSKL. Working on a sky bridge with safety gear intact 56 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 The Fire and Rescue Foundation of Indonesia visited Stesen Ensuring Safety of our Contractors Sentral Kuala Lumpur (SSKL) and Platinum Sentral on 23 November 2012. It was part of its fire and safety development We make no distinction between the safety of our contractors instructive visit and familiarisation study. Mr. Peter Placious and our employees. Contractors must comply in full with our Petrus, Chief of Indonesian Fire and Rescue Foundation and safety standards and procedures. They provide specialised his team were briefed by Mohd Sabri Bin Md Shariff, Project skills and services and we expect our use of contractors to Director of Property Division and his personnel. grow as our major projects enter the construction phase. The visit was to study the modern and intelligent fire safety We manage contractor safety by: technology. This allowed the coordination and effectiveness of the response plan to be analysed according to the code of • ensuring there is appropriate supervision and standards practice by MRCB. communication with site contractors for the safety risks involved in their activities A fire incident • assessing a contractor’s safety record when awarding contracts and performing contractor reviews A fire razed the 30th and 31st floors of one of our buildings on • monitoring high-risk activities closely, providing regular 18 January 2012. The 27th and 28th floors were also affected feedback on performance and acting on any failures by due to falling debris. contractors to comply with our procedures Despite this incident badly affecting our operations and List of SHE activities at our project sites for our contractors schedules, we are relieved that no employees, contractors or and subcontracts firemen were injured in the incident. We believe this is partly due to our continuous engagement with BOMBA. BOMBA Briefing Frequency has helped us improve our fire safety policies and refine our fire evacuation procedures. New subcontractors – Kickoff Meeting when required As a result of this fire, we have improved the precision of all relevant processes. We will continue this engagement SHE Briefing / Induction Daily to minimise the chances of reoccurrence and safety of all SHE Training Monthly personnel if it does. SHE Meetings Weekly/Monthly Auxiliary police personnel at CCTV control centre SHE Toolbox Weekly Workplace Inspection Weekly Gotong-Royong Weekly SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 57 OUR PROMISE TO SUSTAINABLE MARKETPLACE PRACTICE At MRCB, we are committed to transparency in our supply chain process. Our stringent purchasing and procurement practices ensure fair treatment in the marketplace. Our customers are key to our business. We regularly monitor their satisfaction to gain valuable feedback which is vital for quality improvement. OUR MARKETPLACE MARKETPLACE We continue to source locally-based suppliers and sources where possible. Our materials such as steel bars, concrete, At MRCB, we continue to practice the highest ethical furniture, plywood and scaffolding are all purchased locally standards to ensure a smooth delivery of our projects. In doing (100%). However, some materials must be purchased from so, we continue to establish a long-term relationship with our overseas to comply with specific requirements. These materials customers and suppliers. It is important to understand their include lift components (control panel, motor); electrical needs and provide them with continuous support. We practice components (generator sets, 11kV / 415kV transformers, fair and transparent procurement. Our suppliers, contractors fire-rated cables, lighting control devices) and curtain wall and sub-contractors rights are well-protected. Customers’ components (composite aluminium panel for cladding, low-E satisfaction is key to our growth. At MRCB, we constantly and tinted glass). measure our customers’ satisfaction and engage with them to find better ways to meet their expectations. Ensuring Customer Satisfaction Purchasing and Procurement Practices MRCB conducts Customer Satisfaction Surveys (CSS) on residential and commercial properties that it develops and Purchasing decisions must be made based solely on MRCB’s manages. A CSS is conducted six months after a residential best interest. Proper agreements are documented which or commercial project is completed. The post completion clearly identify the services or products to be provided, the surveys encompass feedback, experiences and observations basis for earning payment and the applicable rate or fee. The on design & specifications, workmanship and customer payment amount must be commensurate with the services or service. Surveys on maintenance services cover feedback, products provided. experiences and observations on cleanliness, mechanical and electrical services, parking, security, retail mix, promotion, All staff involved in procurement must comply with the administration, marketing and counter services. Responses following tenets of sound procurement practices: to this survey were obtained from phone interviews and site visits. 1. All vendors must be treated equally and accorded the same information at the same time. 2. No information leaks must occur during the procurement process. 3. No conflict of interest through relationships, receipt of gifts or other favouritism should be shown to vendors. Any conflict of interest through relationships with people in other companies, who have been invited to tender, must be declared to Corporate Governance. In a situation where there is evidence or suspicion of improper behaviour during the tender process or following its award, it must be reported to Corporate Governance. 4. There must be more than one bidder. 5. There must be transparency to ensure the procurement process is auditable, justifiable and can stand up to scrutiny. Our procurement practices not only prioritise technical expertise and price, but also incorporate elements of sustainability. For example, our Lot G Mall is a green building and we expect all sub-contractors to comply with green requirements as stipulated by the Consultant. This forms a prerequisite compliance prior to awarding the job. During the evaluation, we ensured green materials are used including painting, sanitary fitting and a metal roof. ISO certification is not currently a pre-requisite. We are looking to make this one of the selection criteria during registration of suppliers and contractors. Customer satisfaction is key to our growth 60 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 The results of the CSS for building services division and MRCB We aim to sell our products and services fairly and honestly Land from 2010 to 2012 are presented below (in percentage). by stressing their quality and value. We do not use tactics that unfairly undermine the products of competitors. Advertising is Year only used to promote MRCB products. Company 2010 2011 2012 Kuala Lumpur Sentral CBD receives local and foreign delegates Building Services Division every year Semasa Sentral 93.6 93.4 94.6 Semasa Services 90.6 88.8 88.4 Semasa Parking 84.6 89.3 87.9 Semasa Security 92.6 Overall for Building Services 90.4 90.5 90.3 Division MRCB LAND MRCB Sentral Properties 83.8 88.2 87.9 (formerly MRCB Selborn) SIDEC 85.7 70.1 MRCB Utama 75.8 Malaysian Resources Sentral 85.5 78.2 85.0 Sdn Bhd MRDSB 82.3 87.1 89.5 Overall for MRCB LAND 83.9 83.0 83.1 Overall 87.1 86.7 86.7 Provision of Information to Customers We continue to provide information to our customers and Ensuring Quality the public on our current and upcoming projects through brochures and booklets. Information included in each Operating contractors and suppliers must adhere to our quality publication is based on checklists which allow the potential standards and specifications. Project delivery is managed, purchaser to evaluate the unit against specifications. monitored and reported using a number of management Our website continues to be the most popular means of tools. Our myCRM software is developed in-house by the communication with our customers and the public. We also Group to monitor every stage of our product lifecycle. The have dedicated contact details to receive enquiries on every software is continuously upgraded and improved to increase project. its coverage, quality and security. The results of pre-handing over inspections and complaints during the defect liability Responsible Marketing period are entered into myCRM software. This information is subsequently made available to the project and management It is our aim to ensure all marketing and advertising is accurate teams to help them rectify and monitor any defects on an and truthful. Deliberately misleading messages, omissions on-going basis. of important facts, or false claims about our competitors’ offerings are never acceptable. To maintain MRCB valuable reputation, compliance with our quality processes and safety requirement is essential. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 61 OUR MARKETPLACE A process outline of complaints handling from purchasers or tenants during the defect liability period is summarised below. Receive written defect complaints through Defects Complaint Form (DCF) Carry out inspection with purchaser/ tenant on the identified defects Ensure contractor that all defects listed will be rectified within stipulated time frame as per contract Inspect rectification works carried out by the contractor upon 14 days and 30 days. Progress should be updated on myCRM Notify purchaser/tenant upon completion and acceptance of rectification of defects. Status should be updated on myCRM EDL Expressway Protection of Copyright and Ownership Customer Privacy Only our proprietary software or software that is licensed or Customer information is kept and maintained in the highest provided by the developer may be used at MRCB. Permanent confidence. Customer privacy at MRCB involves the handling and contractual employees are forbidden from duplicating and protection of sensitive personal information that copyrighted material without the owner’s consent. Copyright individuals provide in the course of everyday transactions. protection regulations also forbid the: This involves the exchange or use of data electronically or by any other means, including verbal, telephone, fax and written • Copying of software from one computer to another without correspondence. Our policy requires customer information to the owner’s documented authority be maintained with the highest confidentiality. We manage • Copying of proprietary software for use in computers that confidentiality properly and protect the privacy of customer do not belong to us, or for any purpose not authorised by information. We are pleased to report that we have had no MRCB breaches of customer information in this reporting period. • Installation of unauthorised software on desktop or laptop computers Information Security MRCB policy is to recognise and respect the legal rights of All confidential and proprietary information concerning others’ ownership, use and disclosure of Intellectual Property. securities, financial condition, earnings or activities of the This includes the improper use of any trademark or service Company including sensitive information remain confidential mark belonging to another party. It also includes avoiding any until they are fully and properly disclosed to the public. act which would result in unauthorised use or appropriation of These include knowledge of acquisitions and divestiture; new any design, formulation and product that is covered by valid products or processes; audit reports and earning figures. patent belonging to another party. 62 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Corruption, Gift Giving and Business Courtesies MRCB employees must not realize any profits apart from their regular compensation. Employees or their family members cannot receive gifts, loans, business deals or other special preferences beyond what are otherwise ordinarily available from a person or organisation that does business with the Company or competitor. MRCB employees must not accept lavish gifts or gratuities in any form. The only exceptions are small value gifts extended as a business courtesy. This includes sales promotion items or the occasional business meal. In situations where employees are faced with business situations that may also call for the giving of gifts such as signing ceremonies, corporate visits and Company functions, proper approval must be obtained. Entertainment that is lavish or frequent may appear to influence one’s independent judgment on behalf of MRCB. If an invitation seems inappropriate, we must turn down the offer or pay the cost of the entertainment. We also understand that giving practices vary among cultures. In some rare situations, it would be impractical to refuse or return a gift. This may include gifts that are offered during the celebration of a festival, or special occasions such as official launches or openings. In such cases, employees are to practice Technical staff at work good business sense and discretion. All discounts and rebates to customers must reflect true Dealing with Anti-Competition commercial transactions and not be intended to serve any illegal or improper purpose such as kickbacks and bribery. The Malaysia’s Competition Act 2010 came into effect on 1 January 2012. This law provides a regulatory framework We encourage our staff to ask themselves the following against market manipulation and cartel practices. Healthy question. “Would you be comfortable discussing the competition is needed to make the economy more efficient acceptance or giving of the gift with your manager, and dynamic. colleagues or a newspaper reporter?” If your answer is NO, then DON’T ACCEPT. MRCB has responded to this new legislation. Representatives from our Legal Department attended a workshop entitled Representatives from Corporate Governance and our Legal “Understanding the Competition Act (CA) 2010 & its Department attended a two-day training course entitled Implications” in 2012. This training programme gave a “Fraud, Bribery & Corruption A Global Issue”. This highly practical Insight into the Competition Act and its relationship interactive workshop provided information on how to enhance with Intellectual Property and Tax Laws. internal knowledge and capability to prevent and deal with fraud and corruption. We conducted a survey in early 2013 to gauge employees’ knowledge of MRCB’s anti-corruption and bribery policy and other ethical guidelines in the code of Business Ethics. Only 6.91% felt there was insufficient information provided in this area during induction training. This is 6.86% less than the previous year in which 13.77% felt there was inadequate training. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 63 OUR PLEDGE OUR PLEDGE We pledge to continue playing our role in maintaining the highest standards of environmental sustainability. We aim to introduce strong environmental standards and refine our environmental procedures. These initiatives will be inculcated into each stage of our products’ lifecycles to keep our carbon footprint to a minimum. We will always devise new strategies and solutions to lead and secure a green tomorrow for generations to come. 64 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 GRI INDEX In ensuring our compliance to the highest level of transparency in our Sustainability Report 2012 disclosure, we have adopted the internationally-recognised reporting framework, the Global Reporting Initiatives (GRI). G3.1 is a finalised update of GRI’s most recent generation of Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, and is the most comprehensive sustainability reporting guidance currently available. The GRI Content Index table is presented to guide where information on each GRI indicator can be found. Status : • Fully Reported; Partially Reported; x Not Reported G3.1 Content Index Standard Disclosures Part : Profile Disclosures Reason for Omission & Profile Disclosure Description Status Cross-reference Explanation 1. Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most 1.1 senior decision-maker of the • P10-15 organisation Description of key impacts, 1.2 • P10-15 risks, and opportunities 2. Organisational Profile 2.1 Name of the organisation • Front Cover Primary brands, products, 2.2 • P4 and/or services Operational structure of the 2.3 • P6-7 organisation Location of organisation's 2.4 • P2 headquarters Number of countries where 2.5 • P6-7 the organisation operates Nature of ownership and 2.6 • P6-7 legal form 2.7 Markets served • P6-7 Scale of the reporting 2.8 • P2 organisation Significant changes during 2.9 • P10-15 the reporting period Awards received in the 2.10 • P15 reporting period SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 65 GRI INDEX Reason for Omission & Profile Disclosure Description Status Cross-reference Explanation 3. Report Parameters 3.1 Reporting period • P2 Date of most recent previous 3.2 • P2 report 3.3 Reporting cycle • P2 Contact point for questions 3.4 regarding the report or its • P2 contents Process for defining report 3.5 • P2 content 3.6 Boundary of the report • P2, P10-15 Specific limitations on the 3.7 scope or boundary of the • P2, P10-15 report Basis for reporting on joint 3.8 • P2, P6-7, P10-15 ventures, subsidiaries, etc. Data measurement 3.9 techniques and the bases • P34-35 of calculations Explanation of the effect 3.10 of any re-statements of • P10-15 information Significant changes from 3.11 • P10-15 previous reporting period Table identifying the location GRI G3.1 Content 3.12 • of the Standard Disclosures Index Independent Policy and current practice Verification with regard to seeking 3.13 • Statement by SIRIM external assurance for the QAS International report Sdn Bhd 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Governance structure of the 4.1 • P20 organisation Indicate whether the Chair of 4.2 the highest governance body • P20 is also an executive officer Independent and/or 4.3 non-executive members • P20 of the Board 66 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Reason for Omission & Profile Disclosure Description Status Cross-reference Explanation 4. Governance, Commitments, and Engagement Mechanisms for shareholders and employees to provide 4.4 • P22 recommendations or direction to the highest governance body Linkage between compensation 4.5 • P21 and the organisation's performance Processes in place to ensure 4.6 • P23 conflicts of interest are avoided Qualifications and expertise P20, MRCB Annual 4.7 • of the Board Report 2012 Internally developed statements of 4.8 mission or values, codes • P21, P23 of conduct, and principles Identification and management of economic, environmental, 4.9 • P30 and social performance, conduct, and principles Processes for evaluating the 4.10 highest governance body's own • P21 performance Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or 4.11 • P10-15 principle is addressed by the organisation Externally developed economic, 4.12 environmental, and social charters, • P29 principles This information is not available. 4.13 Memberships in associations x We aim to have this indicator to be disclosed in coming reports. List of stakeholder groups engaged 4.14 • P16 by the organisation Basis for identification and 4.15 selection of stakeholders with • P16 whom to engage Approaches to stakeholder 4.16 • P17-18 engagement Key topics and concerns that have been raised through 4.17 stakeholder engagement, and how • P17-18 the organisation has responded to those key topics SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 67 GRI INDEX Standard Disclosures: Performance Indicators Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in ECONOMIC Economic performance Audited Financial Direct economic value generated EC1 • Statement in and distributed MRCB Annual Report 2012 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the EC2 • P34 organisation's activities due to climate change Coverage of the organisation's EC3 • P46 defined benefit plan obligations Significant financial assistance EC4 • P38-39, P41 received from government Market presence Standard entry level wage vs. EC5 • P46 local minimum wage Policy, practices, and proportion EC6 of spending on locally-based • P60 suppliers EC7 Procedures for local hiring • P46, P60 Indirect economic impacts Development and impact of infrastructure investments and EC8 • P38 services provided primarily for public benefit Understanding and describing EC9 significant indirect economic • P40-41 impacts ENVIRONMENTAL Materials This information is not available Materials used by weight or to be disclosed in this Report. EN1 volume x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. This information is not available Percentage of materials used that to be disclosed in this Report. EN2 are recycled input materials x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. 68 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in Energy Direct energy consumption by EN3 • P28 primary energy source Indirect energy consumption by EN4 • P28 primary source This information is not available to be disclosed in this Report. CRE1 Building energy intensity x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. Energy saved due to conservation EN5 • P28-29 and efficiency improvements Initiatives to provide energyEN6 • P28-29, P34 efficient or renewable energy Initiatives to reduce indirect EN7 energy consumption and • P28-29, P34 reductions achieved Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source • P34 Significant impact of withdrawal EN9 • P34 of water This information is not available Percentage and total volume of to be disclosed in this Report. EN10 water recycled and reused x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. This information is not available to be disclosed in this Report. CRE2 Building water intensity x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, This indicator is not material to EN11 leased, managed in, or adjacent x our nature of business. to, protected areas Description of significant impacts of activities, products, This indicator is not material to EN12 and services on biodiversity in x our nature of business. protected areas This indicator is not material to EN13 Habitats protected or restored x our nature of business. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 69 GRI INDEX Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in Strategies, current actions, and This indicator is not material to EN14 future plans for managing impacts x our nature of business. on biodiversity Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list This indicator is not material to EN15 species with habitats in areas x our nature of business. affected by operations Emissions, effluents and waste Total direct and indirect EN16 greenhouse gas emissions • P34-35 by weight Other relevant indirect EN17 greenhouse gas emissions • P34-35 by weight This information is not available Greenhouse gas emissions to be disclosed in this Report. CRE3 intensity from buildings x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. This information is not available Greenhouse gas emissions to be disclosed in this Report. CRE4 intensity from new construction x We aim to have it available in 2014 and redevelopment activity coming reports. Initiatives to reduce greenhouse EN18 gas emissions and reductions • P34-35 achieved This information is not available Emissions of ozone-depleting to be disclosed in this Report. EN19 substances by weight x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. This information is not available NOx, SOx, and other significant to be disclosed in this Report. EN20 air emissions by type and weight x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. Total water discharge by quality EN21 • P31 and destination Total weight of waste by type and EN22 • P30 disposal method This information is not available Total number and volume of to be disclosed in this Report. EN23 significant spills x We aim to have it available in 2014 coming reports. 70 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Performance Reason for omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in Weight of transported, imported, This indicator is not material to EN24 exported, or treated waste x our nature of business. deemed hazardous Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related EN25 • P31 habitats significantly affected by the reporting organisation's discharges of water and runoff Land Degradation, Contamination Land and other assets remediated This information is not available and in need of remediation for to be disclosed in this Report. CRE5 the existing or intended land use x We aim to have it available in 2014 according to applicable legal coming reports. designations Products and services Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of EN26 • P29 products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Percentage of products sold and This indicator is not material to EN27 their packaging materials that are x our nature of business. reclaimed by category Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for EN28 • P29 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used EN29 • P34 for the organisation's operations, and transporting members of the workforce. Overall This information is not available Total environmental protection to be disclosed in this Report. EN30 expenditures and investments x We aim to have it available in 2014 by type. coming reports. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 71 GRI INDEX Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in SOCIAL: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment Total workforce by employment LA1 type, employment contract, and • P52-53 region Total number and rate of LA2 employee turnover by age group, • P52-53 gender, and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided LA3 • P46 to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations Return to work and retention We do not have such incentive LA15 rates after parental leave, by x monitored at this stage. 2014 gender. Labour/management relations Percentage of employees We do not have such agreement LA4 covered by collective bargaining x or union arrangement at the agreements Company Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational LA5 • P53 changes, including whether it is specified in collective agreements Occupational health and safety Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health LA6 and safety committees that • P55 help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programmes Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and LA7 • P54 absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region Percentage of the organization operating in verified compliance CRE6 with an internationally recognised • P56 health and safety management system 72 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in Education, training, counselling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist LA8 • P54-57 workforce members, their families, or community members regarding serious diseases Health and safety topics covered We do not have such agreement LA9 in formal agreements with trade x or union arrangement at the unions. Company Training and education This information is not available Average hours of training per to be disclosed in this Report. LA10 year per employee by employee x We aim to have it available in 2014 category coming reports. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support LA11 the continued employability of • P48 employees and assist them in managing career endings Percentage of employees LA12 receiving regular performance • P49 and career development reviews Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per category LA13 • P52-53 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity Equal remuneration for women and men Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to LA14 • P46 men by employee category, by significant locations of operation SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 73 GRI INDEX Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in SOCIAL: HUMAN RIGHTS Diversity and equal opportunity Percentage and total number of significant investment agreements HR1 that include human rights clauses • P53 or that have undergone human rights screening Percentage of significant suppliers and contractors that HR2 • P53 have undergone screening on human rights and actions taken Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human HR3 • P53 rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Non-discrimination Total number of incidents of HR4 • P53 discrimination and actions taken Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective HR5 • P53 bargaining may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights Child labour Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of HR6 child labour, and measures taken • P53 to contribute to the elimination of child labour Forced and compulsory labour Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour, HR7 • P53 and measures to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labour Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation's HR8 policies or procedures concerning • P53 aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations 74 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in Indigenous rights Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of HR9 • P53 indigenous people and actions taken Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject HR10 • P53 to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments Remediation Number of grievances related This information is not available to human rights filed, addressed to be disclosed in this Report. HR11 and resolved through formal x We aim to have it available in 2014 grievance mechanisms coming reports. SOCIAL: SOCIETY Community Nature, scope, and effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the SO1 • P38 impacts of operations on communities, including entering, operating, and exiting Operations with significant SO9 potential or actual negative • P39 impacts on local communities Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in SO10 operations with significant • P29, P41 potential or actual negative impacts on local communities Number of persons voluntarily There was no incident occurred and involuntarily displaced and/or CRE7 resettled by development, broken x during the year which resulted in displacement or resettlement down by project Corruption Percentage and total number of SO2 business units analysed for risks • P43, P63 related to corruption. Percentage of employees trained SO3 in organisation's anti-corruption • P43, P63 policies and procedures Actions taken in response to SO4 • P43, P63 incidents of corruption SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 75 GRI INDEX Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in Public policy Public policy positions and SO5 participation in public policy • P23 development and lobbying Our support to the Government Total value of financial and in-kind is not in form of monetary contributions to political parties, SO6 • P41 value. We continue to support politicians, and related institutions the Government’s programmes by country which focus on nation building Anti-competitive behaviour Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, antiSO7 • P43 trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of SO8 non-monetary sanctions for • P43 non-compliance with laws and regulations SOCIAL: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer health and safety Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for PR1 improvement, and percentage of • P62 significant products and services categories subject to such procedures Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR2 • P62 health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and service labelling Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of PR3 • P61 significant products and services subject to such information requirements 76 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Performance Reason for Omission & To be Description Status Cross-reference Indicator Explanation reported in Type and number of sustainability certification, rating and labelling CRE8 schemes for new construction, • P29 management, occupation and redevelopment Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR4 • P61 product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes Practices related to customer satisfaction, including results PR5 • P60 of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Marketing communications Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary codes related to marketing PR6 • P61 communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 marketing communications, • P61 including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes Customer privacy Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches PR8 • P62 of customer privacy and losses of customer data Compliance Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws PR9 and regulations concerning the • P62-63 provision and use of products and services SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 77 ASSURANCE 78 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 79 80 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 // 81 NOTES 82 // SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 MALAYSIAN RESOURCES CORPORATION BERHAD 7994-D Level 21, 1 Sentral, Jalan Travers Kuala Lumpur Sentral 50470 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia Tel : 603 2786 8080 Fax : 603 2780 7988 www.mrcb.com.my
