Communications on Progress May 2012 – May 2013 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) Technology Content Services GmbH is providing customer‐oriented, up‐to‐date services concerning mobility, safety and security. We wholeheartedly believe in respectfully treating humans and nature. To create bigger impetus out of this commitment, we decided to be part of the United Nations Global Compact. We will hopefully be able to contribute within our limited possibilities to ecologically and socially configure the irresistibly ongoing globalization. We support worldwide accepted principles of the United Nations regarding Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti‐Corruption. We commit ourselves to align our economic activities and strategies with these principles. Thomas Krüger CEO The Technology Content Services GmbH (TCS) was founded as a subsidiary company of the TÜV Rheinland Kraftfahrt GmbH in February 2000, then named TÜV Card Services GmbH and located in Cologne. On January 1st, 2012, it was renamed and relocated to Nuremberg. Company shares were taken over from previous owner, the TÜV Rheinland Kraftfahrt GmbH, by Card + Finance Consulting GmbH. The new corporate name underlines the opening of new fields of business and the orientation towards its technical and innovative environment. After many years of a prolific and successful business relationship the strong connection between TÜV Rheinland and TCS shall thusly be emphasized. TCS will continue to complete, accompany and support the topics mobility, security and safety of vehicles within its branches “Dienstleistungen” (Services), “Card‐Business” and “e‐ flotte®”. TCS offers its extensive business activities primarily to: • Private Customers • Corporations and institutions • Car dealerships and garages • Corporations of the tourism industry • Vehicle fleets and leasing corporations Our partners among car dealers and garages are served a comfortable system to manage their dates for general inspection (HU: Hauptuntersuchung) and safety inspection (SP: Sicherheitsprüfung) for cars and trucks. This system contains a modular customer data base and covers topics regarding mobility, safety and handling of damages. Our services contain reminding of inspection appointments, mobility assistance provided by tire insurance, safety service “SchlüsselFinder” (Key Finder) and thoroughly assisted promotions of direct marketing. Specialized car and driver management solutions for vehicle fleets and leasing corporations are developed by TCS brand e‐flotte®. These solutions contain the nationwide organisation of our electronic drivers licence check or procedures for prevention of accidents (UVV BGV‐ 29), both statutory in Germany. Furthermore, we offer organized control of car conditions and organisation and automation of car and driver management using digital tachographs or electronic driver’s logs (“e‐logbook”). Human Rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. What we already do: We are completely persuaded of the imperative of international valid human rights. To regard and protect these rights should be an obligation for every governmental power. This principle is already an inalterable part of the German constitution and of most civilized countries’ constitutions, while there still are countries, where these rights are not yet de jure or de facto part in everyday life. We therefore completely approve the responsibility of the international community to affect these countries in a peaceful, but unmistakable way and to fully support these countries on their way into international community. We are fully aware of that we find ourselves in an internationally privileged situation. We and our customers are located in central Europe. Thus it is implicit for us to abide and respect international human rights within every kind of entrepreneurial acting. What we still can improve: As a company with limited international influence, we are not empowered to act as a role model where such behaviour would be of great benefit. Nevertheless, we will always treat every person within our sphere of influence the way it is internationally considered to be fair and appropriate. We can also support non‐governmental organizations that have the pursuit to improve the situation of human rights wherever it happens to be necessary. Our obligation to the German constitution is a constant incentive to contribute positively to our social environment. Furthermore, we will try to ensure that our future purchases have not been produced under circumstances which are considered dishonourable or generally unacceptable. These efforts are similar to our efforts in the field of Labour. Labour • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. What we already do: We accept and support our employees’ right to organize or gather, may it be informal or unionized. Being a company of a still small number of employees, there has not been founded a staff association yet. Nevertheless we will not try to get in the way of such a founding or influence it in any way. We are decidedly disapproval of forced labour, either through physical force or other ways, for example low and lowest wages. We would also never accept or tolerate any behaviour of our partners and customers that could be considered as supporting or introduction of any kind of forced labour. We also refuse child labour with equal decidedness. Childhood should be a time of life when children grow up, learn and develop themselves in their own way and under the loving guidance of their families. Every kind of child labour opposes these goals and can therefore in no way be accepted or tolerated by us. Being a German company, this principle is legally secured by strict German laws and compulsory education. We actively campaign against discrimination within employment and occupation. Our employees, also in higher positions, have origin in various countries, with 10 % of international ancestry. Our biggest asset is the human person itself, followed by his working performance. On the contrary, the origin of the employee is absolutely insignificant to us. We are also proud that there is no difference in our treatment of female and male employees. We support flexible work schedules for mothers in every sector of the company. Women are responsible for sixty percent of our executive positions, approximately two thirds of our employees are women and one member of our executive board is a woman. Therefore we regard equal rights as a matter of course. What we still can improve: Any future intentions of our employees to gather or unionize will not be prevented or hindered by us in any way. In future, we plan to attach great importance to our customers’ and partners’ dedication against forced labour and child labour. We do not want to gain advantage of any kind of exploitation of labour. Therefore it is of great importance for us, that our partners and customers fully agree on this goal. Admittedly, we can do more in other fields. For example, our suppliers can be checked more carefully in their commitment to said labour principles. Internationally accepted certifications may guide us in the choice of purchased products, for example the Fair Trade certification. The equal treatment of our employees will be of unchanged priority to us. We plan to carry on making it possible for our employees to adjust their work schedule to their respective familiar situations without narrowing down career outlook. We commit ourselves to this goal now and in the future. Our employees’ safety is guaranteed by a company safety officer. This concerns physical safety as well as safety of personal‐related data. Up to now, our place of work can not be categorized as barrier‐free. However, when a person with such needs will be employed, this could be altered without any problems in cooperation with the federal employment office. Environment • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. What we already do: Amongst other things, TCS organizes vehicle pools for companies. Therefore we are part of the volume of traffic and the environmental pollution involved. We help our customers to bundle certain vehicle‐related appointments (service, car check, licence check e.g.) and therefore increase time efficiency. Every appointment economized not only helps to save time and money, but also decreases the input of natural resources. Another action is to manage and document all customer relationships and internal procedures within one electronic system. This enables our employees to do their work without paper in principle, which reduces not only costs of administration, but also significant amounts of water and energy. Internal printings, if not dispensable, are generally done with paper already at hand, like no longer used note paper. The site of our company was chosen to be comfortably reachable by public means of transport. We are located within close vicinity to one of the most important traffic junctions in Nuremberg. Therefore, three Metro lines, two tramlines and two bus lines are available, thus guaranteeing our employees the freedom of choice of how to make their way to work. It is inevitable that our sales manager has to visit future customers in order to present our range of products. With the customers located in the complete German‐speaking part of Europe, much travelling has to be done. This leads not only to high personal effort, but also to high input of resources. There are two approaches to minimize costs and input of resources. First, many customer contacts are done by means of videoconference, which reduces polluting emissions mostly. Second, travelling to most of the customers is done by train, which greatly improves the pollutant balance of the customer contact. What we still can improve: The importance of fuel economy data for company vehicle fleets has increased steadily over the past years due to risen fuel costs. We plan to support our customers – old and new – in economically configuring their vehicle fleets, which will reduce average fuel consumption. Ecological behaviour can also be sustainably contributed to by integration of CO2‐monitoring and ecological analysis of telemetrical data. Additionally, we can help our customers integrate vehicles driven by alternative energies. Decisive and sustainable help in these topics can be provided by us without emphasizing on catchpenny promotions, as we have gained large and widespread experience in the field of fleet management. Further acquisition of customers and bundling their fleet‐related appointments will continue to help reducing fleet costs and pollutant emission. Working an office without any paper is ecologically worthwhile. However, it is not yet fully reached in practice. We will try and enable our employees even more to do without paper by ongoing instruction and education. Another possibility to improve our ecological behaviour as a company would be internal information about altering the journey to work, for example by presenting the rates and possibilities of the local transport association. We will keep on trying to reduce travelling efforts of our sales department, either by increasing the number of contacts realized by videoconference or by improving the efficiency of the sales manager’s itinerary. Indeed, it is very difficult to quantify the effects of such activities, as of the unsteady character of our customer development. Anti‐Corruption • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corruption in the field of business is definitely not insignificant but a serious threat to the development of a free economy. According to the German federal criminal police office (BKA), economic damage originated from corruption in 2011 has increased by 56 % compared to 2010 and adds up to € 276 millions. For these are just the numbers of officially determined cases, real numbers are most likely to be much higher. Therefore corruption does not only matter in countries that are generally linked to it, like countries from Southern Europe. We disapprove of this kind of illegitimate advantage‐gaining as it contradicts free and social market economy. We actively try to eliminate corruption in our company by prohibiting our employees to accept presents that exceed € 25 in worth. We also limit ourselves to hand presents on to our customers and partners that are appropriate and within the same price limitation.
