AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 2012.01.01 2012.12.31 Purpose This report was created to disclose AMOREPACIFIC’s sustainability management activities to stakeholders and to collect various opinions to reflect them in management. AMOREPACIFIC plans to issue this report every year to advance into a company that contributes to sustainable development and to engage in active communication with all of you stakeholders. Scope This report specifies the activities and performances of the AMOREPACIFIC Head Office, R&D Center, Human Resources Development Center, Provincial Offices, Beauty Production Sites, Mass Cosmetics Production Site, and Sulloc tea Production Site. Basic information is provided on overseas offices and subsidiaries. We plan to gradually disclose information on detailed activities in future reports according to sustainability management action plans. Period Covered This report covers AMOREPACIFIC’s activities from January 1, 2012 to December 31, 2012. Data from 2010 and 2011 were included for comparative purposes. Report Verification To verify the accuracy and enhance the credibility of the contents of this report, we received an independent outside verification. Standards Followed The 2012 AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report has been prepared in accordance with the G3.1 guidelines set forth by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the main agenda of ISO 26000. The interior pages of this report used environment-friendly papers that used timbers which have been grown in an environmentally developed and managed forestry. www.amorepacific.com AMOREPACIFIC SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2012 Special Section 04 CEO Message Making 50 Brand Portfolio Sustainable 08 Innovating for the Technological Innovation 54 Company Introduction Company Overview Customers We are conducting experiments and meeting challenges to Values Corporate Vision provide better products and services. Financial Performance Governance Structure Enhancing the Sustainability of Products Risk Management and Corporate Ethics AMOREPACIFIC is focused on strengthening the sustainability Sustainability Management of products and packaging to minimize the environmental impact Communication with Stakeholders by developing new and improved materials. Material Issue Evaluation Innovating our Brands and Services 70 Customers Development of Sustainable Products We are committed to building a long-lasting relationship with our R&D customers by providing a wide range of value-added products and Activities for Customer Satisfaction events geared toward customer participation. Performance Results for 2012 22 Reducing our Completion of the AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Production Site 82 Environment Responding to Climate Change Environmental AMOREPACIFIC’s integrated production and logistics Green Management Impact center equipped with the latest facilities and innovative Green Communication environment-friendly systems. Performance Results for 2012 Protection of Biodiversity 88 Employees & Business Partners Talent Management Strategy We are conducting various researches and activities to protect Talent Development biodiversity. Great Work Place Shared Growth with Suppliers primera’s Eco Philosophy Performance Results for 2012 We are developing sustainable products and implementing various environmental campaigns. 98 Social Contribution Social Contribution Strategies Pursuit of Inner and Outer Beauty 38 Growing through Family-Friendly Management Harmonious Growth Harmony in We are working towards establishing a smart environment to Supporting Social Independence Societies enhance the engagement of employees. Activities for Local Communities Performance Results for 2012 Greenus Well-Being Program We improved the working environment to improve the health 106 innisfree Green Story and satisfaction of our beauty partners. 109 Appendix Consolidated Financial Statements Strengthening of Social Responsibility Independent Assurance Report We create a beautiful change in the society from talent donations GRI Index of employees to global social contribution activities. Participant Information CEO Message | creating a beautiful life AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 5 We will use beauty to change the world and become a company that customers love. To our stakeholders, the development of sustainable products and beauty creator to the world by providing Also, we consolidate the dreams and vocations of UN Global Compact (UNGC), including AMOREPACIFIC has the dream of changing the During the past 67 years, AMOREPACIFIC has packaging materials to deliver the values of high-quality products with the best raw of a variety of talented employees into one by human rights, labor, environment and antiworld with our beauty products. All employees embarked on a long journey of beauty to provide environment-friendly consumption to customers. materials for our customers and contributing to implementing a corporate culture activity of corruption. We will continually work towards at AMOREPACIFIC will make concerted efforts happiness and pleasure to people all around the We continually expanded the Beautiful Fair the environment and local communities. One AMOREPACIFIC from a global perspective. reflecting these principles in AMOREPACIFIC’s to achieve the dream and become a company world with AMOREPACIFIC’s creation of beauty Trade to acquire outstanding local raw management activities. that customers love the most in Asia. products. We have stood the test of numerous materials and support the local communities The global brand company that AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC has continually strengthened Thank you. crises resulting from uncertain management and concentrated the corporate competency is seeking to achieve will be realized by a win-win relationship with business partners To our stakeholders, conditions to achieve continuous growth by on developing eco-friendly packages that talented people who are ready to challenge to create a healthy business ecosystem. To Chairman & CEO, caring about our customers and taking quick used botanical raw materials and recycled on the world stage. Therefore, AMOREPACIFIC strengthen the competitiveness of business The management policy of AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC Corporation actions to seek new opportunities. Even at this materials. Also, the AMOREPACIFIC beauty has worked towards developing the global partners, we expanded the Supplier Support for 2013 is ‘TEAM Together’. It shows Kyung-bae Suh very moment, AMOREPACIFIC is striving to production site equipped with production competencies of employees based on its Fund for suppliers and opened a win-win AMOREPACIFIC’s commitment to look from satisfy global customers by discovering the and logistics systems of global standards management philosophy of valuing people portal site for suppliers to effectively resolve the apex of where two points meet together values of sustainable beauty found in Asia’s acquired the certifications for eco-friendly above everything else and creating a workplace complaints from business partners. As a result, instead of dividing the world into what is profound wisdom, while also making concerted building and CGMP (Cosmetics Good where employees can grow as individuals. AMOREPACIFIC and its business partners mine and others, thereby walking side by side efforts to create a sustainable company. Manufacturing Practice) and we constructed Through the Smart Work and Happy Plus will maintain a beautiful relationship where with our partners in the business ecosystem, a botanical garden of raw materials, which campaigns, we increased employee engagement they will help each other to achieve growth. including suppliers. Furthermore, if we walk AMOREPACIFIC has minimized the negative is an environment-friendly natural park. to be more devoted to customers and helped Furthermore, in order to fulfill our responsibility together with the world and the society, impacts on the environment and strengthened Based on these efforts, we will become a find a balance between work and personal life. as a global citizen, we support the ten principles we can grow much faster and healthier. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 7 We will use beauty to change the world and become a company that customers love. Chairman & CEO, AMOREPACIFIC Corporation Kyung-bae Suh SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 9 Innovating for the Customers Innovating for the Customers With AMOREPACIFIC, the roads you walk become more beautiful. This year, AMOREPACIFIC emphasized the creation of innovative solutions to provide even better products and services to our customers. We will continue to innovate our technologies, products, and services to achieve and maintain high-level of customer satisfaction. Hera UV mist cushion SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 11 Mise-en-scene ` foam type hair dye’s Hera UV mist cushion: Mise-en-scene ` foaming hair dye: GH quality certification: development of sponge compact cases easy & speedy aerosol foam-type hair dye GH quality certification is given to health-related using the cell-trap technology products that passed the Korea Health Industry As a result of increased interest in beauty care, Development Institute’s quality certification AMOREPACIFIC developed a ‘cell-trap sponge lots of products that focused on the convenience standards, which is an institution supported by the compact case’ in the process of conducting of dyeing hair were released, which led to a huge Ministry of Health & Welfare. researches on sunscreens that are convenient growth in hair dye products for the hair care to use and easy to carry. The existing sunscreens industry. In order to provide convenience to the were inconvenient to use and had absorption customers, AMOREPACIFIC developed a variety issues when reapplied on the skin. Therefore, of products, including quick hair dye, hair dye AMOREPACIFIC developed a form of ‘nonshampoo, and hair dye with a comb. We have flowing liquid’ that is light and easily absorbed worked on developing new forms of hair dye after reapplication. Also, we developed the products that can bring more convenience to cell-trap technology, which contains liquid the users throughout the whole process of contents in the sponge by using AMOREPACIFIC’s dyeing hair, whether it is the preparatory stage specialized technology of hyper-ultrafine or the cleaning up stage. AMOREPACIFIC dispersion technology. subdivided the stages for dyeing hair into 5 Hera UV mist cushion and IOPE air cushion stages, including preparation, application, products, which are applied with the cellleaving alone, washing, and cleaning up. In trap technology, created a new type of order to provide convenience for all stages, we makeup called ‘cushion type’ by receiving conducted researches on the following: no need recognition as innovative sunscreens in to use a container for mixing; easy to apply in compact type. This technology awarded the foam type; a short time of ten minutes for AMOREPACIFIC with an excellence award leaving alone; form with excellent washing; at the 2012 Korea Technology Award. and simplified cleaning up. As a result, Furthermore, AMOREPACIFIC has 24 patent AMOREPACIFIC commercialized ‘Mise-enapplications and 5 patent registrations in ` the quick and easy to use aerosol foamScene, South Korea, as well as 4 PCT applications, type hair dye’, which innovatively combined the 12 overseas patent applications including features of foam and hair dye into an easy to use the United States, Japan, and one patent all-in-one container. Based on this, we acquired registration in China. Korea’s first quality certification of Goods of Health (GH) for hair dye products by passing the Korea Health Industry Development Institute’s quality certification standards. Technological Innovation AMOREPACIFIC received an excellence award at the 2012 Korea Technology Awards for its cell-trap technology. Also, AMOREPACIFIC has 24 patent applications and 5 patent registrations in South Korea, as well as 4 PCT Hera UV mist cushion, ` Easy&speedy foam hair color Mise-en-scene. applications, 12 overseas patent applications including the United States, Japan, and one patent registration in China. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 13 Development of Sustainable Packages Renewable: application of plant-oriented AMOREPACIFIC is focused on strengthening plastic materials the sustainability of products and packaging Hera Moist Multibutter (Cap) to minimize the environmental impact by 37% of raw materials used are plant-oriented developing new and improved materials. To Instead of thermosetting plastics that are achieve our mission to reduce the amount difficult to recycle, we applied bio plastics of package used per product by 25% by to our products, which use 37% of plantthe year 2020, we are working to develop originated raw materials while maintaining sustainable and eco-friendly packages based the existing quality of plastics. In 2012, we on four key aspects: Recyclable, Reducible, applied it to Hera’s moist multibutter cap. Reusable, and Renewable. Recycle: increased the application of PCR Reduce: development of non-coated materials high-gloss material HAPPY BATH Lavender Essence Laneige Water Supreme Creamy Foundation Relaxing Body Wash 0% Coating 5 PCR PET products in 2011 Non-coated plastic materials are easier to →11 PCR PET products in 2012 recycle. We have developed high-gloss, nonWhile maintaining the function and coated plastic materials which are scratch durability of the existing PET containers, resistant. This innovated plastic will be applied we continuously increased the application in the development of containers for Laneige of packages that utilize PCR PET (PostWater Supreme Creamy Foundation, which is Consumer Recycled PET) materials, which expected to be sold in stores starting April reduce greenhouse gases occurring during 2013. the manufacturing of packing materials. In 2012, we expanded our application to 10 Reduce: Weight reduction of the products, including HAPPY BATH’s lavender one-touch cap essence relaxing body wash. HAPPY BATH Whiteclay Blackhead Foam (One-Touch Cap) Reduced weight by 15% The total weight of the one-touch cap (50 pie tube) used in the HAPPY BATH blackhead foam products was reduced by 15% from the original 14 grams to 12 grams. The new lightweight cap is expected to be used in the molding of new products in other brands. Enhancing the Sustainability of Products Laneige Water Supreme Creamy Foundation HAPPY BATH Whiteclay Blackhead Foam (One-Touch Cap) AMOREPACIFIC is focused on strengthening the sustainability Hera Moist Multibutter (Cap) HAPPY BATH Lavender Essence Relaxing Body Wash of products and packaging to minimize the environmental impact by developing new and improved materials. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 15 Beautiful Fair Trade Harmony with Local Communities October 2012, purchasing Angelica gigas and < Beans from Paju, Gyeonggi-do Beautiful Fair Trade is a raw material July 2012, purchasing lilies in Taean, Cnidium officinale in Seosan, Chungnam purchasing program of AMOREPACIFIC. Chungnam It is aimed at making positive contributions Seosan is an area with climate conditions to the customers, environment and society Lilies in Taean, Chungchungnam-do use that are favorable to growing Angelica by keeping the three important principles in the process of selecting plant materials and environment-friendly cultivation method gigas and Cnidium officinale and preventing purchasing them, which include: safety of that does not use any chemical fertilizer damage from diseases and harmful insects. raw materials; environmental preservation; and agricultural pesticides. These lilies are AMOREPACIFIC signed an agreement to and contribution to local communities. usually exported to Japan and China, but purchase Angelica gigas and Cnidium July 2012~ they usually generate little profits because officinale from the Gyeo-Seong Farming and October 2012~ Lilies from Taean, of large price fluctuations. After signing Agriculture Association, which is a farming Angelica gigas and Cnidium officinale Chungnam < < from Seosan, Chungnam the Beautiful Fair Trade agreement, farms association set up in 2010 by Seosan’s July 2012~ in these areas are able to sell their lilies to farmers who want to use environment< Wood-cultivated ginseng from AMOREPACIFIC without having to worry friendly cultivation methods for agricultural Mungyeong, Gyeongbuk about price fluctuations and other market products. It acquired the pesticide-free < P aper mulberry from Goesan, Chungbuk insecurities. environment-friendly certification mark in the first year of its establishment. Angelica July 2012, purchasing woodgigas and Cnidium officinale that are cultivated ginseng in Mungyeong, cultivated in a clean environment without Gyeongbuk using agricultural pesticides and chemical The Mungyeong area organically grows fertilizers are being used in AMOREPACIFIC’s < Ginseng from Jinan, Jeonbuk wood-cultivated ginseng in a desolate products, including our cosmetic brand mountain area of more than 600m above Hanyul’s ‘Optimizing Serum’. < Lotus seeds from Jeongeup, Jeonbuk sea level without using agricultural pesticides or chemical fertilizer, making it excellent to be used as raw materials for Sulwhasoo, AMOREPACIFIC’s oriental medicine skin care brand. We were able to purchase < Bamboos from Sacheon, Gyeongnam wood-cultivated ginseng grown in a clean environment by signing the Beautiful Fair Trade agreement with Mungyeong-si, Gyeongbuk in 2012. ‘Beautiful Fair Trade’ promoting harmony with local communities Beautiful Fair Trade is a raw material purchasing program Enhancing the Sustainability of Products < Nutmeg oil from Songdang-ri, Jeju of AMOREPACIFIC. Starting with the camellias of Dongbaek AMOREPACIFIC seeks to visit farms which use Village in Jeju in 2010, we are currently implementing the environment-friendly cultivation methods for plant materials < Camellia from Dongbaek Village of Jeju program in 10 areas by signing additional agreements with Mungyeong, Taean and Seosan in 2012. We plan to expand and purchases them at reasonable prices, enabling us to build the Beautiful Fair Trade to overseas in the future. and maintain mutually beneficial relationships with local farmers and contribute to regional development. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 17 Major Korean Herbs of illi Launching of the Korean herbal medicinal AMOREPACIFIC has continuously studied ‘illi’ products are created with body care solution ‘illi’ the ‘beautiful figure’ of Korean women. “Korean Herbal Bio Synergy ComplexTM” We launched the Korean herbal medicinal In the hopes of sharing AMOREPACIFIC’s technology, which is based on the harmonization of four key ingredients indigenous body care solution brand ‘illi’, which scientific knowledge of skin care essentials to Korea: Ginseng, beans, green tea, and embodies AMOREPACIFIC’s devotion to and the Asian beauty know how with camellia. both skin science research and herbal the customers, we published the book medicines indigenous to Korea. ‘Jataebogam illi’. This book, which contains The main ingredients are the ‘Korean ‘the secrets to a woman’s beautiful figure’, Herbal Bio Synergy ComplexTM’, which is explains in detail the traditional beauty based on the harmonization of four key methods of famous women of Korea’s long ingredients indigenous to Korea: Ginseng, history such as Hwang Jini, Jang Heebin, beans, green tea, and camellia. We collected Empress Myeongseong, and Shin Saim and analyzed the original scent of flowers, Dang. Also, it contains the cosmetic effects including Korean ginseng flower and lotus, of illi’s key ingredients, including ginseng, and put them into the products. beans, green tea and camellia oil, are explained clearly. Since the launch of the product illi, it has become very popular with many customers by accounting for 12% of market share in just 6 months and ranking 4th in Korea’s body moisturizer market. Innovating our Brands and Services We launched the Korean herbal medicinal body care solution brand ‘illi’, which embodies AMOREPACIFIC’s illi’s main product ‘illi Total Age Body Lotion’ devotion to both skin science research and herbal medicines indigenous to Korea. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 19 Launching of the Global Niche Perfume House Annick Goutal in Korea Last year, AMOREPACIFIC acquired the French luxury perfume brand ‘Annick Goutal’. In August of 2012, it opened its own store in the Luxury Hall of Galleria Department Store. Annick Goutal is a famous French pianist and fashion model who introduced this luxury perfume brand that expressed her sensitivity by using high-quality perfume raw materials. Annick Goutal is famous for making the perfect fragrance by dropping each drop with hands. Besides that, the perfume bottles are also produced directly from France. There are currently 12 Annick Goutal stores in Europe, and is also sold in 1,350 stores in 40 different countries. Annick Goutal’s main product ‘PETITE CHERIE’ Annick Goutal’s store in Galleria Department Store SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 21 Donation Activity with the Customers ‘AMOREPACIFIC BEAUTYPOINT Exchange Campaign’ Be Eco-Chic Campaign AMOREPACIFIC is operating ‘BEAUTYPOINT Service’ where the customers can use the points accumulated from purchasing In October of 2012, we launched ‘Min-A Shin’s Eco Bag’, which the customers can exchange with BEAUTYPOINT. It was born products to purchase other products. In 2012, we introduced products that the customers can purchase exclusively by using through collaboration between Australia’s eco bag brand ‘Envirosax’ and Min-A Shin who is the model of AMOREPACIFIC’s BEAUTYPOINT. Also, we are implementing ‘BEAUTYPOINT Exchange Campaign’, which donates some of the profits from famous brand Hera and Mise-en-Scene. ` The actress Min-A Shin personally designed the eco bag. It is an environmentselling products to the neighbors in need. friendly product that only used dyes that passed the environment-friendly dye test. Two months after its launch, about 155,000 ‘Min-A Shin’s Eco Bags’ were exchanged for BEAUTYPOINT at stores, which was a meaningful campaign that Share Your Umbrella Campaign promoted the use of environment-friendly products. In June of 2012, AMOREPACIFIC conducted ‘Share Your Umbrellas’ campaign where the customers can purchase umbrellas at our stores by using the BEAUTYPOINT. Due to a huge response from the customers, altogether 56,000 umbrellas were exchanged with BEAUTYPOINT. We once again remembered the meaning of the campaign by donating some of the profits from selling umbrellas to an organization that helps out in the recovery from flood damages. ‘Share Your Umbrella’ campaign where the customers can purchase umbrellas by using their BEAUTYPOINT. ‘Min-A Shin’s Eco bag’ that the customers can exchange with BEAUTYPOINT. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 23 Reducing our Environmental Impact Reducing our Environmental Impact We have established an environmental management system of global standards to implement various activities, including the reduction of GHG emissions, the development of clean technologies and the establishment of environment-friendly logistics system, while also emphasizing the protection of biodiversity. AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Production Site SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 25 Completion of AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Production Site Efforts to Strengthen Quality Managment The newly completed ‘AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Production Site’ is an integrated Since the establishment of AMOREPACIFIC, our production sites introduced innovative production and logistics center that consolidates the skin care production sites, systems which continue to be developed into the makeup production sites, and regional logistics centers that were scattered world-class facilities that exhibit world-class all over the nation into one place. standards and emphasize on ‘quality first’. We introduced the ‘Recipe Control System’, a prescription and process control system where computers accurately manufacture the cosmetic products, as well as the ‘Fool Proof System’ that automatically detects human and machines errors. Also, we safely manage heavy metals, hazardous substances and microorganisms, and thoroughly manage the process for checking active ingredient contents and ingredient labels. Activities to Reduce GHG (Greenhouse Gas) Emissions Activities to Reduce Water Introduction of the solar Introduction of Integrated cooling and Utilization of Reuse of the primary Introduction of the power generation Demand Controller heating system rainwater treated wastewater automatic CIP process Reduced Reduced Reduced Reduced Reduced Reduced about 87 tons about 108 tons about 269 tons about 12,323 tons about 7,868 tons about 720 tons of CO2 for GHG emissions each year of CO2 for GHG emissions each year of CO2 for GHG emissions each year of water each year of water each year of water each year about 20 million Korean about 3 million Korean about 70 million Korean about 20 million Korean about 13 million Korean about 10 million Korean won of cost reduction won of cost reduction won of cost reduction won of cost reduction won of cost reduction won of cost reduction Installed solar power modules that In order to reduce the amount of Established the remote management Installed about 1,400 tons of Reused primary treated wastewater Standardized the amount of water can generate 200 kw of electricity electricity used, introduced Demand system that provides integrated rainwater storage and rainwater by dehydrators at wastewater used by improving the method of per hour on the rooftop of logistics Controller (the peak management control of cooling and heating treatment facilities. Rainwater treatments facilities which used to workers randomly washing before building, which produced about system) that automatically turns system with the support of the is being reused for watering use rainwater and water before. manufacturing skin care products 200,000 kw of electricity in 2012. off conditioning equipment and Korea Electric Power Corporation. the landscape and cleaning the to adopt the automated system CIP (Cleaning In Place) system. cooling and heating system when It provides integrated management production site, as well as used Enhanced the quality of products by the amount used reaches the of the data from indoor and as the make-up water for utility preventing microbial pollutions with upper limit (peak value). outdoor heat exchangers to optimize cooling tower. automatic washing and reduced the the temperature and operation amount of water used in washing the time. manufacturing sites for cream and organic products by about 40%. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 27 Integrated Logistics Center AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Production Site’s logistics center operates automatic storage system and 11 stacker cranes. Also, we shortened the time taken to deliver products to the customers by improving the efficiency of the logistics system, such as designing the system to carry out the works of picking up in boxes or individually according to different customers. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 29 AMORE Raw Material Botanical Garden ‘AMORE Raw Material Botanical Garden’ is a botanical garden that reflects the philosophy of AMOREPACIFIC’s founder that ‘good products come from good raw materials’ by researching and directly cultivating medicinal plants that are good for the skin. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 31 Mother Chrysanthemum Restored the Endangered White Mother Exhibition (IBS), an international academy, Mother chrysanthemum is the only Chrysanthemum and Utilized it in Hanyul’s and filed for 2 patent applications (one in chrysanthemum that can be used for Whitening Products Korea and 1 overseas for PCT). The White eating and medical purposes out of about 500 types of chrysanthemums in AMOREPACIFIC is the world’s first to restore Mother Chrysanthemum will be used as the the world. According to Donguibogam, key ingredient for whitening in Hanyul’s Rich the endangered Korean White Mother a Korean traditional medical book, it is recorded that the White Mother Chrysanthemum (Chrysanthemum indicum Effect Powder Serum, which launched in March Chrysanthemum are better than other var. albescens) and applied it as a main of 2013. chrysanthemums. Until now, there has been very little research conducted on the ingredient in whitening products. White Mother Chrysanthemum. . Held the International Symposium on Conservation of Biodiversity In order to restore the endangered White Mother Chrysanthemum, AMOREPACIFIC AMOREPACIFIC held the ‘Symposium on conducted joint research with Gukya Farm Conservation of Biodiversity and Sustainable since 2010. As a result of the research, we Development’ together with the Korea developed new species (‘Kukyasulwha’ and Federation of Women’s Science & Technology ‘Kukyasuyul’) in 2012, and acquired exclusive Associations. The Symposium included the protective rights on these species. announcement of winners of the “Conservation of Biodiversity and Sustainable Development” AMOREPACIFIC found that the White Mother contest held for university students, as well Chrysanthemum shows more whitening effect as lectures from industry experts and panel than the Yellow Mother Chrysanthemum debates. There were also introductions Hanyul and the whitening raw material ‘Arbutin’ by of AMOREPACIFIC’s best practices on Rich Effect Whitening Powder Serum 2 times and 4 times, respectively. Therefore, conservation of biodiversity and sustainable we conducted researches to use the White utilization. The symposium was a venue for Mother Chrysanthemum as raw materials for publicizing the issues on biodiversity with the whitening, and received the certification as government, academic circle, the media and a raw material with whitening effects from NGOs, while also allowed AMOREPACIFIC to the Korea Food and Drug Administration. share its values on sustainable management As a result of these efforts, the details of the activities. researches were announced in the 2012 International Biotechnology Symposium and Protection of Biodiversity AMOREPACIFIC has contributed in protecting biodiversity through various activities based upon the purpose of the Convention on Biodiversity. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 33 Supported the 2012 World Conservation Congress (WCC) AMOREPACIFIC has participated the 2012 World Conservation Congress (WCC) as an official sponsor. The WCC was held in the Jeju International Convention Center for ten days in September 2012 under the theme of ‘Resilient nature’. This is the first time in 60 years the event was held in Northeast Asia. There were about 10,000 participants from about 1,100 organizations from 180 countries, including governmental agencies, NGOs and experts from all over the world. AMOREPACIFIC presented a poster under the theme ‘Sustainable Use of Natural Resources and Traditional Knowledge for Indigenous People in Jeju’. Also, we held a presentation on best practices of preserving and utilizing Jeju’s traditional knowledge at the workshop of ‘Expansion of Biocultural Diversity through Preserving the Ecological Knowledge of Island and Coastal Areas’ hosted by the Ecological Society of Korea. What is the World Conservation Congress? The World Conservation Congress is an environmental meeting that is held every 4 years by the IUCN (International Union for Conservation of Nature), which has a long history and influence in the environmental field. It is a venue for discussing various issues on the environment, including climate change, environmental preservation, and biodiversity. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 35 Published the ‘Beautiful Story of Building a Partnership for Conducting Native Plants in Jeju’ Research on Jeju’s Native Plants AMOREPACIFIC has continued to conduct AMOREPACIFIC is working towards finding studies on Jeju’s plants. In 2012, in order to and utilizing the plant resources in Jeju, improve the understanding on Jeju’s native which is a valuable storage of biodiversity plants and contribute to conserving them, we in sustainable way. Also, in order to find published the ‘Beautiful Story of Native Plants and preserve the values of Jeju’s native in Jeju’, which include traditional knowledge plants, we are keeping a close cooperative about Jeju’s native plants. relationship with local authorities. This book includes detailed information In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC carried out the regarding the raw materials used in task of pursuing Jeju’s traditional knowledge AMOREPACIFIC products, such as camellia, in cooperation with the National Institute nutmeg, and over 20 native species in of Biological Resources. Also, innisfree is Mount Halla. This book was provided at the supporting research and restoration programs World Conservation Congress (WCC) held in for Jeju’s native plants in accordance with the Jeju in 2012, and introduced Jeju’s native agreement signed with Jeju Technopark to find plants to the participants. and preserve the values of Jeju’s native plants. Protection of Biodiversity We make books with stories about studies done on Jeju’s Beautiful Story of Native Plants in Jeju native plants, as well as conduct researches to preserve and find out the values of Jeju’s native plants. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 37 What is Ecocert? Ensuring Product Safety Environment-Friendly Campaigns Ecocert is a certificate institute established in Earth Month Campaign France in 1991 to certify organic farming products primera aims to strengthen the feeling by reissuing organic certification every year of safety for the customers by excluding In conjunction with Earth Month in April, through inspection. artificial ingredients from its products. In primera launched the “primera Sprouting particular, all products in the baby care Limited Edition” set which contains a sprouting line exclude artificial ingredients as much pot which customers can plant seeds and as possible to prevent the possibility of experience first-hand the energy of the plant irritations and other harmful side effects. sprouting cycle. We plan to donate some of the Also, we received the ecocert certification on profits from selling the products to ‘Roots and some products from the raw material stage Shoots’. to the quality management stage, enabling the customers to feel safe in using these primera Promise Campaign products. primera launched the watery cream limited edition that contains its 5 philosophies in Environment-Friendly Packages the package. Together with the launch of primera’s packages are not plastic coated to the product, we held an event on the make it easier for recycling. We used the FSC Facebook, which helped the customers certified papers, and also we make efforts achieve the promise they made for the to minimize the environmental impact by Earth. Many customers shared photos on using soy ink for printing. the Facebook to show that they kept their promise to conserve the environment. Sponsorship for ‘Roots and Shoots’ Activities ‘Roots and Shoots’ is an environmental and humanitarian educational project established by Dr. Jane Goodall who is a world-famous primatologist and environmental activist. primera sponsored the public lecture of Dr. Goodall in Korea and the publication of ‘Roots and Shoots Guide Book’. primera’s Eco Philosophy primera is continuously conducted green communication with the customers through the development of sustainable primera’s Ecocert certified product ‘primera baby Intense Cream’ products and the implementation of various environmental campaigns. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 39 Growing through Harmony in Societies Growing through Harmony in Societies AMOREPACIFIC is striving to fulfill its social responsibility for the society, while also achieving growth for the company. We aim to cultivate healthy beauty for females and create an abundant society through harmonious relationship between the people, nature and society. To achieve this, we have implemented various activities that contribute to the customers, employees and local communities. ‘Color Change’ Project SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 41 Creating Harmonious AP Smart Work System Operating the AMOREPACIFIC Working Environment ‘ABC Working Time System’ Childcare Facility AMOREPACIFIC is actively working on creating a workplace where male and female employees can The time for arriving at the office is flexible In order to reduce the burden of childcare and work harmoniously and achieve a balance between from 7am to 10am and employees can education for the employees, AMOREPACIFIC work and personal life. As a result of these efforts, choose from them, which promoted the work is operating the ‘AMOREPACIFIC Childcare in April of 2012, we received the highest honor of ‘Presidential Citation’, at the 12th Equal Employconvenience of all employees who wish to Facility’, which is a childcare facility inside ment Opportunity Week Celebration Ceremony’ adjust their time because of childcare or selfthe workplace. We provide high-quality hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. development. childcare programs for 12 hours by taking Ratio of female employees into consideration of the convenience of the (ratio by position) Operation of flexible lunch time employees working, while also providing Employees can adjust their lunch time from meals that use the best raw materials for the 11am to 2pm, which create a flexible working nutrition and health of the children, including environment that provides opportunities for organic products. Also, we implement Management Staff self-development. educational programs where children can see, listen and feel through a variety Introduction of new vacation culture of outstanding field trips. In addition, we Vacations, which were mostly gone during continuously improve the working conditions the summer time, have been expanded to all so that the teachers at the Childcare Facility year round, while the days in between public maintain a high level of standards. Management Staff holidays and weekends are designated as holidays to allow employees to take time off Operating Resting Room for Female Employees to get recharged. We have installed and are operating resting Introduction of on-site commuting system rooms for female employees at 9 production In the case of salespeople who mostly sites all across the nation, including the head Management Staff work on site, we create an on-site working office, so that female employees can enjoy a environment by reducing the unnecessary comfortable work life. There are the resting time in commuting to office and improving space (bar table, sofa) and the resting facility the work efficiency. (bed, foot massager) in the resting room. In the case of the head office, there are services that provide health checkup and health advice to the users, helping in improving the welfare of female employees. In addition, we provide educational programs and career development programs for developing female leaders, which provide guidelines on how to develop into a talented female employee. Family-friendly Management AMOREPACIFIC Childcare Facility We are working on establishing a smart working environment to enhance the engagement of workers. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 43 Greenus Greenus Well-Being Program Distributing Products for Preventing Fatigue Greenus is the official name of beauty partners This program comes from innisfree’s In the case of people who work at stores, who work at innisfree stores. management philosophy that the satisfaction there is a high prevalence rate of the lower of Greenus leads to the satisfaction of the part of the body, such as the legs getting customers. It is a voluntary welfare activity. In swollen and numbed, which is characteristic order to accurately diagnose the health status of those working in the service industry. of Greenus who are working standing up for In fact, the interview results with Greenus Satisfaction Survey a long period of time, we designed a program showed that most of them frequently feel The result of the satisfaction survey conducted on workers at 22 innisfree stores regarding the Greenus together with a consulting professor of the pains in their lower part of the body. Well-Being Program showed that the areas that hurt Department of Industrial Medicine and the most, including the pain in their feet and legs, got better. beauty partners’ agencies. In order to resolve these problems, innisfree prepared products that help prevent fatigue Implementing the Stretching Education and ease the musculoskeletal diseases, which During the regular education for Greenus, were distributed to about 2,000 Greenus at we provide the stretching education to about 600 stores. Greenus Interview prevent fatigue by inviting a lecturer “The compression stockings come up to my stomach Providing Resting Time above the waist. Since it supports tightly as if I am specializing in the field of welfare. It allows wearing a waist support, my back hurts less and it you to diagnose your stiffened body status on All Greenus look forward to resting and makes me stand up straight.” your own and carry out various movements taking time off considering the busy Greenus of Myeongdong store, Hyun-a Cho that you can do in a confined space. Also, schedule at the stores. In order to prevent we made various stretching movements fatigue from working and ensure as much into posters and videos so that Greenus can time possible for resting, we efficiently voluntarily do stretching in between their organized shifts so that the monthly working hours. afternoon-off system was operated on a trial basis in directly managed shops, which received positive responses. innisfree will continue to improve the working conditions of Greenus. Greenus Well-Being Program For the purpose of protecting the health of Greenus who works standing up all day long, innisfree is implementing Products distributed to Greenus: anti-fatigue mat, stretching board, Greenus Thanks kit (composition: cooling massage gel, cooling leg mist, skinny massager), etc. the ‘Greenus Well-Being Program’, which is a project for improving the working condition. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 45 Hours of Employee’s Participation ‘Color Change’ Project of ‘Education Donation’ Program by the in Sharing Activities Brand & Design Lab’s Employees Employees of R&D Center 2010 18,651 hours AMOREPACIFIC’s Brand & Design Lab As part of the education donation activity to 2011 27,530 hours implemented the ‘Color Change’ project foster the children’s dream of becoming a (activity of donating the talent of drawing scientist, the Beauty Food Research Team at 2012 27,405 hours mural paintings) by displaying their job AMOREPACIFIC’s R&D Center implemented characteristics. In the first half of 2012, the ‘Beauty Expedition, Finding Beauty from Total number of employees we beautifully painted the basement hall Science’ program. We invited students from participated in 2012 of Sungrowon in Seoul to turn into a new girls’ middle schools in Suwon and Yongin, space, while in the latter half, we beautifully which are near AMOREPACIFIC’s R&D 3,932 employees changed the wall fence and parts of the playground of Jungri Elementary School in Center, and provided career mentoring and science experience programs to students Pocheon, Gyeonggido where there are only who dream of becoming a scientist. The about 40 students altogether. Until now, the Beauty Food Research Team’s experience school was left alone with the paint peeled programs enabled students to easily off because of lack of support from the understand and feel the genuine beauty outside. However, it changed into a bright through various programs, including and healthy environment with the help ‘Science of Beautiful Skin and Story of Skin of AMOREPACIFIC’s designers. Color’ and ‘Science of Hair and Scalp’. The researchers of Beauty Food Research Team Beauty Expedition, Finding Beauty from Science said, “We thought students no longer took interest in science, but it was great to see them so immersed in the program and enjoying it.” They hoped that the students realized that there is more to what is seen, including the inner beauty. Strengthening of Social Responsibility In 2012, the employees of AMOREPACIFIC participated in Jungri Elementary School in Pocheon, Gyeonggido, ‘Color Change’ project AMOREPACIFIC’s move to beautifully change the society by serving the community through their talent. SPECIAL SECTION AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 47 ‘Make Up Your Life’ Campaign in China that began in Shanghai to other areas of China so that we spread the positive energy The Make Up Your Life Campaign, which of making more Chinese cancer patients to first began in 2008, is AMOREPACIFIC’s be healthy and beautiful. representative social contribution activity. Starting from 2011, we expanded the Since I was little, I dreamt that one day a campaign to China to provide hopeful prince charming will come and save me messages to Chinese cancer patients. like the fairy tale. Of course, as I got older, I In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC China held events realized that it was never going to happen, China’s ‘Make Up Your Life’ together with 4 hospitals and NGOs located Campaign Pamphlet but deep inside, I always carried that dream. in Shanghai, including the Shanghai Cancer However, my dream was shattered when I got Rehabilitation Club, Angel Care Breast cancer. (omitted) But after putting make up Cancer Foundation, the Jinyeo Hospital, 1) GONGO on, I realized that I was a beautiful female and and the Ruijin Hospital. The volunteer Government Organized I just forgot how to love myself because of the Non-governmental Organization group mainly consists of counselors from disease. As I look at my beautiful appearance, AMOREPACIFIC China, which received I feel new hopes and many dreams that I had positive responses from the cancer patients as a child. The Make Up Your Life Campaign by holding various events, including helped me realize that I can continue to carry professional beauty lectures, skin care and on dreaming if I work hard to achieve it, as make up practices, and provision of cosmetic well as helped me regain my confidence in kits. The ‘Make Up Your Life’ Campaign in life. I am very pleased to have participated in China was also introduced in the ‘CSR Best the Campaign. Practices Booklet of the Consulate General of Thank You Message from a Cancer Patient Shanghai’, which is distributed to national organizations, GONGO 1), and major medias. AMOREPACIFIC plans to expand the Campaign Strengthening of Social Responsibility The Make Up Your Life campaign, AMOREPACIFIC’s representative social contribution activity, gives hopeful The Make Up Your Life Campaign in China messages to Chinese cancer patients that transcend boundaries. AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 49 Making Sustainable Values Creating a Beautiful Life we will not think about the immediate profit and prepare a seed of hope for the future, enabling us to prepare for our future and also be considerate of others. Seogwang tea field in Jeju BRAND PORTFOLIO Sulwhasoo IOPE AMOREPACIFIC LANEIGE Completion of harmonious beauty through holistic beauty wisdom from Korea Brings back the original beauty of your skin through biology and True care for ageless beauty life science researches Completes pure & healthy beauty by LANEIGE Water Science in their twenties Sulwhasoo is Korea’s leading luxury holistic brand that introduces holistic approach to skincare combining herbal medicinal traditions with most advanced technology. It provides glowing AMOREPACIFIC, a flagship brand of AMOREPACIFIC Co. Ltd, promises True Care for women’s IOPE is a brand of biology and life science researches that brings back the original beauty of your LANEIGE pursues the artistic sense of ‘snow’, and completes the beauty of young women complexion from deep inside through the balance of Yin and Yang. Unchallenged in its segment beauty and health through the synergy of advanced skin science and precious Asian botanical skin by infusing innovative vitality into it. By taking note of the vital activity of skin, we met the between 24 and 32 through the hydrating science of ‘water’. LANEIGE scientifically studies in Korea, the line’s overseas sales are growing steadily, based on its effectiveness from carefully ingredients, increasing its reputation in global trend-setting markets such as Japan and US. needs of our customers by coming up with different solutions for their skin problems, including ‘water’, the most important element of healthy skin, for optimal hydration and moisturization. selected oriental medicine ingredients. www.sulwhasoo.co.kr kr.amorepacific-cosmetics.com Bio Essence, Retinol, Super Vital and Whitegen. www.iope.co.kr www.laneige.com primera Hanyul Mamonde Natural sprout energy restoring the innate vital power of skin HERA Wisdom and beauty of Korean medicine The brand that blooms women’s beauty with power of flowers primera, containing the meanings of “the prime” and “the era”, primera pursues the healthy beauty through sprout energy that holds all of the nutritional ingredients condensed inside The beauty of vitality Based on Korean herbal medicinal ingredients, Hanyul exemplified Korean thinking on health and Mamonde brand always studies women and their beauty, which makes researches about the the seed during its germinating time. Pure eco philosophy of Naturalism brand, primera of HERA creates modern beauty that is full of vitality with trendsetting sense. It has established beauty. Hanyul completes women’s dazzling beauty that blooms every morning with the ingredients power of nature that blooms flowers and invents the wisdom of beauty. Mamonde products AMOREPACIFIC, is coming to you now with long experience and differentiated technological itself as the brand of choice for confident and sophisticated women with distinct identity and of Korean herbal medicine that owns the power and the vitality of nature. It also completes your made from these philosophies and AMOREPACIFIC’s scientific research make women the know-how. www.primera.co.kr overwhelming passion. www.hera.co.kr beauty by establishing the balance of yin and yang of your skin. www.hanyul.co.kr heroine of their own world. www.mamonde.co.kr BRAND PORTFOLIO Annick Goutal RYO illi France’s high-class perfume house delivers the French elegance and HAPPY BATH Premium hair care based on Korean traditional medicine high-quality perfumes The only principle to a woman’s beautiful figure RYO is a Korean herbal medicinal hair care brand with the name meaning ‘a rhythmical balance Annick Goutal is a high-class perfume house from France that brings you the French life style A mass cosmetic brand that gives you happiness illi is a premium Korean herbal medicinal body care brand made from AMOREPACIFIC’s skin of Yin and Yang to keep the scalp in its optimal condition’. Based on the AMOREPACIFIC’s own of sensitivity and elegance. It provides top quality natural essence perfumes that are bottled in HAPPY BATH is the natural mass cosmetic brand which makes body and soul happy with natural science research and the traditional beauty methods of famous women of Korea’s long history methods and technologies on beauty that have been accumulated over many years, the products containers made by the handworks of French craftsman. ingredients and pleasing fragrances. www.happybath.co.kr by using herbal medicines indigenous to Korea. www.illi.co.kr not only help prevent hair loss but also provide hair with a healthy sheen. www.ryoe.co.kr innisfree VB PROGRAM ETUDE OSULLOC Natural benefit from Jeju Beauty comes from good health, while health is completed by beauty Wanna be sweet? Play ETUDE VB PROGRAM started from AMOREPACIFIC’s philosophy that the genuine beauty will show High-class tea culture derived from the best natural ingredients ‘innisfree’ refers to the clean island where the clean nature and healthy beauty coexist in ETUDE believes that make-up should be fun and playful. With its full of girlish emotions, unique harmony. The benefits from the clean nature of the pristine island, Jeju, are delivered to on the outside if you take care of the inside. Health comes hand in hand with beauty. VB As Korea’s representative tea culture brand operated by AMOREPACIFIC, OSULLOC sells and trendy products and stores, ETUDE has been cheering sweet dreams of all women to be customers through the products of innisfree for their healthy beauty. Launched as Korea’s first PROGRAM is designed to give beautiful health and healthy beauty by providing innovative products in the forms of leaf, teabag and powder made from high-quality raw materials that more beautiful and confident. ETUDE is strongly positioned as an iconic global brand in the cosmetics brand on naturalism, it is implementing the Green Life to become the Asian Natural functional foods and services developed through scientific researches to suit individual lifestyles. are directly cultivated in OSULLOC tea gardens in Jeju, and also introduces to a healthy and whole Asia. www.etude.co.kr No.1 brand. www.innisfree.co.kr www.vbprogram.co.kr relaxing world of tea through OSULLOC tea houses and tea shops. www.osulloc.com Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 55 COMPANY INTRODUCTION AMOREPACIFIC has worked on improving customer’s quality of life by leading the Korean beauty industry Company Overview during the past 67 years. We will strive to become a global beauty company that represents Asia to fulfill our mission as the Asian Beauty Creator. Korea Employees 4,724 Persons Number of stores 1,975 stores Paris New York China U.S. Employees 5,029 Persons Beijing Tokyo LA Number of stores 4,015 stores Shanghai Employees 64 Persons Number of stores 238 stores Japan Hong Kong Employees 145 Persons Thailand Vietnam Number of stores 8,911 stores 2) France Malaysia Employees 204 Persons Singapore Number of stores 2,286 stores 1) Other Asian countries Seoul Yongin Employees 360 Persons Osan Number of stores 136 stores Daejeon Jincheon Daegu Gwangju Busan : major business sites 1) Number of stores of local distributors where AMOREPACIFIC products are being sold Jeju 2) Including number of CVS and drug stores where AMOREPACIFIC products are being sold Making Sustainable Values Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 57 COMPANY INTRODUCTION COMPANY INTRODUCTION Corporate vision Financial Performance Under our mission of becoming an ‘Asian Beauty Creator’, AMOREPACIFIC is striving to deliver Asian beauty AMOREPACIFIC GROUP (Unit: KRW in billions) AMOREPACIFIC (Unit: KRW in billions) to customers all across the globe. We will build a foundation for sustainable growth through expansion into the global market, while also developing 10 global megabrands by searching for new growth 2010 2,686 2010 2,272 drivers. AMOREPACIFIC is looking forward to becoming one of the most respected beauty companies that Sales 2011 3,059 Sales 2011 2,555 2012 3,432 2012 2,850 continuously implement activities for minimizing environmental impact and making social contributions by focusing on positive stakeholder engagement. 2010 409 2010 365 Operating Operating profit 2011 435 profit 2011 373 2012 449 2012 364 Vision 2020 AMOREPACIFIC Way 2010 329 2010 288 AMOREPACIFIC aims to become ‘Asia’s No.1 and Global Top 7 The AMOREPACIFIC WAY is the set of core values and the Code Net profit 2011 376 Net profit 2011 327 Cosmetics Company’ by 2020. AMOREPACIFIC will strengthen of Conduct that all employees at AMOREPACIFIC adheres to in 2012 346 2012 268 its position as a leading global cosmetics company by developing their quest to become an ‘Asian Beauty Creator’. The five core products that reflect worldwide customers, expanding into the values are openness, innovation, proximity, sincerity and challenge. global market and achieving balanced growth in all categories. Openness refers to our belief that true growth and innovation are Economic Value Creation Current Status of Domestic Subsidiaries Also, we will increase our contributions to growth by developing achieved when we communicate openly with those outside our & Distribution (Unit: KRW in billions) (Group Status) 10 global megabrands by continuously innovating the growth organization. Innovation is our passion to always bring something methods. In line with this, we will become a respected company new to the world, and proximity is our intention to remain close to Category 2010 2011 2012 Name of company Location Main business that minimizes our environmental impact and fulfills our social our customers. By sincerity, we mean our commitment to doing Employee 1) 303 338 397 AMOREPACIFIC Seoul Holding company responsibility through positive stakeholder engagement. every job to the best of our ability, no matter how small, while GROUP challenge expresses our pioneering spirit that is never satisfied with Government 2) 98 128 121 ETUDE Seoul Cosmetics sales (ETUDE House) our present position. Local community 5 6 4 innisfree Seoul Cosmetics sales (innisfree) Creditor 2 2 1 AMOS Professional Seoul Cosmetics sales (AMOS) Manufacturing and sales of Shareholder 41 45 45 PACIFICPHARMA Seoul Openness pharmaceutical products Company 246 282 224 Gunsa, Manufacturing of PACIFICGLASS Jeonbuk glass bottles global amorepacific green Beauty partner 3) 384 396 424 vision Cheongwon, · Accelerate growth in · Minimize environmental Innovation Challenge PACIFICPACKAGE Chungbuk Printing Asia and enter into new impact and enhance Distributed economic values 1,079 1,196 1,216 JANGWON Jeju Green tea cultivation growth markets product safety amorepacific · Build a foundation for · Strengthen win-win cooperaWAY The economic values are calculated based on the consolidated financial statements of COSVISION Daejeon Manufacturing of cosmetics profitable growth tion with business partners AMOREPACIFIC. growth 1) This amount is the sum of salaries, retirement allowances, fringe benefits, etc. provided · Develop 10 global megabrands to employees. · Search for new growth drivers for Proximity Sincerity 2) This amount is the sum of taxes, utility bills, income tax expenses, consolidated income sustainable growth tax expenses, etc. 3) This is the value distributed to Aritaum shops, AMORE counselors, etc. AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 59 Domestic Business Performance Global Business Performance Cosmetics Business Asian Market In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC achieved strong growth despite products and by increasing direct communication activities with AMOREPACIFIC achieved high growth in key global growth markets In Japan, we actively expanded our business by diversifying brands the slowdown of the domestic economy and consumption by customers through social media. On the other hand, the growth of such as China and ASEAN countries by diversifying our brands and and channels. Together with AMOREPACIFIC brand already in securing differentiated brand power and new growth channels. the hypermarket channel slowed due to the domestic slowdown of distribution channels. In China, we increased customer contact by department stores, ETUDE successfully entered the Japanese Due to weaker consumer confidence in 2012, the demand for major large discount marts and the consumers turning to low-end accelerating the opening of new stores for newly launched brands, market as a brand that specializes in color cosmetics and opened luxury products declined in domestic cosmetics market. On the brands. including Sulwhasoo and innisfree. At the same time we also focused 8 road shops in major cities including Tokyo. We also successfully other hand there was noticeable growth in the mid to low-end on enhancing the brand recognition of LANEIGE, Mamonde and launched IOPE in the television home shopping channel, while segment. AMOREPACIFIC responded proactively to the prolonged Mass Cosmetics & Sulloc Tea Business Sulwhasoo by strengthening promotional and advertising activities Mamonde and RYO products were sold through new channels economic slowdown by strengthening the competitiveness of The Mass Cosmetics & Sulloc Tea (MC&S) business strengthened its through television, magazines, and online channels. In particular, such as convenient stores and drug stores, setting the foundation mid to low-end brands and while focusing on the growth of new market leadership in all categories which are hair, body and oral care innisfree entered the market and started to open brand shops in to become a global brand. distribution channels, which include road shops and the online by expanding distribution channels including drug stores, and by Shanghai, securing itself as AMOREPACIFIC’s new growth engine in channel. As a result, even though the growth slowed in the doorsuccessfully launching new products in main brands such as Miseresponse to China’s increasing demand for natural cosmetics. As a to-door channel, our cosmetics business achieved growth by 9.6% ` RYO and HAPPY BATH. Mise-en-Scene en-Scene, ` and HAPPY BATH result, AMOREPACIFIC China achieved KRW 260 billion in sales, up compared to 2011 by lead by growth in department stores, duty continued to launch functional lines and premium products that 37% over 2011. In the ASEAN market, Sulwhashoo strengthened its free shops, online sales and Aritaum stores. satisfy diverse customer needs. In particular, in the second half of position as a global oriental brand by successfully entering Singapore, We continued to grow in the door-to-door and department store 2012, illi, AMOREPACIFIC’s herbal medicinal body care brand, was Thailand and Taiwan. LANEIGE enhanced its brand recognition business, thanks to the outstanding products and the distinctive successfully launched to secure in the premium body care segment. through active marketing activities and by renewing existing stores brand power of our luxury brands, such as Sulwhasoo and HERA. The green tea business is focusing on selling premium products and continuing to expand stores in Malaysia and Vietnam. Moreover, In the door-to-door segment growth has slowed due to economic at OSULLOC tea houses and OSULLOC tea shops at department ETUDE opened its first brand shop in Hong Kong, ASEAN’s hub city, Sulwhasoo store in Hong Kong’s Time Square recession in Korea and intensified competition. The department stores. OSULLOC tea shops introduced a variety of premium to accelerate the entry to the Chinese market. store channel attracted many new customers through launches blended teas and functional drinks to strengthen its product Advanced Market Sales by overseas region (Unit: KRW in billions) of new products. Duty free shops showed a huge sales increase lines, while OSULLOC tea houses continued to increase customer because of the popularity of our major brands overseas and the experience and service spaces by renewing the Myeongdong After Sulwhasoo entered into the market in 2010, the North 2010 141 due to the increase of domestic and foreign travelers. Our primera store and opening new stores, including the Apgujeong store and American region showed a gradual increase in sales. Sulwhasoo China 2011 189 brand expanded sales channels by entering department stores Cheonggyecheon store. and AMOREPACIFIC brand showed good performance in high-end 2012 259 and duty free shops. Based on its strong brand power, Sulwhasoo, department stores such as Bergdorf Goodman and Neiman Marcus, AMOREPACIFIC’s flagship oriental cosmetics brand, showed Sales by domestic business unit (Unit: KRW in billions) as well as premium specialty store chains such as Sephora. We also 2010 79 growth in department stores and overseas markets such as the US successfully entered the online department store channel, while Europe 2011 76 2010 1,709 2012 77 and China and also several Asian countries. continuing to expand AMORE shops that are aimed mostly at Asian Cosmetics 2011 1,891 The Aritaum store channel and the online & home shopping customers. In France, after acquiring the luxury perfume brand Annick 2010 12 2012 2,073 North sales channel showed increased sales by providing products at Goutal in 2011, growth and profits slowed due to the reorganization America 2011 16 reasonable prices and launching products that meet customer 2010 349 of distribution channels and the restructuring of the business 2012 19 needs. The Aritaum channel with about 1,300 stores across the MC&S 2011 403 operations. However, we expect sales and profits will increase in the Asian 2010 69 nation, strengthened the competiveness of existing stores by 2012 438 future after the restructuring because of improved business efficiency countries 2011 86 (excluding differentiating operating strategies according to district and 2010 2,058 and the strengthened product portfolio. Moreover, Annick Goutal 2012 153 China) customer service innovations such as brow bars and also by reTotal 2011 2,293 opened its first Apgujeong store in the Galleria department store, * Drawn up based on the consolidated financial statements of overseas subsidiaries. modeling stores. The online & homeshopping channel secured 2012 2,510 signaling the start of global business expansion. In February of 2013, (However, in the case of an affiliated company, based on individual financial statements) ** Sales of 2010 and 2011 have been rewritten based on 2012. itself as a high growth channel by selling some distributor exclusive * Drawn up based on AMOREPACIFIC’s individual financial statements. we will open a third store in the Hyundai department store in COEX. Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 61 COMPANY INTRODUCTION Top Management Governance Structure Transparent Corporate Governance Structure BOD Composition and Authority 1 2 3 In order to focus our core competencies on beauty and health and AMOREPACIFIC’s Board of Directors has authority as the top to build a more transparent governance structure, AMOREPACIFIC decision-making organization. As of the end of March 2013 its has chosen a holding company type of corporate governance membership consists of 9 registered members, including 4 executive structure and operate a clear business unit system where roles and directors and 5 non-executive directors (NEDs). Each director of responsibilities are clear. As a result we have strengthened our the BOD is obligated to faithfully exercise his duties and fulfill core competencies in beauty and health. We continue to increase responsibilities as a good manager based on the Korean Commercial 4 5 6 shareholder value by improving our corporate governance structure Law and the company’s Articles of Incorporation, striving to and we are enhancing stakeholder profits by increasing corporate promote the interests of shareholders and other stakeholders. value through measures such as risk management. The executive directors are the leaders of each business unit and are recommended by the BOD, while the NEDs are external experts with expertise in various fields including management, 7 8 9 10 BOD Operation finance, global affairs, environment and marketing. The NEDs are 1 Kyung-bae Suh, Chief Executive Officer 2 Young-so Kwon, Luxury BU 3 Sang-bae Shim, SCM Unit To ensure efficient management, the AMOREPACIFIC BOD has set up recommended by the NED Nominating Committee and appointed 4 Dong-hyun Bae, Planning & Finanace Unit 5 Min-jeon Lee, Premium BU 6 Hak-hee Kang, R&D Unit 10 Young-chul Son, president of 7 Yoon Lee, HR & PR Unit 8 Chan-hoe Kim, Mass BU 9 Jae-cheon Yoo, New Growth BU AMOREPACIFIC Group expert committees under the BOD to deliberate on key matters related through shareholder’s approval acquired during the general to management, including Executive Committee, Audit Committee, meeting of shareholders. The BOD guarantees the independence of and NED Nominating Committee. During 2012 the Board of NEDs so that they can actively present their opinions on all aspects Organization Chart Directors convened 5 times, the Executive Committee 5 times, and of management at the BOD meetings. These opinions are faithfully In order to achieve our corporate vision of becoming ‘Global Top 7’, AMOREPACIFIC carried out an organizational structure change in the Audit Committee 5 times. Important decisions were provided to reflected during decision-making processes. 2013. By increasing the roles and responsibilities of each brand/business unit we will be able to respond more quickly to customer needs. shareholders and stakeholders through public announcements made We will also support the group’s overall organic growth by accelerating global expansion through enhancing the overseas business with the Financial Supervisory Service and the Korea Exchange. Board of Directors As of the end of March 2013 capabilities of each brand. Responsibility Position Major Shareholders Based on common shares held as of the end of December 2012 BOD Executive Kyung-bae Suh Supervision of management CEO, Chairman of BOD Audit Committee directors 0.1% Sang-bae Shim Supervision of production and Executive Committee Treasury stock R&D Executive Committee Dong-hyun Bae Supervision of support Executive Committee 1.5% Young-so Kwon Supervision of sales and Executive Committee CEO NED Nominating Korean individuals and others marketing Committee NonJae-yong Song Professor, Business Chairman of executive Administration, Seoul Audit Committee 15.2% 49.5% directors National University Chief Sales & Chief Production & AMOREPACIFIC Group Dong-soo Kim Former President, Asia-Pacific Audit Committee Chief Support Officer Under direct control Domestic and 9 persons Marketing Officer Research Officer institutions HQ, Dupont Eon-oh Lee President, Busan Development Audit Committee Luxury BU Planning & Finanace Unit SCM Unit Customer Support Division Institute Premium BU HR & PR Unit R&D Unit Brand & Design Lab Dong-chul Cho Professor, KDI School of Public 33.7% Policy and Management Mass BU NGI Division Foreigner Eun Namkung Professor, Environment and New Growth BU Energy Engineering, Myongji University Regional Division Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 63 COMPANY INTRODUCTION Risk Management and Corporate Ethics Ethical Management On September 5, 2003, AMOREPACIFIC announced ethical managers to take the online educational program ‘Beautiful management under the slogan of ‘Ethical Management! Company Ethical Leader’ and monitor those who do not finish Fulfilling a New Unlimited Responsibility in the 21 Century’ st it. We also launched a ‘First Story of Corporate Ethics’ course in at the 58th anniversary of the company’s founding ceremony. 2011. Together with this, in 2012, we further strengthened Strengthening of Risk Management Strengthening of Internal Security Since then, we have constantly implemented various programs the company-wide corporate ethics communication through AMOREPACIFIC strengthened its risk management activities to AMOREPACIFIC is strengthening internal security in accordance to achieve healthy corporate ethics. The campaign not giving an ‘On-site Ethics Training’ for employees in regional offices. minimize negative impact on the company by preemptively with its internal information protection regulation and 14 detailed and not receiving gifts is our main anti-corruption campaign. In In addition, we published an online magazine three times a dealing with various risks such as domestic and overseas guidelines, as well as the confidentiality pledge of employees under January of every year, we send information about the campaign year to communicate actively with the leaders of employees. economic recession, intensified competition in the cosmetics the employment contract. We also strengthened internal security to external stakeholders, including beauty partners and suppliers, We also held a ‘Photo Contest for Hard Working Mode’ so market and expansion into global markets. to ensure that business secrets such as cosmetics manufacturing to ask for their participation in the campaign. Initially we firmly that all employees could have the opportunity to rethink the technology and management know how are not leaked. We also advise employees to return any gifts that they receive from true meaning of the AP WAY and also to reinforce ethics. It is Operation of Risk Management Committee measure an information protection index annually. In 2012, the stakeholders. If however there circumstances in which the gifts mandatory for all new employees that join the company to sign The Risk Management Committee which consists of our top information protection index increased by more than 10% over 2011. cannot be returned the gifts are sent to the internal gift center a pledge of ethical conduct. We also strongly encourage suppliers management identified major company-wide risks that might Audit on Internal Security and all profits from the center are donated to local social welfare to sign a ethics pledge when entering into a contract. We operate occur in 2012 and discussed management and response plans facilities. In 2012, the team leaders voluntarily explained the a hotline on our corporate website to effectively respond to ethics to deal with them. Based on these decision-making processes, We detect security risks related to employees and suppliers the RMO (Risk Management Office) managed and monitored in advance by conducting internal security audits. The head purpose of the campaign to their team members to encourage issues raised by external parties. We also actively communicate possible company-wide risks according to importance to office and key affiliated companies receive diagnosis from our their participation under the motto of ‘From Me To Us’. Also, in with internal stakeholders by operating the AP HOTLINE in our business and level of risk. Company-wide risks are divided into six ISC (Information Security Center) and external companies that order to strengthen the awareness of corporate ethics, we are internal online community space AMOREPACIFIC 人. In 2013, categories which are strategic, promotional, legal, operational, specialize in security once a year. We set improvement targets operating a variety of training and communication programs. AMOREPACIFIC plans to passionately operate a new training and financial and environmental/social and are managed and create improvement plans for all risks that are detected and We strongly encourage employees who are above middle communication program to achieve the goal of ‘acquiring ethical accordingly. In 2012, 11 cases of company-wide risks, 22 cases of monitor their status regularly. soundness in corporate ecosystem’. departmental risks and 146 cases of team risks were selected for management. Activities for actual risk management are carried Strengthening of IT System’s Security Status of gifts received (Unit: cases, KRW 1,000) Corporate ethics educational program (Unit: persons) out by each business unit and working-level teams. In order to prevent security risks to our website IT system, we periodically holding inspections on technical weaknesses and Category 2010 2011 2012 Beautiful 2010 1,506 Advancement of Company-Wide Risk Management Company conduct mock hacking tests once a year. We set up a new web Number of gifts Ethical 2011 1,655 received 24 39 37 In order to ensure a systematic management of risk we created application firewall in the external service zone to immediately Leader 1) 2012 1,856 Amount of preemptive management plans for each risk and carefully detect any hacking attacks. contribution 680 1,552 1,356 monitored the status of management and response each quarter. First 2010 We also strived to protect corporate value by managing specific Preventing Information Leakage by External Contractors Story of 2011 319 Status of report on unethical behaviors (Unit: cases) Corporate risks that might occur from expanding overseas and entering new In order to prevent information leakage by external contractors Ethics 2) 2012 362 businesses. such as outsourcing for IT system development, we implemented Category 2010 2011 2012 a series of security control processes by installing PC security 1) Program for middle management, which has been completed by 94% of middle management Strengthening the Execution of Company-Wide Risk Management Related to internal in 2012. software in March 2012. policies 14 18 8 2) P rogram for new employees, which has been completed by 100% of new employees in 2012. We monitor and evaluate the risk management ability in Related to customer Strengthening of Employee Training consultations 6 13 8 accordance with the business plans and key agendas of workinglevel teams. This type of management leads to a stronger To prevent damages to the company and customers because of Related to suppliers 1 12 7 execution of company-wide risk management. employee’s unintended or intended mistakes all employees receive Total 21 43 23 mandatory training on information security. We also continue to strengthen employee training by utilizing various media such as videos. Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 65 COMPANY INTRODUCTION Sustainability Management Performance of Sustainability Management Beauty for Good ‘Asian Beauty Creator that changes the world through beauty’ Through sustainability management, AMOREPACIFIC strives to create a beautiful world where people, nature and company can coexist in harmony. We publish the Sustainability Report every year to actively Customers Environment Employees/Suppliers Communities receive opinions from stakeholders and reflect them in our management activities. In 2012, to achieve our ·Establish a global ·Establish a creative working ·Pursue healthiness from inside ·Strengthen sustainability of Strategic environmental environment through smart vision of becoming an ‘Asian Beauty Creator that changes the world through beauty by 2020’, we carried directions products management system work and outside ·Reinforce efforts for customer ·Promote harmonious growth out key initiative in accordance with the strategic directions for customers, environment, employees/ in 2012 satisfaction ·Strengthen protection of ·Strengthen win-win coopera·Support social independence biodiversity tion with business partners partners and social contribution. We transparently disclosed the results for a each segment. Number of sustainable products Amount of GHG emissions Ratio of female managers Amount of social 311 products (Basic Unit) 18.0% contributions made Operational System for Sustainability (123.7% ▲) 1.181 tons of CO 2 / (1%p ▲) KRW 9,742 million KRW in 100 millions (0.1%p ▲compared to Management (Accumulated ) number of Beautiful (1.6% ▲) Hours of training per employee pre-tax profit) The Sustainability Management Committee, AMOREPACIFIC’s Also at the end of 2012 we changed our organizational Fair Trade agreements signed 105.6 hours 10 cases Amount of water used (4.8% ▲) Number of participants in structure and moved the Sustainability Management Team Perfor(Basic Unit) employee sharing activities top decision-making body, makes strategic decisions on (42.9% ▲) mances 4.764 tons/ Engagement level of employees 3,932 persons sustainability management according to strategic directions from AMOREPACIFIC to AMOREPACIFIC Group. As a result, Amount of R&D investments 77.0% (33.2% ▲) in 2012 tons of product and also reviews the results of our key initiatives. In 2012, we we expanded sustainability management strategies across KRW 71.5 billion (0.2% ▼) (2.0%p ▲) Hope Store Startup Support (2.6% ▼) conducted reviews twice. We enhanced the effectiveness of all subsidiaries, striving to integrate the company’s core Amount of landfilled wastes 1) Amount of win-win (number of new startup stores) sustainability management by linking the performance indexes of management strategies with sustainability management. Ratio of consumer complaints (Basic Unit) cooperation fund 34 stores resolved 0.014 tons/tons of product KRW 20 billion (70.0% ▲) our strategic directions with the performance compensation for 99.2% (48.1% ▼) (100% ▲) (0.1%p ▲) BOD members and executives. Amount of empty bottles collected 157 tons (117.9% ▲) Sustainability Management Organization Chart ① Sustainability Management Committee 1) Amount of landfilled wastes: amount of wastes discharged – recycled amount (top decision-making body of sustainability management) CEO · Provide directions for sustainability management External awards and certifications received in 2012 · Review key issues and make decisions Sustainability Management Committee ① Details ② Sustainability Management Team (control tower of sustainability management) Incorporate into DJSI World: included in DJSI World for three consecutive years, selected as sector leader for ‘personal products’ for three years in a row AMOREPACIFIC Group, Corporate Strategy division · Establish sustainability management strategies and develop tasks for all subsidiaries Incorporated into FTSE4Good: included in FTSE4Good for two consecutive years, selected as No.1 in Asian region in 2012 · Implement PMO duties for sustainability management tasks Received the 2012 Product Safety Management Award · Act as the channel for external communication and oversee publication of report (hosted by the Korean Society of Toxicology and the Korean Environmental Mutagen Society) Sustainability Received the Excellence Award at the 2012 Korean Technology Awards (Hosted by the Ministry of Management Team ② ③ Working Group of Strategic Directions Knowledge Economy and Organized by the Korea Institute of Advancement of Technology) (implementer of sustainability management) Received the Presidential Citation as Excellent Company for gender equality in employment (Hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor) Working Group of Strategic · Carry out sustainability management tasks Acquired the certification for culture and leisure-friendly company Directions ③ · Communicate on implementation status and issues (Hosted by the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism) · Participate in making sustainability report Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 67 History of Sustainability Management COMPANY INTRODUCTION Beginning stage ·Launched Korea’s first botanical pomade (‘ABC pomade’) ·Established the slogan of ‘Making the Humanity Beautiful and the Society Beautiful’ ·Released the hypoallergenic cosmetics brand Soonjung 1990s ·Declared unlimited responsibility for service, quality and environment Communication with Stakeholders 1951 1974 1988 1993 AMOREPACIFIC finds growth opportunities through communication with various stakeholders and responds to crisis before they arise. We established a stakeholder engagement process on our own and identified the order of priority for issues that stakeholders are interested in regarding the sustainability management activities through communication channels like stakeholder dialogue. 2000s Communication Methods with Stakeholders 2003 2001 2000 1996 Stakeholder Communication channel Details of major opinions AMOREPACIFIC’s response ·Announced the new unlimited ·Published the first environmental ·Established the Korea Breast ·Suwon Plant acquired the ISO 14001 responsibility of 21st century through report in the industry Cancer Foundation certification (Korea Foundation for ·Expanded sustainable products ethical management ·Held the 1st Pink Ribbon Marathon Environmental Quality) ·Customer satisfaction surveys / CGAP 1) ·Strengthening of product safety ·Implemented LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) ·Certified the quality management system, Race Customers ·Prosumer activities ·Strengthening of customer service ·Strengthened sustainability of raw materials the environmental management system ·Company and brand homepages ·Expansion of sustainable products ·Promoted sustainable purchasing and the health and safety management ·Held exhibitions on CGAP best practices After announcing the vision for system (Suwon, Daejeon, Gimcheon, Jincheon) sustainability management ·Employee satisfaction surveys / Regular meetings between labor and management ·Promotion of shared growth between ·Strengthened ABC working time system ·Released products with carbon footprint labels and ·AMOREPACIFIC 人 the company and employees ·Introduced a new vacation system environmental mark certifications Employees (internal online community) ·Establishment of a culture of respect ·Introduced an on-site commuting system ·Evergreen Board and consideration ·Operated a childcare center and a resting place ·Carried out the Make Up Your Life campaign ·Announced the vision for sustainability management (junior offline communication activities) ·Provision of differentiated welfare system for female employees ·Established the corporate philosophy of vision and established the Sustainability ·2012 Sustainability Management Forum AMOREPACIFIC Way Management Committee ·Published the first sustainability report ·Win-win cooperation general meetings ·Joined the UN Global Compact (UNGC) ·Seminars on win-win practices ·Introduced the Supplier Support as the industry’s first ·Carried out the first empty bottle collection ·Strengthening of economic support ·Expanded size of Supplier Support Fund ·Online information sharing channel Fund for suppliers ·Received the Presidential Citation for the CEO, campaign(innisfree) Suppliers for suppliers ·Strengthened communication through online (purchasing portal, win-win portal, ·Signed the green purchasing Kyung-bae Suh at the 3rd Sustainability ·Certified the CCMS (Consumer Complaints ·Reinforcement of open communication information sharing channels production information agreement Management Awards Management System) synchronization system) 2005 2007 2009 ·Implemented Make Up Your Life campaign ·Support for women’s healthy beauty ·Carried out Pink Ribbon Campaign ·Support for low-income women’s Local ·Social contribution programs ·Held Wing of Hope campaign entry into society communities ·Mecenat activities (support for multi-cultural households) ·Support for neglected families in ·Provided support for Hope Stores local communities (micro credit program) ·Manufacturing and sales of high-quality ·Monitored laws and regulations and reflected them ·Visits to and meetings with relevant products that comply with regulations in internal compliance programs governmental agencies and are safe ·Proposed improvements through activities of Government ·KCA (Korea Cosmetics Association) ·Support for cooperation on activities relevant institutions’ committees activities for improving regulations to achieve ·Implemented activities for supporting governmental industrial development policy researches 2012 2011 2010 ·Campaigns based on cooperation with NGOs ·Promotion of sustainable consumption ·Strengthened development of sustainable packages NGO ·2012 Stakeholder Dialogue ·Provision of easy labels for consumers ·Strengthened sustainability of raw materials ·Incorporated into DJSI for three consecutive years ·Incorporated into FTSE4Good for the first time ·Introduced the Beautiful Fair Trade system ·Shared directions for medium-and long-term businesses and selected as the world leader (first agreement: camellia, Sinheung-ri, Jeju) ·Improved results achieved and enhanced trusts by ·Acquired the industry’s first ISO 27001 ·Provision of management performances ·Regular shareholders’ meetings announcing results and providing IR information ·Sponsored the WCC (information security) certification ·Incorporated into DJSI for the first time and Shareholders and business outlooks ·IR Analyst Day ·Operated regular communication channels by (World Conservation Congress) ·Carried out the smart work system selected as the world leader ·Expansion of corporate access holding the Analyst Day annually and participating (flexible working hours, vacations for long-term employment, etc.) in global conferences ·Implemented the Make Up Your Life campaign in China ·Established the 2020 Sustainability Management Vision 1) CGAP: abbreviation of Customer Gift for AMOREPACIFIC, which is AMOREPACIFIC’s activity for improving customer complaints by promptly collecting customer complaints and take actions to improve them. Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 69 COMPANY INTRODUCTION Material Issue Evaluation Stakeholder Dialogue NGO Forum AMOREPACIFIC’s Sustainability Management Forum In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC met twice with major NGOs and academic In October 2012, we held the first Sustainability Management experts in the field of consumer protection to discuss on ways to Forum for the employees of AMOREPACIFIC and its subsidiaries. implement sustainable practices for consumers. The forum was held to develop an internal consensus on Material Issue Selection Process * Participants sustainability management and identify directions for sustainability AMOREPACIFIC used the following four-step process for selecting material issues professor of the Korea Institute of Science and Technology, Jae-cheon Ryu (chairman); management by communicating actively with external stakeholders. professor of the Seoul National University, Jung-sung Yeo; professor of the Duksung Identification of Women’s University, Sook-young Oh; Secretary General of the Consumers Union of Korea, We shared the best practices of sustainability management tasks Selection of the Pool of Issues Stakeholder Concern Business Impact Jung-hwa Kang; Secretary General of the Consumers Korea, Ja-Hye Kim; Joint President of Major Issues the Korean Women’s Environmental Network, Mi-Jung Nam; and Joint President of the in 2012, including the development of packages for sustainability Media analysis Green Consumer Network in Korea, Yoon-mi Cho. ·1  25 issues related to AP sustainability management and the application of wellbeing programs for management (Jan. 1, 2012~Dec. 31, 2012) innisfrees’s sales person called Greenus. Also, by inviting outside Measurement of interest Competitor analysis The 1 NGO Forum st levels of internal and experts in sustainability management, we had a meaningful time ·A  nalyze key sustainability issues of four competitors in the I dentify major issues external stakeholders Analysis of the impact same industry based on the interest Theme: Sustainable Consumption · Customers levels these issues have of identifying latest trends and AMOREPACIFIC’s directions for levels of stakeholders Internal sustainability strategy and KPI analysis · Employees on AP management Period: April. 26, 2012 and the evaluation of future development. The forum included presentations on best ·M  inutes of the Sustainability Management Committee · Suppliers results · Local communities business impacts Details of discussions made practices of sustainability management and lectures from experts Analysis of the results of stakeholder engagement · NGO A  nalysis of the guideline (Global Reporting Initiative 3.1) Development and supply of safe products in sustainability management. The forum held at the head office and detailed questions of an outside evaluation necessary to strategically incorporate green operations into the value chain received good responses from employees to develop a consensus organization (SAM) to achieve sustainability. among many employees, which served as a momentum for Strengthening of the company’s role strengthening the implementation of sustainability management. necessary for AMOREPACIFIC to set up plans on how to contribute to conResults of Material Issue Evaluation sumers and the society and show them to consumers to ensure sustainable consumption. AMOREPACIFIC identified the interest levels of stakeholders and the business impacts to report its sustainability management results. Development and strengthening of campaigns for First, we provided a pool of issues by analyzing overseas competitors in the same sector of cosmetics and daily necessities, international sustainable consumption guidelines and KPI. Based on this, we identified altogether 24 major issues through the material issue selection process. Next, we necessary to encourage consumers to consume sustainably and faithfully prioritized the major issues according to the interest levels of stakeholders and the evaluation of business impacts. The result showed that implement them. stakeholders recognized ‘strengthening of sustainable products’ and ‘activities for customer satisfaction’ as the most important issues. Also, AMOREPACIFIC’s expansion into overseas market increased the importance of ‘strengthening of sustainability management for overseas The 2nd NGO Forum work sties’ and ‘global activities for social contribution’. The 24 major issues are covered in detail on this page. Theme: Provision of Easy Labels for Consumers III II I High I II III Period: October 24, 2012 5 1 6 Details of discussions made 2 1 Strengthening of p.12, 70 8 Response to climate p.82 17 Water resource p.84 16 7 sustainable products change management Interest levels of stakeholders Provision of the subject and purpose of use on products 3 2 R&D p.10, 74 9 Environment-friendly p.12 18 Management of p.84 23 4 necessary to provide clear information on whom the product is for Win-win cooperation p.95 packaging hazardous chemicals 3 (by age and purpose). with suppliers 10 Increasing employee p.88 19 Risk management p.62 8 Strengthening of p.83 diversity 20 Ethical management p.63 4 9 Labels reflecting consumer needs 10 sustainability 11 Biodiversity p.30 21 Green marketing p.86 13 management for necessary to provide labels on products that reflect consumer needs, 14 11 12 Talent development and p.90 22 Environment-friendly p.82 15 12 overseas work sites fostering including explanations in Korean and order of use for sets of products. management 18 5 Activities for customer p78 Life cycle assessment p.72 20 22 13 17 satisfaction 23 Labor-management p.72 19 Provision of accurate information 6 Balance between work p.40, 92 Promotion of 14 p.95 relationship 21 sustainability management 24 24 Transparency of p.60 Low necessary to provide labels that accurately inform consumers about the Leaflet introducing the Sustainability Management Forum and personal life to suppliers governance structure correct use of cosmetics, including ingredients and functions. 7 Global activities for p.46 15 Expansion of AP p.88, 92 social contribution corporate culture Low Business impacts on the company High 16 Information protection p.62, 80 policies Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 71 CUSTOMERS Type of Sustainable Products and its Development Status Type of sustainable products Representative products Number of items Development of Sustainable Products Customerfriendly Additive-free products Products that give assurance and trust through the Mamonde Extra Moisture Emulsion 191 strengthening of safety for customers products Since 2011, AMOREPACIFIC, which seeks beautiful coexistence with customers, the environment and the society, worked towards providing sustainable products to customers based on activities for creative innovation LOHAS certified products and promoting sustainable consumption. AMOREPACIFIC’s program for purchasing raw materials, Beautiful Products that pursue a healthy and Songyum Pinesalt Toothpaste 19 sustainable lifestyle Fair Trade, which we developed, helps fulfill the company’s social and environmental responsibilities. AMOREPACIFIC will further strengthen the sustainability of products and raw materials by conducting R&D and establishing and implementing relevant processes and strategies. Organic products primera Products that received Ecocert or outside organic Organience Cure certification, or met standards of the Korea Food and Eye Cream 26 Drug Administration guideline on organic labeling Process for Strengthening the Safety of the Development of Sustainable Products and advertisement Whole Process of Product Development (Amorepacific Promise) AMOREPACIFIC conducts a thorough verification on the whole Since 2011, AMOREPACIFIC, which implements the sustainability Products that conserve the ecosystem HAPPY BATH production process of products that includes raw materials and management to ensure coexistence and shared growth with EnvironmentProducts that received the certified eco-label from Natural Real Moisture friendly the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology Body Wash 8 finished products. As a result of these efforts, we received the 2012 customers, the environment and the society, has been developing Institute products Product Safety Management Award. This award is certified by the sustainable products. The three principles of AMOREPACIFIC’s Korean Society of Toxicology and the Korean Environmental sustainable products are to be beneficial to customers, minimize Mutagen Society. They evaluate a company’s interest in product the impact on the environment and seek harmony with local Products that reduced resources RYO safety, its research efforts and the social contribution made communities. These products passed our strict internal Products that reduce environmental impacts by Hambitmo damage care 1 reducing contents and packaging materials to develop toxicology. This is the second consecutive year guidelines. Our internal guidelines strictly adhere to external AMOREPACIFIC received the award, showing that product safety certification standards and received the ‘AMOREPACIFIC is ensured once gain. Promise’ certification mark. We will strive to fulfill our corporate Products of carbon footprint responsibility and encourage sustainable consumption by Products that received the certified carbon Mise-en-scene` footprint labeling from the Korea Environmental Damage Care Shampoo 15 expanding the sales of sustainable products. Industry & Technology Institute AMOREPACIFIC Promise Certification Mark Evaluation Process for Product Safety Products of Beautiful Fair Trade Sulwhasoo SocietyHarmonizen Safety evaluation of cosmetics that Management of complaints after friendly Products that use raw materials purchased through Regenerating Cream 20 Evaluation of cosmetic raw materials a win-win relationship with local communities completed development product release products Internal conduct data analysis and safety conduct CGAP activities to CGAP verification to tests, including chemical charac(Customer Gift for promptly gather information Products that consider socially underprivileged determine the (universal design products) LANEIGE teristics, manufacturing processAMOREPACIFIC) on customer complaints and appropriateness of evaluate possible effects on the skin activities share with relevant teams for Water Sleeping Pack raw materials es, MSDS (material safety data through various safety tests according Products that are considerate of the needs and 31 sheet) and toxicity data quick resolution. convenience of socially underprivileged, such as to product characteristics, including physically disabled skin irritations, skin allergies, sense of decide on permissible amounts irritability and eye irritations. Decision on prevent customer complaints permissible for raw materials by conducting Precautionary in advance by reviewing the amount by raw various tests, including skin irsystem same or similar complaints Total 311 material ritations, toxicity caused by light made in the past and possibility of skin allergies. AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 73 Strategies for Strengthening Promotion of Sustainable Purchasing the Sustainability of Raw Materials Beautiful Fair Trade AMOREPACIFIC has established and implemented a roadmap for Strengthening of Environment-Friendly Raw Materials Beautiful Fair Trade is AMOREPACIFIC’s program for purchasing officinale of Seosan in 2012. sustainable raw material sourcing by 2020 to develop sustainable AMOREPACIFIC is working towards eliminating the use of raw materials, which aims at making positive contributions to AMOREPACIFIC plans to expand the program to overseas region. products with better raw materials. In 2012, we analyzed the raw materials found in domestic and foreign biodiversity customers, the environment and the society by keeping three Besides purchasing raw materials, AMOREPACIFIC also sells raw materials by dividing them into three categories, including conservation lists by evaluating all cosmetic raw materials on the important principles: safety of raw materials, environmental local communities’ regional specialties internally to vitalize customer-friendly, environment-friendly and society-friendly, strengthening of environment-friendly raw materials. Moreover, conservation and contribution to local communities. In February the economy of local communities. In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC and identified the areas of improvement. A system that evaluates AMOREPACIFIC is continually managing raw materials by 2010, AMOREPACIFIC signed the first Beautiful Fair Trade strengthened relationship with local communities by providing the sustainability of raw materials examined all of the raw reflecting international standards like the IUCN (International agreement with camellia of Sinheung-ri in Jeju. Since then, we beauty programs for the residents of Dongbaek, Goesan and materials being used by AMOREPACIFIC even in the early stage Union for Conservation of Nature) in relevant systems. signed with ten regions, including lilies of Taean, wood-cultivated Jeongeup regions and sponsored AMOREPACIFIC’s products at of finding new raw materials. Also, we established a full-ranged ginseng of Munkyeong, and Angelica gigas and Cnidium village events. cooperative system with domestic and foreign suppliers to examine and manage a detailed breakdown of the raw materials Implementation of Life Cycle Assessment (Lca) Three Principles of the Beautiful Fair Trade used by suppliers. AMOREPACIFIC is implementing the life cycle assessment (LCA)1) to reduce environmental impacts on the life cycle of products. Since Strengthening of Customer-Friendly Raw Materials the first implementation on packages in 2005, AMOREPACIFIC By evaluating on the sense of safety, all of the ingredients being identified the environmental impacts caused by 7 factors, including Win-Win Natural Raw Relationship Protection of used in AMOREPACIFIC’s cosmetic products are classified into 4 climate change, resource depletion, acidification, eutrophication, Materials that with Local Ecosystem can be Trusted categories and 16 detailed types and identified factors that need human toxicity, aquatic ecotoxicity and water footprint, for three Communities improvement. The evaluation results were used in the following: products of hair dye and essence products and came up with establishing strategies that increase the prescription of natural raw measures for improvement. Based on the results, AMOREPACIFIC materials, developing additive-free prescriptions that excluded conducts researches for developing sustainable technologies. AMOREPACIFIC makes the customers feel AMOREPACIFIC contributed to the AMOREPACIFIC work towards safe by transparently disclosing the origin development of local communities by preventing damages made to nature synthetic preservatives, and working towards replacing synthetic We will expand the LCA on a variety of products in the future to of raw materials. AMOREPACIFIC strives promising to continually purchasing by cultivating and collecting raw ingredients with natural products. identify major environmental impacts for each product and take to obtain good raw materials that are raw materials produced in local materials, such as not using chemical cultivated in a clean environment. communities at reasonable prices. fertilizers. actions to reduce them. Strengthening of Society-Friendly Raw Materials 1) Life Cycle Assessment (LCA): a tool for systematically evaluating potential impacts (global warming, resource depletion, acidification, etc.) on the environment by quantitatively To strengthen the use of society-friendly raw materials, listing the resources and energies inputted and the discharged pollutants from the life AMOREPACIFIC evaluated all of the raw materials being used in its cycle of product systems. cosmetic products. Through AMOREPACIFIC’s purchasing program Purchasing of Sustainable Palm Oil for raw materials, Beautiful Fair Trade, we increased the purchase AMOREPACIFIC, which is using raw materials originated from AMOREPACIFIC plans to take a more active role in supporting the of raw materials that contribute to a win-win relationship with palm oil, has shown interest on environmental and labor issues purchase of sustainable palm oil by receiving Book and Claim3) local communities, while also planning to expand it to overseas caused by the reckless cultivation of palm trees. Therefore, certification from the RSPO. region. Also, we established a system for checking the history AMOREPACIFIC joined the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 2) RSPO: a non-profit organization that is established to facilitate sustainable production of animal testing conducted for raw materials to help improve Oil (RSPO) 2) to secure the sustainability of palm-originated raw and use of palm oil the welfare of animals. Through this system, we completed the 3) Book and Claim: a system where manufacturers purchase warranties for the amount of materials, by promising to purchase only from manufacturers palm oil used to enable the RSPO to support solving environmental and social problems evaluation of all raw materials currently being used and strived to who are RSPO members that use raw materials originated from caused by palm oil exclude the use of raw materials with the history of animal testing. primary palm oil. Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 75 CUSTOMERS R&D Longevity Gene Dynamic Collagen ™ Products that help improve wrinkles have become significantly Wrinkles are found when the reactive oxygen species in the important because of the population aging. Recently, progress skin created by external stimuli directly decompose collagen, or has been made in biological researches on the cause of aging. by indirectly activating ‘MMP-1’, an enzyme for decomposing Therefore, many efforts are made to control aging by finding genes collagen. The existing researches on improving aging were focused AMOREPACIFIC’s R&D Center has continued researches on Asian beauty that realizes harmony between that cause progeria and genes that affect the life expectancy of on activating collagen synthetic enzymes, or controlling the nature and human by accumulating its know-how and unrivaled technologies for 67 years. By combining objects. One of the longevity genes found was lamin A, which enzymes that decompose collagen. AMOREPACIFIC noted that the advanced biotechnology to materials derived from nature, AMOREPACIFIC developed Asian beauty is more damaged in the elderly compared to the young people. damaged collagen can aggravate the surrounding environment products and discovered new specialized technologies to actively invest in striving to tap into a new field Lamin A is a longevity gene that can make the person into a progeria of the dermis, thereby developing technologies that can improve the of researches on materials and technologies. patient if it is naturally damaged. Klotho is a longevity gene that generation rate of collagen through the ultimate decomposition shortens the object lifetime if the activation is controlled, but of damaged collagen in the skin cell. In addition to the anti-aging if the activation increases it will make the object lifetime longer. effect that Metyl-inositol originated from carob beans already Besides studying the efficacy of these longevity genes to the had, it improved the ultimate decomposition of collagen to have Best Practices of R&D Innovation skin, AMOREPACIFIC worked on developing active ingredients an effect of increasing the collagen generation rate by more Whitening that can control gene activity and commercialize them into than 2 times compared to the existing anti-aging products. It Developing Biotechnology for Skin Whitening Immune System Extracting Whitening Ingredients from Broussonetia kazinoki products. In addition to researches that Amentoflavone, a rare obtained the 2nd New Excellent Technology (NET) in 2012 1) as a bioflavonoids ingredient, effectively controls the increase of new concept of bio-based original technology. The technology that AMOREPACIFIC’s R&D Center has been conducting researches AMOREPACIFIC has been conducting researches on developing lamin A being mutated by ultraviolet ray, in 2012, AMOREPACIFIC has been developed through the research results to improve wrinkles on whitening for a long time to realize Asian women’s dream of whitening raw materials by using natural paper hanji, a raw found that the gene activity of klotho, the longevity gene, and skin elasticity applied to LANEIGE Time Freeze Essence and having a bright and clear skin. As a result, we found that external material for traditional Korean handmade Broussonetia kazinoki, increased in skin cells with retinol treatment. The research Wrinkle Filler products. stress from ultraviolet lights and aging reduce the skin immune based on the ideas that hanji craftsman from ancient times results reconfirmed the excellence of retinol that was used system, which cause hyperpigmentation to the skin, such as had white and soft hands. After long periods of researches, 1) Certification of New Excellent Technology (NET): the nation’s first certification mark given as AMOREPACIFIC’s representative ingredients for deterring to new health technology hosted by the Ministry of Health and Welfare and organized by freckles, black spots and age spots, but we found a whitening AMOREPACIFIC extracted whitening ingredients containing highthe Korea Health Industry Development Institute. wrinkles. Together with the new retinol stabilization technology, gene in the immune system that can control hyperpigmentation. content kazinol from Broussonetia kazinoki cultivated using we applied it to IOPE’s age collector product. If the creation of whitening genes in the skin immune system environment-friendly methods in Goesan, Chungbuk. Since increases, it controls the melanin being produced or moved, Kazinol C is very unstable, it needs an advanced stabilization thereby affecting the skin color determined by the melanin technology to be used as an effective ingredient with whitening pigments being made and dispersed. It can be seen as some function.Therefore, AMOREPACIFIC incorporated a variety of sort of vaccination against managing skin tones. The above its stabilization technologies for effective ingredients to technology was developed through AMOREPACIFIC’s cell develop a new whitening functional material with optimized combining incubation technology. AMOREPACIFIC’s differentiated stabilization technology. By developing a whitening agent technology achieved recognition by having the research results of natural origin by using a material that is very Korean, in the latest prestigious international academic journals in skin AMOREPACIFIC acquired 6 patent applications and announced science. Due to the emergence of the aging population, it is them at 3 international academic conferences. In January of expected that the customer need for improving hyperpigmented 2012, AMOREPACIFIC acquired the permission for new whitening skin caused by aging will increase, making the skin whitening functionality from the Korea Food and Drug Administration, and immune system a new and effective solution. the new whitening functional material will be applied on HERA’s whitening products in the beginning of 2013. Root of Broussonetia kazinoki collected from Goesan, Chungbuk LANEIGE Time Freeze Essence and Wrinkle Filler AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 77 Open Innovation Researches on alternatives for animal testing AMOREPACIFIC has continued to increase the use of open innovation suggestions on C&D (Connect & Development) can be made realSince 2008, AMOREPACIFIC, which pursues a beautiful coexistence increase utilization through cooperation with governmental with a variety of domestic and foreign research institutions with timely without time and space constraints, while C&D activities are between nature, people and company and respects the diversity agencies, including the Korea Food and Drug Administration, outstanding technologies to strengthen its R&D technologies and implemented actively through joint researches with outside research of life, has prohibited animal testing on cosmetics raw materials and outside research institutes. Currently, we are conducting to utilize the infrastructure of research institutes for developing institutes and suppliers and various government projects. and finished products. As of May 2013, we plan to prohibit new researches on alternatives for animal testing focusing on six products. There is a section in AMOREPACIFIC’s homepage where and additional animal testing on cosmetic products for suppliers, categories, including skin irritation, skin sensitization, skin except in cases where animal testing is inevitably demanded and phototoxicity, absorption toxicity, eye irritation and vaginal compelled by other countries or other laws. mucose membrane irritation, and completed the development of Process of Open Innovation Yes Besides developing its own alternative test methods for animal 10 alternative test methods to be applied in evaluating cosmetic Product Idea collection 1st review INCUBATION 2nd review testing, AMOREPACIFIC is striving to develop alternatives and raw materials and products. development Collect ideas from diverse Review the possibility of ideas Materialize ideas to apply at Review the effectiveness and Current Status of Alternative Test Methods Developed for Animal Testing stakeholders at internal TFT on-site teams feasibility of research results No Inventory Category of test Alternative test method pool storage Skin irritation Test to find out the skin toxicity in substances ·Artificial skin test method 2012 Progress Update on Major Open Innovation Skin sensitization Test to find out the possibility of skin allergy in substances ·THP-1 cell test method ·Peptide reactivity test method Contents Cooperation institution Major activities Expected effect Skin phototoxicity Test to find out the toxicity caused by light in substances ·3T3 NRU test method Conducting researches Korea Institute of Ocean Science & Technology Developing new innovative materials ·Implementing social contribution Absorption toxicity Test to find out the level of substances absorbed to the skin ·Franz cell test method on marine living resources for cosmetics through researches on activities, including researches on the and implementing marine living resources originating in efficacy and safety of whitening and Eye irritation Test to check the substances in conjunctiva or cornea of the eye ·HET-CAM test method activities for conserving Korea and tropical sea area anti-aging and conservation of marine marine environment environment ·BCOP test method ·Test method using artificial cornea cell Developing highGermany’s Max Planck Institute Identifying new efficacies for the ·Planning to develop high-functional ·Artificial cornea test method functional oriental (professor Robert Huber), US’s Cornell University skin on new ingredients originating oriental medicine cosmetics optimized medicine cosmetics for (professor Chang-yong Lee), Seoul National from ginseng, bean, green tea, which for global customers in cooperation with Vaginal mucose membrane Test to find out the toxicity caused by substances in vaginal ·Artificial vaginal mucose membrane global customers University (professor Gi-won Lee), Kyunghee are the three key raw materials of the Nobel laureate in chemistry, irritation mucose membrane test method University College of Oriental Medicine AMOREPACIFIC until 2015 professor Robert Huber (professor Nam-il Kim) ·Jointly implementing a variety of global academic activities, including announcing thesis in international academic journals, etc. Researches on the value Jeju Technopark Cooperating in conserving native ·Conservation of native Jeju plants and of native Jeju flora plants in Jeju and tracing the value their sustainable use Investigating on finding Yonsei University’s Translational Research Exploring new concept materials ·Finding out that valproic acid that was new concept material for Center for Protein Function Control (ERC), for treating hair loss that facilitate only used in neurological treatment treating hair loss Pennsylvania State University College of hair growth to activate hair follicle facilitated hair growth through a new Medicine’s dermatology department stem cells mechanism (professor George Cotsarelis MD), Seoul National University’s dermatology department (professor Oh-san Kwon’s team) Conducting joint Signing of a MOU with Chinese College of Conducting joint researches to ·Planning to conduct joint researches researches with Chinese Pharmacy located in Nanjing investigating the effective components on separating components included in College of Pharmacy on of natural herbal medicines used in herbal medicines and proving its efficacy separating components Sulwhasoo and Hanyul and reexamine of herbal medicines and the skin physiological active effects of proving its efficacy these medicines Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 79 CUSTOMERS Activities for Customer Satisfaction Strengthening of Customer Call Service Expansion of Customers through the Lifetime Customer Campaign To effectively respond to inquiries from customers, AMOREPACIFIC In 2012, we expanded the communication that was focused on is implementing many activities to strengthen customer call cosmetics customers to perfume (Annick Goutal), daily necessities service. We regularly evaluate the satisfaction level of customer and OSULLOC. In addition to the existing DM, e-DM and MMS, calls and give training to employees, while also providing accurate we communicated with customers through a variety of media, Efforts Made to Resolve Customer Complaints answers to frequently asked questions on the portal site. including mobile DM and MIM (Mobile Instant Messenger), by developing a communication media that suits the changing Operation of Precautionary System Efforts Made to Strengthen Customer Call Service digital environment. A complaint raised by customers is an important opportunity to make sure the same inconvenience does not occur again by first clearly identify the company’s problems. Therefore, AMOREPACIFIC improving areas where customers felt inconvenient. Evaluate the satisfaction level of customer response service Expansion of Communication with Global Customers is operating a precautionary system to identify various complaints AMOREPACIFIC is communicating with about 2 million customers · Evaluated the satisfaction level of employees for customer response from customers beforehand and fundamentally prevent Current Status of Managing VOC (Unit: case) from 8 countries, including China, Taiwan, US, Japan, Singapore, service through KMAC (Korea Management Association Consulting) reoccurrences of similar cases. · Newly added the evaluation on records of actual calls made by customers Malaysia, Vietnam and Thailand. In 2012, we supported the Category 2010 2011 2012 to complement the weaknesses from existing scenario evaluation in 2012 Before developing new products, an employee in charge of campaigns that best suited each country’s environment, while product development can identify customer complaints on providing AMOREPACIFIC’s customer management know-how Phone 157,177 138,173 135,880 QAA (Quality Assurance Analyst) system similar types of products through the precautionary system, to each country’s customer management staff through the 2nd thereby eliminating customer complaint factors from the Internet 13,893 10,843 11,052 · A system for managing the quality of customer calls and improving the global workshops. We plan to expand into France and Indonesia product development stage. In 2012, to ensure increased use of level of responses to customers by service representatives Others 472 801 636 to communicate with global customers from 10 countries. · Provided one on one coaching for service representatives with low the precautionary system, we improved the system to improve evaluation scores convenience and held regular training programs for system users. Strengthening of Prosumer Activities Best Practices of Improving Customer Complaints Provide advices through the portal site NAVER AMOREPACIFIC is selecting and operating prosumers from Activities for Listening to Customer Opinions and Making consumers with professional knowledge in the field of beauty Improvements (CGAP) Problem · Provided accurate answers to frequently asked questions through Knowledge in by signing work agreement with the portal site NAVER and health. In 2012, about 300 prosumers took part in various CGAP is an abbreviation of Customer Gift for AMOREPACIFIC. It the pump button fell out when opening the protective cap of · Provided 297 answers in 2012 including correct method of use for products activities, including evaluating products, suggesting concepts and is AMOREPACIFIC’s activities for improving customer complaints Hanyul Optimizing Serum proposing new product ideas. As a result, 157 cases of prosumer to promptly gather information on customer complaints and Solution opinions were utilized in product development. take actions for improvement. We regard every complaint from customers as a valuable advice given to AMOREPACIFIC, which is Strengthening of Customer Communication Distribution of Sustainability Management Booklet why we do our best to resolve even the slightest thing complained Lifetime Customer Campaign AMOREPACIFIC has been making and distributing a booklet by customers. AMOREPACIFIC is implementing the Lifetime Customer Campaign introducing sustainability management of AMOREPACIFIC to to continually strengthen the company’s relationship with our share our sustainability management activities with stakeholders. 2012 Exhibition on CGAP Best Practices for Improvement customers because AMOREPACIFIC value the relationship with In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC communicated with customers through The exhibition on CGAP best practices for improvement is an Improved the product by expanding the slit Informed the correct method of use to at the back of protective cap to make it easier customers by including a picture on the box every single one of our customers. Through the Campaign, we about 1,900 Aritaum stores, department stores and cosmetics exhibition held internally that aims to seek resolutions by sharing for opening manage customers to suit their personal needs by providing corners at the mart twice a year to introduce AMOREPACIFIC’s customer complaints on products and services with all employees. optimized products and benefits from the customer’s purchasing ‘quality first’ principle, our sustainable products, the Beautiful It marked its 6th year in 2012, which was held under the theme stage and implementing activities for enhancing customer values. Fair Trade and collection of empty bottles. of “AMOREPACIFIC Da-um (the role of AMOREPACIFIC)”, The CEO and employees identified 18 tasks of service innovation that should be first resolved. Moreover, we educate our employees to AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 81 Analysis of Global Customer Trends Protection of Customer Information Performance Results for 2012 Survey and Research on the Trends in China The recent security accidents that occurred in Korea and other Number of sustainable products AMOREPACIFIC has conducted researches on the beauty trends countries raised the awareness on managing customer’s 2012 2010 2011 311 of overseas region to identify the needs of foreign customers and personal information. To realize customer’s right to protect their provide products that suit them. In 2012, we shared the 2013 information, AMOREPACIFIC is conducting various activities 69 products 139  products products and 2014 beauty trends in China with our employees to identify to meet legal requirement and protect customer information. the beauty needs of Chinese customers and develop products that AMOREPACIFIC prioritized the importance level of customer Signing of the Beautiful Fair Trade agreements (accumulated) suit them. information and managed them by dividing it into 6 grades. 2012 2010 2011 China Beautizen Activities In order to identify the needs of global customers and China’s Starting from 2012, we improved our system to ensure all resident registration numbers for customers are not stored at the internal data base. Moreover, we identified files with personal 4  cases 7 cases 10 cases young generation, we are operating the China Beautizen 1), which information stored in the personal computers of all employees is a group of prosumers consisting of Chinese students studying and encoded or deleted the files to eliminate the risk factors. in Korea. In 2012, Chinese Beautizens evaluated products and In addition to technical aspects, AMOREPACIFIC is working towards conducted market surveys during the development stages for enhancing the employee’s awareness on security by sharing Beauty Food and mask products to be released in China in 2013. important issues through the company-wide bulletin, including Contents Unit 2010 2011 2012 important domestic security accidents and expiration of the grace 1) China Beautizen: a group of prosumers consisting of Chinese females in Korea who are period for Personal Information Protection Act. AMOREPACIFIC interested in beauty and fluent in Korean. Since its establishment in November of 2010, it conducted tests on new products to be released in China, made inventory proposals, as New patents by year 1) Domestic -application cases 262 266 228 is taking all measures to prevent security accidents by holding well as carried out online surveys on the Chinese market and implemented promotional activities. training programs on handling personal information for beauty Domestic-registration cases 54 117 115 partners held twice a year, as well as holding regular e-learning programs on information security once a year and showing videos Overseas -application cases 114 200 209 during morning meetings. Overseas-registration cases 14 32 51 Process of Identifying Chinese Beauty Trends New research papers by year cases 57 57 48 Identifying consumer trends Identifying beauty trend insights Sharing Chinese Trend Insights through expert advices R&D investment cost R&D cost KRW million 66,215 73,396 71,483 · Analyzed Chinese consumer environment · Analyze Chinese beauty trends through · S hare trend insights with employees since 2011 with professor Nan-do Kim’s cooperation with global information to develop products and establish percentage of sales % 3.07 3.03 2.51 team of Department of Consumer & Children companies and analysis of social big data marketing strategies Studies of Seoul National University · Analyze local consumer needs through ·P  ublish follow-up reports when Ratio of consumer · Study China’s modern and contemporary onsite surveys in 5 Chinese cities (Beijing, important issues on Chinese trends occur complaints resolved % 97.7 99.1 99.2 history through interviews with Chinese Shanghai, Guangzhou, wuhan, Chengdu) experts Evaluation score for the satisfaction level of customer call service Points 94.1 95.9 93.0 2) 1) Due to errors in outside DB search system for the number of domestic patent registrations and delays in the notification date of applications by country for the number of overseas patent applications and registrations, the exact number of patent registrations can be identified not in the actual year of patent registration but in the following year. Therefore, there may be a difference with the number of new patents by year published in the 2011 Sustainability Report. 2) The average number of the new evaluation score, including the evaluation on records of actual calls, and the existing evaluation score. Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 83 ENVIRONMENT AMOREPACIFIC’s Climate Change Response Strategy Responding to Climate Change Purchasing & Manufacturing Transportation Use Disposal ·Increase energy efficiency ·Use renewable energies ·Encourage eco-driving ·Develop low-carbon ·Implement empty ·Support the establishment ·Implement joint products bottle recycling program To respond to climate change issues, AMOREPACIFIC tabulated a company-wide greenhouse gas inventory of low-carbon system for transportation system suppliers and implemented activities to reduce GHG emissions. The reduction of GHG emissions is achieved through three strategic directions, including reducing GHG emissions from products, reducing GHG emissions in the manufacturing and transportation processes, and reducing GHG emissions through other supports. Based on the mid-and long-term plans for reducing GHG emissions from the SCM system established in 2011, we are aiming to achieve the reduction goal of 30% by 2020 in basic unit of sales compared to 2010. GHG Emissions Activities to Reduce GHG Emissions in Activities to Reduce GHG Emissions in 2010 1.225 25,837 Manufacturing Distribution In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC Beauty Production Site carried the AMOREPACIFIC is calculating the amount of GHG emissions 2011 1.162 31,096 energy reduction activities on equipment with high energy use arising in transportation and taking all measures to achieve green by conducting energy mapping to identify major energy source. distribution. 2012 1.181 (2012 Target: 1.260) 34,174 In terms of electricity, we implemented activities to mainly reduce In the case of transportation, we conducted a pilot test of the use of air compressors, which account for 30% of power use. conducting joint transportation with Yuhan-Kimberly for the To reduce the use of steams, we implemented activities to reduce highly frequented route from Osan to Gimcheon, which we plan Total (Tons of CO2) Basic Unit (Tons of CO2 /KRW in 100 billions) * Scope of calculating GHG emissions: SCM (production & distribution), research institute, head office and regional offices, sales offices, etc. the use of boilers and conditioning equipments. Overall, we to expand to other areas gradually. In 2012, we completed the * IPCC 1996 is applied to calculate GHG emissions. cut down on the operational cost of about KRW 900 million by installation of the Eco-driving Management System (EMS) for * 0.448 Tons of CO2 /MWh is applied for electricity emission factor (Korea Energy Management Corporation) implementing 72 energy saving activities. nationwide transportation vehicles. We use the transportation * Sales amount of internal management standard is applied when calculating GHG in Basic Unit (2012: KRW 2893.5 billion) In the case of the Mass Cosmetics Production Site, we installed air information collected from the EMS installed in vehicles to optimizers to the existing air compressors that had been controlled analyze the driving habits of delivery persons and calculate Eco individually, enabling the operation of a central control system. We scores (amount of fuel reduction). The delivery persons with Environmental Performance Results of the Shanghai Production Site improved about 2.9% of power consumption by optimizing the high Eco scores receive incentives, while the ones with low scores AMOREPACIFIC’s Shanghai Production Site produces some of the Mamonde, primera and innisfree products being sold in operational standby time and operational pressure conditions by have to take eco-driving experience training program from the China. In 2012, we audited and took complementary measures on the environmental management system to improve the utilizing the air optimizers. Also, we developed 30 improvement Road Traffic Authority. As a result, the average fuel efficiency of Shanghai Production Site to meet the level of domestic production sites. Also, we provided training to enhance the employee tasks by analyzing the energy flow and the efficiency of each vehicles improved by 9.6% from 8.12 km/L to 8.90 km/L. We awareness on sustainability. production site. After reviewing the effectiveness, we plan to expect to reduce 94,000 L of annual diesel use and 246 tons of implement the improvement tasks in stages starting from 2013. CO2 emissions. Category Unit 2010 2011 2012 Every quarter, we share the best practices of energy reduction Energy Consumption Total TOE 160 248 294 for each production site with other production sites through the energy TFT. Basic Unit TOE/Tons of product 0.265 0.298 0.233 Water Consumption Total Tons 8,469 13,788 15,064 Basic Unit Tons/Tons of product 14.068 16.552 11.908 Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 85 ENVIRONMENT Green Management Support on Environmental Management for Suppliers AMOREPACIFIC continually supported the green management entered into the Chinese market from 2011 to 2013, which of suppliers to expand our environmental management activities provided 3 package suppliers and 2 raw material suppliers to the whole supply chain. From 2009 to 2011, we participated with the foundation for producing environment-friendly products, AMOREPACIFIC is striving to conserve the environment for the future generation by sustainably using a in the Ministry of Knowledge Economy’s program for supporting including responding to environmental laws and regulations, variety of resources, including water resources and chemicals. In order to ensure sustainable use of water the establishment of low-carbon management systems for calculating GHG emissions, diagnosing energies and managing resources, we implemented activities to reduce the water use following a mid-and long-term plan for suppliers by conducting energy diagnosis and passing on hazardous chemicals. It contributed to enter into the global water resources management, while also ensuring the safe and efficient use chemicals. AMOREPACIFIC’s clean production technologies. Moreover, we markets by removing environmental risks and producing signed an agreement on the Ministry of Knowledge Economy sustainable products for suppliers. program ‘Global Green Partnership’ with major suppliers who Water Resources Management Environmental Support for Suppliers to Enter into Global Markets In 2011, AMOREPACIFIC established the water CFT (Cross water shortage resulting from the increasing water-related risks Functional Team) to respond to water-related issues and reduce the domestically and internationally, etc. water use in manufacturing processes. Through the CFT activities, Establish the we analyzed the risk and opportunity factors resulting from water production AP’s Global Green use according to domestic and overseas environmental changes. Hazardous Chemical Management AMOREPACIFIC Partnership Suppliers foundation for environment-friendly Also, we expanded the scope of the company’s water resources AMOREPACIFIC is striving to prevent accidents through the safe products management, while establishing a mid-and long-term road map, use of hazardous chemicals. We conduct safety inspections on including the plan to reduce water use to achieve the goal of 30% domestic productions sites twice a year. In February 2013, we in basic unit by 2020 based on 2010. expanded the safety inspections to include the production sites In 2012, we increased the monitoring points for domestic of AMOREPACIFIC Group’s subsidiaries (PACIFIC PACKAGE, Response to Development of environmental laws Diagnosis of energies Management of technicians for clean production sites to establish a monitoring system for water use PACIFIC GLAS, PACIFICPHARMA, and COSVISION). Also, we are Calculating GHG emissions hazardous chemicals and regulations production technologies and actively implemented water reduction activities. By conducting making efforts to reduce the use of chemicals. The ion exchange resin the water mapping, we analyzed the current status and loss ratio tower at the Mass Cosmetics Production Site was washed by using ·Make a register of ·Establish GHG inventory and calculate ·Establish processes for ·Educate about environmental environmental laws and emissions preventing the use of management and Chinese laws of water use according to production sites. Based on the results sodium hydroxide and hydrogen chloride before, but we replaced it regulations ·Identify improvement tasks through energy hazardous chemicals and regulations for CEO, ·Diagnose and improve diagnosis (25 cases) ·Respond to regulations related working-level staff, all employees of analyzing the current status, we implemented 18 activities for with chemical-free facilities that used the reverse osmosis method legal compliance ·Implement improvement tasks (19 cases) to chemical use facilitating reuse and reducing water use. and electricity to remove ions. As a result, we improved the -Raw material : CHINA-REACH 1) ·Share effects of energy improvement -package: CHINA-ROHS 2) After adding another activated carbon filter to purify the primary working condition, as well as the quality of purified water. programs by production site effluents that went through the existing activated carbon and sand 1) REACH: Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and restriction of Chemicals filters at the Mass Cosmetics Production Site, the effluents were 2) ROHS: Restriction of the use of Hazardous Substances recycled for waste water treatment facilities, having the effect of Rewards For Green Management Performance reducing about 2,100 tons per year. Also, we implemented other In order to promote a company-wide green management, activities for reduction, including optimizing the period for washing AMOREPACIFIC grants the Green Management Award to the best filter towers and controlling the coolant valves. These activities practice of green management. The Green Management Award are shared with other production sites to promote best practices. is a system that rewards the organization and individuals for We established a system that provides timely responses in case of outstanding green management activities made at domestic and an emergency by having a contingency plan in place for a possible overseas production sites every year, including prize money. Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 87 ENVIRONMENT Performance Results for 2012 Green Communication The scope of the Environmental Performance Results is three production sites, including AP Beauty, Mass Cosmetics and Sulloc Tea . Energy Consumption Water Consumption AMOREPACIFIC is implementing a variety of activities for green communication to inform about the 2010 0.097 6,815 2010 3.956 278,009 importance of the environment surrounding us and facilitate environmental protection in our daily life. 2011 0.127 8,677 2011 4.774 325,610 Through these activities, we provide the opportunity for customers to personally experience various activities on environmental protection and apply them in life. 2012 0.137 (2012 Target: 0.141) 10,287 2012 4.764 (2012 Target: 4.835) 357,937 Total (TOE) Basic Unit (TOE/Tons of product) Total (Tons) Basic Unit (Tons/Tons of product) * TOE: Tonne of oil equivalent Wastewater Generation Landfill Waste Generation LANEIGE Waterful Sharing Campaign LIRIKOS Save the Sea Campaign 2010 2.468 173,401 2010 0.031 2,203 The LANEIGE brand implements the LANEIGE Waterful Sharing Since 2004, the LIRIKOS brand has been implementing the Save Campaign together with the Save the Children, which shares the the Sea Campaign with the UNEP Korea to save the devastated 2011 2.781 185,033 2011 0.027 1,829 water for life by constructing water pumps in Mali . 1) marine afforestation , the source of marine life. 2) The campaign is implemented by sponsoring some of the profits We are taking the initiative in the activities for preventing the 2012 2.786 (2012 Target: 3.410) 203,396 2012 0.014 (2012 Target: 0.014) 1,060 made from LANEIGE’s representative moisture product, Water desertification of marine afforestation resulting from various Total (Tons) Basic Unit (Tons/Tons of product) Total (Tons) Basic Unit (Tons/Tons of product) Bank Cream, to the Save the Children. To promote the campaign, pollutions and wastes and restoring it into a healthy marine *A  s of 2012, AMOREPACIFIC’s waste management indicator has changed into landfilled wastes (total amount of waste emissions – recycling amount). we held a design contest and the winning designs were used on ecosystem. Some of the profits made from the Marine Oxygenic the limited edition products released for the Waterful Sharing Essence products are used to save the sea by making donations COD Generation Dust Generation Campaign. In 2012, we donated KRW 100 million in total. The to the UNEP Korea. In 2012, a group of marine supporters 2010 0.070 4,929 2010 0.025 1,737 donation was used to construct the LANEIGE Water Pumps in consisting of university students took on the mission of 96 villages in the Southern part of Mali, as well as used to repair personally experiencing the marine afforestation and informing 2011 0.147 9,754 2011 0.029 2,011 old water pump facilities. Also, we provide sanitary training about its beauty and importance. Also, we implemented the for village residents. Through the campaign, we provide safe 4 Persons 4 Colors Save the Sea Project with four artists to 2012 0.083 6,030 2012 0.019 1,392 drinking water and sanitary training programs for 5,120 infants promote the marine afforestation by making art works on it. Total (kg) Basic Unit (kg/Tons) Total (kg) Basic Unit (kg/Tons) below age 5 and 6,920 women of childbearing age (age 15~49). 2) The marine afforestation refers to seaweed colonies created artificially or naturally in the * COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand sea, which is known to act as the habitat for the spawning of marine life, including fishes, 1) Africa’s Mali region has the highest death rate of infants under age 5 due to waterborne shellfishes and crustaceans. It plays an important role in saving the sea from acidification diseases resulting from lack of safe drinking water. by absorbing CO2, the main culprit of global warming. Also, it acts as the origin of life for all humans by creating more than 70% of oxygen in the air. Purchase of Eco-friendly Supplies Rainwater Consumption Recycled Water Consumption 2010 2011 2012 2012 2012 297,740 KRW in millions 323,646 KRW in millions 399,681 KRW in millions 12,323 9,273 tons tons Eco-label and GR mark purchases (KRW in millions) * Changes are made to the 2011 purchase of Eco-friendly supplies result because of data error found. Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 89 EMPLOYEES AND BUSINESS PARTNERS Talent Management Strategy Strategies for Developing Global Talent Fair Evaluation and Compensation In order to secure the competitiveness of global business, Performance Management of Employees AMOREPACIFIC worked on developing global talent through the AMOREPACIFIC provides equal opportunities based on the ability Hyecho Project in 2011. The project aims to develop global talent and qualification of employees in accordance with the provisions AMOREPACIFIC is working towards creating an environment where all employees can use their abilities who will shine in the global markets by following the challenging of Chapter 4 of the Code of Ethics, while continually improving the mind and spirit of Hyecho, Korea’s first monk to go abroad and performance management system to provide fair evaluation and to the fullest in a culture of mutual trust and respect that transcends cultural and background differences. write a diary on the journey to five countries of India (Wang-ocompensation based on performance. To meet the competitiveness of ever-changing global business environment, we established a talent cheon-chuk-guk-jeon). In 2012, in order to strengthen the fairness of performance management strategy and implemented it to achieve the vision of becoming Asia’s No.1 and one of the Since 2011, the Hyecho Project sent 116 employees abroad as of management and improve the acceptability of evaluation, we global top 7 cosmetics companies by 2020. 2012, which aims to develop 300 global talents by 2017. We will strengthened the monitoring on performance management and continually conduct regional researches focusing on China and provided training and communication regarding the importance ASEAN to support the growth of global business. Also, we plan of performance management. To establish a better performance to expand the future research and dispatch regions to the Middle management system, we improved the system at the end of Employment Status Ensuring Diversity for Employees East to increase researches on new markets and strengthen 2012 to introduce a new system in March of 2013, enabling the The domestic AMOREPACIFIC workforce numbered 4,724 AMOREPACIFIC strictly prohibits any discrimination made in preparations for market entry. system to make fair and objective evaluation on the efforts and persons. The ratio of female to male is 36 to 64, showing higher employment, work implementation or promotion because of gender, ratio of female employees. Also, the ratio of female executives region, academic background, physical disability and nationality. performances of individuals. Completion of Hyecho House and managers showed steady growth each year. The overseas In 2012, there were no discriminations reported to the company’s In July 2012, we completed the construction of the Hyecho House Operation of Employee Award System AMOREPACIFIC workforce numbered 5,802 persons, most of Ethics Secretariat and relevant teams. In 2012, we signed the them consisting of locally hired employees from the management agreement for promoting disabled persons employment with the in the Human Resources Development Center. It is designed by AMOREPACIFIC is operating a variety of award system to motivate level to the general staff, to ensure we operate a personnel Korea Employment Agency for the Disabled to increase the hiring Portugal’s world-famous architect Alvaro Siza. It supports the employees who contributed to achieving the company’s visions operation structure closely linked with the local region. of disabled persons. As of 2012, we hired 13 disabled persons and enhancement of global leaders’ abilities through leadership by working to their fullest potential. Through the award system, 65 persons subject to national merits. training programs and workshops. employees can feel proud about what they do, while also creating an environment for continuous growth. Current Status of Domestic Employees (Unit: persons) Strengthening of Cohesiveness as an Asian 2010 4,130 Beauty Creator Details of awards Number of persons 2011 4,456 We have strengthened the cohesiveness of AMOREPACIFIC’s 2012 4,724 employees by spreading the group’s vocation as “Asian Beauty Expanding the culture of praising and Creator” to our suppliers and overseas offices located all over the world. ‘The Best of encouraging employees by giving awards to Current Status of Overseas Employees ABC’ Award (Unit: persons) In 2009, starting with the establishment of the vocation for ETUDE as employees who showed outstanding abilities “Young Asian Beauty Creator”, we defined a set of standards in Hyecho House located at the Human Resources Development Center 2010 2,817 relevance to our core values and provided vocations appropriate Number of Providing opportunities to employees persons 2011 4,201 for the management strategy and culture of each subsidiary and ‘Innovation with innovative achievements to make presentations 2012 5,802 overseas office. In 2012, we not only established the vocation for Olympic’ in front of other employees to share them with all employees Ratio of Locally Hired Employees at Overseas Business Sites (Unit: %) PACIFIC PACKAGE, PACIFIC GLAS, Jangwon and innisfree, but also worked on strengthening the network with our suppliers. As for our ‘Award for Best China 99.1 global unit, we began with establishing the vocation most suitable Salesperson Giving awards to Salesperson in customeroriented service to enhance their pride and promote the value France 96.1 for AMOREPACIFIC JAPAN in 2010, and are reinforcing the ‘Asian in Customer of customer service all across the company Contact Service’ US 87.5 Beauty Creator Network’ by establishing each vocation, core values Japan 89.7 and standards customized for AMOREPACIFIC CHINA in 2011 and Other Asian 94.2 ‘Innovation Olympic’ countries AMOREPACIFIC USA in 2012. (excluding China and Japan) Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 91 EMPLOYEES AND BUSINESS PARTNERS Talent Development AMOREPACIFIC Beauty University (ABU) Operating the Book-Learning Program We operate a variety of training programs to develop beauty AMOREPACIFIC operates a variety of book-learning programs to professionals and make them proud of their job. Beauty help improve employees. The Reading School provides a list of partners receive job improvement programs and competency books and learning guides for different jobs and employees can improvement programs to improve their competencies that choose which courses to take. The Self-Reading School allows AMOREPACIFIC is taking all measures to promote the growth and development of individuals together reflect the characteristics of each distribution channel, including employees to freely choose books related to both work and with the company’s growth. Besides the job competencies of employees, we provide personalized learning Luxury College, Premium College and Mass College. self-improvement. The Book Workshop holds book discussions programs in different levels to develop global competencies, while also encouraging and supporting Also, besides beauty areas, we strengthen professionalism by or workshops for more than 3 persons who meet together to independent studying for personal development. operating a variety of qualification tests that develop the overall read and learn. We promote the management policies and its competencies of beauty partners. directions to all employees by providing books recommended by the CEO through the book-learning program. Also, we improve the job competencies by providing books related to job duties Operating the Smart Campus and help develop the employees by providing books on selfDevelopment of Global Leaders Strengthening of Professionalism according to AMOREPACIFIC provides a learning management system to help improvement and humanities. AMOREPACIFIC is operating the Global Leadership Center Duty and Position employees with their personalized learning. In 2012, the learning consisting of the leadership training program and the global We provide a variety of specialized and segmented training courses system was extended to be accessible not only by personal training program to develop global leaders for the company’s according to duties and positions inside the training system for computers, but also by mobile phones, making it more usergrowth. strengthening job competency. The levels are different depending on friendly to be named as ‘Smart Campus’. As a result, employees the job position and training contents, including common basic course, can conveniently spend time on self-improvement without time Leadership Training Program job basic course, common advanced course, job advanced course, and or space limitations, which increased the number of employees The leadership training program divides all job positions into job professional course, to provide personalized learning for improving learning. The number of daily average users for the Smart Campus 5 stages to provide the role and abilities needed for each stage, professional knowledge. In addition, we support the individual growth PC increased by 24.8% over the same period in 2011. In just one allowing employees to prepare for the needed abilities to of employees by providing various forms of self-directed training day after the development of Smart Campus Mobile, we achieved establish a pool of talented employees. The training program has programs, including video learning, book learning and e-learning. 13.5% of M-pilots (mobile business support system) installed three stages for each job position, including before appointment, across the company, which showed a daily average record of 936 after appointment and during appointment. Before appointment, Training Program System by Job Duty and Position accesses made for 14 days after the development. In addition, the Compulsory Designated Optional talented employees with excellent performances prepare for the satisfaction survey results for before and after the reorganization next job position; after appointment, employees are given their of the system showed an increase of 14.2%. exact roles and responsibilities based on the competency system; Manager job and during appointment, employees improve their leadership Manager improvement course Screen of Mobile Application skills and take personalized learning programs. Sr. Strengthening Global Training Program Specialist Job qualification of unity program, Healing course Job Common Camp, FamilyThe global training system is divided into the Global Talent Pool, Advanced designated optional friendly course course Program process which provides different culture experience and new language Specialist job common course Specialist advanced course programs before going abroad, and the Global Track, which allows employees to accumulate global experience by going abroad. Staff Staff job common basic course Basic process course Company-wide job Specialization by course Designated Common Organizational common course optional activation Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 93 EMPLOYEES AND BUSINESS PARTNERS members is 2,389 persons, 50.6% of employees. The employees may including inspections, emergency training, autonomous safety Great Work Place join or leave the labor union at their free will. The collective agreement is signed every other year, which is applied to all employees. system, precautionary measures on real accidents, safety and health training, and legal checkup, seek to accomplish global safety management activities. Communication ChannelLabor and Management Council AMOREPACIFIC’s Labor and Management Council is operated Operating a Program for Mutual Cooperation with Suppliers AMOREPACIFIC, which values the pursuit of happiness and the improvement of the quality of life for separately for each work site. Every quarter, it faithfully discusses We evaluate the risk factors of safety and health issues with all employees, has been striving to create a great work place by establishing a harmonious and smart matters needed to support the work and personal life, including internal and external suppliers to ensure a shared development working environment without gender discrimination. We provide an environment that ensures a balance improving welfare benefits, dealing with complaints, enhancing by improving unreasonable areas. In 2012, we implemented the between work and personal life and promote a culture of mutual trust and respect. Also, we are taking the safety and welfare of the working environment and improving mutual cooperation program as the pilot production site of all measures to improve the working environment, such as operating a differentiated program that is employee health. The company’s management and the labor union’s Gyeonggi, which made improvements on about 100 unreasonable executives meet together regularly to communicate with one another. and risky matters. Also, through the program, the internal suppliers considerate of the employee’s health and safety and strengthens communication with employees. Also, the management and unions engage in meetings held at each actively engaged in creating a pleasant and great work place. work site to openly listen to opinions from on-site leaders. Expanding a Family-Friendly Corporate Culture Achieving Social Responsibility Health Management of Employees AMOREPACIFIC is working towards finding a balance between improving company dinners, and organizing an online contest to The labor union is striving to implement the social responsibility. work and personal life and creating a work place without gender share the best practices conducted per each team in hopes to bring Together with the company, it carries out various activities of Activities for Medical Checkup discrimination. As a result of continually working on finding a balance a more horizontal and free communications. After such efforts, in sharing, including giving goods to the low-income underprivileged Instead of operating the regular medical checkups every other between work and personal life by establishing various policies AMOREPACIFIC’s measurement of CTI (Culture Transformation Index), people and establishing a matching fund that donates parts of the year like in 2011, AMOREPACIFIC expanded the checkups to and systems, we received the Presidential Commendation for best an internal indicator for change management of corporate culture, salaries to help others. be held every year starting from 2012. Also, the application of company in equal employment at the 12th Equal Employment there was an increase of 3.3% from 67.4% in 2011 to 70.7% in 2012. discounts on vaccinations for hepatitis A and cervical cancer were Ceremony hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. extended to include the employees and families of suppliers and Managing the Safety of Employees and Suppliers Monitoring of Labor Regulations and Human subsidiaries, while the company’s medical rooms provide stress Rights Education AMOREPACIFIC is striving to provide a safe workplace to its employees. diagnosis services and blood tests at all times. The vaccination The Mass Cosmetics Production Site and the Beauty Production benefits have been used by 659 employees in 9 cities. AMOREPACIFIC abides by the provisions prohibiting child labor and Site received the certification for the health and safety management forced labor in accordance with the International Labor Organization Introducing a Low-Sodium ‘Health & Diet’ Restaurant system (K-OHSMS 18001) from the KSA (Korea Standards Association) and the Korean laws and regulations, which is faithfully monitored in 2004 and 2011, respectively. Also, we evaluated the safety To manage the health of employees, we introduced low-sodium by relevant teams. Also, we continually educate our employees to performance of 3 domestic production sites to monitor and analyze and low calorie menus that reduced the consumption of sodium prevent sexual harassment at workplace. In 2012, we designated Gender equality in the employment Business Awards them, including the number of disasters, the number of safety and and fat, enabling employees to prevent diseases and lead a sexual harassment education program as a compulsory course * AMOREPACIFIC’s policies and systems on family-friendly management can be found in health laws violated, and the number of occupational diseases. healthy life. During the first three months, we provided a program Family-Friendly Management (p.41) of this report. for employees to complete through the e-learning program. Also, for managing weight, body fat, cholesterol and blood pressure for salespersons, who found it difficult to take the e-learning program, Operating the APGMIS those who applied for the program. received the education by watching videos and reading leaflets (a system for environmental safety performance index) Implementation of Activities for Improving through the monthly sales training or education on safety. We operate the APGMIS (a system for environmental safety Employee Health Fund ‘Health Plus Program’ Corporate Culture performance index) for domestic production sites, which aims to The Health Plus Program is a health fund that helps employees with In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC carried out the “Vium Project” to get rid of unnecessary habits and practices in each business unit. By diagnosing Win-Win Relationship Between Labor jump up to be a global production site by managing the current their diet, quitting smoking and sarcopenic obesity. We effectively each culture per unit, we identified 3 cultural codes (conservatism, and Management status and targets of safe and health issues for each production manage the health of employees who apply for the program, such site. The S&HPE of APGMIS establishes the target for safety issues as holding a one-month clinic for quitting smoking for those who hierarchy, vested rights) that needed to be removed, and we have During the past 21 years, AMOREPACIFIC has maintained the honor of by setting an annual target divided into management performance decided to stop smoking. In 2012, 61% of the employees who implemented activities to bring change per business unit. We organized being an exemplary company both inside and outside the company by (300 points), operational performance (600 points) and legal applied for the program succeeded in achieving their goals. various programs such as spreading the ‘Best Leader’ case-studies, having no labor disputes. As of the end of 2012, the number of union checkup (100 points) and aims to achieve them. These targets, Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 95 EMPLOYEES AND BUSINESS PARTNERS Shared Growth with Suppliers Strengthening of Employee Communication Introducing the Internal Contest I3-Market Expanding the Junior Communication In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC introduced the I -Market. In 2012, 3 AMOREPACIFIC gathers diverse opinions from employees and reflects AMOREPACIFIC introduced the I3-Market, which is an in-house them in the management activities. In 2012, we implemented contest that means I, Idea and Innovation. It is held to create the Evergreen Board and the SaengSaeng-Gonggam to listen AMOREPACIFIC is strengthening its mutual cooperation system with suppliers to create a sound AMOREPACIFIC’s new innovative culture and to establish the to opinions from the young generation, thereby reflecting fresh corporate ecosystem. Since 2011, we implemented a roadmap for shared growth. In 2012, we implemented foundation for in-house venture business by receiving ideas that ideas of new employees with less than three years of service in the activities to establish a balanced business relationship with suppliers. Through these activities, we strive employees normally had and selling their ideas to the management management activities and making improvements on problems to grow together with suppliers by strengthening the competitiveness of suppliers and creating a better after allowing them to actually take part in the planning stages found. before developing the product. In the first year of the I3-Market, working environment for their employees. more than 70 new ideas were submitted. Among them, ten of the Personalized Cultural Activities for Employees ideas were sold to the company as detailed business strategies Happy Plus Theme Lecture after 5 months of implementation. We invited well-known persons from the outside to give special Expanding the Sustainability of Suppliers Strengthening of Economic Support lectures under the theme that employees are interested in, such To expand the sustainability and fulfill the social responsibility Since 2005, AMOREPACIFIC is operating the Supplier Support Strengthening of Online Communication Channel as new generation and health. Besides the lecture held at the of all employees in the supply chain as corporate citizens, Fund for suppliers to provide stable funding and support facility AMOREPACIFIC人 (the Chinese characters ‘人’ means people) is head office, more than 1,000 persons participated in the video AMOREPACIFIC established a sustainable guideline that the investment. In 2011, we expanded the fund to KRW 10 billion, an internal online community space aimed to communicate with service provided for regional offices and subsidiaries in 2012. suppliers should follow in 2011. The sustainable guideline which increased the total into KRW 20 billion by contributing an employees and to suggest new ideas. By ensuring the for suppliers provides details that new suppliers should comply additional KRW 10 billion in 2012. Besides the existing suppliers protection of anonymity, employees can suggest ideas about Employee Engagement Survey with at a minimum in four areas (environment, safety, labor and of packaging materials and raw materials, the application of the customers and products, as well as ideas about better working Since 2008, AMOREPACIFIC is conducting an employee human rights). Supplier Support Fund was extended to include the secondary environment and welfare benefits. These ideas are actually engagement survey to gather diverse opinions from employees AMOREPACIFIC newly established the evaluation standard for suppliers. As a result, the business partners in the supply chain can reflected in developing AMOREPACIFIC’s innovative products, and reflect them in the management activities. The 2012 employee sustainability in the 2012 sustainable guideline, ensuring the use the fund to invest on production facilities and quality facilities effectively implementing sales activities and when operating engagement survey had altogether 80 questions divided into 12 suppliers comply with the guideline and strengthen their social and adopt facilities for developing new products. the Smart Work System. Also, AMOREPACIFIC人 (AP人) ensures categories, including level of engagement, image and leadership. responsibility. The sustainability is evaluated on four areas of the horizontal communication with AMOREPACIFIC’s employees. The results of the employee engagement survey showed that sustainability guideline and the minimum compulsory conditions In 2012, the management including the CEO wrote their thoughts AMOREPACIFIC employees had an engagement level of 77%, that new suppliers should follow. AMOREPACIFIC continually and shared them with employees through AP人, while employees which is similar to the domestic corporate average (78%). Also, monitor and support the suppliers so that they can fulfill their role wrote comments on them. Through the AP人 where various ideas starting from 2010, we managed the employee’s individual as corporate citizens based on the evaluation of sustainability. can be shared through a horizontal communication method, all emotional satisfaction through the well-being indicator. employees are making concerted efforts to make the company into a great work place and a company that customers love. Result of Employee Engagement Survey (Unit: %) Roadmap of Shared Growth for Suppliers Number of Suggested Ideas that are Registered Division 2010 2011 2012 Establishment of Shared Establishment of Trusting & Balanced Establishment of Harmonious Growth System Business Relationship and Balanced Partnership & Number of Ideas with Complete Funding (Unit: number of cases) Level of employee engagement 81.0 75.0 77.0 ·Establish AP’s working-level guideline for 1,893 Number of suggested ideas that are registered in 2012 Well-being indicator 58.0 53.0 57.0 subcontractors ·Develop sustainable guideline for suppliers ·Operate win-win portal ·Strengthen economic support for suppliers ·Support CSR activities for suppliers ·Support overseas expansion for suppliers Ratio of participation 45.8 48.7 55.8 ·Develop performance indicators for ·Establish sustainable monitoring system for ·Expand support to include secondary 322 Number of ideas with complete funding 1) win-win cooperation ·Establish processes for complaints suppliers (audit standard) suppliers 1) As ideas that received the most support from the AP人 users out of the ideas registered at AP人, the number of ideas that received feasibility review by the applicable team. AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 97 Expanding the Communication with Suppliers Production Information Synchronization System Performance Results for 2012 In 2012, AMOREPACIFIC established an integrated communication The Production Information Synchronization System is currently Employee engagement channel through online and offline to strengthen communication supported to all major suppliers of packaging materials to improve the 2012 2010 2011 77.0 with a variety of suppliers in the supply chain. We established production efficiency and profit structure by establishing a production communities according to the types of major suppliers in the supply chain, including packaging materials, raw materials, ODM, management system for suppliers of packaging materials. Also, it is 81.0% 75.0% % established to acquire the visibility of interactive information, including and production/transportation. Based on these communities, we the information on orders and stocks for packaging materials. held working-level meetings with each community. Also, we held Ratio of female employees 2012 2010 2011 63.6 the Win-Win Cooperation General Meeting and the Win-Win Implementation Seminar to share the current management status of AMOREPACIFIC, future strategies and major performances and Operating the Win-Win Cooperation Indicator 63.8% 63.7% % The competitiveness of the suppliers is directly linked with the to discuss about various win-win cooperation plans. competitiveness of AMOREPACIFIC. Therefore, to strengthen the support for suppliers, we newly established and operated the winTraining hours of employees Training cost of employees win cooperation indicator to identify the kind of support that would actually help the suppliers and to find out the current level of 2010 94.4 389,722 2010 1.7 7,185 support provided. The win-win cooperation indicator consists of the following: i) identifying the level of fair trade by checking the 2011 100.8 449,202 2011 1.7 7,357 compliance with the four fair trade guidelines and the payment standards; ii) identifying the level of win-win cooperation with 2012 105.6 498,786 2012 1.6 7,457 The 2012 Win-Win Cooperation General Meeting suppliers through the amount received from the Supplier Support Fund, the joint R&D, and the current status of training and manpower Total learning hours Learning hours per person (Unit: Hour) Total learning cost Learning cost per person (Unit: KRW million) support; iii) identifying the level of fair trade between the primary Online Channel for Sharing Information and secondary suppliers; and iv) conducting a survey on the sensory with Suppliers level to determine the sensory level of suppliers. Through the winContents Unit 2010 2011 2012 Purchasing Portal win cooperation with suppliers, AMOREPACIFIC is striving to secure Number of years in service Years of service Year 8.3 7.7 8.3 The Purchasing Portal is a purchasing and order system set up global competitiveness by establishing a virtuous cycle where all to confirm the current status of orders real-timely for suppliers, members in the supply chain can help each other. maternity and childcare Maternity leave Persons 180 228 234 leave used or share the schedule for new products, enabling an integrated Childcare leave Persons 96 109 165 management of GHG emissions and hazardous chemicals. Best Supplier Award System Status of union Number of union members Persons 2,231 2,278 2,389 Win-Win Portal membership To strengthen the partnership for shared growth and develop the basic Ratio of membership % 54.0 51.2 50.6 The Win-Win Portal provides a two-way communication between competencies of suppliers, AMOREPACIFIC evaluates the suppliers AMOREPACIFIC and its suppliers and also between the suppliers. once a year on QCDE (Quality, Cost, Delivery and Environment) Accident rate by year Number of accidents occurred Cases 4 0 5 AMOREPACIFIC established the win-win portal, which provides a suppliers for packaging materials, raw materials, ODM and logistics, sustainable guideline for suppliers that must be basically complied and provided an award money of KRW 250 million and overseas Accident rate % 0.10 0.00 0.11 by the suppliers. Also, suppliers can request for training support employee training programs to 12 best suppliers. We encourage Accident rate of domestic industry average % 0.69 0.65 0.59 and financial assistance needed for development and also closely the suppliers to use the award money to invest in the infrastructure communicate through technology proposals and the internet to improve the quality, process and employee welfare of suppliers, Accident frequency % 0.49 0.00 0.52 community for suppliers. (Win-Win Portal: http://winwin.amorepacific.com) enabling them to develop into a company of global standards. Making Sustainable Values Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 99 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Social Contribution Strategies Pursuit of Inner and Outer Beauty Based on our social contribution vocation of bringing health and beauty to women and their families To bring a healthy and beautiful life for women, AMOREPACIFIC has provided the foundation for women (humanity) as a responsible corporate citizen, AMOREPACIFIC is determined to enrich our society by to live independently by making a fundamental change in their lives by taking the initiative in resolving ‘bringing a beautiful change to your life’ through the slogan of ‘Make Up Your Life’. The beautiful change social issues related to women. The basic condition for a healthy life is good health. To achieve this, in your life is achieved by implementing social contribution activities that are represented in the three AMOREPACIFIC is striving to enhance the quality of life for women by caring for both the inner beauty key areas of ‘pursuing inner and outher beauty’ ‘achieving harmonious growth’ and ‘supporting social and health, while also improving the self-esteem of women by bringing a beautiful change to the outside. independence’. Strategies for Implementing AMOREPACIFIC’s Make Up Your Life Campaign Social Contribution Activities AMOREPACIFIC’s Make Up Your Life Campaign provides our AMOREPACIFIC has implemented key programs in three business society through a variety of culture sharing programs. The support know-how to female cancer patients to help them overcome areas under the social contribution slogan of ‘bringing beautiful for social independence is provided by actively participating in emotionally-distressing physical changes caused by cancer change to your life’, including the pursuit of inner and outer beauty, resolving social issues of women who need financial independence treatment and give them positive mindset about life. The the realization of harmonious growth, and the support for social by reflecting the business capability, enabling low-income women programs consist of makeup, skin care and hair styling to help independence. The pursuit of inner and outer beauty is realized by to live independently by strengthening their competencies and them rediscover their inner beauty by caring about their external caring for both the physical health and the social emotional health giving start-up assistance. In addition, we worked steadily to fulfill look to be able to face the world in confidence. In 2012, 500 based on AMOREPACIFIC’s beauty & health business. The realization our corporate social responsibility by operating 3 non-profit public AMORE counselors volunteered to carry out campaigns in 51 of harmonious growth is achieved by improving the respect and welfare foundations and implementing programs linked with external hospitals for about 1,700 patients. In particular, we provided Make Up Your Life Campaign awareness on cultural diversity and making a positive growth to institutions and our employee sharing activities. visiting services to patients who found it difficult to come to the hospital for the second year. Furthermore, the year 2012 was Social Contribution Value Structure significant year because we improved the satisfaction level of Bringing a beautiful change to your life participants and provided a variety of programs by increasing the participants and operating specialized programs. We newly introduced an on-line healing program where patients can Pursuing Achieving Supporting share their concerns and receive professional advices and also Business inner and outer harmonious social area beauty independence opened a website for the campaign where participants can growth communicate with each other. Above all, the campaign was very meaningful because the patient’s families also participated in Make Up Your Life’s Tea Ceremony Key Make Up Your Life Campaign, Wings of Hope Campaign, Recycling the program. AMOREPACIFIC will continually implement the Hope Store program Pink Ribbon Campaign Empty Bottle Campaign Make Up Your Life Campaign to deliver the hopeful message to Operating female cancer patients that they can improve their self-esteem Korea Breast Cancer Foundation AMOREPACIFIC Foundation AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation foundation and change their attitude in life. Other Mise-en-Scène’s Short Film Festival, Sulhwa Culture Exhibition, Adopt a Cultural Asset, Beautiful Life, programs Asian Female Scientist Forum, Lirikos’s Save the Sea, LANEIGE’s Waterful Sharing Campaign Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 101 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Harmonious Growth Pink Ribbon Campaign AMOREPACIFIC has been implementing the Pink Ribbon contest for breast cancer related activities. Also, we notified the Campaign to widely notify the importance of preventive checkups importance of self-tests and preventive measures to check on and raise awareness on breast cancer. The pink ribbon is a breast cancer by delivering the campaign message to more than symbol of the activities to promote self-tests that represents 300,000 people through a variety of contents, including the Pink AMOREPACIFIC is striving to achieve a harmonious growth between people, nature and business. the beauty and health of women and the freedom of breasts. Ribbon Sculpture made from the talent sharing of experts and Together with the growth of the company, we continually implemented activities to acquire diversity in the AMOREPACIFIC established the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation the health recipes. Furthermore, the Pink Ribbon Marathon, to protect the healthy life of women and continually implemented a representative event of the Pink Ribbon Campaign, was held cultural contents for genuine growth in our society, while also providing support for a variety of culture the Pink Ribbon Campaign to promote the importance of in five cities across the nation to provide a setting for all family to communicate and exchange information with each other. Furthermore, we made concerted efforts to preventive checkups and raising the awareness of breast cancer members to participate and notify the importance of checkups minimize the negative impact that corporate activities give to nature by providing a company-wide support against the whole nation. In 2012, we recruited 202 persons for breast cancer. Also, the fee that about 24,470 participants through the empty bottle recycling campaign. as ‘Pink Generation’ PR ambassadors to carry out activities to paid to participate in the marathon was all donated to the Korea promote self-tests, while also sponsored a team with a band and Breast Cancer Foundation, which will help spread a culture of Wings of Hope Campaign Campaign for Recycling Empty Bottles chorus consisting of women who recovered from cancer with healthy sharing by using the money in preventing breast cancer 7 institutions through the Our Pink Ribbon Project, which is a and carrying out treatments. The Wings of Hope Campaign is a program that supports the AMOREPACIFIC has continually implemented the campaign for multi-cultural women community by developing and sharing their recycling empty bottles with the purpose of recycling resources cultural capability based on the cultural identity of migrant women. together with our customers and protect the environment to It has been jointly implemented by the AMOREPACIFIC Welfare minimize the negative impact on the environment through the Foundation and the Korean Foundation for Women since 2011 to resource circulation of our products. In 2009, the campaign began help multi-cultural migrant women who are socially disadvantaged as part of the event for collecting empty bottles at innisfree stores, so that they can become positive persons through community which later expanded to Aritaum stores, department stores, all activities. As of April 2012, we provided funding and consulting AMOREPACIFIC stores at large marts, and ETUDE House stores and services to 10 multi-cultural communities, including the Osan innisfree stores across the nation. AMOREPACIFIC is implementing Hwaseong Migrant Women’s Meeting, the JipyeongseonAwoolim recycling activities together with recycling companies. We regularly Pink Ribbon Love Marathon Choir and the Intaclub-Nanta. In October 2012, we provided an measure the amount of empty bottles collected and record it to opportunity to share the results of the activities taken place during notify our customers about the amount of CO2 reduced through the five months by holding the Wink Festival. It was held outdoors in homepage. The amount of empty bottles collected in 2012 was 157 the Yongsan Family Park where a variety of programs were held to tons (including innisfree and ETUDE), resulting in a total of 255 tons experience multiple cultures, including community performances, in accumulation since the campaign began in 2009 to have the effect cultural experiences and global customs. Through the Wings of of reducing 242 tons of CO2. We plan to continue strengthening Hope Campaign, AMOREPACIFIC helps multi-cultural migrant the campaign for recycling empty bottles as one of our social women to live a beautiful life in confidence. contribution activities. Amount of Empty Bottles Collected by Year (Unit: Ton) 2010 23 Amount collected 2011 72 2012 157 The Wink Festival for the Wings of Hope campaign Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 103 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Supporting Social Independence Developing the Arita Font Adopt a Cultural Asset AMOREPACIFIC developed the Arita font that contains the corporate Since signing the agreement for Adopt a Cultural Asset with image. It has the meaning of a beautiful and loving woman that the Cultural Heritage Administration in 2006, AMOREPACIFIC comes from the Book of Odes of ‘beautiful elegant lady’. In order has continually implemented activities to preserve representative to carry out cultural sharing, AMOREPACIFIC developed the Arita historical sites of tea culture in Korea, including the historical site AMOREPACIFIC is striving to create a social environment where women can make a beautiful change in font by cooperating with professor Sang-soo Ahn, a designer of of Dasan (Gangjin, Jeonnam), the exile place of Chusa (Seogwipo, life to live healthily in confidence. To achieve this, AMOREPACIFIC has implemented activities to support Korean font, since 2005. It was disclosed to the public through Jeju), the old house of Chusa (Yesan, Chungnam), and the Iljiam the company’s homepage to be used for free of charge. In 2012, (Haenam, Jeonnam). In 2012, we implemented activities to preserve financial and social independence that brings positive change to the current life of women by helping we made improvement to the existing handwriting and worked the historical sites by having about 300 employees regularly visit them enter into the society. Also, AMOREPACIFIC continually looked for areas where we can actively on developing the English handwriting. The Arita font was the the sites each month. They cleaned the insides and surrounding participate in various social issues typography winner in Design at the 2012 Red Dot Design Award. areas of the building, planted tea plants in the surrounding AMOREPACIFIC, which has been sharing culture through a variety areas, and installed nature-friendly boards to correctly inform of means, wishes that the Arita font acts as the company’s exclusive people about the historical sites. Also, they repaired roofs Support for Hope Store Startups AMOREPACIFIC Beauty School font, while also sharing the value of sharing by being widely used that were damaged by the typhoon and carried out preventive in the society. activities on the inside and outside of the buildings at historical The Hope Store is a micro credit program that provides business Since 2011, AMOREPACIFIC has been implementing the Beauty sites. As a result of these efforts, in September 2012, we received startup loans to low-income single mothers. It gives startup School, which is a program to strengthen the competency of women the Presidential Commendation at the National Merit Ceremony loans up to the maximum of KRW 40 million to single mothers from female facilities and low-income households who find it for Adopt a Cultural Asset hosted by the Cultural Heritage who find it difficult to get loans from the financial industry difficult to enter into society by developing them into preparatory Administration. because they don’t have collaterals or credit. The money paid makeup artists. In 2011, 21 persons received the training program back by the people who started their business is put aside as the for strengthening the beauty capability, while 12 persons completed ‘fund of seed of hope’ to create a virtuous cycle of sharing by the program in 2012. As part of the virtuous cycle of sharing, the providing an opportunity to a single mother who is getting ready trainees carried out volunteer works of sharing their makeup talent for starting a business. The fund for the program was donated by visiting social welfare facilities related to women, youngsters to the Beautiful Foundation (President Jong-seok Ye) in June and the disabled. The top four outstanding trainees were given the 2003 when the family of AMOREPACIFIC’s founder Sung-hwan opportunity to receive the professional makeup training course to Arita font Suh donated the inherited money. Since the first Hope Store opened help with their social independence. in 2004, as of the end of 2012, there are currently 146 stores across Mise-en-Scène’s Short Movie Festival the nation. In particular, the first Hope Store opened in Gangwon Installed boards and planted tea plants at the historical site of Chusa region in 2012 so that there are Hope Stores everywhere except for Mise-en-Scène’s Short Movie Festival is a movie festival that shows Jeju. Anyone can participate in the Hope Store, which is operated on new imagination by avoiding the seriousness at existing movie the Beautiful World Fund from the Beautiful Foundation. festivals with the vocation of finding new Korean movie directors. In 2012, a total of 972 movies were submitted to the 11th Miseen-Scène’s Short Movie Festival, to record the largest number of movies received at a Korean short movie festival. During the past 11 years, AMOREPACIFIC has continually sponsored movie festivals. In the process, Mise-en-Scène has continually sponsored short movie festival to promote Korean short movies and find talented young directors. In recognition of these efforts, we received an award for cultural contribution at the 2012 Mecenat Award from the Korea Mecenat Association. Support provided for the interior of Hope Store Volunteer works of sharing talent learned from the Beautiful School Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 105 SOCIAL CONTRIBUTION Performance Results for 2012 Activities for Local Communities Participants in Make Up Your Life Campaign 2012 2010 2011 Besides the social contribution activities that the company implements, AMOREPACIFIC also established 1,842 Persons 1,814 Persons 1,760Persons the AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation, the AMOREPACIFIC Foundation, and the Korea Breast Cancer Foundation to support the social contribution activities that are deeply related to women’s health, Employees Participating in Sharing Activities 2012 welfare and academic culture. Also, the employees of AMOREPACIFIC volunteered talent sharing and 2010 2011 sponsored goods to social welfare facilities across the nation through the activities of Beautiful Sharing. 2,707 Persons 2,951 Persons 3,932Persons Operating the Public Welfare Foundation Sharing Activities for Employees Status of Support for Hope Store Startup The AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation was established to operate AMOREPACIFIC strived to share the value of sharing by engaging Number of new startup stores Number of total stores programs that improve the welfare of women and children from lowemployees in social contribution activities. AMOREPACIFIC’s income households. In 2012, it implemented programs for improving employees participate in a variety of social contribution activities female welfare facilities to renovate the baths of 3 facilities and as follows: the Beautiful Sharing which is a volunteer activity; the 2012 2012 34 146 2010 2011 2010 2011 installed women’s resting place at 7 female facilities. Beautiful Saturday which is a donation of used items; the Donation 38 20 92 112 The AMOREPACIFIC Foundation communicates with the world of a Fraction of Employees’ Salary; the Matching Gift; and the Stores Stores Stores Stores Stores Stores through an integrated research assistance based on the keyword Adopt a Cultural Asset which is an activity for preserving cultural of ‘Asian Beauty’ and ‘women and culture’, including science, art, assets. Through the activities of Beautiful Sharing, the employees of everyday life, and learning. We share the outcomes of the AMOREPACIFIC volunteered talent sharing and sponsored goods to foundation through the publication of ‘Women and Culture’, which social welfare facilities across the nation. The Beautiful Sharing is a Contents Unit 2010 2011 2012 is a series of the foundation’s publications on research assistance, social contribution activity where the employees decide on the facility and the Beauty program that gives lecture on humanities and liberal and program for volunteering talent sharing and AMOREPACIFIC Social Amount of expenditures KRW million 9,100 11,068 9,742 Contribution arts. In addition to implementing the long-term projects like the sponsors all of the costs and goods provided. In 2012, we volunteered Activities Ratio compared to sales % 0.4 0.4 0.3 research project on the history of Korean women’s living culture and talent sharing at about 300 social welfare facilities in three separate Expenditures tea literatures, we continually implemented programs that developed occasions, while provided goods of daily necessities, cosmetics Domestic corporate average % 0.2 0.2 0.3 researchers and established research environment by providing and green tea products to about 1,000 facilities. Furthermore, Ratio compared to pre-tax profits % 2.5 2.6 2.7 assistance to 17 research projects through subscription in 2012. AMOREPACIFIC continually operates a system that certifies the ABC sharing mileage which is reflected in the employee’s compensation Pink Ribbon Number of marathon participants Persons 24,165 24,827 24,470 Campaign in proportion to their performances made for sharing activities. Number of health lecture participants Persons 22,334 31,227 31,150 Amount supported for surgery and treatment KRW million 220 249 258 Public Interest AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation KRW million 413 468 420 Foundation Expenditures AMOREPACIFIC Foundation KRW million 442 444 590 Korea Breast Cancer Foundation KRW million 812 1,915 980 AMOREPACIFIC Welfare Foundation improved the facilities of Guro Euphrasia House Beautiful Saturday, an internal charity bazaar Making Sustainable Values AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 107 INNISFREE innisfree’s Green Story Products for the physically-challenged customers Green Communication with the Customers Products for the physically-challenged customers apply to the Eco handkerchief campaign season 3 socially underprivileged people, including products for patients Since 2010, innisfree has been implementing the Eco-handkerchief and products with universal designs and braille designs. innisfree Campaign, which has become innisfree’s representative environmental applied braille designs on the containers of Forest for Man and campaign that is held in June of each year. In 2012, innisfree handed As Korea’s first cosmetics brand on naturalism, innisfree was born to bring deliver the healthy beauty Fermented Bean products to help the visually handicapped out the eco-handkerchief to customers who purchased products at solutions derived from the natural ingredients of clean Jeju to our customers. Since it was launched in customers to tell the difference between toners and lotions their stores under the 2012 campaign theme of protecting Jeju’s 2000, innisfree strived to bring natural beauty that can be easily shared and experienced by providing that have the same container. innisfree will continue to keep wildflowers that are in danger of extinction because of climate change products derived from good raw materials, as well as sold green products at our stores and implemented developing products that are easy to use not only for young and and environmental pollution. The handkerchief was made from eco-friendly campaigns with our customers. healthy people, but also for the children, the elderly and the recycled PET fabric and cotton to make it more eco-friendly. disabled. Donation to pay back the benefits of nature Products for the physically-challenged customers In order to conserve the Gotjawal, the largest evergreen forest Declaring the Green Promise Green Products that Contribute to the on the Korean Peninsula and the reserve of Jeju’s ecosystem, innisfree has disclosed the innisfree Green Promise that reveals four Environment and the Society’ innisfree signed an agreement with the Foundation for Public promises made in January of each year to make the world healthier Carbon footprint product Ownership of Gotjawal to donate some of the profits made from and greener for customers. Carbon footprint labels are on products indicating the amount Forest for Man products each year. The money will be used to of carbon measured in all stages of products from development purchase the privatized Gotjawal to prevent reckless development. to disposal. This applies as the first stage of carbon footprint In 2012, innisfree donated KRW 100 million to purchase a labeling. If the carbon emission is reduced through activities for maximum of 5,000pyeong(16,529㎡) and a minimum of 3, reducing carbon, the item receives the low carbon certification 125pyeong(10,330㎡) of the private land of Gotjawal. as the second stage. Two items of innisfree’s cleansing products received the carbon footprint labeling to be certified as Green Christmas with the underprivileged eco-friendly products by the Ministry of Environment. The application In December of each year, innisfree’s Green Christmas helps the will be extended to include skin care and body care products. underprivileged together with the customers. In 2012, innisfree released two concepts of limited editions, I Love You and Thank You, Certified items and carbon emission amounts and donated a total of KRW 290 million to the Save the Children. Left: Green Tea Pure Body Cleanser (480.7gCO2 /product) Right: Green Tea Pure Cleansing Water (679.8gCO2 /product) innisfree eco handkerchief Signing ceremony for green Christmas sponsorship Results of Implementing the 2012 Green Promise Goal Results Achievement Donating 3% of sales profit 880 million 100% Campaign of collecting empty bottles that have the effect of planting 200 trees 507 trees 254% Basic types of natural ingredients accounting for more than 70% 73% 104% More than 200 green stores 1) 274 stores 137% 1) Green Store: stores using LED lights, eco-friendly paints and eco-friendly glues Environmental Protection Activity of Clean Jeju Campaign innisfree Makes the Global Green Story The Clean Jeju Campaign is an environmental conservation In April of 2012, to promote the healthy beauty derived from activity held in Jeju by the green expedition consisting of innisfree nature to the world, innisfree conducted overseas expansion employees. In 2012, innisfree cleaned the Saebyeol Oreum with starting with Shanghai, China. the mission of protecting Oreum in Jeju, which contains Jeju’s unique vegetation. innisfree cleaned up various wastes thrown Share the green, Save the tree campaign away by tourists and waste woods from nearby construction sites. Together with Shanghai Roots and Shoots, a NGO in environmental It will carry out activities to keep Jeju clean and healthy. protection founded by Jane Goodall, innisfree participated in preventing the desertification of Inner Mongolian region. For each green tea product that our customers purchase at the innisfree store, we will be planting one tree in the Inner Mongolian desert. Appendix We have raised enough money to plant 10,000 trees. This money was donated to the Shanghai Roots and Shoots's One Million Tree Planting Campaign, which will plant trees in the Inner Mongolian region in April 2013. In addition, the trees will be continuously managed to ensure they take root properly. It will have the effect of absorbing 25 million kilogram of CO2. Green Store Cares About the Environment Promoting the Green Christmas culture to China Selected as the best brand for reducing GHG emissions & To establish a warm social atmosphere of sharing with Consolidated Financial Statements received the Environment Ministerial Commendation compassion with neighbors, innisfree implemented the Green innisfree participated in the Project for Developing, Distributing and Christmas Campaign in China. Together with a Chinese volunteer Independent Assurance Report Expanding the Guideline for Reducing Non-Industrial GHG Emissions group and the Save the Children China, we helped with the supervised by the Korea Environmental Industry & Technology treatment of the physically-sick underprivileged children. Every GRI Index Institute. As a result of a significant reduction in GHG emissions, time a customer buys the Green Christmas limited edition, one we received the Environment Ministerial Commendation and the child receives benefits per product. innisfree will continually Participant Information signboard for best production site. innisfree measured the amount of promote its customer-friendly, society-friendly and environmentpower consumption of 593 innisfree stores across the nation and friendly activities to promote its brand to the world. converted it into carbon emissions, showing about 27% reduction in GHG emissions on average per store. The amount of empty bottles collected from the recycling campaign had the effect of planting 507 young pine trees, which is the same as reducing 30.1 tons of CO2 emissions annually. innisfree will establish an ecofriendly process to cut down unnecessary energy loss and to reduce the amount of hazardous substances from production to disposal. AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 111 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated Statements of Financial Position Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income December 31, 2012 and 2011 Years Ended Deceber 31, 2012 and 2011 (Unit: in millions of Korean won) (Unit: in millions of Korean won, except per share amounts) AMOREPACIFIC Corporation AMOREPACIFIC GROUP AMOREPACIFIC Corporation AMOREPACIFIC GROUP 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 Assets Sales 2,849,462 2,554,723 3,431,733 3,058,513 Current assets Cost of sales 847,204 774,623 1,013,893 960,632 Cash and cash equivalents 170,707 187,708 227,459 353,587 Gross profit 2,002,258 1,780,100 2,417,840 2,097,881 Bank deposits 142,499 155,736 535,799 421,536 Selling and administrative expenses 1,637,993 1,407,249 1,968,749 1,663,218 Trade receivables 170,180 152,435 221,531 210,741 Operating profit 364,265 372,851 449,091 434,663 Other receivables 20,076 13,839 9,183 16,556 Finance income 12,208 11,165 29,446 26,138 33,294 18,163 48,389 30,161 Finance costs 2,125 1,923 2,298 2,018 Other current assets 267,433 225,803 333,989 283,909 Other non-operating gains (losses)-net (15,379) 46,512 (9,774) 49,012 Inventories 804,189 753,684 1,376,350 1,316,490 Share of profit of associates 1,675 1,037 2,921 2,964 (3,621) 56,791 20,295 76,096 Non-current assets held for sale 2,299 24,692 Profit before income tax 360,644 429,642 469,386 510,759 Non-current assets Income tax expense 92,200 102,373 123,687 134,640 Bank deposits 5,158 3,656 5,603 3,698 Profit for the year 268,444 327,269 345,699 376,119 Other receivables 82,383 59,298 109,713 81,768 Profit attributable to: Available-for-sale financial assets 6,243 9,209 32,372 18,301 Owners of the Parent 269,616 327,029 154,387 148,500 Property, plant and equipment 1,766,807 1,655,475 2,102,570 1,952,810 Non-controlling interests (1,172) 240 191,312 227,620 Investment Property 203,232 185,546 203,232 185,546 Other comprehensive income Intangible assets 121,208 115,204 636,794 625,915 Actuarial loss on post employment benefit obligations (9,731) (8,648) (12,594) (10,671) Investments in associates 5,093 4,665 8,911 8,514 Change in value of available-for-sale financial assets (1,892) (376) 785 (1,535) Deferred income tax assets 31,870 28,684 38,093 37,112 Share of other comprehensive income of associates (151) (361) (2,447) (2,993) Other non-current assets 10 6 18 19 Loss on currency translation of foreign operations net (8,160) (739) (8,750) (706) 2,222,004 2,061,743 3,137,305 2,913,683 Total comprehensive income for the year 248,509 317,143 322,694 360,215 Total assets 3,026,193 2,815,428 4,515,955 4,254,865 Attributable to: Liabilities Equity holders of the Parent Company 250,341 316,996 144,705 139,767 Current liabilities Non-controlling interests (1,832) 148 177,989 220,448 Trade payables 100,405 77,987 116,411 122,768 Total comprehensive income for the year 248,509 317,143 322,694 360,215 Borrowings 22,553 15,581 24,812 15,581 Earnings per share Other payables 150,721 181,272 202,861 224,567 Basic earnings per share for profit attributable 39,080 47,403 19,088 18,366 Current income tax liabilities 41,517 39,201 56,592 52,225 to the ordinary equity holders Basic earnings per share for profit attributable 39,130 47,454 19,138 18,416 Deferred revenue 42,144 53,615 48,855 59,319 to the preferred equity holders Provisions for other liabilities 6,702 5,755 11,734 11,004 Diluted earnings per share for profit 18,549 17,841 Other current liabilities 53,198 52,571 67,439 64,691 attributable to the ordinary equity holders 417,240 425,983 528,704 550,156 Diluted earnings per share for profit attributable 18,599 17,891 to the preferred equity holders Non-current liabilities Borrowings 42,850 45,904 51,750 47,904 Retirement benefit obligations 47,542 40,002 58,112 49,559 Consolidated subsidiaries of AMOREPACIFIC Corp. and AMOREPACIFIC GROUP, Inc. Deferred income tax liabilities 149,703 138,460 213,543 199,865 Other non-current liabilities 25,070 26,776 29,633 49,789 AMOREPACIFIC GROUP, Inc. AMOREPACIFIC Corp. AMOREPACIFIC GLOBAL OPERATIONS Limited. 265,165 251,141 353,038 347,117 AMOREPACIFIC Trading Co.,Ltd. ETUDE Corp. Total liabilities 682,406 677,125 881,742 897,273 AMOREPACIFIC EUROPE S.A.S Equity attributable to owners of the Parent innisfree Corp. Anninck Goutal S.A.S Capital stock 34,508 34,508 44,451 44,451 AMOREPACIFIC US, Inc. 712,702 712,702 673,096 673,096 AMOS Professional Corp. Additional paid-in capital AMOREPACIFIC Japan CO., Ltd. Capital surplus 7,761 7,690 7,385 7,363 PACIFICPHARMA Corp. AMOREPACIFIC Taiwan Co., Ltd. Other components of equity (1,810) (1,810) (134,507) (134,136) AMOREPACIFIC SINGAPORE PTE. LTD Accumulated other comprehensive income (12,011) (2,435) (2,479) 1,793 JANGWON Co., Ltd. LANEIGE MALAYSIA SDN BHD. Retained earnings 1,592,449 1,377,420 1,390,507 1,258,205 AMOREPACIFIC (Thailand) LIMITED PACIFICGLAS, Inc. 2,333,599 2,128,075 1,978,453 1,850,771 PT. LANEIGE INDONESIA PACIFIC Non-controlling interests 10,188 10,228 1,655,760 1,506,821 PACIFIC PACKAGE Corp. innisfree Cosmetics India Total equity 2,343,787 2,138,303 3,634,213 3,357,592 AMOREPACIFIC Global Operations Pte.Ltd. COSVISION Co., Ltd. Total liabilities and equity 3,026,193 2,815,428 4,515,955 4,254,865 AMOREPACIFIC Vietnam JSC AMOREPACIFIC Cosmetics (Shanghai) Co.,Ltd. AMOREPACIFIC (Shanghai) R&I Center Co.,Ltd. AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 113 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REPORT To the AP Management Materiality Has AP provided a balanced representation of material issues concerning AP’s sustainability performance? At AP (AMORE PACIFIC)’s request, we have reviewed the information presented in the 2012 sustainability report (the “Report”). The ·We are not aware of any material aspects concerning AP’s sustainability performance which have been excluded from the Report. management of AP is responsible for preparing the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement on the ·Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that AP management has not applied its processes for determining Report and to provide an opinion on it based on our review. material issues to be included in the Report. 1 Procedures We conducted our engagement in accordance with ISAE3000 and the requirements of a Type 2 assurance engagement as defined by Responsiveness Has AP responded to stakeholder concerns? performed AA1000AS (2008) 2 ·We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AP has not applied the responsiveness principle in considering We performed the following procedures to form our conclusion on the Report: the matters to be reported. ·Evaluated AP’s processes for stakeholder engagement. ·Reviewed AP’s processes for determining material issues of stakeholder groups. Completeness How complete and accurate is the economic, customer, environment, employee, business partner and local community ·Searched the media coverage of AP’s sustainability issues during the applicable reporting period. and Accuracy activity in the Report? of Performance ·Reviewed recent sustainability reports of the AP’s global competitors Information ·Except selected performance data from the overseas operations, we are not aware of any material reporting units that have been ·Interviewed a selection of AP senior managers to understand the current status of sustainability performance and the reporting excluded from the economic, customer, environment, employee, business partner and local community activity data. process during the reporting period. ·Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data relating to the above topics has not been collated properly ·Reviewed selected data regarding AP’s sustainability performance, supporting evidence for assertions, and information from from AP’s reporting process. corporate-wide systems. How plausible are the statements and claims within the Report? ·Reviewed AP’s process for collecting and consolidating sustainability performance data. ·We are not aware of any misstatements of information or explanation used to support statements and claims on AP’s sustainability ·Visited AP’s operation sites in Osan (Korea) and Shanghai (China) to review their environmental data. activities presented in the Report. ·Reviewed whether financial performance data has been extracted properly from the AP’s 2012 audited financial statements. Observations Without prejudice against our conclusions presented above, we believe the following matters require attention for the improved AP’s Level of Assurance We undertook a limited assurance engagement in accordance with ISAE3000. A limited assurance engagement is less in scope than a and areas for sustainability report. improvement reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the nature, timing and the extent of procedures for gathering sufficient, appropriate ·One of the recent important sustainability reporting trends is the disclosure of consolidated non-financial performance as is the evidence are deliberately limited relative to a reasonable assurance engagement. case with financial performance disclosure. Therefore, it is necessary to actively expand the scope of report to overseas operations as well as subsidiaries. Limitations of our We did not review environmental and social performance data prior to 2011 for our limited assurance engagement. We reviewed ·Considering the credibility of sustainable management, it is necessary to expand disclosure of performance indicators and qualitative review financial performance data based on AP’s 2012 audited financial statements. targets that are linked to AP’s sustainability management strategies. ·In the case of certain sustainability performance data, a system to generate, aggregate and report the data must be improved. Conclusion The result of our review is outlined as below. Independence We comply with the Ethical Standard issued by the Korean Institute of Certified Public Accountants (KICPA). Inclusivity Has AP been engaging with stakeholders across the business to develop its approach to sustainability? ·We are not aware of any key stakeholder groups that have been excluded from the stakeholder engagement process outlined in the Report. Our Assurance Team The assurance engagement was performed by the engagement team with a long history of experience and expertise in sustainability area. ·We are not aware of any matters that would lead us to conclude that AP has not applied the inclusivity principle in developing its approach to sustainability. May, 2013 Seung Wha Gweon Country Managing Partner 1 International Standard on Assurance Published by International Federation of the Accountants Engagement: Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Ernst & Young Hanyoung Reviews of Historical Financial Information 2 Second AA1000 Assurance standards published by the AA1000AS (2008)Institute of Social and Ethical Accountability AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 115 GRI INDEX ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material G3.1 Indicators ReportingStatus Page UNGC ISO 26000 G3.1 Indicators ReportingStatus Page UNGC ISO 26000 Official Notice on Profiles Indirect 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.4, EC8 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services provided primarily for public benefit ● 57, 105 Strategy and Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of Economic 6.8.5, 6.8.6, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 1.1 4, 5 6.2 Impacts Analysis sustainability to the reporting organization and strategy 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.6.7, 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities 4, 5, 64, 69 6.2 EC9 Understanding and describing indirect economic impacts ● 95, 96 6.7.8, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.6, Organizational 2.1 Name of the organization 54, 55 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Profile 2.2 Primary brands, products and/or services 50~53 Environmental 2.3 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, subsidiaries and joint 54, 55, 61 6.2 Raw EN1 Materials used by weight or volume ◐ 13, 71 8 2.4 Location of head office/headquarter 54, 55 Material EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials ◐ 13, 71 8, 9 Number of countries where overseas production sites are located and names of countries either major Energy EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary energy source ● 87 8 2.5 54, 55 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered 2.6 Nature of ownership structure and legal form 60 EN4 Indirect energy consumption by primary energy source ● 87 8 2.7 Characteristics of markets served 58, 59 EN5 Energy saved due to conservation and efficiency improvements ● 24, 25, 83, 87 8, 9 6.5, 6.5.4 2.8 Scale of the reporting organization 54, 55, 57 EN6 Initiatives to provide energy-efficient or renewable energy based products and services ● 13, 24, 25 8, 9 2.9 Significant changes during the reporting period regarding size, structure or ownership 60 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption and reductions achieved ◐ 82, 83, 101 8, 9 2.10 Awards received during the reporting period 65 Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source ● 87 8 Reporting 3.1 Reporting period for information provided Cover EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water N/A 8 Parameters 3.2 Date of the most recent report Cover EN10 Total and ratio of reused and recycled water ◐ 87 8 3.3 Reporting cycle Cover Biodiversity Location and size of land owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high 118 EN11 ◐ 31, 107 8 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding the Report or its contents biodiversity value outside protected areas 3.5 Process for defining report contents 67, 69 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas EN12 ◐ 31 8 3.6 Boundaries of the Report Cover and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 6.5, 6.5.6 3.7 Matters on any specific limitations on the scope or boundary of the Report Cover EN13 Habitats protected or restored ◐ 107 8 Basis for reporting on the entities that can significantly affect comparability from period to period and/ EN14 Strategies, current actions, and future plans for managing biodiversity ◐ 31 8 3.8 Cover or between organizations Number of national conversational list species with habitants in areas affected by operations, by level of 3.9 Data measurement techniques and the bases of calculations, including assumptions and 57, 81, 83, 87 EN15 N/A 8 extinction risk Explanation of the effect of any re-statements of information provided in earlier reports, and the Emissions, EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 24, 25, 83 8 3.10 59, 81, 87 reasons for such re-statement Effluents and 3.11 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report None EN17 Other relevant indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight ● 82, 83, 85 8 6.5, 6.5.5 Wastes 3.12 GRI Index 114~116 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved ● 24, 25, 82, 83, 85 7~9 3.13 Independent Assurance Report 112, 113 7.5.3 EN20 NOx, Sox, and other significant air emissions by type and weight ● 87 8 Governance, 4.1 Governance structure of the organization 60, 61 EN21 Total water discharged by quality and destination ● 87 8 Commitments 4.2 Indicate whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer 60 and Engagement EN22 Total weight of waste by type and treatment method ● 87 8 6.5, 6.5.3 For organizations that have a unitary board structure, state the number of members of the highest 4.3 60 EN23 Total number and volume of significant spills None 8 governance body that are independent and/or non-executive members Mechanisms enabling shareholders and employees to provide recommendations or directions to the Weight of transported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel 4.4 60 EN24 N/A 8 highest governance body Convention Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly 4.5 executives (including composition by division), and the organization’s performance (including social and 61 EN25 N/A 8 6.5, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.5.6 affected by the reporting organization’s discharges of water and runoff environmental performance) 1~10 Products and ● 13, 71, 101, 106 7~9 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6, 6.7.5 4.6 Processes in place for highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided 60 EN26 Initiatives to mitigate environmental impacts of products and services, and extent of impact mitigation Services Process for determining the composition, qualifications, and expertise of the members of the highest EN27 Ratio of recycling of sold products and relevant packaging materials ◐ 13 8, 9 6.5, 6.5.3, 6.5.4, 6.7.5 4.7 60 governance body and its committees Compliance Monetary value of fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with Internally developed statements of mission or values, codes of conduct, and principles relevant to EN28 ● 7) 8 6.5 4.8 56, 64, 88, 95, 98 environmental laws and regulations economic, environmental, and social performance and the status of their 6.2 Transport Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and EN29 ◐ 82 8 6.5, 6.5.4, 6.6.6 4.9 61 organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workplace management of economic, environmental and social performance Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to Overall EN30 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type ● 3) 7~9 6.5 4.10 61 economic, environmental and social performance Labor Practices and Decent Work 4.11 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 62, 1) 7 Employment LA1 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region ● 88, 97 6.4, 6.4.3 Externally developed economic/environmental/social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which 4.12 5 1~10 LA2 Total number and rate of new employee hiring and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region ◐ 97, 4) 6 6.4, 6.4.3 the organization subscribes or endorses 4.13 Membership in associations (such as industry associations) and/or national/ international advocacy organizations 67 1~10 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by LA3 ● 41, 93 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 67 major operations 4.15 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 69 LA15 Return to work and retention rate after childcare leave, by gender ◐ 97 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group 67, 68 Labor/ 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5, LA4 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreements ● 93 1, 3 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement and how the Management 6.3.10 4.17 67 Relations organization has responded to those key topics and concerns LA5 Minimum notice period regarding important operational changes ● 6) 3 6.4, 6.4.3, 6.4.4, 6.4.5 Economic Occupational Percentage of total workforce represented in the formal joint labor-management health and safety LA6 ● 93 1 6.4, 6.4.6 Economic EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed ● 57~59 6.8, 6.8.3, 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Health committee Performance EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change ◐ 24, 25, 82, 83 7 6.5.5 and Safety LA7 Number of injuries, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and work-related fatalities ● 97 1 EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations ◐ 57 Education, training, counseling, prevention, and risk-control programs in place to assist workforce 6.4, 6.4.6, 6.8, 6.8.3, LA8 ◐ 93 1 Market EC4 Result of government subsidies provided ◐ 57 members, their families, and community members regarding serious diseases 6.8.4, 6.8.8 Presence EC5 Ratio of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant locations of operation ◐ 2) 1 6.4.4, 6.8 LA9 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions ● 92, 93 1 6.4, 6.4.6 EC6 Ratio of local purchasing policies, practices and percentages at significant locations of operation ◐ 14, 15, 73 6.6.6, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 Training and LA10 Annual average hours of training per person by employee category ◐ 97 6.4, 6.4.7 Ratio of local hiring and proportion of senior management from the local community at significant Education LA11 Job training and lifelong learning programs for continuous employment and assisting retired employees ◐ 90, 91 6.4, 6.4.7, 6.8.5 EC7 ◐ 54, 55, 88 6 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7 locations of operation LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews by gender ◐ 89 6.4, 6.4.7 AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Report | 117 PARTICIPANT INFORMATION ● Fully Reported ◐ Partly Reported N/A No Material G3.1 Indicators ReportingStatus Page UNGC ISO 26000 Division Team Team head Employee in charge Diversity and LA13 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees by gender, age group and minority group ● 60, 88 1, 6 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3 Equal 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.4, 6.4.3, Supervision Dong-hoon Lee, Myung-hwa Lee, Opportunity LA14 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category ● 88 1, 6 Sustainability Management Team Jung-hwa Oh 6.4.4 Jung-hee Kim, Mi-Rae Cho Human Rights Investment and Total number and percentage of major investment agreements that passed human rights evaluation, Company Kyung-jin Son, Min-young Yoo, HR1 ◐ 73 1~6 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.3.6 Corporate Future Strategy Team Chang-kyoo Lee Procurement including provisions of human rights protection Introduction Mi-hyang Park Practices 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.5, 6.4.3, HR2 Percentage of human rights evaluation conducted on major suppliers and subcontractors ◐ 95 1~6 6.6.6 Group Strategy Team Byung-gon Lee Brian Lee HR3 Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights ◐ 63, 92 1~6 6.3, 6.3.5 Non6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.10, HR4 Total number of discrimination cases and measures taken ● 88 1, 2, 6 Management Planning Team Dae-ho Kim Seung-kyu Ahn Discrimination 6.4.3 Freedom of Association and Operations identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 6.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, 6.3.8, Accounting Team Sung-sik Yun Young-seok Jeong, Hong-kyun Lee HR5 ● 92, 93 1~3 Collective may be at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights 6.3.10, 6.4.3, 6,4,5 Bargaining Finance Strategy Team Yun-Sang Lee Eun-young Seo Child Labor Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, HR6 ● 92 1, 2, 5 contribute to the elimination of child labor 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Corporate Support Team Han-Hyeuk Yim Seung-il Oh Forced and 6.3, 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 6.3.5, Operations identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures Compulsory HR7 ● 92 1, 2, 4 taken to contribute to the elimination of forced or compulsory labor 6.3.7, 6.3.10 Labor Corporate Culture Team Jae-yeon Lim Jong-hoon Park Indigenous 6.3, 6.3.6, 6.3.7, 6.3.8, HR9 Total number of incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous people and actions taken None 1, 2 Rights 6.6.7 Customer Green Beauty Lab Team Seok-yun Baek Se-jin Yoo Assessment Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or HR10 ◐ 63 impact assessments Raw Material Purchasing Team Wook-hyun Lee Sung-woo Kim, In-hye Lee Remediation HR11 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms ◐ 63, 94 Society R&D Strategy Team Jin-han Kim Jong-hee Park Local Effectiveness of any programs and practices that assess and manage the impacts of operations on 6.3.9, 6.8, 6.8.5, 6.8.7, SO1 ◐ 98~104 Community communities 6.6.7 Customer Service Team Im-hak Choi Kyung-mo Rho Corruption SO2 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption ◐ 63 10 6.6, 6.6.3 SO3 Percentage of employees trained in anti-corruption policies and procedures ● 63 10 Environment Environmental Management Team Yoo-tae Kim Eui-taek Kim, Ji-yoon Yeo SO4 Measures taken in corruption cases ◐ 63 10 Public Policy SO5 Public policy positions and participation in public policy development and lobbying ◐ 33, 85 1~10 Customer Technology Team Ji-hyun Bae Grace Hahm 6.6, 6.6.4, 6.8.3 SO6 Total amount of cash or in-kind donations made to political parties or politicians N/A 10 Anti-Competitive Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and NGI 9 Team Hyo-jung Kim Eun-shil Seo SO7 None 6.6, 6.6.5, 6.6.7 Behavior their outcomes Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance SO8 with laws and regulations ● 7) 6.6, 6.6.3, 6.6.7, 6.8.7 Employee/Business Future Organization Team Jee-ho Shin Sean Hyungsub Shim, Chang-Hyun Ryu Local SO9 Operations with significant potential or actual negative impacts on local communities None Partner Community HR Team Jong-sik Kim Don-soon Lee Prevention and mitigation measures implemented in operations with significant potential or actual SO10 ◐ 98, 101 negative impacts on local communities Product Responsibility Corporate Culture Team Jae-yeon Lim Hwa-young Chung Customer PR1 Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of products and services are assessed for improvement ● 8) 1 Health and 6.3.9, 6.6.6, 6.7, 6.7.4, Leadership Development Team Hyun-soo Lee Jung-eun Yoon Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health 6.7.5 Safety PR2 None 1 and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Product and Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products Performance Development Team Jae-uk Jang Min-ji Kim PR3 ◐ 70, 71 8 Service and services subject to such information requirements 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, Labeling PR4 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product ● 9) 8 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Beauty Solution Team Hye-jin Paik Jung-hee Kim and service information and labeling, by type of outcomes 6.7, 6.7.4, 6.7.5, 6.7.6, PR5 Activities on customer satisfaction, including results of customer satisfaction survey evaluation ● 78, 79 Corporate Support Team Han Hyeuk Yim Dong Eun Lee, Hae-In Im 6.7.8, 6.7.9 Marketing Programs for adherence to laws, standards, and voluntary rules related to marketing communications, PR6 ● 1) Labor Relations Team Seung-kyung Yang Chang-hwan Son Communication including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship 6.7, 6.7.3, 6.7.6, 6.7.9 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning PR7 ● 1) marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes SCM Cooperation Team Hyun-taek Oh Jong-hyuk Choi Customer Privacy PR8 Total number of complaints regarding breach of customer privacy and losses of customer data ◐ 62, 80 1 6.7, 6.7.7 Compliance with Social Contribution Social Contribution Team Chan-ho Shin Seung-sung Kang, Tae-woo Kim, Hyun-mi Yang Laws and PR9 Monetary value of fines levied for violating laws and regulations on providing products and services ● 9) 6.7, 6.7.6 Regulations AMOREPACIFIC Art Museum Seung-Chang Jeon Chang-yong Park 1) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s voluntary compliance with fair trade rules is available at http://www.amorepacific.com/sustain/justice_summary.jsp. 2) Minimum wage laws are strictly followed. innisfree Marketing MI Team Yoon-hye Kim Chang-hwa Ryu 3) Environmental conservation costs amount to KRW 2,895 million in 2012. 4) Reported the number of years in service instead of the turnover rate, as it better reflects the employment status of the company. 5) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s benefits program is available at http://recruit.amorepacific.co.kr/personnel/pay.jsp. Design Design 2 Team Hye-jun Park Yong-won Kim 6) Articles 13 and 19 of the Collective Agreement stipulate the minimum notice period. 7) There were no violations of laws and regulations during the reporting period other than what is indicated in PR9. 8) Information on AMOREPACIFIC’s product safety process is available at http://www.amorepacific.com/sustain/safety_item_02.jsp. 9) One case of administrative measures due to violating the advertising provision of the Cosmetics Law (no fines or penalties paid) For Inquiries Please contact the AMOREPACIFIC Sustainability Management Team Signature Tower, 100 Cheonggyecheon-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Tel +82. 2. 879. 3309. Fax +82. 2. 709. 5109 Homepage: www.amorepacific.com E-mail: csr@amorepacific.com * This report is our fifth Communication on Progress (COP) issued after joining the UN Global Compact.
