BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 1 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Quality, Environmental & Occupational Health and Safety Manual QHSEM Copy No. ( 1 ) Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 2 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM MANUAL APPROVAL Document Name :Quality , Environmental & Occupational Health and Safety Manual Issue/Rev. : 1/0 Issue date : 1 / 1 /2013 This is a controlled document and not to be copied without authorization from Director of Quality Management Department. Only originals, signed by Operation Manager, may be used as working documents. Prepared by : Position : QHSE Manager Name : Rania Kamal Gindeel Signature : Reviewed & Approved by: Position : General Manager Name : Adam Ishag Eltayeb Signature : Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 3 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Contents Page Subject 9001 14001 18001 2 Manual Approval x x x 3 Contents x x x 5 Introduction x x x 6 Compnay Profile x x x 7 Scope 1 1 7 Normative Reference 2 2 7 Definitions 3 3 7 Exclusion x 8 Integrated Management System 4 4 4 8 General Requirements 4.1 4.1 4.1 8 Documentation 4.2 4.4.4 4.4.4 9 Control of Document 4.2.3 4.4.5 4.4.5 10 Control of Records 4.2.4 4.5.4 4.5.4 10 Management responsibility 5 10 Management Commitment 5.1 4.4.1 4.4.1 11 Customer Focus 5.2 4.3.1, 4.3.1, 4.3.2 4.3.2 12 Quality Policy 5.3 4.2 4.2 13 Planning 5.4 4.3.1 4.3.1 13 Objectives and Targets 5.4.1 4.3.3 4.3.3 13 Integrated Management System planning 5.4.2 4.3.1 4.3.1 14 Environmental Aspects 4.3.1 14 Planning for Hazard identification, Risk assessment and 4.3.1 Risk control 14 Legal requirement 5.4.2 4.3.2 4.3.2 15 Responsibility, Authority and Communication 15 Responsibility and authority 5.5.1 4.4.1 4.4.1 15 Management representative 5.5.2 4.4.1 4.4.1 15 Consultation and Communication 5.5.3 4.4.3 4.4.3 16 Management Review 5.6 4.6 4.6 17 Resource management 6 17 Provision of Resources 6.1 4.4.1 4.4.1 17 Human Resources 6.2 4.4.1 4.4.1 17 General 6.2.1 4.4.1 4.4.1 Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 4 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM 17 Competence, awareness, and training 6.2.2 4.4.2 4.4.2 18 Infrastructure 6.3 4.4.1 4.4.2 18 Work Environment 6.4 19 Product realization 7 19 Planning of Product Realization 7.1 4.4.6 4.4.6 19 Customer-Related Processes 7.2 19 Determination of requirements related to the product 7.2.1 4.4.6 4.4.6 19 Review of requirements related to the product 7.2.2 4.4.6 4.4.6 20 Customer communication 7.2.3 4.4.6 4.4.6 20 Design and Development 7.3 21 Purchasing 7.4 4.4.6 4.4.6 21 Purchasing process 7.4.1 4.4.6 4.4.6 21 Purchasing information 7.4.2 4.4.6 4.4.6 21 Verification of purchased product 7.4.3 4.4.6 4.4.6 22 Production and Service Provision 7.5 23 Emergency Preparedness and Response 7.5.1 4.4.7 4.4.7 23 Control of Monitoring and Measuring Devices 7.6 4.5.1 4.5.1 24 Monitoring, Measurement and Evaluation of Compliance 4.5.1 4.5.1 24 Measurement, analysis and improvement 8 24 General 8.1 4.5 4.5 24 Monitoring and Measurement 8.2 24 Customer satisfaction 8.2.1 24 Internal audit 8.2.2 4.5 4.5 25 Monitoring and measurement of process 8.2.3 25 Monitoring and measurement of product/services 8.2.4 26 Control of Nonconforming Product 8.3 4.5.3 4.5.3 26 Accident, Incidents and non conformance 4.5.2 27 Analysis of Data 8.4 27 Improvement 8.5 4.2 4.2 27 General 8.5.1 4.3.4 4.3.4 28 Corrective action 8.5.2 4.5.2 4.5.2 28 Preventive action 8.5.3 4.5.3 4.5.2 29 Manual Changes and Modifications Instructions x x X 30 Annex [1] Processes Interaction x x X 31 Annex [2] Organizational chart x x X 32 Appendix [A] : List of Documented Procedures x x X 32 Appendix [B] : Distribution List x x X Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 5 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Introduction • BIDI STEEL BUILDING is implementing its QMS & EMS AND OHSAS ,which comply with the international standards ISO 9001:2008 & 14001:2004, and 0HSAS 18001:2007 • The purpose of this Manual is to guide and instruct all employee in the company whose actions can interact with the products/services, environmental, and occupational and health performance, as well as to inform the public about company applied controls to show effective implementation of the systems and its continual improvement. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 6 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Company Profile Name of the Company: BIDI STEEL BUILDING Nature of the Company: CONSTRUCTION & SUPPLYING Establishment Date : 2005 Address : Khartoum2, Ahmed Mekki street Box No. 6776 , Khartoum-Sudan Tel. No. : 00249 183 535335 Fax No. : 00249 183 535336 Web Site: E-mail: Bidisteel2@hotmail.com No of Employees: 25 Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 7 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM 1. Scope of IMS CONSTRUCTION & SUPPLYING 2. Normative Reference : There are no normative references in the Standards EMS & OHSAS. Exclusions of ISO 9001:2008 Clause # (7.3): Design and Development Justifications of Exclusions The nature of the company' services / products depends on the customer’s specifications and requirements. 3. Definitions: 3.1 Environmental Definitions : 3.1.1 Continual Improvement : Process of enhancing the environmental management system to achieve improvements in overall environmental performance in line with the organization’s environmental policy. i. Environment : Surroundings in which an organization operates, including air, water, land natural resources, flora, fauna, humans, and their interrelation. ii. Environmental Aspect : Element of an organization’ activities, products, and services that can interact with the environment. iii. Environmental Impact : Any change to the environment, whether adverse or beneficial, wholly or partially resulting from an organization’s activities, products and services. iv. Environmental Objective : Overall environment goal, arising from the environmental policy; that an organization sets itself to achieve, and which is quantified where practicable. v. Environmental Target : Detailed performance requirement, quantified where practicable to the organization, applicable to the organization parts thereof that arises from the environmental objectives and the needs to be set and met in order to achieve those objectives. vi. Environmental Performance : Measurable results of the environmental management system, related to an organization’s control of its environmental aspects, based on its environmental policy, objectives and targets. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 8 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM 3.2 Occupational Health and Safety Definitions : 3.2.1 Hazard : Source or situation with a potential for harm in terms of injury or ill health, damage to property, damage to the workplace environment, or a combination of these. 3.2.2 Hazard identification : Process of recognizing that a hazard exists and defining its characteristic. 3.2.3 Incident : Event that gave rise to an accident or had the potential to lead to an accident. 3.2.4 Accident : Undesired event giving rise to death, ill health, injury, damage or other loss. 3.2.5 Risk : Combination of the likehood and consequence (s) of a specified hazardous event occurring. 3.2.6 Risk Assessment : Overall process of estimating the magnitude of risk and deciding whether or not the risk is tolerable. 3.2.7 Tolerable Risk : Risk that has been reduced to a level that can be endured by the company having regard to its legal obligations and its own policy. 4. Integrated Management System 4.1. General Requirements: 1. Establishes, and maintains EMS & OHSMS that satisfies ISO 14001:2004, and 0HSAS: 2007. 2. Identifying the process for EMS & OHSMS and the applications. 3. This manual describes the organizational responsibilities and procedures used in the control of environmental aspects and hazards of activities associated with significant impacts or risks. 4. Monitoring, measures and analyzes the processes. 5. BIDI STEEL implements actions necessary to achieve planned and continual improvement of the processes. 6. It is the responsibility of all employees to assist in implementing the procedures and the work instructions effectively. 7. Departments Managers are responsible to demonstrate improvement of EMS & OHSMS performance and to ensure that the requirements are effectively implemented and comply with Egyptian Laws and regulations. 4.2. Documental Requirements: 4.2.1 General: Established documented system like shown in the procedures which includes: • Documented statements of a quality policy and quality objectives. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 9 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM • Quality manual. • Documented procedures and work instructions. • Adequate forms needed to ensure the effective planning, operation and control of all activities. • Quality records. Documentation : EMS : Clause No. 4.4.4 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.4.4 • BIDI STEEL establishes documentation for both EMS and OHSMS, in a paper form or electronic form to ensure the effectiveness and efficiency and it consists of : • EMS and OHSMS policy and objectives. • EMS and OHSMS manual. • Documented procedures and work instructions. • Adequate forms needed to ensure the effective planning, operation and control of all BIDI STEEL’s activities. • EMS and OHSMS records. • Legal and other requirements 4.2.2 Quality Manual: Issued the company’s quality manual (QHSEM) that satisfies the requirements which involves: • The scope. • Manual Approval. • BIDI STEEL in Brief. • Implementation of International Standards ISO 9001:2008 and noted the exclusions. • Documented Procedures established for QMS. • A description of the interaction between the processes for QMS . • The quality manual describes the organization, responsibilities for achieving and controlling the service and product quality. • Its purpose is to enable the company personnel to understand the basic techniques and procedures required to maintain the correct quality standards. • This quality level is necessary to ensure that products & services conform to customer specifications. 4.2.3 Control of Documents: QMS : Clause No. 4.4.5 EMS : Clause No. 4.4.5 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.4.5 All quality related documents are controlled according to document control procedure No. (OP-01) A. Document and Data Approval and Issue : • The documents and data are reviewed and approved for adequacy by authorized personnel prior to issue according to control of document procedure . • Quality assurance is responsible for reviewing, issuing, controlling changes on documents and data. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 10 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM • A master list identifying the current revision status of documents is readily available in the quality assurance to preclude the use of invalid and / or obsolete documents. • Obsolete documents and / or invalid documents are promptly removed from locations of issue or use and are destroyed or correctly identified to avoid unintended use. The quality department is responsible to determine the incinerating method of these obsolete documents. • Documents are made available at locations where they are intended to be used. • Directors of the related departments that use the documents are responsible for its reviewal and management representative is responsible for its approval . • Documents for quality management system is controlled through the document code number, issue & revision number and date its approval and the document distribution list . B. Document and Data Changes : • Changes of documents and / or data are reviewed and approved by the same function that has reviewed and approved the original document. • The nature of the change in documents is identified. • All changes and modifications of quality is carried out according to procedures outlined in the manual changes and modifications section of the manual. 4.2.4 Control of Records : QMS : Clause No. 4.2.4 EMS : Clause No. 4.5.4 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.5.3 Procedure : Control of records (OP-02) Maintains quality records to assure the effective implementation of the operations of the quality management system and also to demonstrate conformance to specified requirements. • Makes sure that all quality records are legible, stored and retained in such a way that they are readily retrievable in a suitable environment to prevent damage and to prevent loss. • Each department is responsible for identifying, collecting, accessing, organizing, maintaining and disposing its quality records in accordance with control of quality records procedure No. (OP-02). • Quality records obtained from subcontractors and customers are treated as quality records. • When specified contractually, quality records are to be accessible for evaluation by the customer or his representative for an agreed period. • Retention times of quality records are established and recorded, as stated before in this manual. 5 Management Responsibility 5.1 Management Commitment Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 11 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Top management is committed to implement, develop and maintain the effectiveness of IMS by: • Communicating with customer to meet his requirements and regulatory needs • Establishing the quality policy and quality objectives. • conducting management review. • Ensuring the availability of resources. • BIDI STEEL has to provide evidences during the internal or external audits to its commitment to the development and implementing of IMS and continually improving its effectiveness. • BIDI STEEL evidences are based on : Declared quality policy. Documented quality Manual. Planned quality objectives. Management review meetings Availability of resources for every department . • Customer needs and requirements are determined through : Contracts . Direct orders. • Establishes the system to ensure the fulfillment of the customer needs and requirements to enhance customer satisfaction. 5.2 Customer Focus BIDI STEEL insures that customer requirements are met. 5.3 Quality Policy Top management ensures that quality policy is appropriate, commitment to comply with requirements of QMS and its maintenance, providing the framework of quality objects, communicated and understood within the company and reviewed for continuing suitability. • Declaration of the quality policy, ensures that the policy is documented, understood, implemented, maintained at all levels of the company. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 12 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Quality‚ Environment ‚ Health & Safety Policy (QEHP) BIDI STEEL BUILDING applies the policy of quality, environment and occupational health and safety framework to establish and achieve the goals and the following commitments. • Commitment of continual improvement to quality, environment and occupational health and safety management system in conformity with the requirements of:o International Quality Management STD. ISO 9001:2008. o Environmental Management STD ISO 14001:2004. o The Occupational Health and Safety STD OSHAS 18001:2007. • As essential guidance to carry out all its work and to achieve the requirements of clients and work to satisfy them. • Make permanent and continuous effort to provide high quality and variety through continuous investment in staff training and the use of modern technology. • Commitment to work to reduce accidents and loss of life and personal injuries to employees, customers, and damages to physical assets. • Commitment to maintaining and improving a healthy work environment and protect the public outside of the expected environmental risks resulting from its processes. • Commitment to the implementation of legislation and laws concerning the environment, professional health and safety and administrative laws in force. • Work to provide the necessary infrastructure and appropriate working conditions, ongoing training and moral support to all employees in order to improve efficiency and increase productivity and reduce costs. • persist in spreading awareness among employees and directing them as appropriate to increase awareness that the development and continuous improvement of the quality of services and preserving the environment, safety and health is a responsibility of all employees. • Work to develop and consolidate the relationship with customers and suppliers and create a strong mutual trust to strengthen the relationship between them so as to ensure continuity and commitment to cooperation in the future, in order to open new markets. • The Management reaffirms its commitment to this policy and will continue to be maintained and circulated to all staff, subcontractors, visitors and community and reviewed for continuing suitability at management review. General Manager (…………………….) Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 13 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM 5.4 Planning 5.4.1 Objectives and Targets QMS : Clause No. 5.4.1 EMS : Clause No. 4.3.3 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.3.3 Top management established measurable quality objectives that satisfy product requirements and consistent with quality policy. • BIDI STEEL board is responsible for determining specifically the company’s objectives and targets for IMS for next years • Management representative is the coordinator between the top management and the departments to define the objectives and to facilitate and save the required resources. • All objectives are measurable and consistent with the IMS policy. • Objectives and targets will be established, maintained and documented by considering the followings: a. Aspects related to the significant impacts and hazards. b. Applicable legal and other requirements. c. Company applicable technology. d. Business requirements. e. View of interested parties. 5.4.2 Integrated Management System planning QMS : Clause No. 5.4.2 EMS : Clause No. 4.3.3 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.3.4 Top management ensures that planning of QHSE is carried out to meet the needed requirements and quality objects, and maintain the integrity of QHSE during planned and implemented changes by the following: • BIDI STEEL board is responsible for determining specifically the company’s quality objectives and targets for next years • Management representative is the coordinator between the top management and the departments to define the quality objectives and to facilitate and save the required resources. • Each department is responsible for identifying, and planning its annual quality objectives and target for achieving them to ensure the continuous development in the department. • All quality, safety & environment objectives are measurable and consistent with the quality policy. • BIDI STEEL provides adequate different resources, including those needed to meet requirements for Company’s products and services at relevant levels. • Planned resources by different authorities are scheduled and made timely available for all verification activities. These resources include : Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 14 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM -Trained personnel. -Appropriate equipment. • The adequacy of resources for the suggested quality objectives and target is reviewed in the course of the regular management reviews. • Quality department manager and concerned department managers are responsible to establish, maintain and update documented programs for achieving objectives and targets which may include : Designation of responsibilities Means, resources and time frame Amendment according to changes in activities, products, or developments. 4.3.1 Environmental Aspects : EMS : Clause No. 4.3.1 Procedure : Environmental Aspects and Impacts (OP-05) Department mangers whose activities are expected to have an environmental influence are responsible for : • Identify environmental aspects of their departmental activities in order to determine those have or can have significant impacts on the environment. • Identify and evaluate the environmental impacts of their activities . • Subject any new activities for evaluation in order to determine their associated significant environmental aspects and impacts. • Ensure that significant impacts of departmental activities are considered in setting environmental objectives. • Update records of environmental aspects and impacts. 4.3.2 Planning for Hazard identification, Risk assessment and Risk control OHSAS : Clause No. 4.3.1 Procedure :Hazards identification, risk assessment and control of OHSAS (OP-04) Department managers are responsible to identify the hazards and carry out risk assessment of their departmental activities including : Routine and non-routine activities. Activities of all personnel having access to their work place. Facilities at their work place. Every department manager is responsible to decide whether the existed or planned controls are adequate, and hence implementation of necessary control measures to reduce hazard. Results of risk assessment are considered when setting Occupational Health and Safety objectives. Every department manager is responsible to update the records of hazard identification, risk assessment and risk controls. The methodology of hazard identification and risk assessment is carried out according to assessment and risk control “ Hazard Identification and Risk Control” documented procedure. Occupational Health and Safety Committee is responsible for reviewing hazard identification and risk assessment records to ensure that the provided controls are adequate to reduce risk. 4.3.3 Legal and Other Requirements : Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 15 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM EMS : Clause No. 4.3.2 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.3.2 Procedure : Legal and Other Requirements (OP-19 ) Management representative is responsible to identify and have access to legal and other requirements to which BIDI STEEL subscribes that are appreciable to the environment all aspects as well as the occupational health and safety requirements that are associated with the activities and products. All departments whose activities have or can have environmental aspects or hazards informed with the applicable legal and other requirements. Control of legal and other requirements will be conducted according to procedure “Control of Documents”. 5.5 Responsibility, Authority and Communication 5.5.1 Responsibility and authority QMS : Clause No. 5.5.1 EMS : Clause No. 4.4.1 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.4.1 • They are defined, documented, and communicated inside the company. Top management of BIDI STEEL established the interrelation of all personnel who manage, perform and verify work affecting on quality. • The organization charts of BIDI STEEL presented show the personnel having direct responsibility for the control and maintenance of the quality management system. • Job descriptions are issued for all personnel, showing each individual's functional of quality related responsibilities, with master copies filed in the personnel affairs department. • Job description can be modified as required, to cope with changes in responsibilities, authorities, qualifications or capabilities of job holder • Resources essential to implement and control EMS and OHSMS including human resources, training and financial resources have been provided by top management. The organization charts of BIDI STEEL presented in annex [2], shows the personnel having direct responsibility for the control, maintenance and continual improvement of EMS and OHSMS . . 5.5.2 Management representative Top management appointed management representative to: Ensure the establishment, implementation and maintenance of processes of QHSE in accordance with ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001 , & OHSAS 18001. Report to Top Management the performance of QHSE and needs for improvements as well as to the review meetings for review and continuous improvement of the QHSE system.. The promotion of awareness of regularity and customer requirements. Liaison with external parties on matters related to the company systems for matters of QHSE. The quality manager is the deputy of the management representative and replaces him in case of his absence. 5.5.3 Consultation and Communication Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 16 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM QMS : Clause No. 5.5.3 EMS : Clause No. 4.4.3 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.4.3 Procedure : Communication, participation & consultation (OP-21) • Internal communication between various levels and functions are defined through job description cards. • Relevant information and requests from interest parties are received, documented and delivered to relevant managers to ensure effective and open communication of environmental, healthy and safety information. • BIDI STEEL established documented procedure for communicating the EMS and OHSMS policy, objectives and targets to the various levels and functions through appropriate ways to ensure employee involvement and consultation. • External communications with interested parties and public authorities are defined and documented. • BIDI STEEL established documented procedure to receive and resolve the environmental complaints. 5.6 Management Review QMS : Clause No. 5.6 EMS : Clause No. 4.6 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.6 Flow chart : Management review (FC-13) 5.6.1 General • Top management reviews QHSE at planned intervals and discuss chances for its improvement. Top management also changes if needed quality policy or quality objectives. • A management committee, consisting of directors and managers from all key areas of BIDI STEEL, meets regularly, at least once a year, to review the quality system in order to ensure its continuing suitability and effectiveness in satisfying the requirements of ISO 9001:2008 and BIDI STEEL stated QHSE policy. • Management review is carried out according to management review Flow chart No. (FC-13) • Records of management review meetings are maintained in accordance with control of quality records procedure No. (OP-02). 5.6.2 Review input Quality matters reviewed may include ( review inputs): • Quality objectives for each department and whole company. • Company quality management system planning. • Process performance and product conformity • In-house defect rates and trends. • Servicing and Production performance and conformity. • Training requirements. • Customer complaints and feedback. • Changes affecting the QHSE. Environmental complaints. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 17 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Incidents and accidents and emergency preparedness. Training requirements. • Recommendations for Improvement. • Internal / External quality audits. • Corrective and preventive actions. • Measure of compliance with legal and other requirements. • Follow up actions from previous management reviews. 5.6.3 Review output • The results of the management review (review output) would involve : Recommendations and quality plan for Improvement of QHSE and its processes. Improvement of the effectiveness of the quality management system. Improvement of product to meet the customer requirements and his satisfaction. Resource needs. 6 Resource Management 6.1 Provision of Resources Provision of recourses is important to implement and maintain QHSE and to meet the regularity and customer requirements; and hence: • BIDI STEEL provides adequate resources by way of trained personnel deployed and chosen according to procedure (OP-16), internal auditors as well as the advanced equipment: To ensure that BIDI STEEL products are manufactured in accordance with its objectives for quality. To implement and maintain the quality management system by the continuous audit and review of the system To ensure the continued suitability, improvement and effectiveness of the QHSE. To enhance customer satisfaction by achieving all customer needs and requirements. • The adequacy of resources is reviewed in the course of the regular management reviews. 6.2 Human Resources 6.2.1 General Personnel in BIDI STEEL are competent, educated, trained and have experience through: • Recruiting and hiring in BIDI STEEL is carried out according to: Appropriate education Training Skills Experience the requirements are listed in the relevant job description cards. • BIDI STEEL is Keen to motivate its employees in order to accommodate their ambitions and to help meeting the company goals; therefore, personnel performing work affecting service or product quality shall be competent and encouraged by obtaining some percentage of sales . 6.2.2 Competence, awareness, and training QMS : Clause No. 6.2.2 Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 18 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM EMS : Clause No. 4.4.2 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.4.2 Procedure: Human Resources ( Op-12) BIDI STEEL shall determine the needed competence and training, evaluate the effectiveness of actions taken, ensure the awareness about achieving the QHSE objectives, and also shall maintain records about education, training, skill and experience. Therefore: • BIDI STEEL management is responsible for identifying the training needs for their personnel performing quality related activities. Personnel performing specific assigned tasks are qualified on basis as required in their job description cards. • All newly BIDI STEEL employees in the company undergo training with a job specific introductory program. • Deptapetmental Managers are responsible for planning and evaluating the effectiveness of the training process, ensuring that training objectives are attained. • Training is performed by : Qualified trainers. Qualification programs. Training courses (internal and external) Recording the courses taken and trainees. • Employees at each level and relevant function are aware of : • The importance of conformance with EMS and OHSMS policy and procedures . • Their responsibilities in achieving conformance with the requirements of emergency preparedness and response. • The significant environmental impacts and the associated hazard of their work, activities and the benefits when improving their performance. • The potential consequences of departure from specified operating procedures. • Personnel performing tasks that can have significant environmental impacts or associated with hazard are competent on the basis of appropriate education, training and/or experience according to the basis of work instruction used. Training activities are performed according to training procedure and the training records are maintained according to control of records procedure 6.3 Infrastructure BIDI STEEL shall provide and maintain buildings, workplaces with its utilities, equipment, and supporting services. The company shall document requirements for maintenance activities and their frequency and shall maintain their records. Therefore: BIDI STEEL management is responsible for identifying, planning, providing and maintaining the company infrastructure needed to achieve conformity to the requirements of company’s services according to the Resource Management (Infrastructure). The company infrastructure involves : Building, offices and associated utilities. Service equipment; both hardware and software as shown in . Equipments for transportation and communication. • According to Flow chart (FC-11) 6.4 Work Environment Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 19 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM • BIDI STEEL appropriate work environmental conditions are maintained in all quality related processes. • BIDI STEEL saves the work environment needed to achieve conformity to product requirements. 7. Product Realization 7.1 Planning of Product Realization BIDI STEEL planned and developed processes of the QMS to realize the product requirements through determining the quality objects, needed processes , documents , resources, verification , validation , monitoring ,inspection , required activities, and records as an evidence for realization of the product requirements. The output is a suitable methods for the operations, QMS processes and resources for the certain product according to contract or project is known as Quality Plan. Therefore: • All departments establish their quality plans to ensure the operational consistency and prevent non-conformity. • BIDI STEEL has quality plans to: plan the products requirements. control the production processes and the receiving materials. control the storage of the equipment and materials. determine the quality objectives verify, valid and monitor the activities control the measuring devices. • Quality plan for each process is made according to preparation of the quality plans. • Production operations are planned and documented as work instructions. Personnel performing these operations are provided with work instructions and workmanship criteria. Production and process equipments are regularly checked and maintained. Production areas are clean and provide for a suitable working environment. 7.2 Customer-Related Processes 7.2.1 Determination of requirements related to the product BIDI STEEL determined the requirements of customer as well as delivery and post delivery dates, necessary for intended use, statutory and regulatory related to product, and that determined by BIDI STEEL. Therefore: • The Projects Department in BIDI STEEL is the responsible to ensure that : Customer requirements are adequately defined and documented including the requirements for printing and delivery activities. Necessary production requirements (if not stated by the customer) are specified . The production statutory and regulatory requirements are determined and planned. 7.2.2 Review of requirements related to the product BIDI STEEL reviews the requirements of product before commitment to supply it. BIDI STEEL ensures that specifications are defined and documented and any contract problems are resolved, and also the ability to meet the defined product requirements. Records Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 20 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM of review are maintained. When some requirements are changed, relevant documents are amended and relevant persons are made aware of the change. Therefore: • Before submission of a tender, or the acceptance of a contract or order, tenders, contracts and / or orders are reviewed in order to ensure that : Customer requirements are defined specifically. Any differences between the contract or order requirements and those previously expressed in the tender are resolved. BIDI STEEL is capable of meeting the defined requirements of the contract or order . • Any amendment or change in an BIDI STEEL contract is reviewed in the same manner of reviewing the original contract. • Customer information related to a contract can be communicated by any of the following means : Documented letters. Telephone calls and then directly documented. Fax message. Meeting with customer or his representative. 7.2.3 Customer communication BIDI STEEL implemented customer communication for: product information, amendments for contracts, feedback, complaints, and advisory notices. Therefore: BIDI STEEL has established and maintained the communication with customer in order to : Communicate customers to obtain the different information about the products. Define all contracted customer requirements and needs. Receive, analysis and solve any customer complaint. Define a good communication way between BIDI STEEL and its customers. 7.3 Design and Development NA The nature of the company's services / products depends on the customer’s specifications and requirements. 4.4.6 Operational Control: EMS : Clause No. 4.4.6 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.4.6 Procedure : Operational Control (OP-18), Control of documents (OP-18) • BIDI STEEL fully integrates its EMS and OHSMS across its management system. • BIDI STEEL makes arrangements for effective implementation of its EMS and OHSMS to ensure that activities are carried out safely and in accordance to legal and other requirements as the minimum. • Managers are responsible for indenting their departments activities and operations associated with significant environmental aspects and hazards. • Procedures / work instructions are established, maintained and effectively implemented for: • Planning and controlling their department activities and operations. • Maintenance of these activities and operations. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 21 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM • BIDI STEEL established and maintained documented procedures to identify the environmental aspects and hazards. The relevant requirements are communicated to suppliers and contractors. • Relevant department manager is responsible to design of work place, process, installations, machinery, etc including the adoption of human capabilities in order to eliminate or reduce the environmental aspects and hazards and their sources. 7.4 Purchasing 7.4.1 Purchasing process The purchasing process within the company describes and specifies the purchased product necessary for processes, equipment, QMS ,and needs for qualification of personnel. Therefore: • Purchasing employee in material Department within BIDI STEEL is responsible for ensuring the conformance of the purchased products to specified requirements. • All purchase orders shall clearly indicate : Type (s) of required item (s). Quantities required. Item (s) technical specifications. Delivery dates and conditions. • In order to achieve this, the related department ensures that purchased items are clearly and adequately specified as required by the production department. Evaluation of Subcontractors : • Suppliers are chosen primarily on their ability to provide materials of acceptable quality and delivery with price being a secondary consideration. • Subcontractors are evaluated and selected on basis of the following : Ability of subcontractor to supply with all quantity requirements Purchased product quality. Supply of purchased product at contract timing. • The extent of control exercised on subcontractors depends on the type of product and the effect of supplied items on quality of the final product. 7.4.2 Purchasing information BIDI STEEL maintains, records and documents of purchasing information: • To achieve good incoming materials, the related department ensures: that the purchased items are clearly and adequately specified as required. that BIDI STEEL approved venders and / or subcontractors, supplying materials and that they are properly selected. that supplies conform to specified requirements, involving quality, quantity, delivery, services and cost. that selected personnel are qualified and trained. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 22 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM • All purchase documents are reviewed for adequacy of specified requirements prior to release. 7.4.3 Verification of purchased product BIDI STEEL inspects the purchased product to ensure meeting of required specifications. If the verification will be at supplier, BIDI STEEL states the method of product release in the purchasing information. Records of verification shall be maintained. therefore: • Purchasing orders are reviewed before release to clarify type of product ordered, quantities required, grade of material, specifications, drawings and other relevant technical data and quality assurance requirements. • All purchased products are verified for conformance with requirements specified in purchase orders according to receiving inspection method. • When the appropriate purchased materials come to the company, purchased items are verified, and the verification arrangements are to be specified in purchasing records. • When specified in the contract, the customer or his representative has the right to verify at BIDI STEEL or its subcontractors premises that subcontracted items conform to specified requirements. Such condition is to be indicated in purchase orders issued to subcontractors and other purchasing documents • Customer verification at BIDI STEEL or its subcontractor’s premises does not absolve BIDI STEEL responsibility to perform subsequent verification of purchased items upon receipt in order to ensure the product conformance to specified requirements. For more information, please return to Purchasing Process flow chart No.(FC-14 ). 7.5 Production and Service Provision BIDI STEEL plans and carries out production and service provision under specified conditions (information and characteristics of product, measuring devices, measuring procedures, delivery and post delivery activities and tracing). Records are verified, approved and maintained according to Identification and Traceability . BIDI STEEL document requirements for installation and its verification for constructions and provide them to customer. The work instructions cover the following : • Clearly define stages of the constructions processes. • Sequence of processing and testing. • Precautions in handling. • References to process control testing. • Record keeping. • Quality status identification. • The criteria for workmanship are clearly stipulated for each constructions step, illustrated by the use of BIDI STEEL work instructions and appropriate check lists. A separate instruction is issued by the relevant supervisor for each individual system.. This document lists batch number, raw materials, raw material quantities, safety notes, the individual constructions steps and in-process checks. They act as a checklist for the performance of each critical step of Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 23 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM constructions with the operator signing against each step to signify correct completion of the step and to indicate the constructions progress of the system. • To ensure continuing process capability, the maintenance section carries out a comprehensive maintenance program for all constructions systems according to maintenance plans • Managers are responsible for identifying their departments activities and operations associated implementing procedures/work instructions for planning and controlling their department activities and operations as well as maintenance of their department activities and operations to ensure that their department activities and operations are carried out under specified conditions to meet the quality policy, objectives and targets. BIDI STEEL establish Work Instructions for preserving, controlling and recording of product and its constituent parts during processing. Preservation includes identification, handling and protection. Therefore: • BIDI STEEL established Work Instructions for handling, and delivery preservation of raw materials to prevent any damage or deterioration. • BIDI STEEL uses designated stock, and warehouses. Appropriate provisions are made for receipt, dispatch and transfer from these areas. • Storage and preservation are carried out and controlled: to meet customer conditions, to achieve the customer satisfaction requirement and to ensure conformance to specified requirements. • BIDI STEEL delivery procedure ensures, to a practical extent, that the equipment and materials arrive safely at its destination and be readily identifiable, accurate and complete. • construction finishing are designed to meet customer satisfaction and to ensure conformance to specified requirements. • BIDI STEEL applies strict methods for the preservation of its products until delivery to customers. • Storage and preservation are arranged and controlled. 4.7 Emergency Preparedness and Response : EMS : Clause No. 4.4.7 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.4.7 Procedure : Emergency Preparedness and Response (OP-17) • BIDI STEEL provides resources (equipment, devices, tools, trained personnel and alarm systems) required for preparedness and response to emergency situation and accidents. • Hazardous materials were identified and listed and also the procedures were established and maintained for controlling storage and use of these materials. • Emergency plans were established, documented and maintained to identify potential response to emergency situations, accidents and incidents and for preventing significant impacts, illness and injury that may associated with them. • Accidents and emergency situations are recorded and reported for analysis and investigation. • Safety and health committee review and revise – where necessary – emergency preparedness and response plans in particular after the occurrence of emergency situations and accidents. • Emergency preparedness and response is periodically tested where practical. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 24 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM 7.6 Control of Monitoring and Measuring Devices BIDI STEEL determine the method of monitoring, measurement, and devices needed for providing evidence of conformity of product to determined requirements. To ensure valid results: Measuring equipment are calibrated or verified at specified intervals, against standard traceable standards and recorded & safeguarded from readjusting & protected from damage during handling, maintenance and storage. Records of results of calibration and verification are maintained. The software of computer to satisfy intended specification is confirmed prior initial use and as necessary. The process employed for the calibration of inspection, measuring and test device, includes details of identification, location, frequency of checks, check method, acceptance criteria, calibration status are taken into consideration and followed when results are unsatisfactory. Records of calibration are maintained and controlled in quality al department in accordance with control of records (OP-02). The validity of previous inspection and test results are assessed and documented when inspection, measuring or test device is found to be out of calibration. Handling, preservation and storage of inspection, measuring and test devices are carried out such that the accuracy and fitness for use are maintained. 4.5.1 Monitoring and Measurement and Evaluation of Compliance for EMS & OHSAS: EMS : Clause No. 4.5.1 & Clause No. 4.5.2 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.5.1 Procedure : Monitoring and Measurement and Evaluation of Compliance (OP-20) • BIDI STEEL has established and maintained documented procedures for the environmental and safety monitoring and measurements. • Relevant manager records the results of environmental and safety measurements to track the performance of the operations and to ensure the compliance with EMS and OHSMS objectives, targets, management programmes and operational criteria and the regulatory requirements. • Measurements has been conducted with calibrated measuring equipment and the calibration records are retained as records according to procedure “control of records”. • Measurement results are subjected to compliance evaluation by the relevant manager with limit of legislative and regulation directly after receiving it . 8 Measurement, Analysis and Improvement 8.1 General BIDI STEEL planned, implemented, monitored, measured, analyzed (through use of the statistical techniques) and improved the needed processes and also recorded as well as documented these activities to demonstrate conformity of product, effectiveness of IMS. Therefore: BIDI STEEL has planned, implemented, analyzed, and improved the monitoring and measuring processes in order to : Ensure the conformance of the products/services with the standard specifications. Ensure the conformance of the implemented system with the requirements of ISO 9001:2008, ISO 14001, & OHSAS 18001 Ensure the continuous improvement. 8.2 Monitoring and Measurement 8.2.1 Customer satisfaction BIDI STEEL measure the performance of IMS and customer feedback, monitor information about satisfying customer requirements, and to get optimum corrective and preventive actions. Therefore: Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 25 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Ensure that all customer requirements and needs are previously defined and achieved perfectly. Define a method to measure the customer satisfaction and to know his expectations in future. Maintain all records related to the customers. 8.2.2 Internal audit QMS : Clause No. 8.2.2 EMS : Clause No. 4.5.5 OHSAS : Clause No. 4.5.4 Procedure : Internal audits (OP-03) BIDI STEEL conducted internal audits at planned periods to check that IMS conforms to the planned objects, and it is effectively implemented and maintained. Internal audit program depends on status and importance of processes, results of the previous audits. Internal audit criteria, scope, frequency, selection of specialized and qualified auditors and methods are defined to get effective audits. BIDI STEEL defined in (P-03) the responsibilities and requirements for planning and conducting the audits, reporting results, and maintaining the records. The auditee makes and records the corrective actions without delay. Follow up is made to verify their effectiveness and report the results. Therefore: • Management representative provides information on system performance to the top management. • Quality assurance is responsible for establishing and implementing the internal quality audits annual plan according to internal quality al audits procedure. (P-03). • Internal quality audits are scheduled according to the importance and status of the activities to be audited. • Internal quality audits annual plan is approved by the management representative. • Quality functions are to be audited once a year at least to determine compliance with the quality policy and procedures. • Internal quality audits are performed by trained personnel who are independent of the function being audited. • Internal quality audit results are brought to attention of the responsible personnel in the area audited to take the necessary corrective action. • The management representative is provided with the results of internal quality audit and its effectiveness. • The audit results are recorded and maintained according to control of quality records procedure ( OP-02). 8.2.3 Monitoring and measurement of process BIDI STEEL determined the methods for monitoring and measuring IMS processes for achieving the planned results otherwise corrective and preventive actions are taken. Therefore: • Establish suitable methods for monitoring and measuring the quality management system such as : Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 26 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Periodic internal audits Management reviews and meetings Training activities Customer satisfaction Continual improvement and development 8.2.4 Monitoring and measurement of product/services BIDI STEEL monitors and measures the characteristics of product to verify that product requirements have been met at different periods and stages of product realization. Records are maintained as an evidence of conformity with acceptance criteria. Records indicate authorized person for release of product when the planned requirements have been satisfactory completed. Therefore: • All received materials are subjected to inspection and testing prior to storage which ensures that incoming materials conform with required quality specifications. • In-process inspection and testing are performed. • Products are held until the required inspection and tests have been completed and verified. • Final inspection and testing of finished products is performed prior delivery to customer to insure that product is in release form. • Final inspection and testing procedure include verification that all inspections and tests have been performed as specified in the quality plan and that the accompanying documentation is completed. 8.3 Control of Nonconforming Product Ensures that non conform product (NCR) is identified, and controlled to prevent its unintended use or delivery. The authority of controlling and dealing with Nonconforming Product is defined in the procedure No. (OP-06). BIDI STEEL deals with Nonconforming Product by: taking action to its elimination & authorizing its use or acceptance under concession if regularity requirements are met & changing its intended use and specification & or reworking and correcting and re-verified according to approved Work Instruction with determination any adverse effect of rework upon product. If Nonconforming Product is detected after delivery, BIDI STEEL takes suitable action according its effects or potential effects. Therefore: A. Control of Nonconforming Product: • BIDI STEEL has documented procedures to ensure that products or items that do not conform to specified requirements are prevented from unintended use or installation. • Quality with maintenance department are responsible for identification, evaluation, recording, segregation and documentation of items and / or products that found to be non-conforming at any stage until a disposition is carried out, according to control of nonconforming product procedure (OP-06). B. Review and disposition of nonconforming product : • Nonconforming items and /or products are reviewed by the quality manager and rework is done till the system will be in proper conditions or it must be changed. • The disposition may be one of the following : Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 27 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Reworked to meet the specified requirements and then re-inspected according to the quality plans. Rejected or scraped. Accident, Incidents and non conformance OHSAS : Clause No. 4.5.2 Procedure : Incident investigation (OP-22) BIDI STEEL has established and maintained documented procedures to ensure that : • Nonconformance are handled and investigated. • Actions are taken to mitigate the consequences arising from accidents, incidents and nonconformance. • Corrective and preventive actions are appropriate to magnitude of the problem and commensurate with environmental impacts and hazards. • Causes of accidents, incidents and nonconformity are investigated so that appropriate corrective and preventive action can be taken to prevent recurrence and to continuously improve the system. • The concerned department manager is responsible for: -Investigation of the causes of nonconformance. -Taking action to mitigate any consequences arising from the nonconformance. -Initiation and competition of corrective or preventive action. -Confirmation of the effectiveness of corrective or preventive action taken. • Records of accidents, incidents, non-conformances and corrective and preventive actions are maintained in accordance with “Control of Records procedure. 8.4 Analysis of Data BIDI STEEL Make an appropriate method of analysis to demonstrate the effectiveness and improvement of IMS. The good analysis provides information about: feedback & conformity to product requirements & trends of processes and products including the chances of preventive action & evaluation of suppliers. Records of analysis shall be maintained. Therefore: • BIDI STEEL identified the method of data analysis to determine, collect and analysis the BIDI STEEL appropriate data for the activities of each department to demonstrate the suitability and effectiveness of the quality system. • The need for some statistical technique is necessary for establishing, controlling and verifying the information related to: customer relations such as : * contracts and delivering orders * measurement of the customer satisfaction * customer complaints conformance of product requirements: * size of production (personnel & materials) * results of testing and measurements * process capabilities and service characteristics. * Maintenance cost and equipments and devices availability. Preventive actions and nonconformity analysis Suppliers Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 28 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM 8.5 Improvement 8.5.1 General BIDI STEEL implements any changes in Quality policy, Quality objectives according to audit results, analysis of data, corrective and preventive actions, customer complaints (which and their reasons shall be recorded) and management review for continual improvement and effectiveness for QMS. Therefore: • Commitments to continual improve the effectiveness of the quality management system. • The method to measure the development in the system depends on: The declared quality policy. The planned quality objectives. The audit results and the management decisions through the management reviews Analysis of all data related to all company activities The achieved corrective and preventive actions • The continual planning and development of quality management system is measured for each department. 8.5.2 Corrective action Established the procedure (OP-09) to: review NCR and customer complaints & to determine the causes of NCR & evaluate and implement the needed corrective action to prevent the occurrence of NCR & record the results and review the effectiveness of taken action. • Any one in the company may propose initiation of corrective action to quality department who in turn authorizes the corrective action request before release. • Quality department is responsible for identifying and following up the corrective actions for elimination of root causes of nonconformity’s and undesired output according to procedure (OP-09). • Causes of nonconformity are investigated so that BIDI STEEL appropriate corrective actions can be taken to prevent recurrence and to continuously improve the system. • Corrective actions procedure takes into account the following : Analysis of customer complaints -Analysis of the causes of nonconformity related to product, process and or quality management system. Identifying and documenting the corrective action Controlling, monitoring and checking the effectiveness of the BIDI STEEL approved corrective actions by the quality department. • Management reviews are provided with adequate information of taken corrective actions and their effectiveness is discussed in the meetings. • Corrective actions are documented properly, maintained and controlled according to control of records ( OP-02). 8.5.3 Preventive action Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 29 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Establish the procedure (OP-09) to: define the potential NCR and their causes to prevent their occurrence & evaluate and implement the needed preventive action to prevent the occurrence of NCR & record the results and review the effectiveness of taken preventive action. Therefore: • Preventive actions are taken on the basis of : Analysis of information available from quality of related processes, work and operations concession requests, audit results, quality records and customer complaint records. Potential nonconformity. • The preventive action steps needed to deal with a specific problem are identified and executed by the concerned function. • Quality assurance is responsible for controlling the execution and effectiveness of preventive actions according to procedure (OP-09). • The management representative is provided with adequate information about the required / suggested preventive actions as inputs for management review meetings where the effectiveness of preventive actions is discussed. Manual Changes and Modifications Instructions : • Requests of Manual changes are carried out along the lines of Document control procedure. • Director of QM department is responsible for the approval of changes and modifications on IMS manual. • IMS manual is reviewed every 5 years unless earlier review is found to be necessary. • The status of each page of this manual is identified by its current issue, revision numbers and revision date. Each page may be revised up to five times before re-issuing. • In case that the total number of modified pages exceeds 20 % of the manual pages, the manual is re-issued. • The numbered copies of the manual which are mentioned in the manual distribution list are controlled copies and marked accordingly on the manual approval page. Each page of the manual is marked by document control stamp as means of control. The other uncontrolled copies of the manual will not be updated. • Distribution of this manual is the responsibility of the director of QM department. • Maintenance of the manual is the responsibility of each registered holder. Revisions are issued as necessary by the director of QM department to the registered holders, who are responsible for including the revised pages in their respective manuals, and returning those rendered obsolete to the director of QM department. Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 30 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Annex No[1] (1) ‫ﻤﻠﺤﻕ ﺭﻗﻡ‬ ‫ﺘﺴﻠﺴل ﻭﺘﺩﺍﺨل ﺍﻝﻌﻤﻠﻴﺎﺕ‬ Processes Flowchart Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 31 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 1 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Annex No[2] (2) ‫ﻤﻠﺤﻕ ﺭﻗﻡ‬ ‫ﺍﻝﻬﻴﻜل ﺍﻝﺘﻨﻅﻴﻤﻲ ﻝﻠﺸﺭﻜﺔ‬ Organizational Chart ‫ا  ا م‬ ! ‫ا اﺝ ا ا‬ ‫ا ﺕر‬ ‫إدارة ا ـ‬QHSE ‫ت‬ ‫إدارة ا‬ ‫وت‬ ‫إدارة ا‬ ‫ن‬% ‫إدارة ا‬ &  ‫ا'دار وا‬ ‫ا دة‬ ‫ا ءات‬ ‫ا (  ا ارد‬ HSE ‫ر‬ ‫ا‬ +&, ‫ا‬ ‫*ﺏت‬ Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013 BIDI STEEL Quality, Environmental & Page 1 of 33 Occupational Health and Safety Manual QEHSM Appendix [A] : List of documented procedures S.N Procedure/Process Title Code 1 Control of documents OP-01 2 Control of records OP-02 3 Internal audit OP-03 4 Hazard identification, risk assessment and determining controls OP-04 5 Environmental aspects OP-05 6 Control of nonconforming product OP-06 7 Project Quality Plan OP-07 8 Tenders FC-08 9 Corrective action& Preventive action OP-09 10 Control of monitoring and measuring equipment FC-10 11 Infrastructure FC-11 12 Human resources OP-12 13 Management review FC-13 14 Procurement FC-14 15 Customer satisfaction & Complaints OP-15 16 Preservation of product ( Storage ) OP-16 17 Emergency preparedness and response OP-17 18 Operational Control OP-18 19 Legal and other requirements OP-19 20 Monitoring and measurement& Evaluation of compliance OP-20 21 Communication, participation and consultation OP-21 22 Incident investigation OP-22 Appendix [B] : Distribution List No. Responsible Copy No. 1 G.Manger 01 2 Projects manger 02 3 QHSE Manger 03 5 Purchase 05 Issue/Rev: 1/0 Issue Date: 1/1/2013 Revision Date: 1 /1/2013
