Deloitte Bulgaria UNGC Communication on Progress Report for 2012/2013 Statement of continued support 16.05.2013 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Deloitte Bulgaria reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Sylvia Peneva Country Managing Partner Deloitte Bulgaria I. Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights As a network, Deloitte recognizes that it has a responsibility to uphold human rights both in the workplace and more broadly within its sphere of influence. Deloitte not only works to address human rights issues within its communities but also seeks to respond to the urgent human rights challenges of our world in a manner commensurate with its ability to effect change within and across regions and borders. Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses In Deloitte workplace human rights take the form of non-discrimination and diversity in personnel practices, privacy, professional development and work-life balance. Deloitte has embedded concern for human rights in its core values, as a means of integrating respect for one another in the organisation’s culture worldwide. Recruiting and retention activities reflect a desire to hire professionals who share Deloitte’s values and commitment to responsible business. Deloitte policy and values concerning the internationally proclaimed human rights are made aware to all employees by the code of contact. Action implemented Human resource policy and procedures supporting Human Rights: Child support Health and well-being project Each employee, regardless of gender, receives one-time child financial support The health and well-being of the as a special bonus for a new born baby. employees is of great importance to This programme was introduced in June Deloitte, and we have put programmes 2007 and is an on-going activity. in place to help our employees stay healthy. All Deloitte Bulgaria employees receive additional health-care package, which includes systematic check-ups, consultations with specialists and medication. Measurement of outcome Measurable results Activity Date of completion Percentage of participants Health programme On-going 100% Child support On-going 100% new parents One of the Ethical Principles adopted by Deloitte is: Respect and Fair Treatment “We treat all our colleagues with respect, courtesy, and fairness.” We understand the impact that our individual behavior has on our firms, our colleagues, and society, and always work to take responsible action. We encourage and value the diverse mix of people, viewpoints, talents, and experiences found at Deloitte. We are fair in our behavior and our policies promote equal opportunity for all. Staff training and awareness Each employee receives a training of Deloitte Ethical Principles. Dealing with incidents of Human Rights violations The Ethics Officer helps motivate and sustain ethical behavior across our organization by offering tools, programs and support to sustain the Ethical Principles and strengthen Deloitte Ethics Programmes. II. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold freedom of association & effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, policy and goals Our commitment or policy Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles prescribe that all interaction between Deloitte and its employees must be characterized by integrity, trust, and mutual respect. Deloitte’s Shared Values and Ethical Principles also include non-discrimination and inclusion as integral parts of the way the network functions. Deloitte Implementation and measurement Talent engagement and growth DTTL network’s total workforce now comprises approximately 182,000 member firm partners and professionals worldwide. In Bulgaria Deloitte employs over 170 partners and professionals. Deloitte has earned recognition as a leader in cross-border student recruitment. The company is sustaining its commitment to providing fair, open and inclusive working environment. To deliver against these commitments Deloitte’s approach to talent management is: understanding viewpoints, setting expectations, and developing solutions aimed at meeting those expectations. Commitments to continuous learning and professional development, career and performance management, and customized career-life fit policies and programs are improving the working lives of member firm professionals and helping to In create a differentiated and globally aligned talent experience. In FY 2012 in DTTL more than 2.1 million online course sessions were completed across the member firms, and 56,000 professionals attended more than 5,100 virtual classes. DTTL and its member firms administered an average of 44 hours of training per full-time employee – as tracked by the network’s online learning platform. Education &Skills As a part of the First Steps on the Labour Market initiative Deloitte Bulgaria provided a workshop for 20 students from different High schools and Universities in Bulgaria. The students acquired knowledge and skills on writing an impressive CV and holding successful job interviews. Societal Impact DTTL Deloitte Bulgaria Monetary value Monetary value of community investments (US$ million) of community investments (BGN) Aggregate community investments 165.1 Aggregate donations 34,010 Aggregate donations 74.1 Partner and employee donations 18,010 Aggregate hours of volunteer and Aggregate hours of volunteer and pro bono work by Deloitte people 884 pro bono work by Deloitte people 675 (Thousand hours) Home like a Home campaign The employees of Deloitte Bulgaria organized a Christmas Bazaar on which they generated a budget to support the improvement of the living conditions in a House for children abandoned by their parents. Partners of the initiative was Give a Book Foundation through which Deloitte people provided books for the children. “We launched the project in 2012, but we will continue together, not only to give books, to provide the necessary furniture and equipment for the children from the home, but also to interact with them, talk about favorite characters from books and favorite sports and games. This project is part of the Deloitte initiatives to support disadvantaged children.” Deloitte Bulgaria is an annual participant in the traditional AmCham – Bulgarian Charity Aid Foundation Volunteer Days. Diversity Deloitte believes that an organization that is diverse is stronger. This is why strength from cultural diversity is a Deloitte shared value, and why diversity is an integral part of talent and business strategies. It is also why Deloitte fosters a culture in which people have access to opportunities to do their best work and are valued for their contributions, empowered, and are committed to excellence in client service and sustained growth. The Global Retention and Advancement of Women Council, comprising partners, principals, and directors from Deloitte member firms, was charged with driving the global effort to increase the representation of women in leadership. Representation of women For 2012 FY in DTTL women are 45 percent (growing from 44 percent y/y) of total member firm personnel, 34 percent of managers, and 46 growing from 45 y/y) percent of new hires. In Deloitte Bulgaria 40 percent of the partners are women, the managers and directors team includes 47 percent women. In the local practice Deloitte employs totally 56 percent women. III. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, policy and goals Environmental Sustainability Deloitte believes that businesses and institutions need to become more sustainable in order to secure long-term prosperity for society and themselves. DTTL and its member firms are committed to minimizing environmental harm from their activities, particularly with respect to the greenhouse gas emissions, which is the major environmental issue of DTTL and the member firm network. Deloitte continues to improve virtual workplace capabilities for their people so they can travel less, and they are working with clients to find modes of providing services that require less travel without compromising the quality of client work. DTTL and its member firms are also engaging with their suppliers to reduce the impacts of procurement and purchasing. Implementation and measurement Green dot programme The activities implemented as part of the “Green dot” programme include:  Bins for collecting waste paper in the Copy rooms  Using recycled printer toners  Using environmental friendly technologies: printers, copiers.  Separate garbage collection  Two-sided printing set as default option for printers  Introducing the message “Please consider environment before printing this e-mail” as an obligatory part of all e-mail signatures  Reduced usage of plastic cups  Electricity saving lighting  Building with energy saving systems for heating and cooling In line with the environmental policy… In line with the environmental policy for GHG reduction Deloitte has implemented and is encouraging among the employees the use of:  Video-conference facilities for virtual meetings  On-line training programmes  Conference calling facilities  Webinars  Electronic storage of data, work and training materials, archives.  Complete electronic internal communication IV. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, policy and goals In February 2011, DTTL adopted a global anti-corruption policy that addresses matters such as bribery, facilitation payments, political and charitable contributions, and fits and entertainment. This policy was supported with guidance to member firms on conducting corruption risk assessment and third party due-diligence. During FY 2012, then DTTL Chairman John Connolly served on the board of the World Economic Forum’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative. DTTL Ethics professionals sit on the Global Compact’s working group on anti-corruption, and Deloitte has recently taken a lead role in a new sub-group that is developing a corruption risk assessment tool for business. In Bulgaria the Country leader sits on the Anti-corruption committee of the Local Global Compact Network. Our commitment or policy At the heart of our business culture are the Ethical Principles, adopted by each of Deloitte’s member firms and linking directly to our Global Shared Values. These nine principles define the standards of ethical behaviour that unite all the people of DTT’s member firms. In particular, the principles offer guidance about appropriate ethical and professional conduct covering areas that are critically important to the member firms’ clients, their people and society. The principles are: Honesty and Integrity; Ethical Behaviour; Competence; Objectivity; Confidentiality; Fair Business Practices; Responsibility to Society; Respect and Fairness; Accountability and Decisionmaking. Implementation Actions implemented Actions implemented Educational programme on the Ethical Deloitte Ethics Officer helps motivate Principles of the Member Firms of and sustain ethical behavior across our Deloitte organization by offering tools, programs and support to sustain the Ethical Educational programme on the Ethical Principles and strengthen Deloitte Ethics Principles is mandatory for all our Programmes employees. It is an on-line education that uses examples and scenarios from the real life, as well as the resource on ethical business that can be used by our experts around the clock. Deloitte also provides the independence and compliance surveys, ensuring that our business practice is according to the adopted rules and procedures. Independence compliance confirmation Filling the Independence Compliance Confirmation (ICC) on-line system is required for all employees. Maintaining compliance with the Firm’s independence policies is an important part of Deloitte’s professional responsibilities, and is something we take very seriously. Measurement of outcomes Measurable results Activity Percentage of participants Ethics education 100% Independence training 100% About Deloitte “Deloitte” is the brand under which tens of thousands of dedicated professionals in independent firms throughout the world collaborate to provide audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, and tax services to selected clients. These firms are members of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited (DTTL), a UK private company limited by guarantee. Each member firm provides services in a particular geographic area and is subject to the laws and professional regulations of the particular country or countries in which it operates. DTTL does not itself provide services to clients. DTTL and DTTL member firm are separate and distinct legal entities, which cannot obligate the other entities. DTTL and each DTTL member firm are only liable for their own acts or omissions, and not those of each other. Each of the member firms operates under the names Deloitte , Deloitte & Touche , Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu , or other related names. Each DTTL member firm is structured differently in accordance with national laws, regulations, customary practice, and other factors, and may secure the provision of professional services in their territories through subsidiaries, affiliates, and/or other entities. About Deloitte Central Europe Deloitte Central Europe is a regional organization of entities organized under the umbrella of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, the member firm in Central Europe of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited. Services are provided by the subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited, which are separate and independent legal entities. The subsidiaries and affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited are among the region’s leading professional services firms, providing services through more than 3,600 people in 41 offices in 17 countries. About Deloitte Bulgaria In Bulgaria the services are provided by Deloitte Bulgaria EOOD and Deloitte Audit OOD (jointly referred to as “Deloitte Bulgaria”) which are affiliates of Deloitte Central Europe Holdings Limited. Deloitte Bulgaria is one of the leading professional services organizations in the country providing services in audit, consulting, financial advisory, risk management, tax and legal services through over 170 national and specialized expatriate professionals. © 2013 Deloitte Bulgaria
