CSR report 2012/2013 Respect for people and the environment ege's CSR Report in a new format ege is especially proud to present the company's Corpresents results for the financial year within each of porate Social Responsibility (CSR) report for the fourth these focus areas. time. We are proud first and foremost to take the opportunity to report so many interesting events and acThe report is primarily based on conditions at our two tivities in the CSR field which have taken place at ege factories at Herning and Gram in Denmark.² The data during the last year. We are also pleased to introduce on CO2 emissions also includes our subsidiaries, UAB the new format, integrating our Environmental Report Litspin in Lithuania and Bentzon Carpets ApS in Denand Greenhouse Gas Accounting into the body of the mark, in which we have a 51% shareholding. In the CSR Report. These reports were previously published long term, we intend to fully integrate data from Bentseparately. We hope therefore that the reader will gain zon Carpets and our subsidiaries into the CSR report. an even clearer impression of the full range of our work with CSR. The CSR report has not been verified by a third party. Nevertheless, the report is the result of comprehensive As the new and unified CSR report is more compreefforts to collect and internally verify the information hensive than earlier reports, to gain an overview of the presented. The environmental data related to EMAS contents of the report, we recommend that the reader verification in Herning and Gram is verified by Bureau refers to both the table of contents on page 3 and the Veritas Certification. index of GRI contents on page 54. Readers whose focus of interest is environmental data in accordance We have chosen to report in accordance with the with EMAS, can see an overview of this data in the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 3.1, level C, although EMAS index on page 57. we have doubled the number of indicators.³ The report gives comprehensive insight into CSR activities at ege in the financial year from 1 May 2012 to 30 April 2013.1 CSR is all about how we as a company take responsibility for how we impact our world. CSR is all about finding the perfect balance between high quality and design on the one hand and respect for the world we live and work in on the other. Through our work with CSR, we strive to operate our business responsibly and to preserve our world for future generations. We have chosen to concentrate our efforts in three focus areas which we believe are important: the environment, employees and health and safety. This report If you have questions about the content of this report, please contact: CSR Manager Jan Ladefoged, E-mail: jlj@ege.dk, Tel.: +45 97 11 88 11 CSR Project Manager Dorthe Kallestrup, E-mail: dak@ege.dk, Tel.: + 45 97 11 88 11 1 The next report will be published and submitted to the Danish Environmental Protection Agency in August 2014. 2 These factories are registered in accordance with the EU environmental regulation, EMAS (Eco Management and Audit Scheme), under registration number DK000012. The EMAS verification is undertaken by Bureau Veritas Certification. 3 See table of GRI application levels in Appendix 5. Contents 5 Profile 8 CSR on the agenda 10 Process description 12 Organisational anchorage 14 CSR policy 17 Results – Environment – Employees – Health and safety 28 GRI indicators 36 Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 38 Total input/output – for the Group's carpet production in Herning and Gram 40 Greenhouse Gas Account 44 Objectives and targets – Objectives and targets for 2012/2013 – Herning – New targets for 2013/2014 – Herning – Objectives and targets for 2012/2013 – Gram – New targets for 2013/2014 – Gram 52 CSR in the future 54 Appendices Appendix 1: GRI index of contents Appendix 2: EMAS index of contents Appendix 3: Most important environmental impacts and effects Appendix 4: Calculation basis and data sources Appendix 5: GRI application levels All photo-materials are from ege’s own areas 3 One loom carries more than 1300 yarn cones Profile In 1938, Mads Eg Damgaard founded egetæpper, We also purchase undyed flat-woven ground tissue which is today one of Europe’s largest manufacturers from Bentzon Carpets, which we then dye, add backof textile flooring. Mads Eg Damgaard was a visionary ing to and resell. man. His philosophy was uncompromising: he used only the latest and most advanced technology in carWool yarn is produced at ege's factory, UAB Litspin, in pet production and he was not afraid to challenge Lithuania. We purchase synthetic fibres and polyamide convention. His philosophy survives at ege. We still yarns from external suppliers. believe that quality and the ability to supply groundbreaking design are the way ahead for ege. ege also exploits the benefits of outsourcing some maintenance work, including cleaning and facilities The ege mission maintenance (outdoor areas and office plants). We design carpets with respect for people and the environment. Markets In addition to the factories in Denmark and Lithuania, The ege vision the ege Group includes subsidiaries in a number of We wish to be the trend-setting supplier to the most countries, which are our principle markets: Our subsididemanding sectors of the market. aries function as sales companies in: • Denmark Values • France Design – Quality – Respect. • Germany • Norway Activities • Sweden ege was introduced on the Copenhagen stock ex• UK change in 1985 under the name egetæpper a/s. The • China group’s primary activities are production and sales of • The United Arab Emirates tufted carpets for the contract and domestic markets. We produce 32 different standard carpet products We have greatest potential in the contract market, and 14 carpet tile products for the contract market, as where we sell to five different segments: well as 19 standard domestic products, which we use • hotels advanced technology to produce in a multitude of co• offices lours and patterns. This year we produced 3,448,438 • healthcare sector m² of carpet in Herning and 2,090,348 m² in Gram. • institutions This gives a grand total of 5,538,786 m² of carpet. • transport sector Production takes place at two factories in Denmark. Herning: Development, production and sale of tufted and woven carpets4 Gram: Production of tufted and flat-woven carpets5 4 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej Nord 25, Birk, 7400 Herning, Denmark. The facility is located in an industrial park under District Plan no. 6.14.1 and within the limits set down in Article 15 of the Danish Planning Act. The site comprises land register nos. 3e, 4bf and 5a Birk By. The site area is approximately 36 hectares, of which about 45,000 m² are developed. 5 Production takes place at egetæpper a/s, Industrivej 3, 6510 Gram, Denmark. This facility is located in an industrial park at land register nos. 1153 and 1505 Gram Ejerlav. The site area is approximately 7.2 hectares, of which about 24,000 m² are developed. 5 ege carpets factory in Gram covers 24,000 m² Within these segments, our typical customers are: In the reporting period, ege has divided its capital so • hotels that individual shares are now worth DKK 10 as op• restaurants posed to DKK 100 in the past. In practical terms, this • retail stores means that it is cheaper to buy an egetæpper share. • offices – public and private At the same time, ege sheared its own shareholding by • airports cancelling 14,577 shares. • schools and other institutions • hospitals Prizes awarded in the reporting period • nursing homes We have won no awards in the financial year. • shipyards and train factories Openness On the domestic carpets market, ege concentrates its In general, ege has a declared intention to maintain a efforts in Denmark. Our customers are retail flooring high level of information for stakeholders and employchains (Garant, InHome/Tæppeland, etc.) and indeees on development and activities in the group. We pendent carpet retailers. therefore publish quarterly newsletters, and half-yearly and annual reports. The Annual Report 2012/2013 ege's sales organisation takes care of carpet sales from provides information on ege’s management organisathe main office in Herning, and through our eight subtion, financial results, assets, ownership, net sales and sidiary companies and agents/distributors in 52 countotal capital value, etc. tries. In addition we publish this annual, statutory CSR ReWe also undertake outsourced production for other port, containing comprehensive factual data related to suppliers in the industry. the Group's CSR activities. The CSR report is communicated to all individuals working for or on behalf of the Most important changes group, and, of course, to selected stakeholder groups. Last year we closed down our yarn spinning activities in Vejle, Denmark and subsequently moved our TwistAll reports and newsletters are publicly available on set plant from Vejle to Herning. The Twistset system is our website: www.egecarpets.com. specially designed to process 100% wool and 80/20 wool/nylon carpet yarns. The yarn is fixated and then used by ege to make cut pile carpets. 6 CASE Follow ege on the social media You can now get a glimpse of life behind the scenes at ties to observe us as we take part in different cultural ege on Facebook, Twitter, LinkedIn, Pinterest, YouTube events (e.g. the world's highest fashion show) and in and Google+. The social media are an ideal platform trade fairs across the globe, or when we run or cycle by which to reach a large group of stakeholders – and for charity. We also bring news items about design to generate direct dialogue with them about things that and innovations, and people can write to us via the interest them. social media and read about what we are doing to The social media provide stakeholders with opportunipreserve the environment. Follow us on: www.facebook.com/egetaepper www.twitter.com/ege_taepper http://www.linkedin.com/company/egetepper-as?trk=top_nav_home http://pinterest.com/egecarpets/ http://www.youtube.com/egecarpets https://vimeo.com/user11249272 https://plus.google.com/u/0/b/115553688869456745247/115553688869456745247/posts http://instagram.com/ege_carpet 7 CSR on the agenda ege really has taken CSR to heart. A great many excithe CSR department will introduce relevant CSR activiting things have happened in the last year, which will ties and projects. The CSR department is determined to affect the direction in which the company will move signal to our employees and the world around us that and how we will act in future years. we consider CSR to be an important element of ege's corporate identity. Since the last financial year, CSR has become a central and visible element in ege's business strategy. Where we previously operated with a series of poliOur corporate mission and values include the word cies in a variety of areas, we have now prepared a respect (for people and the environment). Our CSR single CSR policy, which provides a brief and accurate strategy means that we aim to demonstrate high-level description of our current goals and activities. This responsibility in the development and running of the provides a simple overview for employees and other business in order to contribute to sustainability in the stakeholders, showing how ege seeks to act within the entire value chain, while showing full respect inside our company and in the world around us. Our CSR policy company and in all our activities. establishes general guidelines. Behind the policy there is a series of different sets of guidelines which describe Our work with CSR is in line with our UN Global Comin detail what CSR means for ege and for the indipact obligation and we comply with the Dansk Fashvidual employee. ion and Textile Code of Conduct, which we joined in 2010. We have chosen to concentrate our efforts in We have prepared a set of anti-bribery and corruption three focus areas which we believe are important: the guidelines, which make it clear to everyone employed environment, employees, and health and safety. by ege how they are expected to act if they encounter bribery and corruption in their work. At the same time, Most important new initiatives we have introduced a whistleblower scheme, which During autumn 2012 we began to work towards ensures that illegal activities and other serious anomaachieving DS 49001 certification. DS 49001 is a lies can be communicated to senior management via business assurance system which enables businesses our website. and organisations to operate in a socially responsible way. We use the system to document our efforts in Diversity in the workplace is another new item on the this field. Our documentation is verified by an external agenda. We have recently prepared a set of guidepartner. To achieve the certificate, we are obliged to lines to help ensure that all our employees have the meet a large number of requirements within the followopportunity to use their skills in the best possible way, ing areas: regardless of their gender, ethnic origins, religious con• Management excellence victions, political standpoint, age, handicap, sexual • Human rights orientation etc. We have never worked systematically • Working conditions with these matters in the past so this is an interesting • Environmental conditions new field of activity within the company. • Best practice • Consumer conditions Last but not least, we are pleased to announce that, • Developing and involving the local community having worked with cradle-to-cradle principles for several years, we have succeeded in achieving Cradle DS 49001 is the Danish CSR standard. It is based on to CradleCM silver certification for our first carpet tile the international management standard, ISO 26000. product, Barcode Ecoline Modular. The Cradle to Implementation is in progress and we expect to achieve CradleCM Products Innovation Institute rated ege on a certification in 2013. number of parameters, including our work with CSR, for which we received a gold award. We have also established a group CSR function. Along with communication inside and outside the company, 8 Systems and labelling schemes ege's employees are the driving force of the company. At ege we believe that our environmental responsibiliWe believe that a good working environment is importies extend far beyond general legal requirements. For tant and desirable. To ensure that we maintain a good many years now we have striven consistently to reduce working environment, our work environmental manageour impact on the environment. In 1996, we comment system is certified in accordance with DS/OHmenced the implementation of ISO 14001 and EMAS SAS 18001 (since 2006). The objective of the system at the Group's factories in Herning and Gram. We is to monitor and minimise risks related to safety and are currently working to achieve ISO 14001 certificahealth. Moreover, we offer our employees a number of tion at UAB Litspin, our factory in Lithuania, which we services and benefits that help make ege an attractive acquired in 2012. The rigorous requirements specified workplace for current and potential employees. in these environmental management systems help us to ensure that the environmental impacts of our producOn the right track tion and products are as low as possible. We are also This year, responsibility and respect have been strongly committed to continually reducing our environmental characterised by many of the activities we have carimpact as much as possible. ried out. We have a new CSR policy, guidelines, environmental labels, etc. We have ambitious goals and We focus strongly on labelling our products to ensure we work consistently towards their realisation. There's that we can substantiate that they are safe and healthy no doubt in our minds: We know we are on the right to use. In addition to Cradle to CradleCM Silver certifitrack – and we will succeed. cation, our products are qualified to carry many other building-related certificates, including LEED and BRE. Herning, Denmark, 19 August 2013 Svend Aage Færch Nielsen John Vestergaard CEO CFO 9 Process description Flow for tufting production Stock of raw materials The following types of raw material are used for the production of tufted carpets: Pile Yarn, pre-dyed or natural white, together with auxiliary chemicals for anti-soil impregnation of the pile. Dyestuffs for dyeing of natural white yarns, as well as auxiliary chemicals and acid for pH adjustment of the colour blends. Backing Substrate for tufting of yarns. Rubber backing consisting of latex, which is a fluid, water-based rubber, together with filler and auxiliary chemicals. In addition, various types of textile backing are used (felt and woven textile). Tufting department The yarn, which can be natural white or pre-dyed, is tufted (sewn) into a thin carpet base in a width of 4 or 5 metres. This semi-finished product is called ground tissue and is available either pre-dyed or natural white for subsequent dyeing. Tip-shearer The ground tissue (only for cut pile carpets) is tip-sheared in order to finish and even out the surface. Dye plant The natural white ground tissue is either dyed via an advanced computer-controlled dye system called the Millitron, or by continuous dyeing. Adhesive The dyed ground tissue is pre-coated with a latex compound, after which the backing is attached. The backing may be: • Rubber backing • Textile backing (glued on with latex compound) ege produces mainly to order, so that most of the finished carpets are distributed directly to the customer after the backing has been attached. Tile system When tiles are manufactured, the backing of the finished carpet material is impregnated using a patented system, after which the machine automatically cuts out the tiles and packs them in boxes. Stock Products in stock are transferred to the warehouse after backing has been added, after which they are distributed to customers. 10 One loom can produce up to 800 m² carpet per hour Organisational anchorage Since 2010 ege's CSR activities have been managed which make requirements on behalf of other groups or by a CSR steering committee chaired by our Quality the environment, which are not able to defend themand Environment Manager, Jan Ladefoged. However, selves. in December 2012, we decided to go all the way and set up a group CSR function. At that time, we inege's most important stakeholders are: tegrated the Quality and Environment department into • Shareholders/owners CSR, so that the CSR department is an umbrella cover• Employees ing all activities related to CSR. Jan Ladefoged is our • Customers CSR Manager. • Suppliers • Architects/designers Along with communication inside and outside the • Local authorities company, the CSR department will introduce relevant CSR activities and projects. The CSR department is In future these are the principal stakeholders, to whom determined to signal to our employees and the world our work with CSR will be addressed. around us that we consider CSR to be an important element of ege's corporate identity. In November 2012, we sent a brochure to some of our stakeholders, describing each of the focus areas we The work of the CSR department is regularly reported will be working with in accordance with DS 49001. to the ege strategy group, which is comprised of memThe brochure described how ege prioritises each of bers of the executive management body and managethese focus areas and we encouraged stakeholders to ment group, as well as key employees. Particularly imlet us know how they personally would prioritise them. portant CSR initiatives and activities are also presented to ege's Board of Directors. The conclusion drawn from this survey was that ege should give highest priority to working conditions, conIncreased focus on stakeholders sumer conditions, environment and best practise, and In connection with DS 49001 certification, we are resecondary priority to human rights, social development quired to involve our stakeholders in seven focus areas and involvement. and a large number of topics within each of these areas. This means that in future we will work more sysOur next step will be to discover how our staketematically with stakeholder involvement. holders prioritise a large number of elements within each focus area. There is a total of 40 elements, which To ensure that we have an optimal basis for this work, we can ask stakeholders to consider. However, we we have prepared a very detailed analysis of our have assessed that only 27 of these are relevant to stakeholders. ege. We have already conducted focus group interviews with employee representatives and their trade This work includes defining precisely what we mean unions, and with shareholders/owners, respectively. by the word stakeholder and a specific assessment of In the coming year, we will conduct further interviews each stakeholder group, including a number of specific with representatives of the remaining stakeholder criteria to indicate the importance of the stakeholder groups. The overall results of the survey are intended to to ege. help us to prioritise the elements which our stakeholders believe are most important. Who are our stakeholders? A stakeholder is a party that affects or is affected by the company's decisions and actions. Stakeholders are groups of people, e.g. customers, employees and the local community, who are directly affected by the company's business. Stakeholders may also be parties 12 CASE ege carpets own 36 hectares of land forrest and meadow cover a large part of it ege protects the natural environment around its factories In the past, when he was at the helm, ege's founder, In Gram, we own 7.2 hectares of land, of which Mads Eg Damgaard, believed it was important that 24,000 m² are developed. In addition to lawns everything was neat and tidy in and around the factoaround the factory, most of the land is planted with fir ries. He bought large plots of land, which have been trees. We produce Christmas trees, which we sell to carefully tended ever since. In Herning, ege owns 36 Juletræskultur (a forestry company), and every year we hectares of land, of which 45,000 m² are developed. offer ege employees an opportunity to fell their own The land comprises areas of parkland with large Christmas tree free of charge. lawns, woods, fields and lakes. There are many wild animals on ege's estates, including deer and pheasants. We also keep a small herd of North American bison in a large enclosure next to the factory. 13 CSR policy ege wishes to demonstrate active and long-term reto increase the number of women in managerial posisponsibility for our impact on the world. In our CSR tions. We will ensure that our employees can use their work, we aim to ensure that our business model, procompetences in the best possible way, regardless of duction processes and carpet products help create a gender, ethnicity, religion, political views, age, disabisustainable society now and in the future. lity, sexual orientation, etc. At ege we see CSR not only as a means by which We will defend our employees' right of association to attract and retain employees, customers, end-users, and right to collective negotiations. If independent stakeholders and suppliers, but also as a framework trade unions are discouraged or prohibited in an area within which to develop partnerships throughout the in which we work, we will seek to promote alternative value chain. CSR also expresses our desire to develop means by which the employees are free to meet and new and consistently more sustainable products and discuss labour market issues. production methods, as well as new ways of using and disposing of our carpets. We will ensure a healthy and positive work environment for our employees and we will strive consistently The point of departure for our CSR policy is essentially to improve working conditions. We will work for diverthat we comply with all the legislative requirements, sity and we will carry out activities to promote health. regulations and standards with which we are obliged Our work environment management system is certified to comply, and also with the relevant best practices in accordance with DS/OHSAS 18001. and customs in our industry. We will also respect and promote the ten principles for social responsibility in We will ensure that our employees have opportunities the UN Global Compact and the Dansk Fashion and to develop in their work, for example, via further eduTextile Code of Conduct. cation and training. Our CSR policy includes seven DS 49001 focus areas 1.3 Environment and climate and quality. Through focused activity and by setting environmental targets, ege will strive to prevent and reduce the 1. Focus areas environmental impacts of its production activities and 1.1 Human rights the use and disposal of its products, and continue to We will operate a policy of non-discrimination and improve its efforts in the working environment area. equal rights. This will apply within the company for our This applies to our surroundings, the working environemployees and externally in our value chain. ment at our factories, and the indoor climate in environments fitted with our carpets. Our environmental We will show respect and support human rights enmanagement system is certified in accordance with deavours: civil and political rights as well as financial, ISO 14001. social and cultural rights. In countries where there is a risk of human rights violations, we will seek to take We will reduce our company's CO2 emissions and thus steps to avoid any violation of human rights inflicted on reduce our carbon footprint. We will use the Renewthe people with whom we work and have a business able Energy Certificate System (RECS) to guarantee relationship. that ege produces the agreed volume of renewable energy. Through climate partnership with DONG En1.2 Employees and working conditions ergy, ege will help maintain investment in new renewWe will provide good working conditions for our emable energy systems. ployees and we will comply with the collective agreements in our fields. 1.4 Best practice We will run every aspect of our business in an honest We will promote diversity in the workplace and work and ethical way. We will prevent and suppress cor14 Out of a total of 317 employees at ege carpets in Denmark, 190 persons work in the production ruption and bribery, and we have a zero tolerance tenance and disposal of our products. Furthermore, approach to corruption and bribery. we will encourage sustainable use of our products via the development of cradle-to-cradle products, which, We will suppress illegal conduct and anomalies within rather than becoming waste, can be transformed into and in relation to our company, including non-complinutrients or recycled. ance with this CSR policy. Therefore we give employees and other stakeholders an opportunity to complain 1.6 Local community involvement and development anonymously via our whistle blower scheme. We will become engaged in the local communities, where we manufacture our products. We will seek We will encourage social responsibility throughout our to work with relevant organisations, educational instivalue chain. tutions and public authorities on local business development, job creation and skills development, and the 1.5 Consumer conditions: The safety and health of development of modern technologies. our end-users We will encourage a safe and healthy indoor climate 1.7 Organisation management in the buildings, in which our carpets are fitted, thus An open dialogue with the company’s stakeholders is protecting the safety and health of our end-users. one of the cornerstones of the ege management philosophy. We will therefore actively engage in dialogue We will promote sustainable use of our products by with employees, customers and end-users, NGOs, supmeans of labelling and certification, and via product pliers and our owners on themes and activities that fall information and declarations describing our impact on within and are of significance to CSR. We will also the environment in connection with the fitting, use, mainensure that our CSR work is made accessible to the 15 general public and to everyone who works for or on follow the international Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) behalf of ege. standard. We have decided not to have our CSR report verified by a third party. ege's executive management has overarching responsibility for ege's CSR policy and strategy. The CSR 5. Auditing the CSR policy department develops and implements CSR goals and CSR policy will be reviewed annually by the CSR deactivities. The work of the CSR department is regularly partment. The CSR department intends to consistently reported to the ege strategy group, which is comprised assess and ensure that our CSR policy is appropriate of members of the executive management body and in our current circumstances and for the foreseeable management group, as well as key employees. future. The audited CSR policy will be approved by the strategy group. 2. Quality ege's quality management system is certified in accor6. Labels and certifications dance with ISO 9001 and will become an integral All ege products carry the CE label and selected propart of ege's forthcoming CSR management system ducts are certified/qualified within a number of differ(DS 49001), reflecting ege's values, which are Qualent programmes, including LEED, BRE and Danish Inity, Respect and Design. door Climate Labelling. All in all, our certificates cover a very wide range of issues, including safety, health, Quality is the keyword for all our products and serindoor climate and environment, life cycle analyses, suvices. We define quality as the sense of security that stainable architecture, construction products and buildis created when we achieve a balance between the ing declarations, cleaning quality and maritime safety. client’s expectations of our products and services, and his experience of these. 7. Internal guidelines ege has established a series of internal guidelines, We use a certified quality assurance system to ensure which apply to employees and others in our employ, that we meet our quality goals and that we persist in who work on ege's behalf. developing and supplying our products and services at a high and uniform quality level. The purpose of these guidelines is to ensure compliance with the CSR policy in daily life at ege. We cur3. Communications rently have guidelines in all of the following areas: We aim to maintain a high level of information in com• Anti-corruption and bribery munication with our employees and our external stake• Whistleblowing holders concerning ege's development and activities • More women in managerial positions We will therefore ensure that the CSR policy is easily • Environment accessible to all interested parties. In particular, we will • Climate work to achieve lasting ownership of the CSR policy • Quality among ege's employees. • Working environment Accommodating diversity in the labour force 4. Monitoring and reporting Alcohol We seek to substantiate all important conditions appliSmoking cable to our social, environmental and financial impact Promoting health on our surroundings. We will present relevant CSR • IT data in our annual CSR report and a CSR summary • Travel will be included in our annual report. All reports and • Vehicle loan newsletters are publicly available on our website. Furthermore, we are working to formulate guidelines for To ensure transparency and comparability, our reports responsibility in the supply chain. 16 Results Environment ment, and this helps us to continually improve and prevent by setting new objectives. The environment was an important factor at ege long EMAS before CSR became a buzzword. The factories in EMAS is an EU directive formulated for the purpose of Herning and Gram are environmentally approved by promoting environmental initiatives in all types of comtheir respective local authorities.6 ege in Herning has panies. EMAS takes the requirements in ISO 14001 also achieved environmental approval for our CHP a step further, as the EMAS requirements include imand Twistset plants. The factories at Herning and Gram proved environmental activities, employee involvement, are both categorised as Level 1 companies, which is and that environmental policy is communicated to the highest achievable level. stakeholders. EMAS is a direct response to some of the key principles of the EU's environmental action plans, ege's strongest impacts and effects on the environment and to the challenges we face in ensuring sustainable are presented in Appendix 3. development. ege registered for EMAS verification in 1996 as we believe that EMAS improves the quality ege's environmental and work environmental manageof our environmental management system. In addition ment systems cover all group activities in connection to the ISO 14001 requirements, we are also obliged with development, production and sales of tufted carto prepare a detailed environmental report, which must pets at our factories in Herning and Gram. be verified by an accredited verifier. This year our Environmental Report is included in the present CSR Report. The factories were not inspected in the period in question, nor were there environmental cases or environDeviations mental complaints from the general public. In connection with wastewater analyses in Gram performed at the local authority's request, on two occaISO 14001 sions, the COD values measured were above the leAt ege we believe that our environmental responsigally determined limits. The excessive values occurred bilities extend far beyond general legal requirements. in connection with the transition to a new wastewater Therefore, in 1996, we implemented ISO 14001 at treatment plant. We have taken steps to establish a the factory in Herning, followed by Gram in 1997. flocculation plant, which will reduce COD values in ISO 14001 is one of the environmental management the wastewater. These deviations have not led to any standards most frequently used in the world today. To serious environmental impacts, however, a corrective achieve certification, a company must meet a number action has been initiated to prevent recurrence. of different requirements related to environmental policy, planning, implementation and execution, control Climate strategy and remedial action, and management review. The We signed a climate partnership agreement with system thus obliges us to closely monitor all areas in DONG Energy in 2011. The climate partnership is which our activities have an impact on the environbased on a firm conviction that respect for the climate 6 Framework Approval: 18 October 1996 Environmental Approval, Herning, CHP plant: 18 December 2008 Supplement to Environmental Approval, Herning, Twistset plant: 7 September 2012 Environmental Approval of disposal of wastewater sludge from textile dyeing process, Herning: 12 December 1996 with supplement of 30 March 2004. Approval of waste water discharge, Herning: 11 March 1992 with supplementary approval of boiler centre of 23 April 2009 and Twistset of 16 May 2012. Environmental Approval, Gram: 29 June 1998 Discharge permit, Haderslev Municipality, permission to discharge surface water: 09 January 2009 Connection permit, Gram Municipality: 06 September 2006 The company's waste disposal procedures according to: Commercial waste regulations, Haderslev Municipality 14 June 2012 17 and good business can go hand in hand. The result we can target initiatives to minimise emissions and thus is a climate strategy comprising a series of ambitious consistently reduce our carbon footprint. Greenhouse goals which will ensure that ege is an energy-efficient Gas Accounting documents how our activities contricompany, in which management and employees asbute to global warming and climate change.7 sume active responsibility for the climate. It is important that the Greenhouse Gas Account shows In specific terms, DONG Energy is helping ege to creongoing development in the company's greenhouse ate an overview of the Group's energy consumption gas emissions. The first step is therefore to prepare and the initiatives that can be introduced to optimise greenhouse gas data for a base year. This base year and reduce both consumption and CO2 emissions. is the standard of reference for all subsequent greenege's goal is to achieve a 20% reduction in the compahouse gas accounting years. The Greenhouse Gas Acny's energy consumption and CO2 emissions by 2015, count for the current year is always compared to the measured by comparing the base period 2006-2008 Greenhouse Gas Account for the base year. to 2013/2014. A number of energy-saving projects have been defined, including: If there is extraordinary activity in a particular year, more recovery in production for example due to expansion of production, emissions more focus on recycling by means of Cradle-torelated to the extraordinary activities are accounted Cradle certification for separately. This separate account is added to the encouraging the use of renewable energy Greenhouse Gas Account for the base year, so that the Greenhouse Gas Account for the current year alWe have also signed a five-year agreement to purways presents a reliable picture compared to the base chase renewable energy. The investment will be made year. via the purchase of RECS certificates from the DONG Energy offshore wind farm at Horns Rev II (off the west This year, there have been many changes to the base coast of Denmark). year, for example, we are now able to present figures for CO2 emissions from transporting our carpets. The During the first year, we purchased renewable energy figures cover transportation by road, air and sea, when corresponding to 50% of actual consumption, and exwe have purchased transportation of our carpets from pected energy-savings, as well as energy consumption the factory to their final destination. To help make the on our carpet tile-making plant. In subsequent years, calculations, we have applied The Climate Compass, purchases will increase by 50% of the new realised which is a web-based calculation model developed energy savings. by the Confederation of Danish Industry, the Danish Business Authority and FORCE. The calculations reveal Within the company, we have put the climate strategy that in the base year we emitted 0.58 kg of CO2 per on the agenda when we train our sales force, introducm² of carpets sold. In 2012/2013, we emitted 0.97 ing them to the content of the strategy itself and teachkg CO2 per m² of carpets sold. The large increase is ing them how the climate strategy can help increase primarily due to the fact that we are now transporting ege's credibility, and how they can guide customers to more carpets overseas by air and that our carpets are differentiate between greenwashing and real green now generally transported longer distances than in the choices. past. Carbon footprint In 2012/2013 we emitted 15,403 tons of CO2, corege has prepared group greenhouse gas accounts responding to a 17% reduction relative to the base since 2009. Greenhouse gas accounting provides fiyear. There is a detailed review of our greenhouse gas gures for the company's total CO2 emissions – also accounting in the Greenhouse Gas Accounting section called our carbon footprint. By accounting for emissions, on page 40. 7 From this year, calculation of CO2 emissions will be made in CEMAsys, which is a web application designed to facilitate energy and climate reporting. The program calculates the company's CO2 emissions. 18 Cradle to CradleCM silver certification8 code of conduct is becoming normal practice in any We are pleased to announce that, having worked partnership. with the Cradle to Cradle organisation in Denmark for several years, we have succeeded in achieving A code of conduct is an ethical code, prescribing how Cradle to CradleCM silver certification for our first carthe signatory company is obliged to act socially repet tile product, Barcode Ecoline Modular. Cradle to sponsibly in many different areas, which are listed in CradleCM is one of the world's most comprehensive the code. Most codes of conduct include a duty to product certifications. To achieve the certificate, the ensure that the company's subcontractors and other product is assessed in five different categories: partners meet the same behavioural standards. • Materials in the product Bearing this in mind, and the fact that, in connection • Eco-friendly design with DS 49001, we are obligated to work systemati• Energy consumption cally with supplier management, we at ege are now • Water consumption developing our own code of conduct. In future, we will • Social Responsibility (CSR) submit our code of conduct to all our suppliers around the world. Barcode Ecoline Modular has been awarded a silver certificate. The table below shows how the product Animal welfare scored in each category. ege uses sheep’s wool in production of the yarns used to make carpets. The bulk of our wool is purchased One of the biggest challenges we faced in our endeafrom New Zealand and the remainder from the UK. vours to achieve the certificate was for ege to cajole Manufacturers in the textile industry often buy wool our suppliers into notifying us of the component subfrom sheep that have been subject to mulesing, i.e. stances in the materials used in the product. In future, that wool-bearing skin and hair is surgically removed we aim to continue to focus on this area. The certificate from the animals' breech (buttocks) without prior anaeshas to be renewed every year. We are currently in the thetisation. ege is strongly opposed to this practice. throes of preparing specific goals for our work with Dansk Fashion & Textile has investigated the scope of Cradle to Cradle in the coming years. mulesing and has concluded that mulesing is not used in connection with the production of wool for the carCode of Conduct pet industry. Three years ago, ege joined the Dansk Fashion & Textile Code of Conduct. We are obliged to work During 2011 our wool suppliers in New Zealand conin accordance with the UN Global Compact and firmed in writing that they meet the requirements stipuwith three additional principles formulated by Dansk lated in Dansk Fashion & Textile's Code of Conduct, Fashion & Textile. We have also signed a large numprinciple no. 11, which require that sheep are fed, ber of codes of conduct from our partners. Signing a reared and put down with dignity and respect. Barcode Ecoline Modular Criterion Basic Silver Gold Platinum Material  Material Reutilization/Design for Environment  Energy  Water  Social Responsibility  8 Cradle to Cradle CM Certification is a certificate licensed by the Cradle to Cradle Products Innovation Institute. 19 Employees We are aware of our corporate social responsibility to tigates and assesses the need for activities that can our employees and we wish to make ege an attractive help promote the well-being of our employees. For exand pleasant workplace for our employees. Creating ample, employees are offered weekly physiotherapy a safe and healthy working environment is therefore an at the workplace, healthy and nutritional meals in the important element of our CSR policy. To achieve this, canteen and, in Herning, we have acquired a maswe work with the occupational health and safety mansage chair which employees can use whenever they agement system DS/OHSAS 18001, which we impleneed to. In addition, we have a number of Occupamented in Herning in 2006, and in Gram in 2008. tional Health and Safety Groups charged with the task of resolving health and safety issues in the individual DS/OHSAS 18001 is an international management groups’ areas of work. tool for the working environment and health and safety, which aims to help companies manage and minimise To enhance employee safety, Herning and Gram have health and safety risks. In order to achieve DS/OHSAS established internal safety teams which consist of a fire 18001 certification, we were obliged to document fighting team and first aid teams. Safety team members that the working environment at ege is both safe and are given the necessary training and refresher courses. healthy. We have therefore resolved all obvious and There are defibrillators at both factories, which are part significant issues relating to the working environment, of the Danish Defibrillator Network. and we consistently seek to improve our efforts by revising our CSR policy and setting new objectives for both Absence due to illness the working environment and health and safety. The The overall target for the Group is maximum 4% abissues on which we currently focus are associated with sence due to illness. With absence due to illness the physical working environment and concern noise, measured at 2.7% for the year, this target has been dust and indoor climate in Herning, and space issues, achieved. In Gram, absence due to illness is 3%. In pressure of work, heavy lifting and noise in Gram. Herning, absence due to illness is the same as the average level for the group, i.e. 2.7%. In our work to create a safe and healthy working environment, we are very keen to involve our employDiversity ees. We have set up an interdisciplinary Occupational ege wishes to accommodate diversity among its emHealth and Safety Committee which regularly invesployees. For example, if an employee becomes ill or Absence due to illness 10 9 ege group 8 7 Herning 6 5 Gram 4 3 2 1 0 2008/2009 2009/2010 2010/2011 2011/2012 2012/2013 20 CASE Barcode Ecoline Modular is primarily sold to office environments Ecoline & Ecotrust: 100% recycled fibre in ege's most popular products ege's Ecoline range of carpets includes a number of Ecoline is used in Highline 1100 Ecoline and Highline products, in which the pile is made from 100% recy1100 Ecoline Modular, which are our two most popucled fibres made from industrial and consumption walar products. For example, many hotels and high-profile ste, e.g. discarded fishing nets. customers have chosen Highline 1100 Ecoline for their custom-designed carpets. Ecoline is also used in two ege's Ecotrust tile backing is also made from 100% other carpet collections, Barcode Ecoline Modular and recycled fibres, most of which is from recycled plastic Carré Ecoline. bottles. Ecotrust backing is used on all ege carpet tiles. In 2012/2013, we have used a total of 620,412 kg Ecoline and Ecotrust help to reduce ege's CO2 emisof recycled fibres. We are extremely proud to note sions. These products are a huge step on the road to that this is an increase of 605,871 kg compared to fulfilling our declared intention to use recycled materilast year. als in our products. 21 worn down, we find them alternative tasks or light ducuses uniformly and that sales representatives are opties. In 2012/2013 we had four employees employed timally equipped to represent ege in contact with our under flexible employment schemes: three in Herning customers. This long-term and ambitious programme and one in Gram. We have a further six employees not only builds our sales representatives' personal skills employed under the so-called §56 scheme: four in but also helps create closer ties between the head ofHerning and two in Gram. Under the Danish § 56 fice and the individual salesman, and between the scheme, the company can claim salary compensation sales forces in the different countries. The training also from the local authority when an employee suffering helps us identify particularly talented sales personnel from a chronic disorder is absent due to their chronic and thus retain them in our organisation. condition. The §56 employees receive remuneration corresponding to the maximum sickness benefit payThe training comprises two modules of up to six days' ment for days they are absent due to their chronic conduration. To date, 22 ege sales representatives from all dition. over the world have completed the training. Rights Employee benefits egetæpper is a member of the branch association There is more to an attractive workplace than the workDansk Fashion & Textile. In Herning and Gram, the ing environment and collective agreements. It is also company complies with the collective bargaining important that we offer employees a wide-ranging agreements between the Confederation of Danish Empackage of benefits. Among the most important beneployers (DA) and 3F (trade union), Dansk Metal (mefits at ege is the collective monthly bonus scheme, talworkers’ union), HK Privat (commercial and clerical where the bonus depends on a variety of factors, inworkers’ union) and Teknisk Landsforbund (the Danish cluding revenue and production. Association of Professional Technicians), respectively. We comply with these collective agreements where We also offer employees supplementary healthcare salaries, maternity/paternity and parental leave, indusinsurance via IF. Employees can also choose to insure trial injury insurance, liability and accident insurance, their spouse and children. terms of notice, etc. are concerned. We offer all employee groups a 12% labour-market pension scheme, Other benefits include: ege employees receive their where ege pays a premium corresponding to 8% of normal salary during acute visits to their own doctor or the employee's salary and the employee pays 4%. The acute treatment during working hours. We offer all emindividual employee can elect to make additional penployees the opportunity to have physiotherapy at the sion contributions. company and production workers are supplied with workwear. ege also offers staff associations, discounts Supplementary education and training (on fuel and paint, for example) and the opportunity to In order to be seen as an attractive employer, ege rent a summer cottage on the island of Læsø. must not only ensure that employees can do their work as well as possible, but also give them opportunities Women in managerial positions to develop their competences. During the last year, New legislation came into force in Denmark on 1 ege has maintained strong focus on staff training. The April 2013. The legislation obliges companies to adcustomary training courses and programmes for emdress the issue of whether gender distribution is equal ployees are now supplemented by new training proin company management. The new legislation entails grammes of different kinds. All our employees have an obligation for ege to adopt a policy to encourage now had the opportunity to enrol in IT, mathematics more women to take management positions and to deand Danish courses. The courses are run during norscribe how we will achieve policy targets. According mal working hours and employees receive full pay. A to the new legislation, we must also report annually on total of 50 employees followed these voluntary training our policy and targets, how we will implement these in courses this year. practice, and our results in this area. ege Academy continues. This is an ambitious sales At ege we are not accustomed to working with the training programme to ensure that our sales force fogender distribution of managerial positions. The carpet 22 industry is generally a male-dominated industry. ege is The male-female distribution on the ege Board is curno exception. 32% of our employees at the factories rently 25% women and 75% men. The new legislain Herning and Gram are female and 68% are male. tion stipulates that we must strive to achieve a 40-60 At group level, there were 24% female managers9 in distribution between women and men. In practice, it 2012. All of these women are at middle management is difficult to attract women to Board responsibilities in level. the carpet industry. For this reason, ege's Board has decided to maintain the current distribution for the next We have incorporated our intention to work towards four years. In four years' time, the Board will establish increasing the number of female employees in mananew goals and in future will focus more on nominating gerial positions into our CSR policy. To this end, we female candidates to seats on the Board. have two specific goals for the ege Group: Human rights 30% of all newly appointed managers will in future Until now we have paid no special attention to human be women. rights issues in our CSR activities because we have proBy 2017, 30% of all managers will be women. duced exclusively in Denmark, where workers' rights are very well protected by legislation and trade unIn the longer term, we wish the breakdown between ion membership. Furthermore, our DS/OHSAS 18001 men and women at management level to reflect the work environment system ensures that ege's employees general breakdown between men and women in the have a safe and healthy working environment. company. In Lithuania, we meet Lithuanian legislative requireWe have drawn up an action plan to achieve the tarments and the employees at our factory in Lithuania gets set. Our plan includes the following initiatives: are organised in an association which works to secure the best possible working conditions for its members. in future, when we recruit managers, we will call more female candidates to interview As part of our new CSR policy, we oblige ourselves to in 2014/2015, we will identify potential leadership uphold a policy of non-discrimination and to provide talent among women at the sub-managerial level equal opportunities. We will respect and support huand make goal-orientated career development man rights and we will do our utmost to avoid any vioplans for them lation of human rights inflicted on people with whom in 2014/2015 we will draw up a plan for our existwe work and do business. ing female managers, and work with them to provide personal leadership and career development Our CSR policy also obliged us to take a more active plans. approach to human rights in the future. Our first step on the road to implementing the above Anti-corruption and whistleblower scheme initiatives will be to discover what female employees Our CSR policy states that we will strive to prevent think of management at ege. We will conduct indicorruption and bribery. In the past year we have develvidual interviews and ask whether they see barriers to oped and implemented a set of guidelines which aims career development for women and what initiatives are to support these goals. All employees across the globe needed to help them progress. Then, we will describe connected with ege have been notified in writing of women's career development in several ways, applythese intentions and they are obliged to comply with ing more focus to e.g. mentor schemes and special our guidelines in this area. networks for women. 9 Definition of management levels: At ege we have three management levels: executive management, senior management and middle management. Senior managers report to the executive management body. Middle managers report to senior managers or other middle managers and may hold responsibility for a department, team or function area. Middle managers may thus also be employees without responsibility for staff. 23 We have a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption We will continue to work with KidsAid in the next fiand bribery. To ensure that anomalies are exposed and nancial year and this time the money raised will be tackled, we have introduced a whistleblower scheme, donated to The Danish Hospital Clowns. which ensures that illegal activities and other serious anomalies can be communicated – anonymously or ”Ege Foundation the Vibeke and Mads Eg Damgaard otherwise – to senior management via our website. Foundation” also makes annual donations to deserving The whistleblower scheme is approved by the Dacauses. The foundation's capital derives from the yields nish Data Protection Agency. The whistleblower on egetæpper shares. This year the Ege Foundation scheme system is run by a professional company, paid out about DKK 1.5 million. The money is donated which ensures that data is encrypted and confidential to local charities. This year the Ege Foundation made information is protected. contributions to young singers at Den Jyske Sangskole (The Jutland School of Singing), The Rebild National The anti-bribery and corruption guidelines and the Park Society, culture and conference centre Kulturwhistleblower scheme clearly signal to our employees remisen in Brande, and the local history association for and the world around us that we do not tolerate unethiGram and surrounding area. This year the Ege Founcal business practices at ege. dation has also made an extraordinary contribution of DKK 2 million to Museum Midtjylland. This is Herning's Charity work new museum, which will open in Textilforum and HernWe have worked with the KidsAid Foundation again ing Klædefabrik's (textile factory's) buildings. ege has this year. The foundation's main objective is to support especially strong ties to these buildings as it was ege's sick and underprivileged children in Denmark. We raise founder, Mads Eg Damgaard, who originally donated money for KidsAid by means of fitness campaigns for the buildings for the purpose of housing a museum. The our employees and their families. This year, the funds donation will not be paid to the museum until construcraised by the KidsAid campaign were donated to the tion work begins in 2014. Christmas Seal Homes in Hobro and Kollund. The total sum raised was DKK 100,000. 24 ege carpets has supported the KidsAid Foundations work for sick and underprivileged children in Denmark since 2011 Health and safety We believe that health and safety is a matter of prois certified according to a range of standards to ensure ducing carpets that contribute to a safe and healthy inthat the carpets meet the highest quality requirements, door climate in the buildings where they are used. The including health and safety. health and safety of our employees is detailed in the Employees section. This section, however, is dedicated All in all, our certificates cover a very wide range of to health and safety in relation to our products and the issues, including safety, health, indoor climate and enpeople who use them. We focus on product charactevironment, life cycle analyses, sustainable architecture, ristics and we work consistently to reduce any negative construction products declarations, cleaning quality impacts our products may have. Each of our products and maritime safety. 26 CASE Major savings achieved by introducing new technology ege has invested about DKK 10 million in integrating The water saved corresponds to the average annual a water purification plant into the dyeing plants in both water consumption of 750 people. The effects of these Gram and Herning. Using state-of-the-art technology, measures will be apparent from next year. the factories are now able to purify wastewater and extract thickening agent for recycling. ege received a DKK 276,000 subsidy from the Danish Ministry of the Environment to develop the technology. The process means that we can recycle about 70% of We have an excellent track record of working with wastewater and about 20% of the thickening agent. public authorities on environmental projects. There are The recycled water will reduce total water consumpcurrently several other projects in progress which are tion in the dye house by 30% in Herning and 70% in subsidised by public authorities. Gram. 27 GRI indicators EN1 – Consumption of materials Herning: 3.13 kg materials per m² of carpet Gram: 2.46 kg materials per m² of carpet Environment EN1 – Materials by weight A carpet is built up of pile (yarn and chemicals) and backing (latex, filler, auxiliary chemicals and textile backing). The carpets are dyed (dyes and chemicals and acid). We also use various materials for operation, cleaning and maintenance (oil, chemicals) and packaging (cardboard and plastic carpet tubes, wrapping foil and cardboard). Herning Gram Pile 3,078,881 kg 833,439 kg Dyeing Dept. 97,217 kg 199,654 kg Backing 7,595,887 kg 4,112,641 kg Operations, cleaning, maintenance 76,562 kg 9,031 kg Packaging 444,330 kg 222,823 kg Twistset plant 6,689 kg – Total 11,299,566 kg 5,377,588 kg EN3 – Direct energy consumption Our direct energy consumption comprises natural gas and bottled gas in Herning and Gram, and natural gas used to produce electricity at the combined heat and power plant in Herning. Herning Gram Natural gas 64,426 GJ 43,576 GJ Bottled gas 330 GJ 156 GJ Natural gas for electricity generation 9,344 GJ – Total 74,100 GJ 43,732 GJ EN4 – Indirect energy consumption As ege does not use district heating, our indirect energy consumption includes only electricity consumption for buildings and production. Herning 18,072 GJ Gram 8,710 GJ Total 26,782 GJ 28 EN3 – Direct energy consumption EN4 – Indirect energy consumption EN8 – Water consumption Herning: 18.78 MJ per m² of carpet Herning: 5.26 MJ per m² of carpet Herning: 18.37 litres of water consumed Gram: 20.92 MJ per m² of carpet Gram: 4.18 MJ per m² of carpet per m² of carpet Gram: 15.02 litres of water consumed per m² of carpet EN5 – Energy-savings We have implemented energy-saving projects in Herning in connection with converting natural gas-fired heating to heating using steam on the Twistset plant, introducing automatic start/stop on the steam system, recovering heat from exhaust air in the dye lab and shutting down the compressed air system at weekends. In Gram, energy-saving projects have included reducing pressure in the steam boiler during production downtime, reducing fan operating times on the drying oven (so that the fan stops when there is no carpet in the oven), recovering wastewater, insulating the wastewater recovery tank and several instances of adding extra insulation. Total energy savings in Herning and Gram amount to 11,495 GJ. EN7 – Initiatives taken to reduce indirect energy consumption ege's indirect energy consumption is mostly related to air travel and leased vehicles. We have not introduced initiatives to reduce indirect energy consumption in the reporting period. EN8 – Water consumption We use large quantities of water during production. In Herning and Gram the water comes from the municipal water supplies. There is no shortage of water in either of these areas. The total water consumption includes production and buildings. Herning 63,357 m³ Gram 31,396 m³ Total 94,753 m³ EN10 – Water recovery At Gram we have more than doubled the proportion of recovered water since last year. In Herning water recovery is at a slightly lower level than last year. m³ % of total water consumption Herning approx. 3,000 4.7 Gram 754 2.4 Total 3,754 4.0 29 EN16 – Greenhouse gas emissions ege’s direct emissions of greenhouse gases come from natural gas used in production and buildings and to produce electricity. In addition, fuel oil is used in buildings, bottled gas in production, and diesel and petrol in the vehicles owned by the company. Total direct greenhouse gas emissions in 2012/2013 were 7,516 tons of CO2. In addition, we emitted 2,922 tons of CO2 as indirect greenhouse gas emissions from electricity for production and buildings, as well as district heating. We therefore emitted a total of 10,438 tons CO2 as direct and indirect emissions. See Greenhouse Gas Account section on page 40 for more details about our CO2 emissions. Direct 7,516 tons CO2 Indirect 2,922 tons CO2 Total 10,438 tons CO2 EN18 – Initiatives taken to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced in connection with the energy-saving projects in Herning and Gram (see EN5). The total savings achieved represent a reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 680.7 tons of CO2. These represent significantly larger savings than last year, where energy-saving projects led to a reduction in CO2 emissions of 287.7 tons. EN21 – Water discharge All processed water from our factories is piped into the local water purification plant, while sanitary water is piped into the sewers. In Herning, water discharges are measured in m³. In Gram, they are calculated as 83% of total water consumption in production in the first quarter, after which time water discharges are also measured as m³ in Gram. Herning 50,498 m³ Gram 21,558 m³ Total 72,056 m³ EN 22 – Weight of waste and disposal methods We dispose of our waste using recovery, thermal recycling, deposit in land fills and destruction. See Statement of consumption, waste and discharges , where we describe the methods we use to dispose of the different materials. Herning Gram Recovery 111,180 kg 43,599 kg Thermal recycling 1,123,911 kg 462,658 kg Land fill 16,880 kg 0 kg Destruction 9,809 kg 0 kg 30 Chart showing percentage distribution: 100 90 Herning 80 70 Gram 60 50 40 30 20 10 0 Recovery Thermal recycling Land fill Destruction EN 24 – Weight of transported hazardous waste All our hazardous waste is transported away to be destroyed. The term 'hazardous waste' covers solid waste containing oil, waste oil, organic solvents, dye and paint containers, liquid latex, light sources containing mercury, accumulators and spray cans. Herning 9,809 kg Gram 0 kg Total 9,809 kg This is 4 tons more than last year, which, to a great extent, is due to the Twistset plant which has been moved to Herning from the closed factory in Vejle. EN26 – Limiting environmental impacts All our carpet tiles have Ecotrust backing, which is made from 100% recycled materials. We also produce the Ecoline collection. The range includes different qualities of carpet, including Highline 1100 Ecoline, which is our most popular product. 100% of the carpet fibres are recycled. For the yarn manufacturer, this means there is a reduction in energy used, compared to producing new fibres. In 2012/2013, we have used a total of 620,412 kg of recycled fibres. This is a very sharp increase of 605,871 kg, compared to last year's figure. This year we have been awarded Cradle to CradleCM silver certification on our first carpet tile product, Barcode Ecoline Modular. We are currently in the throes of preparing specific goals for our work with Cradle to Cradle in the coming years. We recommend that our customers use the ChemDry® method to care for our carpet products. This method cleans using warm, carbonised water with no added chemicals or soap, and uses less water than conventional cleaning methods on the market. Moreover, the method requires a shorter drying period, so the carpets can be used sooner after cleaning. Carpets generally reduce noise levels. Our ”NONO No Noise” carpet collection comprises carpet runners especially developed for wooden floors where the carpet’s noise-reducing properties are important. The noise-reducing effect is due to acoustic absorption and dampening of the sound of footsteps. 31 Finance EC1 – Direct financial value Our reporting in this indicator is included in ege's Annual Report 2012/2013. The Annual Report is available on our website: www.egecarpets.com. Employee conditions LA1 – The workforce We employ most people in Herning: a total of 249. The chart below shows the distribution of the workforce at the end of the financial year, i.e. hourly-paid and salaried employees, and full-time and part-time employment at our factories. This year for the first time we have also made the male-female split. No. of employees Herning Gram ege contract Total Grandmales females males females males females males females total No. of hourly-paid employees 116 27 41 6 0 0 157 33 190 Salaried employees 49 57 5 5 9 2 63 64 127 Total 165 84 46 11 9 2 220 97 317 Salaried employees Herning Gram ege contract Total Grandmales females males females males females males females total Full-time 48 51 5 4 8 1 61 56 117 Part-time 1 6 0 1 1 1 2 8 10 Total 49 57 5 5 9 2 63 64 127 LA2 – Staff turnover Staff turnover in this financial year has been relatively low. A total of 28 have left a position, while there were 39 new appointments. The table shows terminated employees by gender and age, and new appointees by gender. Terminated employees Herning Gram ege contract Age males females males females males females < 20 0 0 1 0 0 0 20-29 6 3 0 0 0 0 30-39 2 0 0 2 0 0 40-49 1 0 1 0 0 0 50-59 1 1 1 0 0 0 > 60 5 2 2 0 0 0 Total 15 6 5 2 0 0 New employees Herning Gram ege contract males females males females males females 22 14 2 0 0 1 32 LA3 – Employee benefits The company complies with the collective bargaining agreements between the Confederation of Danish Employers (DA) and 3F (trade union), Dansk Metal (metalworkers’ union), HK Privat (commercial and clerical workers’ union) and Teknisk Landsforbund (the Danish Association of Professional Technicians), respectively. We offer all employee groups a 12% labour-market pension scheme, where ege pays a premium corresponding to 8% of the employee's salary and the employee pays 4%. There are also a number of employee benefits, of which the most important are a monthly bonus to all permanent employees, and healthcare insurance. We also allow employees to visit their doctor during working hours, and offer physiotherapy and staff associations, etc. LA6 – Employee involvement in the health and safety committee At ege we have both an Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) committee and OHS groups. The Occupational Health and Safety Committee is the decision-making body, determining guidelines for health and safety issues, while the Health and Safety Groups work with day-to-day health and safety issues in the area they represent. Often the same people are elected to both bodies. Employees serving on Employees serving in Total number % of total work environment work environment workforce committee groups Herning 6 12 12 4.9% Gram 7 8 10 17.5% LA7 – Industrial injuries, accidents at work, absenteeism During the past year, there was one registered industrial accident in Herning and three in Gram. None of these accidents has resulted in permanent injury or death. Registered Work days Time lost Other incidents % time lost industrial lost without relative to accidents absence total hours worked Herning 1 3 22.2 5 0.0049 Gram 3 6 44.4 6 0.0392 Total 4 9 66.6 11 0.0118 33 Product liability PR1 – Product assessment ege is working to resolve health and safety issues throughout our products' life cycles. At each of the following stages in a product’s life cycle we therefore evaluate the extent to which the product’s impact on health and safety can be improved. Development We assess the environmental aspects when we select raw materials and suppliers. On establishing a contractual agreement, suppliers are required to sign a document to ensure that quality and environmental specifications are fulfilled. Manufacturing We work according to DS/OHSAS 18001, which ensures employees’ health and safety throughout the manufacturing process. Marketing and sales activities In our marketing, we actively use the different environmental labels carried by our products. Our marketing activities include press releases, newsletters, the company's website and product catalogues. Storage, distribution and delivery At ege we use forklift trucks to lift and move rolls of carpet. There are no obvious health and safety risks related to the storage of rolls of carpet. Distribution and delivery of rolls of carpet to carpet retailers entail certain ergonomic issues for both carpet retailers and carpet fitters. It is therefore important that the correct lifting and handling equipment is used to move the heavy rolls of carpet. ege’s carpet tiles are easier to lift, transport and fit. Use and service Our products are supplied with instructions for their fitting and care. These instructions also focus on environmental and safety issues. We recommend, for example, the use of specific types of flooring adhesive with specially low degasification into the indoor climate; EC1 in the lowest degasification class. We also recommend the Chem-Dry® cleaning method, which contains no surfactants and uses warm carbonic acid as a cleaning agent. This method uses less water than conventional cleaning methods. Disposal, recycling and recovery Used carpets are disposed of in different ways in different countries. In Denmark, carpets are disposed of by thermal recycling. In ege's Ecoline series, which consists of two carpet tile collections, 100% of the carpet fibres are recycled. PR3 – Product information All our products carry the CE label, which means that they meet all relevant European legislative requirements, the objective of which is to protect health, safety and the environment. Our products are also certified according to a large number of voluntary labelling schemes, the objective of which is to protect health, safety and/or the environment. These are BRE, LEED, BASTA, Cradle to CradleCM Silver, the Danish Indoor Climate Label, INSTA 800, BVD3, BVB, EPD and IMO. 34 Dansk Fashion & Textile Code of Conduct Principle 11 – Animal welfare In New Zealand, from where we import most of our wool, sheep breeders operate according to the regulations of Best Management Practises Applicable to New Zealand Wool (abbreviated BMP), which sets out the New Zealand wool industry's best practices and standards for wool production. According to the BMP, 90% of the sheep breeders are part of a nationwide programme to safeguard quality in a large number of areas, including animal welfare, feed and water, stock keeping and the environment. However, the BMP cannot be considered to be specific documentation that our wool suppliers adhere to these principles. During 2011 we wrote to our wool suppliers in New Zealand to ensure that they meet the requirements stipulated in Dansk Fashion & Textile's Code of Conduct, principle no. 11, which requires that sheep are fed, reared and put down with dignity and respect. All the suppliers have confirmed in writing that they meet these requirements and will continue to work in future in accordance with principle no. 11 of the Code of Conduct. Principle 12 – Charity Via the ”Ege Foundation the Vibeke and Mads Eg Damgaard Foundation” annual donations to deserving causes are made from the yields on egetæpper a/s shares. The funds are primarily donated to non-profit making activities. In Herning we have worked with the KidsAid Foundation since 2011. The foundation's main objective is to support sick and underprivileged children in Denmark. By means of fitness campaigns for our employees and their families, we raise money for charity. This year, the funds raised by the KidsAid campaign were donated to the Christmas Seal Homes in Hobro and Kollund. The total sum raised was DKK 100,000. Principle 13 – Monitoring ege is not subject to an external audit in connection with the monitoring and control of compliance with the Code of Conduct. However, we have started work on developing procedures for monitoring our suppliers. This will partly be achieved by means of our future code of conduct. In 2013/2014 we will send our code of conduct in writing to our suppliers and we will require them to sign that they are prepared to comply with it. ege's whistleblower system ensures that illegal activities and other serious anomalies can be communicated to senior management, including any failure on the part of suppliers to comply with legal requirements. In future we plan to develop a system by which to monitor if our suppliers really do live up to the promise they made when they signed our code of conduct. 35 Statement of consumption, waste and discharges Energy consumption in Herning Energy consumption in Gram kWh per m² Electricity Natural gas kWh per m² Electricity Natural gas 10 10 9 9 8 8 7 7 6 6 5 5 4 4 3 3 2 2 1 1 0 0 2010/2011 2011/2012 2012/2013 2010/2011 2011/2012 2012/2013 In the following, we present input and output stateparately. Since 1996, the combined heat and power ments for carpet production in Herning and Gram for plant at ege's factory in Herning has generated electhe financial year (1 May 2012 – 30 April 2013). In tricity which is sold to the local power station. Herning consumption of electricity, gas and water is based on the suppliers' invoices. In Gram consumpRenewable energy tion is read from the meters. The quantities of goods In 2013 we have purchased RECS certificates correpurchased via purchase orders are registered in the sponding to 4,790,231 kWh, or 65.8% of total elecwarehouse management system. The remaining figures tricity consumption in Herning and Gram in 2012. The are counted manually. Quantities and volumes of other quantity of renewable energy purchased corresponds goods and waste are based on invoices. In Herning, to the average electricity consumption of 1,065 housethe consumption of oil and chemicals for production holds. and maintenance is equivalent to the purchased quantities. In Gram, however, this is equivalent to purchased Water consumption goods less stocks. In Herning, wastewater discharges The total water consumption includes production and are calculated based on internal registrations of disbuildings. charges from production. In Gram, the figures are a percentage share of total water consumption in the Waste first quarter, and then based on internal registration of Waste is sorted and disposed of in the following main wastewater discharges by an approved flow meter. groups: • Recovery: This includes the groups of waste from Energy consumption which it is possible to recover waste either for new Total energy consumption is the total consumption of production, or as a component in another product. electricity, truck gas, natural gas, fuel oil and diesel. • Thermal recycling: The following waste is sent for thermal recycling: yarn residues, cardboard bobNatural gas is used primarily to produce heating and bins, carpet residue, sludge from the glueing works, steam for industrial processes, and for heating buildand packaging that is not recyclable. The volumes ings. of each waste type are registered as a single figure. Natural gas for electricity production is calculated se• Deposit as land fill: Sludge from the dyeing pro36 Water consumption in Herning Water consumption in Gram Litres per m² Litres per m² 20 20 19 19 18 18 17 17 16 16 15 15 14 14 13 13 12 12 10 10 2010/2011 2011/2012 2012/2013 2010/2011 2011/2012 2012/2013 cess, non-flammable waste and the waste that Herning, the total thermal effect is now 20.7 MW, cannot be handled in the incineration plant are all which means that ege is once again obliged to monideposited in land fills. tor and report CO2 emissions. CO2 emissions from the • Destruction: Waste for destruction includes waste ege Group are included in the Greenhouse Gas Acoil, chemical and raw material residues, batteries count section of this report. and fluorescent tubes. Noise Discharge In cooperation with the municipal authorities, it has been evaluated that the external noise from the compaWastewater nies does not exceed the requirement of 60 dB in the In Herning and Gram, internal wastewater purification environmental approvals, and in the current period no is performed before discharge to the municipal purifichanges have been made to the processes to indicate cation plant. any change in the external noise level. Emissions Work is ongoing to improve the internal noise level. Environmental approvals set limit values for emissions In the event of changes to production processes, new made by companies. Previous measurements in Hermeasurements will be taken. ning and Gram show that emissions of organic and inorganic substances comply with all the limit values In accordance with statutory requirements, hearing laid down in guideline no. 2/2001. tests are offered to employees working in areas with noise levels exceeding 80 dB. As alterations have been made to the natural gas-fired processing plant, a supplement to the environmental approval has been made for the Twistset plant, which has been moved to Herning after the factory closure in Vejle. CO2 emissions Having installed the Twistset plant at the factory in 37 Total input/output – for the ege Group's carpet production in Herning and Gram Input 2012/13 2011/12 2010/11 Energy consumption MWh KWh/m² MWh KWh/m² MWh KWh/m² Energy 37,575 6.78 35,335 6.49 37,181 7.08 Gas used to produce eletricity 2,596 1,658 2,152 Renewable energy 4,790 0.86 3,276 0.60 0 0.00 Water consumption m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² 94,753 17.11 97,038 17.83 97,656 18.60 Consumption of materials Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Total consumption of materials 16,677 3.01 16,141 2.97 16,033 3.05 For carpet production 15,924 2.88 15,407 2.83 15,461 2.94 Packaging 667 0.12 653 0.12 521 0.10 Operations and maintenance 86 0.02 81 0.01 50 0.01 Waste Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Recovery 155 0.03 163 0.03 110 0.02 Thermal recycling 1,587 0.29 1,431 0.26 1,352 0.26 Land fill 17 0.00 18 0.00 84 0.02 Destruction, hazardous waste 10 0.00 6 0.00 7 0.00 Discharge m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² m³ Litres/m² Wastewater 72,056 13.01 77,176 14.18 77,882 14.83 Emissions Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Tons Kg/m² Greenhouse gases1: CO2 emissions 6,545 1.18 6,067 1.12 6,412 1.22 Air emissions : 2 NOX 5 4 5 SO2, PM Biodiversity m² m²/prod.m² m² m²/prod.m² m² m²/prod.m² Developed area 69,500 0.01 69,500 0.01 69,500 0.01 Output m² m² m² Carpet products 5,538,786 5,442,414 5,250,660 All input/output data applies to Herning and Gram together, whereas the energy used to produce electricity, land fill deposits and hazardous waste apply only to Herning. The consumption of materials for carpet production includes materials for pile, dyeing, backing and Twistset. The consumption of materials for operation and maintenance includes oil and various chemicals. The wastewater volume in Herning is measured directly. The volume of wastewater in Gram in the first quarter amounted to 83% of total water consumption in production. The volume of wastewater has subsequently been measured directly by a flow meter. In 2012/2013, the combined heat and power plant's consumption totalled 235,955 m³ of natural gas, resulting in electricity generation of 1,718,830 kWh. Water consumption In Herning, the dyeing plant uses 80% of total water consumption. Water consumption In Gram, the dyeing plant uses 92% of total water consumption. Note 1. Greenhouse gases, CO2 -e : a conversion factor of 2,185 g of CO2/m³ of natural gas is used, see Key2Green web tool. For 2012/2013 CO2 -e includes contribution of UHC (including methane), which totals 39 tons of CO2 -e. Note 2. Air emissions, NOx: For 2011/2012 and 2012/2013, the emissions from motor systems and boilers are based on measurements on these systems. Data from previous years is based on theoretical calculations made in collaboration with FORCE. Air emissions, SO2 and PM: Not relevant for ege's production. 38 One of the great qualities found in products from ege is the environmentally friendly carpet backings Greenhouse Gas Account The purpose of the Greenhouse Gas Account is first These calculations also include fuel extraction. and foremost to create an overview of ege's emissions Transport in leased vehicles is included in category of greenhouse gases, with the objective of reducing 3. these emissions. As there is no international standard for greenhouse gas accounting, we have decided to Category 2: Indirect emissions account for our emissions of greenhouse gas accorIndirect emissions are defined solely as the emissions ding to the guidelines in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol related to purchased electricity. At ege this includes the (GGP)10, which is the closest you can get to an interfollowing activities: national standard in this field. GGP is in line with the Consumption of electricity in Denmark (production basic requirements of the ISO 14064 standard. The facilities as well as office buildings and sales ofmethod produces uniform and systematic figures. fices). As fluctuating rates of production affect the greenhouse Category 2 calculations of electricity consumption also gas account, we have also chosen to calculate our include fuel extraction, since the data source used only emissions per m² of carpet. includes the overall figure. Consumption of district heating in Denmark GGP operates with three categories for calculation of Consumption of electricity in the subsidiaries a greenhouse gas account: These calculations also include fuel extraction. Category 1: Direct greenhouse gas emissions Category 2: Indirect emissions Category 3: Other indirect emissions of greenCategory 3: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions house gases Reporting of emissions in category 3 is optional in the Emissions from ege GGP system. This category comprises a wide range The following describes the parameters on which ege's of activities that may be included. At ege we have Greenhouse Gas Account is based. decided to include the following activities: Transport in leased vehicles Category 1: Direct emissions of greenhouse gases Travel by air, train and ferry In this category direct emissions of greenhouse gases Goods transportation from sources owned or controlled by the company are accounted for. In ege's case, these are: New calculation method Burning natural gas in order to produce heating. For the first time, we are using the CEMAsys database Our total consumption is calculated, including the to calculate ege's CO2 emissions. This system applies proportion of electricity that is generated and sold slightly different basic data to calculate CO2, than externally. used in previous years. Furthermore, many groups are Burning fuel oils to produce heating. This includes merged, e.g. natural gas, fuel oil and LPG are counted emissions of greenhouse gases from our processes. as a single group. In the past these were reported inBurning petrol, diesel and liquid gas from vehidividually. cles owned by ege. This includes consumption of means of transport owned and managed by ege. Development since the base year Internal transport in and between production faciliThe base year for ege is an average of the Greenhouse ties, and the proportion of passenger transport that Gas Account years 2006/2007 and 2007/2008, takes place in ege's own vehicles, are included. adjusted by estimated data. This base year is the 10 World Business Council for Sustainable Development and World Resources Institute (2004) The Greenhouse Gas Protocol. A Corporate Accounting and reporting Standard, Revised Edition. 40 standard of reference for the Greenhouse Gas Account Category 3 CO2 emissions have increased, mainly for the current year, 2012/2013. due to the inclusion of emissions caused by transporting finished carpets. However, there has also been a There have been a number of changes during the year, minor increase in travel activities. Goods transportation which mean that we are required to make changes to emissions caused emissions of 3,370 tons CO2 in the the base year. There is no longer production in Vejle, base year and 4,612 tons CO2 in this financial year. but energy consumption in the buildings is still calculated as they are used as warehouses. One of the Chart 2: CO2 emissions per m² of carpet (Herning process lines has been moved to the factory in Herning + Gram) and another to Litspin in Lithuania. Data from Litspin and from our Chinese office are included in this year's kg CO2 emissions per m² of carpet Base year account. The most significant change is, however, that 2012/2013 we now include CO2 emissions for the transportation 1,8 of our carpets from the factory to the customer. 1,5 Chart 1: Statement of categories 1, 2 and 3 by 1,2 base year and year 2012/2013 0,9 Tons CO2 Base year 0,6 2012/2013 12.000 0,3 10.000 0 Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 8.000 6.000 The next pages present charts for each category speci4.000 fying the distribution of the emissions in the base year 2.000 and the year 2012/2013, respectively . 0 Category 1 Category 2 Category 3 Chart 1 shows that the direct emissions of greenhouse gases in category 1 have been reduced from 9,725 tons of CO2 in the base year to 7,516 tons of CO2 this year, equivalent to a 23% reduction. The indirect emissions of greenhouse gases in category 2 have been reduced from 5,213 tons of CO2 to 2,922 tons of CO2, equivalent to a 44% reduction. The reductions in category 1 and 2 are primarily due to the fact that there is no production in Vejle (although one process line has been moved to the factory in Herning). Energy consumption at the Litspin mill in Lithuania is also included in this year's figures. 41 Category 1: The ege Group's direct greenhouse Indirect CO2 emissions come from electricity used in gas emissions buildings and production, and district heating. There have been no significant changes in this distribution Chart 3: Direct greenhouse gas emissions since the base year. However, there has been a 44% reduction in electricity and 99% reduction in district Tons CO2 Natural gas, fuel oil and LPG heating. While reduced emissions from electricity are Vehicles, diesel and petrol due to a fall in consumption, the lion's share of the re12000 duced emissions from district heating is due to changes in the calculation factor. 10000 8000 Category 3: The ege Group's other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 6000 Chart 5: Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions 4000 2000 Ton CO2 Air, rail and ferry Goods transportation 0 Base year 2012/2013 Vehicles, diesel and petrol 6.000 5.000 Most direct CO2 emissions come from natural gas 4.000 used in production. A smaller quantity is produced by building heating and electricity production. There have 3.000 been no significant changes in this distribution since the base year. Total fossil fuel consumption is reduced 2.000 by 24%, while transportation in our own vehicles has 1.000 increased by 2%. 0 Category 2: The ege Group's indirect greenhouse Base year 2012/2013 gas emissions Chart 4: Indirect emissions In 2012/2013, CO2 emissions from transportation of finished carpets (goods transportation) are included for Tons CO2 Electricity the first time. These account for a large increase in caDistrict heating tegory 3 CO2 emissions compared to previous years. 6000 As we have transported more carpets and over longer distances this year compared to the base year, the 5000 increase is 37%. Air travel has also increased signifi4000 cantly since the base year, i.e. by 59%. 3000 2000 1000 0 Base year 2012/2013 42 ege produces on average approx. 113,000 m² carpet per week Objectives and targets Each year we set ourselves a number of environmental factory defines objectives with appurtenant environand work environmental targets in both Herning and mental targets, after which action plans are prepared Gram. We set targets based on a desire to improve to ensure that these targets are fulfilled. environmental conditions at the company, reduce our carbon footprint and create a better working environOn the following pages we list last year's objectives ment. Our objectives are based on our CSR policy and current status. These data are followed by a list of and the opportunities available to us to improve. Each new targets for the coming year. Objectives and targets for 2012/2013 – Herning Environment Area for Target(s) Status improvement Reduction It is estimated that rebuilding mixers with frequency Completed of energy converters will reduce energy consumption by apThe majority of our mixers are now rebuilt and we consumption by proximately 75% per replacement. This corresponds to have achieved the estimated savings on them. The few 75% per mixer estimated energy savings of about 24,000 kWh, comremaining mixers will be rebuilt in due course. pared to consumption in 2008/2009. Replacements are made as and when the old mixers break down. Reduction of To follow up on an earlier pilot project, purification In progress water and of the waste water from the washing section of the The project is completed. Wastewater purification and chemicals dye house has been established. This is expected to recovery of thickening agent are both working well. consumption achieve a saving of 20% of the total water consumpImplementation was completed in May 2013. A final tion from the dye works in 2012/2013 compared to calculation of savings achieved will be made at the 2010/2011. This will also entail a 20% saving on conclosing of the accounts 2013/2014. sumption of thickening agent. The project is expected to be completed before the end of the 2012/2013 financial year. Recycling of Before 2012/2013 we will expand the extent to which In progress fibrous materials fibrous material from production is recycled. We have established systems to collect and sort fibre. Further sales channels are being investigated. Reduction The Twistset plant from Vejle will be installed in Herning Completed of water before the end of 2012. In conjunction with the installation of the plant, several and energy We will subsequently evaluate the opportunities for changes were made which will reduce water and consumption achieving savings on energy and water consumption. energy consumption, including more efficient steam heat exchangers. Reduction of gas In 2012/2013 we will install valves on steam pipes Completed and electricity in the boiler centre, so that steam and compressed air The project has been completed as planned and the consumption can be regulated to meet requirements. Calculated expected energy savings are considered to have been energy savings on steam in 2013/2014 are expected successfully achieved. to be 13,500 m³ of gas a year and on compressed air 10,300 kWh a year, compared to 2011/2012. Establishment In 2012/2013 we will install measuring devices on Completed of measuring the adhesive furnace with a view to reducing energy Based on tests, we have installed a measuring and devices with a consumption. optimising system, which will reduce energy consumpview to saving Potential energy savings will be evaluated and docution. Final calculations of the savings achieved will energy mented. be made and assessed at the closing of the accounts 2013/2014. 44 Working environment Area for Target(s) Status improvement Improve physical Before the end of 2012/2013 an automatic splicing Completed and ergonomic robot will be established in the new tufting hall to We have installed a splicing robot. Further optimisaconditions eliminate manual splicing. tions will be introduced on an ongoing basis. Improve working During the financial year 2012/2013, a further three Completed conditions tufting machines will be moved from the old to the new The tufting machines have recently come into operatufting hall, in order to improve working conditions tion. Working conditions will be improved in conrelated to repetitive work, noise and heavy lifts. nection with their implementation and the project is expected to be completed within six months. Improved In financial year 2012/2013, we will install a ventilaCompleted indoor climate tion system in order to improve air quality in the dye The ventilation system is installed and has improved conditions lab, at the tip-shearer and at the repairs bench. indoor air. Improving In financial year 2012/2013, we will install a new Completed ergonomics in roller bench in the cutting hall. A new roller bench has been installed in the cutting the cutting hall hall. It is height-adjustable and makes handling easier. 45 New targets for 2013/2014 – Herning Environment Area for improvement Target(s) Reduction of water and chemicals Following on from an earlier pilot project, we will install a wastewater purification plant to consumption purify wastewater from the washing section of the dye house. Installation is expected to bring about a 20% saving on total water consumption on the dyeing plant in 2012/2013, relative to 2010/2011. Installation will also help save 20% of thickening agent consumption. The project is expected to be completed before the end of the 2013/2014 financial year. Recycling of fibrous materials Before the end of the period 2013/2014, we will expand the extent to which fibrous material from production is recycled. Replace gas trucks with hydrogenBefore the end of 2013 gas trucks will be replaced by hydrogen-fuelled or electric trucks. This fuelled or electric trucks will reduce consumption of bottled gas and thus also our carbon footprint. Reduce energy consumption by Before the end of the financial year 2013/2014, we will further reduce energy consumption. insulating steam pipes We will insulate steam pipes. This is estimated to create savings of 404,029 kWh a year. Working environment Area for improvement Target(s) Improve lighting at tufting machines During the financial year 2013/2014, new LED lighting will be installed at six tufting machines in order to improve working conditions in connection with maintenance and repairs. Minimise quantity of exhaust gas and Before the end of 2013, the indoor climate in production areas will be improved by replacing noise gas trucks with hydrogen-fuelled and electric trucks. These improvements will reduce exhaust gas to a minimum and reduce noise levels. 46 egetæpper celebrates 75th anniversary in 2013 and in connection with this a fully renovated showroom is presented at the factory in Herning, Denmark Objectives and targets for 2012/2013 – Gram Environment Area for Target(s) Status improvement Improve In 2009/2010 we will work to improve wastewater In process wastewater purification in order to significantly reduce the COD The average COD content in 2012/2013 was 6,711 purification content. The target in 2009/2010 is to reduce the mg/l. This is an increase compared to the average COD content of the discharge water by more than level in 2009/2010. Our target was not achieved as 50% to 2,000 mg/l from the present average COD we are still in the process of restoring, extending and content of 5,500 mg/l. commissioning the new plant. New figures will be available at the closing of the accounts 2014/2015. Recovery of dye To recover dye bath residue for thermal recycling so In progress bath residue for that discharge water does not contain COD, phosphoExperiments to recover dye bath residue on a pilot thermal recycling rus and nitrogen. plant using adjuvants are under way. Expected to be completed by 2013/2014. Reduction of dye In 2009 dye bath waste was approximately 10%. Completed bath residue This waste is expected to be reduced by 50% in The target is achieved. Recovery of dye bath residue 2012/2013 compared to 2008/2009. The reducis in progress and in 2012/2013 reduced from about tion will be feasible if we recover and reuse dye bath 10% to 4.6%. We have therefore achieved a 54% residue from squeegeeing. reduction in waste from 2009 to 2012/2013. Reduction of On commissioning the new wastewater purification In progress wastewater plant, the volume of wastewater is expected to be The volume of waste water per m² is reduced by reduced by 50% per m² in 2012/2013, compared to 29.4%, compared to 2010/2011. We did not reach the volume in 2010/2011. our target because, due to technical difficulties, the wastewater purification plant has only been in operation half of the time. New figures and project completion deferred until 2014/2015. Reuse of excess Reuse of excess heat from furnaces is expected to In progress heat reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2012/2013, The completion of this project is deferred until complecompared to 2009/2010. tion of the wastewater project in 2013/2014, as it will not be possible to introduce heat recovery before then. Energy reduction An energy reduction of 10% and increased capacity of In progress and capacity 10% in 2012/2013, compared to 2010/2011. Refurbishment of the furnace and other measures increase on the are expected to result in the calculated savings. As adhesive furnace optimisation and reconstruction work will take place in July/August 2013, the effects will not be measurable for a full year until the closing of the accounts in 2014/2015. 48 Working environment Area for Target(s) Status improvement Improve vacuum Establish centralised vacuum cleaning system in the Completed cleaning adhesive furnace. The equipment is fitted, commissioned and working well. Expansion and Expansion and improvement including a larger heightIn progress improvement of adjustable desk, noise reduction and regulation of The project is in progress. Many of these measures office workplace temperature and daylight. Expected to be completed have been implemented and the project is expected to in the adhesive by 2013/2014 at the latest. be completed on schedule. works Simplify Change production of colour strips collection to reduce In progress production of manual work and maintain quality. Expected to be The labels heating section is fitted and working well. colour strips completed by 2013/2014. We are investigating the opportunities to introduce a collection robot to handle the colour strips collection. 49 New targets for 2013/2014 – Gram Environment Area for improvement Target(s) Improve wastewater purification In 2009/2010 we will work to improve wastewater purification in order to significantly reduce the COD content. The target is to reduce the wastewater COD content by more than 50% to 2,000 mg/l in 2012/2013 from the average COD content of 5,500 mg/l in 2009/2010. Results and project completion are deferred until 2014/2015. Reuse of excess heat Reuse of excess heat from furnaces is expected to reduce energy consumption by 10% in 2012/2013, compared to 2009/2010. Results deferred until 2014/2015 because the equipment is not yet complete. Recovery of dye bath residue for To recover dye bath residue for thermal recycling so that discharge water does not contain thermal recycling COD, phosphorus and nitrogen. The project is expected to be completed in 2014/2015. Reduction of wastewater On commissioning the new wastewater purification plant, the volume of wastewater is expected to be reduced by 50% per m² in 2012/2013, compared to the volume in 2010/2011. A realistic calculation proved impossible in 2012/2013 because the wastewater purification plant has only operated half of the time. New figures and project completion deferred until 2014/2015. Energy reduction and capacity An energy reduction of 10% and increased capacity of 10% in 2012/2013, compared to increase on the adhesive furnace 2010/2011. Renovation and commissioning of new equipment will take place midway through 2013. Completion and project evaluation deferred until 2014/2015. Recycle rainwater Rainwater recycling is expected to be established by 2014/2015. 50 Working environment Area for improvement Target(s) Expansion and improvement of office Expansion and improvement including a larger height-adjustable desk, noise reduction and workplace in the adhesive works regulation of temperature and daylight. Expected to be completed by 2013/2014 at the latest. Simplify production of colour strips Change production of colour strips collection to reduce manual work and maintain quality. collection Expected to be completed by 2013/2014. Automatic pumping of CHT additives Automatic pumping of CHT additives. Expected to be completed midway through 2013. Improve office workspace in Improvements to office workspaces in the maintenance department will be made in maintenance department 2013/2014. 51 CSR in the future In the past year we have done our utmost to ensure that We will of course continue to develop workforce comCSR becomes a permanent feature of our company. petences by means of education and training and, We have introduced many new initiatives, which are in the environmental area, there are many interesting currently being rolled out. And, of course, we're not projects in progress, based on the cradle-to-cradle phigoing to stop here. With DS 49001 certification on losophy. We will continue to do all of these things in the horizon, we will introduce many new CSR activities the future. in the future. For example, we will begin to work systematically with supplier management and with encouraging more women to take managerial positions. Time line BVD3 construction BVB con ISO 9001 quality certification 1992 INSTA 800 cleaning quality 2002 DS/OHSAS occupational health and ISO 14001 environmental safety certification 2006 management certification 1996 CE marking 2006 First official workplace LEED sustainable construction 2008 assessment 1996 First Environmental Report 1996 BRE Life Cycle analysis 2007 Endorsed EN 1307 product classification 1998 EMAS Eco-management certification 1996 First Greenhouse Gas BASTA harmful substances re 52 ege carpets factory in Herning covers 45,000 m² products declaration 2009 struction products assessments 2010 First CSR Report 2010 CSR department set up 2012 EPD Environmental Declaration Supplier management initiated in ISO 14025 2012 CSR policy 2013 Cradle to CradleCM certification Trans-Q, Achilles approval 2012 of other products Climate partnership with DONG Energy 2011 Code of Conduct 2013 the UN Global Compact 2010 EPD, Environmental Product Declaration on 6 products 2013 Account 2009 Cradle to CradleCM Silver certificate awarded to quirements 2008 “Barcode Ecoline Modular” 2013 53 Appendix 1: GRI index of contents No. Topic Section Page Strategy and analysis 1.1 Management endorsement CSR on the agenda 8-9 Organisation profile 2.1 Organisation name Profile 5 2.2 Primary products and markets Profile 5 2.3 Organisational structure Profile 5 2.4 Location of main office Profile 6 2.5 No. of countries in which the organisation Profile 6 operates 2.6 Ownership structure Referral to the Annual Report 2012/2013 6 2.7 Markets Profile 5 2.8 Key figures for the organisation Referral to the Annual Report 2012/2013 6 2.9 Significant changes Profile 6 2.10 Awards won in reporting period Profile 6 Report structure 3.1 Reporting period ege's CSR report in a new format 2 3.2 Latest report date ege's CSR report in a new format 9 3.3 Reporting frequency Profile 6 3.4 Contact us ege's CSR report in a new format 2 3.5 Limitation basis Organisational anchorage 12 3.6 Limits ege's CSR report in a new format 2 CSR on the agenda 8 3.7 Limitations ege's CSR report in a new format 2 3.8 Subsidiaries, etc. ege's CSR report in a new format 2 3.10 The effect of changes compared to the CSR on the agenda 6 previous report 8 3.11 Significant changes compared to the ege's CSR report in a new format previous report Management, obligations and stakeholder involvement 4.1 Management structure Profile – referral to the Annual Report 6 2012/2013 4.2 Chairman Profile – referral to the Annual Report 6 2012/2013 4.3 Independent status Profile – referral to the Annual Report 6 2012/2013 4.4 Shareholders’ and employees’ opportuniProfile – referral to the Annual Report 6 ties to exert influence 2012/2013 4.14 Stakeholder groups Organisational anchorage 12 4.15 Identification of stakeholders Organisational anchorage 12 54 No. Company CSR indicators Section Page Finance EC1 Direct financial value Profile – referral to the Annual Report 2012/2013 6 GRI indicators 32 Environment EN1 Materials distributed by weight GRI indicators 28 EN3 Direct energy consumption GRI indicators 28 EN4 Indirect energy consumption GRI indicators 28 EN5 Energy savings GRI indicators 29 EN7 Initiatives to reduce indirect energy conGRI indicators 29 sumption EN8 Water consumption Results – Environment 29 GRI indicators EN10 Water recycling GRI indicators 29 EN16 Greenhouse gas emissions Results – Environment 18 GRI indicators 30 EN18 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse GRI indicators 30 gas emissions EN21 Water discharge GRI indicators 30 EN22 Weight of waste and method of disposal GRI indicators 30 EN24 Weight of transported waste GRI indicators 31 EN26 Limiting environmental impact GRI indicators 31 Employee conditions LA1 The workforce GRI indicators 32 LA2 Employee turnover GRI indicators 32 LA3 Employee benefits Results – Employees 22 GRI indicators 33 LA6 Employees in safety organisation Results – Employees 33 GRI indicators LA7 Industrial injuries, accidents at work, Results – Employees 33 absenteeism GRI indicators Product liability PR1 Product evaluations GRI indicators 34 PR3 Product information Results Health and safety 26 GRI indicators 34 Dansk Fashion & Textile Principle Animal welfare Results – Environment 19 11 GRI indicators 35 Principle Charity work Results – Employees 22-23 12 GRI indicators 35 Principle Monitoring Results – Employees 23 13 GRI indicators 35 55 The development and history of ege carpets can now be seen in the “ege museum” at the factory in Herning, Denmark Appendix 2: EMAS index of contents Topic Section Page Reporting period ege's CSR report in a new format 2 Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 36-37 EMAS registration ege's CSR report in a new format, note 2 2 Environmental verifier and validation date ege's CSR report in a new format 2 Communications Profile 5-6 CSR policy 14 Next verification ege's CSR report in a new format, note 1 2 Declaration ege's CSR report in a new format 2 The ege Group/company profile Profile 5-6 Significant changes Profile 6 Management Statement CSR on the agenda 8-9 Product description Profile 5 Company location Profile, note 4 and note 5 5 Employee involvement Results/Employees 20 Process description Process description 10 The organisation's environmental policy CSR policy 14 The organisation's OHS policy CSR policy 14 Climate policy CSR policy 14 Scope Results/Environment 17 Environmental approvals Results/Environment 17 Results/Environment, note 6 17 Reference to applicable environmental legislative CSR policy 14 requirements Current environmental cases Results/Environment 17 Deviations Results/Environment 17 Enquiries Results/Environment 17 Environmental objectives and targets Objectives and targets 44-51 Description of the environmental management system Results/Environment 17 and EMAS Most important environmental impacts and effects Appendix 3: Most important environmental 58 impacts and effects Consumption statements/statement period and form Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 36 Energy consumption Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 36 Energy production Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 36 Renewable energy Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 36 Water consumption Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 36 Waste Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 36 Discharge Statement of consumption, waste and discharges 37 Total input/output Total input/output – for the ege Group's carpet 38 production in Herning and Gram 57 Appendix 3: Most important environmental impacts and effects The environmental impacts and effects are related to the factories in Herning and Gram Development, raw materials, production We therefore optimise waste for recycling on a regular and emissions basis. Where thermal recycling is concerned, the exterWe evaluate the raw materials used in carpet producnal environment is affected by greenhouse gases and tion, not only when we develop new products but also acidification, because CO2, NOX and SO2 are given in the purchasing phase. We have strict requirements, off in the incineration process. However, we choose to which are well in excess of the legislative requirements incinerate waste at large incineration plants, where the and we make thorough market investigations in order incineration process is most efficient and therefore has to select products with low environmental impacts. As less impact on the environment. yarns, carpet bases, backing materials and packaging primarily comprise synthetic materials, they are considThe packaging we use is cardboard or plastic. Plastic ered to have a significant environmental impact. The packaging is made from polyethylene and polypropydyes and chemicals that are considered to be toxic are lene and is therefore considered to have a significant likewise considered to be significant impacts. Based environmental impact, as these plastic products are on this assessment, we seek to influence the supplier to produced from oil, which is a non-renewable resource. show greater environmental responsibility. Working environment We are aware that, as a production company, we ege's working environment is subject to continuous evalhave a high consumption of energy. This makes it all uation on the basis of workplace assessments (called the more important to systematically reduce our conAPVs), safety inspections, accidents, near misses and sumption of electricity, gas and water. Our atmosphere evaluation of the psychosocial working environment. is affected by emissions of CO2 and NOX, and our Noise is considered to be significant if it is covered by water consumption affects groundwater levels. statutory provisions and complaints are made. In connection with production we strive to optimise Transport our utilisation of resources with a view to minimising Transport of products is associated with certain environtotal consumption of resources and total volume of mental impacts, e.g. CO2 emissions. waste. Before purchase, new production equipment is assessed to ensure that as far as possible the most Product information, fitting and applications environmentally-sound technology is used. The environmental management system ensures that our products are subject to extensive testing and decThe production processes discharge dust, odours and laration in terms of quality and environmental characemissions to the surrounding environment. These imteristics. pacts primarily affect neighbours to the factories. Emissions from process facilities where processing temperaege recommends that only floor adhesives with the tures exceed 75°C, and if such emissions are subject lowest possible emissions are used. These are called to current statutory provisions, are considered to be sigthe EC 1 classified floor adhesives. Other types of nificant. Emissions from dyeing, adhesive and fixation floor adhesive are considered to contribute significantly plant are considered to be significant. higher environmental impacts. Wastewater and waste are also environmental impacts which are regulated by legislation and which are evaluated annually with a view to improving and/ or minimising them. 58 Appendix 4: Calculation basis and data sources The Greenhouse Gas Account is based on a number of data sources that make it possible to convert our energy consumption to CO2 emissions The CEMAsys calculation method is generally apin some areas, we distinguish between international plied. CEMAsys complies with international standards and national transport (applicable to air and train traand meets the requirements of the Greenhouse Gas vel). VIA Egencia supplies ege with greenhouse gas Protocol. The Energinet.dk declaration and the 125% accounts for CO2 emissions from air travel ordered method are used to calculate Danish emissions. The from ege's main office in Herning. To help make the district heating works' own emissions are used to calcalculations for goods transportation, we have applied culate ege's district heating emissions. With exception The Climate Compass, which is a web-based calculaof electricity and district heating, the same emissions tion model developed by the Confederation of Danish factors are used in all the different countries. However, Industry, the Danish Business Authority and FORCE. Appendix 5: GRI application levels Report Application Level C C+ B B+ A A+ Report on: Report on all criteria listed for Same as requirement for Level B. 1.1 Level C plus: G3 Profile 2.1 2.10 1.2 OUTPUT Disclosures 3.1 3.8, 3.10 3.12 3.9, 3.13 4.1 4.4, 4.14 4.15 4.5 4.13, 4.16 4.17 Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Report Externally Assured Standard Disclosures Not required. Management Approach Management Approach Disclosures for each Indicator disclosed for each G3 Management category. Indicator category. OUTPUT Approach Disclosures Report on a minimum of 10 Report on a minimum of 20 Respond on each core G3 performance Indicators, performance Indicators, at least and Sector Supplement* G3 Performance including at least one from one from each of: economic, enindicator with due regard to the OUTPUT Indicators & each of: social, economic and vironment, human rights, labor, materiality Principle by either: Sector Supplement environment. society, product responsibility. a) reporting on the indicator or Performance Indicators b) explaining the reason for its omission. *Sector supplement in final version 59 www.egecarpets.com ege inhouse 0813 8054001 Head Office egetæpper a/s • Industrivej Nord 25 • DK-7400 Herning • Tel. +45 97 11 88 11 • Fax: +45 97 11 95 80 • E-mail: ege@ege.dk • www.egecarpets.com
