KOMATSU REPORT 2013 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 To Our Stakeholders 01 Interview with President and CEO 05 Feature Story 29 Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future Review of Operations 41 CSR and the Environment 47 Our Approach to CSR 48 Enhancing Quality of Life 71 Developing People 86 Growing with Society 99 Corporate Governance 118 Corporate Information 121 Financial Section 【Editing Policy】 · Unless otherwise noted, FY2012 in this KOMATSU REPORT 2013 indicates the fiscal year from April 1, 2012 through March 31, 2013. Komatsu Ltd. issues this KOMATSU REPORT 2013 only on the website below. PDF files are available for printing. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2013) http://www.komatsu.com/CompanyInfo/ir/annual/ · For information concerning Komatsu’ s CSR and environmental activities, visit the website below. CSR http://www.komatsu.com/CompanyInfo/csr/ 【Cautionary Statement】 This Annual Report contains forward-looking statements that reflect management’ s views and assumptions in the light of information currently available with respect to certain future events, including expected financial position, operating results and business strategies.These statements can be identified by the use of terms such as “will,” “believes,” “should,” “projects,” “plans,” “expects” and similar terms and expressions that identify future events or expectations. Actual results may differ materially from those projected, and the events and results of such forward-looking assumptions cannot be assured. Any forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report, and Komatsu assumes no duty to update such statements. Factors that may cause actual results to differ materially from those predicted by such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, unanticipated changes in demand for the Company’ s principal products, owing to changes in the economic conditions in the Company’ s principal markets; changes in exchange rates or the impact of increased competition; unanticipated costs or delays encountered in achieving the Company’ s objectives with respect to globalized product sourcing and new information technology tools; uncertainties as to the results of the Company’ s research and development efforts and its ability to access and protect certain intellectual property rights; the impact of regulatory changes and accounting principles and practices; and the introduction, success and timing of business initiatives and strategies. To All Our Stakeholders KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Kunio Noji , Chairman of the Board Tetsuji Ohashi , President and CEO Please be advised that effective April 1, Kunio Noji, President and CEO resigned to become Chairman of the Board and Tetsuji Ohashi became President and CEO. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 01 To All Our Stakeholders KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Performance For the fiscal year under review (April 1, 2012 – March 31, 2013), consolidated sales of construction, mining and utility equipment declined from the previous fiscal year, reflecting a drastic decline in demand for construction equipment in China and a sharp drop in demand for mining equipment mainly in Indonesia, as adversely affected by the falling price of coal. In the industrial machinery and others business, while sales of large presses to the automobile manufacturing industry, as well as machine tools for use in automotive engine production, increased from the previous fiscal year, those of wire saws for use in slicing silicon ingots for the solar cell market sharply fell. As a result, consolidated sales in this business segment declined from the previous fiscal year. For the fiscal year under review, consolidated net sales decreased by 4.9% from the previous fiscal year to, JPY1,884.9 billion (USD20,053 million at JPY94/USD). With respect to profits, we focused continuous efforts to increase selling prices and reduce production costs. Affected by a big drop in sales volume from the previous fiscal year, profits declined in both businesses of construction, mining and utility equipment as well as industrial machinery and others. Operating income declined by 17.5% to JPY211.6 billion (USD2,251 million). Operating income ratio decreased by 1.7 percentage points to 11.2%, and income before income taxes and equity in earnings of affiliated companies declined by 18.0% to JPY204.6 billion (USD2,177 million). Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. amounted to JPY126.3 billion (USD1,344 million), a decline of 24.4% from the previous fiscal year. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 02 To All Our Stakeholders KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Issues Ahead The Komatsu Group worked to improve the added values of its products, further strengthen its operation in growth markets and enhance its continuous groupwide Kaizen (continuous improvement) capability in particular under the Global Teamwork for Tomorrow mid-range management plan for a three-year period from April 1, 2010 to March 31, 2013. In this period, Komatsu Group's business environment changed dramatically, as represented by a sharp hike of the Japanese yen against other major currencies, the Great East Japan Earthquake, and dramatic changes in demand for wire saws as well as construction and mining equipment in China and Indonesia. Under such an environment, the Komatsu Group worked to maintain high profitability regardless of market conditions by improving selling prices and production costs and strengthening its corporate fundamentals to flexibly meet dynamic changes in foreign exchange rates and market demand. Demand for construction and mining equipment plunged drastically under economic slowdowns worldwide as triggered by the financial crisis in the United States in September 2008, and then recovered rapidly, driven by Chinese and Indonesian demand. Today, we need to expect that demand will remain at a standstill for the time being, mainly against the backdrop of demand in these two countries entering an adjustment phase. However, we project that demand will steadily increase in the mid to long-range perspective, supported by global population growth and increasing rates of urbanization worldwide. To continue to focus on its core businesses of construction and mining equipment, as well as industrial machinery, invest in growth, and strengthen its corporate fundamentals, the Komatsu Group started the Together We Innovate GEMBA Worldwide threeyear mid-range management plan in April this year. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 03 To All Our Stakeholders KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Under the current mid-range management plan, we are going to work on the focused activities based on the two paired wheels of the Growth Strategies designed to capitalize on our strengths and the Structural Reforms designed to strengthen our corporate fundamentals. At the same time, we are also making all-out efforts to improve the level of profit redistribution to our shareholders. To effectively tackle the high hurdles of focused activities, it is indispensable that the teamwork of Komatsu Group s employees with GEMBA (workplace) capabilities engage in continuous improvement activities by identifying workplace tasks and solving them. All Komatsu Group employees worldwide will continue to promote continuous improvement activities based on The KOMATSU Way. In particular, we will further strengthen brand management activities through which we strive to thoroughly understand customers' workplaces and become indispensable to them. In this way, we will develop human resources that are needed for business expansion on a global scale. Based on the belief that its corporate value is the total sum of trust given to Komatsu by society and all its stakeholders, the Komatsu Group is further strengthening its corporate governance to ensure sound and transparent management, while improving management efficiency. Being committed to promoting thorough compliance, the Komatsu Group will also ensure all employees share The KOMATSU Way. In addition to improving its business performance, the Komatsu Group will facilitate both the development of corporate strength and the achievement of social responsibility in a well-balanced manner. On behalf of the members of the Board, we would like to extend our sincere appreciation to our valued shareholders, customers and business partners around the world for their support. July 2013 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 04 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 05 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 06 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Komatsu s corner stone of management remains unchanged, even when presidents change. It lies in commitment to Quality and Reliability in order to maximize our corporate value. We define our corporate value as the total sum of trust given to us by society and all stakeholders. At Komatsu we have The KOMATSU Way, which spells out Komatsu s strengths that our forerunners have built on, the beliefs that support those strengths, basic attitudes toward work and the code of conduct which demonstrates those values. The KOMATSU Way is shared as Komatsu s DNA by all Komatsu Group employees around the world. I am also going to inherit The KOMATSU Way in my management, thereby continuing to constantly emphasize the basics, such as safety, environmental conservation, compliance and quality assurance, while striving to ensure further business growth in order to increase the trust of all stakeholders. Under the leadership of Mr. Sakane, then President and CEO (FY2001 – FY2007) and currently Director and Councilor, Komatsu moved business forward under the slogan of DANTOTSU. Under the leadership of Mr. Noji as President and CEO (FY2007 – FY2013), global teamwork as a key concept of management was emphasized. During the days of these two presidents, they both stressed the importance of Gemba (workplace) at the bottom line of management. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 07 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 All corporate activities are essentially based on Gemba. I am also going back to the basics of our Gemba philosophy in order to learn more about all Gemba, such as customers, distributors, manufacturing sites, human resource development and places of contact with society. In this manner, I will make all-out efforts to ensure we collaborate with all our partners and offer new innovations. The slogan of the new mid-range management plan, which I am going to discuss later, is Together We Innovate GEMBA Worldwide . I would like to see that all Komatsu Group employees will team up with distributors and suppliers, work to improve customers Gemba together with them, and offer innovations designed to create new values so that we should be able to continue to grow in our core businesses of construction and mining equipment as well as industrial machinery. I hope this slogan will clearly express these feelings I have. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 08 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 By providing our products and service, for example, construction equipment to develop cities, mining equipment to obtain commodities, and forest machines needed to produce lumber and pulp, we are helping people improve their lives around the world. In the course of our business operation, we foster the growth of local people with maintenance skills for our machines, thereby contributing to the vitalization of local human resources and communities. Therefore, I believe our business on a global scale itself represents CSR efforts. Under the growth strategies based on innovation in the new mid-range management plan, we are going to facilitate the development and market introduction of products which feature leading-edge ICT advantages, such as Machine Control/Guidance construction equipment designed to streamline and eventually automate construction jobsites, Autonomous Haulage System which contributes to improved safety and yields, and fleet control systems for forest machines. Through these efforts, we are determined to change our customers jobsites together with them and create new values through innovation. I feel this is also our big responsibility. When engaging in these businesses, we must make the utmost emphasis on safety as a manufacturer. Safety is a CSR by itself, and is also our commitment to ourselves, families and all colleagues around us. Furthermore, compliance is our commitment to local communities, and quality is our commitment to customers. Without these three commitments, I believe no company can exist. I would like to manage Komatsu for sustainable growth, as we make progress in business while fulfilling these responsibilities. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 09 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Environmental efforts are one of the highest-priority tasks of companies in order to fulfill corporate social responsibilities and ensure sustainable growth. Komatsu will proactively make efforts to reduce environmental inpact in all business aspects. With respect to our measures against climate change (global warming), we are making solid efforts to reduce CO2 emissions in both development and production operations. Concerning CO2 emissions in the stages of production to disposal of construction equipment, some 90% comes from customers use. Therefore, in development, we are concerting efforts to hybrid hydraulic excavators which achieve significant reduction of CO2 emissions when used and ICT-intensive construction equipment which shortens construction periods. In production, we have already launched, since fiscal 2012, the 3-year program to cut down electric power consumption in half at all plants in Japan. This program calls for introduction of energy-efficient buildings, manufacturing equipment and high-yield configuration of production lines. We are continuing these efforts designed to simultaneously improve productivity and reduce power consumption. From the viewpoint of the so-called recycle-based society, we are continuing our efforts to minimize the use of chemical substances of environmental burden and further promote Zero Emissions in production. We will also be facilitating the wide use of remanufactured components and re-use rates of parts. With respect to biodiversity preservation, we are emphasizing the One Activity per Base program in addition to conventional efforts. We are making joint efforts with local residents to preserve biodiversity by building biotopes which integrate local water and forest resources, for example, in Usuki City in Oita Prefecture, where we have the Test Engineering Center, in Komatsu City where we manage Komatsu Green Park, and Osaka, Oyama and Koriyama plants. Environmental preservation is absolutely indispensable for companies to ensure sustainable growth. We will be further improving the level of our environmental efforts by collaborating with our overseas manufacturing and sales subsidiaries, distributors and suppliers around the world. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 10 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Goal and results of CO2 emissions volume The Komatsu Group has achieved the FY2012 goal for CO2 emissions volume. ■ CO2 emission volume and index per unit of ■ CO2 emission volume and index per unit of manufacturing ■ Reduction of instantaneous power consumption manufacturing value at Komatsu Group plants in Japan value at Komatsu Group plants outside of Japan in the summer ● We have achieved our targets for FY2012 in both volume and index per unit. ● We work for the global community by reducing our CO2 emission volume. ● We are monitoring instantaneous power consumption. ● In addition, we are continuing our efforts to cut down electric power consumption in half. ● We are promoting the use of more energy-saving lighting, inverters and other means. ■ Total amount of CO2 emissions of all komatsu Group plants in Japan ■ CO2 emission volume (1,000 tons) Plants in Japan: Instantaneous power consumption during ● CO2 emission index per unit of manufacturing value (compared to FY2000) ● CO2 emission index per unit of manufacturing value (compared to FY2005) the peak season of July through September (kW) CO2 emission ● CO2 emission index per unit of manufacturing value at CO2 emission CO2 emission Instantaneous power volume volume index per unit of (1,000 tons) Komatsu plants (ind Castex Inc.)(Compared to FY 1990) (1,000tons) manufacturing value consumption // kW 400 110 350 120 70,000 FY2012 target: -25% 322 324 100 Achieved 100 300 97.7 280 292 100 60,000 -18.4% 100 100 262 262 -27.4% 300 256 239 276 90 250 92.6 265 266 230 50,000 86.2 84.2 80 86.8 81.9 211 80 200 77.7 73.9 40,000 Target: -50% 175 200 188 60 65,448 72.7 73.0 70 150 30,000 70.4 71.7 53,438 68.7 47,528 40 63.7 60 100 20,000 100 62.2 32,724 58.8 55.0 50 50 20 51.8 10,000 0 40 0 0 0 1990 2000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2015 Total emission volume target line (below FY1990 volume) in FY2008 through FY2012 ■ Komatsu is making group-wide efforts to conserve biodiversity and promote sustainable use thereof. ● Biodiversity survey conducted by members of our Test Engineering Center in Notsu, Oita Prefecture, Japan Excellent environmental conservation (distributed as hand-out materials at international conferences on environmental conservation) Survey findings (on the promise of our Test Engineering Center and surrounding areas) Plants: 467 species. Animals: 367 species (incl. insects and rare species) ●● S ur vey o n ec o sys tem (animals and plan t s) in N o t su KOMATSU REPORT 2013 11 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 One-theme activities per base → Development of domestic woodland at all bases → We have begun “Report card on land utilization” and “Life monitoring” Kanazawa Plant: Planting Japanese black pine Komatsu CASTEX: East pond on the premise of Komatsu NTC: Biotope (Nanto City) Tohoku Company of Komatsu Construction Equipment seedlings at the Awasaki-Yasuragi woods its Himi Plant Sales and Service Ltd.: Biotope (Sendai City) Awazu Plant: Building a biotope at a local Koriyama Plant: Biotope elementary school near the plant Oyama Plant: Biotope Regional contribution Komatsu-no-Mori: Biotope (Komatsu City) Osaka Plant: Biotope Consideration Ecosystem of land use integrity at the time Nature observation class for local elementary Ecosystem survey on the premise of the Test school pupils Engineering Center in Notsu “Excellent environmental conservation” evaluated by environmental specialists Ecosystem (animals and plants) survey (on the premise of the Test Engineering Center and surrounding areas) World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN held in Cheju, South Korea in September 2012) The Eleventh Ordinary Meeting of the Conference of the Parties (COP 11 held in Hyderabad, India in October 2012) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 12 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Consolidated Business Results for FY2008 through FY2013 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 13 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Under Global Teamwork for Tomorrow , we worked on ICT applications for products and parts, product development for improved environmental friendliness and safety, expansion of sales and service operations in Strategic Markets, and promotion of continuous improvement by strengthening workplace capability. During that three-year period, we weathered dramatic changes in our business environment, as represented by the sharp expansion and fall in demand for construction and mining equipment in China and Indonesia, the dynamic increase and drop in demand for wire saws, and the occurence of the Great East Japan Earthquake. Furthermore, the Japanese yen appreciated against other major currencies considerably, far more than our estimation for the mid-range management plan. For FY2012 or the final year of the plan, consolidated net sales totaled JPY 1,884.9 billion, operating income, JPY 211.6 billion and net income attribatalle to Komatsu Ltd., JPY 126.3 billion. Regrettably, we weren't able to achieve the targets of the plan. Under such challenging conditions, however, we concerted efforts on the development of high value-added products by focusing on environmental friendliness, safety and ICT, such as hybrid hydraulic excavators and new emission standards-compliant models, worked on the reduction of production costs, as represented by the Up 30% Productivity Program at all plants in Japan, promoted the reform of marketing operations, such as the Zero Inventories at Distributors program, and made all-out efforts for continuous reduction of fixed costs under the key concept of separation of costs from growth . As a result of these efforts to improve profitability, I believe we were able to strengthen our corporate muscle. Operating Income Ratio When you compare the segment profit ratio of the construction, mining and utility equipment business for FY2009, the first year of the Global Teamwork for Tomorrow mid-range manegement plan, you can see that we were able to inprove it to 12.4% for FY2012 by compensating for a negative factor of the Japanese yen's appreciation, mainly by improving selling prices and production costs. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 14 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Chinese and Indian markets, which have driven global demand for construction and mining equipment, are entering an adjustment phase, and thus I don t expect to see dynamic upturn of global demand in two to three years. In the mid to long-range perspective, however, we can anticipate that the supply and demand for commodities will become tighter, as global population continues to grow. We can also expect demand for construction equipment will steadily advance, especially in Strategic Markets, against the backdrop of growing urbanization rates. While the Japanese yen had remained strong against all major currencies since the so-called Lehman Shock, it has come out of this temporary phase of super appreciation and has recently entered a depreciation phase. Instead of alternating between joy and grief over short-term fluctuations, I strongly believe it is important for us to further strengthen our corporate muscle to generate profits under any conditions. Under the new mid-range management plan, we continue to focus our efforts on the core businesses of construction and mining equipment as well as industry machinery and will propel our operations according to the basic policies below in such a business environment. (1) To prepare for the future expansion of demand, we will sow seeds seamlessly. (2) To become indispensable to our customers, we will improve our understanding of Gemba (workplace) and converge the strengths of our distributors, suppliers and employees. (3) To keep a distance from pricing competition and strengthen relationships with our customers, we will promote our growth strategies to expand business in the value chain by taking full advantage of ICT. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 15 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Population of the world (Source: United Nations) Global population will continue to grow and we expect that demand for commodities will expand in the longterm perspective. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 16 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Urbanization rates in the world (Source: United Nations) Long and mid-range concentration of the population in urban areas should continue, especially in emerging countries, and we project that demand for construction equipment should expand, as it will be needed for infrastructure development, such as road and railway construction, as well as civil engineering and construction. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 17 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Under the plan, we will be focusing our efforts in these areas, and we have set these target figures to achieve by the end of FY2015. (1) We work to attain the industry s top-level profitability and financial position. (We will lift the target profitability line by strengthening our earning fundamentals.) (2) We will increase the level of profit redistribution to shareholders. (3) We will improve net debt-to-equity ratio and ROE, as we invest in our future growth. Targets for FY2015 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 18 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Simulation of operating income ratio [Assumed foreign exchange rate: JPY 90 / USD] Target line [translated by a foreign exchange rate of JPY 90 / USD] When the effects of foreign exchange rates are removed, the sales and operating income ratios are correlated. Our management target is to lift the target profitability line by strengthening our earning fundamentals. We have steadily improved profitability as seen for FY2001, FY2007 and FY2012. We are working to further lift this profitability line under the new management plan. As the business conditions, such as currency exchange rates and demand, change dramatically nowadays, it is important to build a strong corporate muscle capable of generating profits under any circumstances. Based on structural reforms we have carried out thus far, we will strive to further improve our profitability by promoting our growth strategies which capitalize on our strengths. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 19 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 With respect to profits gained from business growth, we will continue to allocate, in a well balanced manner, mainly as redistribution to shareholders, investment in future growth and social contribution. Concerning cash dividends to shareholders, as we maintain our continuous and stable dividend policy by reflecting consolidated business results, we will work to further increase redistribution to shareholders. Specifically, we have set the goal of a consolidated payout ratio (the total of annual cash dividends paid as a percentage of net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. for the year) as follows. We have set the goal of a consolidated payout ratio of 30% or higher, as long as the consolidated payout ratio does not surpass 50%. (Previously: we set the consolidated payout ratio of 20% or higher, and would not decrease dividends, as long as the consolidated payout ratio did not surpass 40%.) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 20 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 To answer your question, we are going to change customers and our own businesses through innovation in order to create new earnings sources. One example is our Autonomous Haulage System (AHS). Our world s first AHS driverless dump trucks have helped our mining customers improve safety and productivity at their mines since their commercial deployment in 2008, and with them we have created a new business model in the form of supporting their remote fleet management. 930E-AT driverless dump truck in Australia In April this year, we exhibited our medium-sized Machine Control D61PXi bulldozer, and medium-sized Machine Control PC210LCi hydraulic excavator (under development) at the Bauma international trade fair for construction equipment in Munich, Germany. These ICT-intensive models are equipped with fully automatic control of their working gears according to construction design data and 3-D GNSS information for the first time in the world. These models will not only dramatically streamline construction and surveying tasks but will also enable remote guidance of daily work based on design data; daily management of work progress, such as measurement of moved earth and survey after work ; and process planning, all by consolidating machine operating information to KOMTRAX. In other words, they will transform construction jobsites into a manufacturing plant floor and enable detailed management of work by making everything visible. (For more information, go to the feature section.) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 21 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Whether it may be construction and mining equipment or the industrial machinery domain, we are going to reinforce our DANTOTSU products, service and solutions, all which are designed to make machines and the work process visible by taking full advantage of ICT, We will be getting more involved in our customers jobsites as a manufacturer and learn completely about our customers work so that we can create innovation together with them in order to improve their productivity and safety. In this manner, we will develop new business opportunities and strive for future growth. To realize such innovation, we will, of course, not only continue efforts to enhance our in-house technology development capability, but also proactively look into collaboration with companies having leading-edge ICT expertise, as well as with academia. D61PXi Machine Control bulldozer (center) and PC210LCi hydraulic excavator (right) at Bauma Komatsu Industries Corp. launched the KFL Series fiber laser-cutting machine in May 2013. This series features an in-house developed oscillator, with a cutting speed of the world s top level (1.0 mm-thick stainless sheet) and about 80% reduction in running costs (compared to our conventional model) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 22 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 We have been working to strengthen value-chain businesses, such as retail finance, rental equipment, parts and service, and used equipment, which offer opportunities after sales of new equipment. The size of our value chain should continue to expand, supported by a growing size of our machine population. In this light, we expect to enjoy big opportunities in our existing businesses. As we take the best advantage of our strength of global sales and service networks and keep a distance from pricing competition, we are focusing our attention on customers merits for our further growth. As of March 2013, the number of units installed with the KOMTRAX (Komatsu Machine Tracking System) topped 300,000 worldwide. The number of large equipment equipped with the KOMTRAX Plus for use in mines amounts to about 20,000. During the current fiscal year, we are going to introduce the KOMTRAX Parts, a remote management system for parts, to China. By remotely accessing information concerning the use of and replacement with genuine parts, which is vital to maintain our product quality, we will not only sustain expected machine performance and improve the level of our service but also expand sales of genuine parts. In the parts business, our Aftermarket Business Division, established in 2012, is taking the leadership in strengthening operations for strategic parts, such as undercarriages, buckets, teeth, filters and attachments, for which we see ample space for sales expansion. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 23 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Through resale of used equipment generated in the rental business, the reinforcement of the retail finance business, and the development of sales and service operations in promising markets, such as the Middle East and Latin America, we have many areas with growth potential in our existing businesses. We are working to expand our business in these areas. With respect to these sales and service operations, we are promoting our brand management activities in which we make customers real problems visible from their perspective, deepen the relationship with them by solving the problems together with them and increase their dependency on us. We will be continuing such brand management activities as one of our main commitments. Xcentric™ Ripper Training program for distributors in indonesia for the We have acquired the exclusive distribution rights in 82 PC200-8MO hydraulic excavator, a new Strategic countries and regions of the world for XcentricTM Markets-specific model Ripper attachments for use in breaking rocks and demolition. We are starting pilot sales in China and the United States with a promising size of demand. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 24 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Since 2001, when we began reforming our business structure in order to strengthen our foundation, for 12 years we have consistently worked on cost reduction and prevention of increase by advocating separation of costs from growth. Under the new mid-range management plan, we are going to make aggressive investment in necessary areas based on the growth strategies I have mentioned; however, we are also determined to keep the current level of overall fixed costs by generating ideas and further streamlining operations while engaging in structural reforms. At our plants in Japan in 2011, we launched the project to cut electric power consumption in half, and we are going to unfailingly advance it and generate good results. Today, factory buildings of 40 years old or older account for about 60% of total floor space of our plants in Japan. We are going to renew those old buildings and manufacturing equipment with new buildings installed with leading-edge, energy-efficient equipment. New buildings will take advantage of solar power, natural lighting, groundwater and waste heat, for example. While working to reduce electric power consumption in half, we are also going to improve productivity. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 25 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 From the viewpoint of linking customers directly to our plants, we are working to simplify and streamline our operations. Concerning spare parts, we are linking distributors directly to plants, thereby improving profitability by cutting down trading inventories and transportation costs. We have already linked four overseas subsidiaries to our plants, and are planning to link eight more subsidiaries in FY2013. Groundwater:17℃ Radiator of Construction equipment Ambient Cooled air temperature in summer:24℃ in summer:35℃ Drainage Fan Our groundwater cooling system (left) introduced to an office building inside the Awazu Plant and its conceptual drawing (right) This system uses groundwater at a constant temperature of about 17 degrees Celsius, throughout the year, to cool the air for comfort in summer, and waste hot water generated inside the Plant to heat the air for warmth in winter. This system uses a radiator of construction equipment as its heat exchanger. Compared to common air conditioning systems of the same capacity, our system enables an outstanding reduction of electric power consumption. (Groundwater used to cool the air is returned to the ground in its original quality to minimize its impact on groundwater resources.) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 26 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 We are assuming the foreign exchange rates of the Japanese yen in FY2013, to be JPY95 per USD, a depreciation of JPY12.5 from FY2012, JPY123 per EUR, a depreciation of JPY16.3, and JPY15.3 per RMB, a depreciation of JPY2.1. For FY2013, we are projecting that consolidated net sales should amount to JPY2,050 billion, up 8.8% from FY2012, operating income should reach JPY305 billion, up 44.1%, operating income ratio should increase by 14.9%, and ROE should improve to 14.6% With respect to mining equipment, we are anticipating that multinational mining companies will curtail capital investment, as uncertain conditions are remaining over the prices of mineral resources, centering on coal. Compared to FY2012, our record-high year of sales, we are estimating a decline in sales for FY2013 on a volume basis which excludes the effects of foreign exchange translation. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 27 Interview with President and CEO KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Meanwhile, demand for construction equipment is remaining strong in Japan, where full-scale reconstruction projects are expected to start in the earthquake and tsunami destroyed regions, as well as in North America, where demand is brisk in the rental and housing sectors. In Indonesia, where demand nose-dived last year, it is beginning to recover. In China, where demand has remained sluggish since FY2011, it is seemingly bottoming out, centering on small models. With respect to the construction, mining and utility equipment segment in FY2013, we are expecting that volume of sales will decline slightly from FY2012, but sales after internal transactions should increase by 10.2% to JPY1,848 billion, as affected by the Japanese yen s depreciation. Similarly, segment profit should advance by 44.5% to JPY302 billion, with the help of reduced fixed costs and improved selling prices, which have resulted from our continuous efforts, in addition to the Japanese yen s depreciation. In the industrial machinery and others segment, while demand for presses and machine tools remains steady in the automobile manufacturing industry, we estimate that both sales and segment profit will decline slightly from FY2012, as mainly affected by sluggish demand for wire saws. As we face these market conditions, while making continuous efforts to increase selling prices and cut down costs, we are also working to expand sales of high value-added products on the construction equipment market, such as new emission standards-certified models, for example, Tier 4 in North America, to reinforce North American distributors rental businesses, and to expand the aftermarket business, in particular, to advance profits. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 28 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 intelligent Machine Control We ve come a long way. Back in 1943, we developed Japan s first bulldozer, which has paved the way for us to become a full-line construction equipment manufacturer today. In April this year, we unveiled the world s first Machine Control dozer with fully automatic blade control, D61PXi-23, together with a prototype Machine Control hydraulic excavator,PC210LCi-10, at the Bauma 2013 International Trade Fair in Germany. The built-in 3D automatic blade control of the dozer receives real-time information of the blade position from the GNSS* and controls the blade according to 3D CAD construction data with the coordinates computed from design drawings. Therefore, the operator just needs to move the dozer toward the work target displayed on the monitor panel. The rest of his/her work is done by the dozer itself, automatically and seamlessly, from rough dozing to finish grading, as if it were operated by a veteran operator. Thanks to the revolutionary, ongoing advancement of ICT and GNSS* technology, our industrial pace-setting dozer also enables our customers to manage their jobsite conditions, such as work progress, as it is equipped with the survey function for earthmoving work. As our customers and we share our respective areas of expertise to visualize their jobsite operations based on data transmitted from our Machine Control construction equipment, we believe that in the near future we will be able to innovate and realize ideal jobsite operations, which feature unprecedented safety, productivity and efficiency. We are excited about this first ste forward to a promising future of automating construction jobsite operations. * GNSS: Global Navigation Satellite System is a general term for navigation systems, which are developed by different countries, e.g., GPS by the United States and GLONASS by Russian Republic. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 29 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Takahiro Shimojo Manager, ICT Development Group, Construction Equipment Technical Center 1, Development Division It is said that bulldozers are more difficult to operate than various other construction equipment. While bulldozers are constantly in vibration, with rolls and pitches, operators need to move them at appropriate speeds as they control the heights and angles of the blade. The way they initiate a cut by positioning the blade on earth also affects construction efficiency. When the volume of earth being pushed increases, bulldozers can slip and damage the surface. To avoid overloading, they need to raise the blade and gradually level the ground. They also need to evaluate soil conditions and ground formations, and then engage in a series of complex operations without being able to look at the blade on the surface. Therefore, it is said that it usually takes three years of experience before they feel competent to operate bulldozers. Machine Control automatically manipulates the blade for the operator. Mainstream Machine Control bulldozers today are not equipped with functions to detect blade load and track slips. Therefore, they can fully demonstrate Machine Control capabilities only in finish grading. In terms of the expected volume of work starting with rough dozing, only 10%to 20% is automated. Our D61EXi/PXi-23 models are equipped with the world s first full blade control technologies from rough dozing to finish grading. Therefore, operators are required just to move them forward and backward, leaving all other tasks to our machines, such as rough dozing by automatically controlling the blade to avoid track slips, and high-precision finish grading by automatically shifting to this mode when the machines approach the design surface. We have achieved this fully automatic control by becoming able to detect blade load and track slip information. At the same time, by making the GNSS antenna built into the operator cab rooftop, we have eliminated the problems of cutting the cable and damaging the antenna after getting hit by hard objects as well as of daily mounting and dismounting tasks for the antenna. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 30 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 It was very challenging for us to recreate the blade control performance of veteran operators by applying ICT. When the body of D61 models moves up and down by one degree, the position of their blade edge changes by 70 mm. Veteran operators control the blade appropriately, as they predict coming changes by using their vision and sensing their body movements. We have recreated blade control comparable to that of veteran operators by tuning more than 20 parameters which combined the iMU+ sensor responsible for recognizing body positions and the MS Mechatro Smart Cylinder capable of detecting cylinder strokes. This tuning process alone took us one year, working very closely with our Test Engineering Center to repeat many experiments. We conducted seeding activities in cooperation with customers for our Machine Control models in the United States, a major market for medium-sized bulldozers. Seeding activities provided valuable opportunities for me to not only refine machine performance but also learn about how our machines are being used by customers from a development engineer s viewpoint. For example, I had no idea in Japan that medium-sized bulldozers are used on slope construction. The slope was nothing special when I looked at it, but it required extraordinary efforts of all involved in seeding activities to ensure accurate real-time recognition of machine positions and directions by using the 3D GNSS and iMU+ data for perfect sloping work. Although D61EXi/PXi-23 models are now in commercial production, I think my next task as a development engineer calls for improvement of customers jobsites in the entire construction process, from preconstruction to final survey upon completion. We must improve not only the performance of one bulldozer but also customers productivity as a whole. In this way, we will be able to make significant contributions to them. I am now looking into this possibility. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 31 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Masato Kageyama Team Manager, Control Equipment Development Group, Hydraulic Equipment Technical Center, Development Division The Hydraulic Equipment Technical Center plays an indispensable role in Komatsu s commitment to in-house development and production of key components, and I feel that our Center has a particularly strong climate of creating things by ourselves, if we cannot find them available anywhere. One such example is our original MS (Mechatro Smart) Cylinder, featuring in-house developed sensors, which incorporates our electric control technologies, that have been accumulated over 20 years, and our sensor technologies that have been refined over about 10 years for hydraulic equipment. As MS cylinders are installed in construction machines, they are expected to generate big power under rough conditions. Furthermore, there are about 10 meters separating the base of their boom and their bucket, but they are required to move the bucket precisely, calling for the need for smaller than millimeter, super-precision measurement of cylinder strokes. Before we began development, we first decided that we would never damage the durability and reliability of cylinders, which were proven over the years, by adopting sensors. We also wanted trouble-free applications to other models in the future. To this end, we decided to develop add-on sensors from the very start, without changing the basic structure of cylinders. Development of novel sensors definitely brought about continuous challenges to us. For example, when you install a piece of magnet inside the cylinder tube made of steel which shuts out magnetism, and install a magnetism-detecting sensor, theoretically speaking, it s totally impractical. Encouraged by our supervisor, saying Everything we have in this world has been made by those who truly believed they could make it. When you think you can t, you just can t , we repeated the production and simulation of trial sensors. One day, we discovered that we were able to detect a very small amount of magnetism which came through the steel tube, when certain conditions and shape were met. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 32 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Although we were able to detect magnetism, it turned out to be useless due to poor measurement. We faced a continuous series of new challenges, such as the fact that magnetism doesn t travel at the speed of light within magnetized material and the need to consider and evaluate even slight delays caused by very weak electricity generated within magnetized material. In addition to developing technologies to make sensors more compact and higher in precision, we also needed to plan and develop original bench test equipment for cylinders by considering all possible conditions of machine use, and calibration, inspection and other equipment for mass production of sensors. It has taken 10 years of dedicated effort from more than 20 engineers on a cumulative basis, who were committed to components of ever higher performance and precision. Kiwa Nishimura Chief Engineer, Hydraulic Excavator Development Group, Construction Equipment Technical Center 1, Development Division Today, we are involved in the development of the second model of Komatsu s ICT-intensive equipment, i.e., a hydraulic excavator with Machine Guidance functions. Compared to other construction equipment, hydraulic excavators perform complicated movements. For that reason alone, automation is very challenging, so we have decided to launch this model initially, in which operators are required to operate manually but which offers information needed for their operation. This model is in the final test stage, which assumes actual jobsite operations, and is just around the corner for commercial production. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 33 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Unlike the conventional development of mechanism-oriented products, the development of ICT-intensive products called for more orientation on applications, which meant designing the monitor in consideration of how the machine is going to be used. Our development project began in 2009 by getting not only development and production people involved, but also product support people who are very familiar with how the machine is used by customers as well as people of ICT device makers at start-up. It was a challenge by one group of people with different expertise. It was also the first experience for me to collaborate with people routinely working at different sites in Japan and abroad, and I have reconfirmed the importance of sharing information and communications. Komatsu demonstrated a pilot model of the Machine Control hydraulic excavator with fully automatic excavation functions at the Bauma trade fair in April 2003. Reference: While the operator kept his hand away from the lever, the bucket was automatically moving to shape the design surface. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 34 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Jason Anetsberger Product Manager, Intelligent Machine Control Group, Komatsu America Corp. The adaptation of Machine Control technology is becoming a very important agenda topic of the construction industry today. Along with Australia and Europe, North America is marked by high installation rates of Machine Control technology on customer s machines. With Komatsu s announcement of the world s first intelligent Machine Control dozer in April 2013, the D61PXi/EXi-23, we were well prepared to introduce the next generation of Machine Control technology for improved customer efficiency and operational benefits. Key to the success of the intelligent Machine Control technology was the incorporation of customer feedback and prompt evaluation early on in the development phase by way of user seeding activities in North America during 2011 and 2012. Partnering for the future User seeding activities for our intelligent Machine Control dozers consisted of placing pre-production machines in the hands of actual end users on various jobsites. Overseen by Komatsu America Corp., a U.S. subsidiary of Komatsu Ltd, the jobsites ranged across a wide region of North America. Using the final phase of these activities in 2012 as an example, three different contractors with prior machine control expert experience operated a pre-production D61PXi-23 dozer for two weeks each. Approximately 200 hours of customer operation time by six different operators were logged on jobsites ranging from residential site preparation to large road works to environmental & landfill development. Participating customers were selected based on their high level of prior machine control experience, their ability to place the machine in demanding applications requiring the highest levels of machine performance, and their willingness to partner with Komatsu on this key development activity. Customers were asked to not only operate the machines as they typically would do so with conventional Machine Control, but also to test Komatsu s first fully automatic blade control dozing features which allow automated operation from rough dozing through finish grading. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 35 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 The pre-production D61PXi-23 at a customer s environmental landfill application in August 2012. Such jobsites emphasized the importance of highaccuracy slope performance. Customer feedback improves machine performance During the user seeding activities in North America, I was able to extensively use over 10 years of industry experience as a degreed mechanical engineer. As the local lead, I would like to emphasize that partnering with our customers in this user seeding activity was a win–win scenario for all involved. For our customers, they are now able to purchase a machine with technology and feature sets based on direct end user feedback. For Komatsu, the ability to strengthen the product s capabilities and validating it in real word customer use on actual jobsites, prior to market release, is immeasurable. One of the key Komatsu takeaways from the user seeding activities was the importance of steep slope performance in specific applications. Komatsu engineers from Japan were able to witness customers use of the pre-production machine on steep slopes which led to the addition of steep slope performance criteria for the final production machine validation to ensure that customer accuracy and performance expectations were met by Komatsu intelligent Machine Control dozers. Komatsu's Test Engineering Center in Japan was also reworked to include steep slopes in the configurations encountered during the user seeding activity to ensure this and future intelligent Machine Control dozers meet those same requirements. Being the eyes and the ears at the customer s jobsite daily for the entire Komatsu team was personally rewarding and emphasizes Komatsu s desire to fully understand the customer s application so we can deliver products that become indispensable to all customers operations. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 36 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Steve Ristow, President of Schneider Excavating Inc., operates the pre-production D61PXi-23 at a Milwaukee, WI residential development jobsite. Steve comments, I liked it, right on track… great visibility with sloping nose and GPS antenna removed from blade. Global teamwork speeds development Reacting quickly to customer requests is very important to keep the user seeding activities progressing. Komatsu and its key development partners leveraged staff across the globe in the development of the intelligent Machine Control technology with personnel participating from Japan, the United States, Australia, and Russia to name a few. In this manner, we were able to make all customer identified improvements in the last round of user seeding activities. While the actual user seeding activities occurred in North America, work load was shared worldwide by the global development team. When a customer requested a change to improve the intelligent Machine Control software or an issue was observed, we were typically able to have that customer evaluating the updated software within one to two days. Just as the sun was setting in North America, our colleagues overseas were able to start working on the updates. Foundation set for success To complete the user seeding activities, a final customer focus group and machine performance evaluation were held at Komatsu America Corp. s customer demonstration and training facility during the fall of 2012. All of the attending customers were expert machine control users: half had previously participated in the user seeding activities, while the other half had not and were acting as fresh independent verification. The success of all the development and improvements made as a result of user seeding enabled the customer focus group to positively conclude the D61PXi-23 was ready for market introduction without further changes. The true measure of success for the user seeding results was shown with the first D61PXi-23 being sold and delivered to a customer in North America without as much as a demonstration. The beauty of the D61PXi/EXi with intelligent Machine Control is that it practically sells itself with its strong value proposition, extensive features and benefits. I can t be more proud of the role Komatsu America Corp. and our customers played in the development of Komatsu s intelligent Machine Control technology. The future for this scalable technology is very exciting. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 37 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 The Root of ICT Applications to Construction and Mining Equipment Our ICT applications to construction and mining equipment started with KOMTRAX (Komatsu Machine Tracking System) in the last half period of the 1990s. KOMTRAX collects information from GNSS* and sensors installed in the equipment and enables owners to remotely check on machine locations and operating conditions. We equipped our flagship hydraulic excavators with KOMTRAX as a standard feature in 2001. As Kazunori Kuromoto Senior Executive Officer of March 2013, the number of KOMTRAX-equipped units topped President, 300,000 worldwide. ICT Business Division Our applications of KOMTRAX data have been evolving, ranging from machine locations, theft prevention by means of locking the engine and credit management of customers being financed in China to supporting fuel-economy operation by using data concerning operating conditions and fuel consumption as well as sending notices for maintenance and parts replacement according to hours of operation of machines. All these activities have been created and carried out independently by our distributors worldwide. In addition to KOMTRAX, we have been developing and applying new ICT hardware for our equipment, for example, KOMTRAX Plus for mining equipment, KOMTRAX Parts which we are planning to introduce during the current fiscal year, and Machine Control models which we unveiled at the Bauma trade fair. We have been evolving ICT applications dynamically, but you can still find a common approach or the same root in all our different systems. Our ICT applications are a system to make visible how our machines are being used by customers on their jobsites. Accordingly, it is the purpose of ICT applications that we develop and provide customers with services which are truly valuable for them (solutions) by using visualized data. * GNSS: Global Navigation Satellite System is a general term for navigation systems, which are developed by different countries, e.g., GPS by the United States and GLONASS by Russian Republic. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 38 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 ICT-intensive Construction Equipment to Transform Construction Jobsites into Manufacturing Plants By focusing on this root, we have developed D61EXi/PXi Machine Control bulldozers and our PC210LCi pilot Machine Control hydraulic excavator to propose as our DANTOTSU solutions, a higher-level service, and we displayed them at the Bauma trade fair. Featuring the world s first fully automatic blade control, D61EXi/PXi models perform high-precision blade control, comparable to veteran operators, from rough dozing to finish grading according to 3D design information. It can also offer a high-precision, real-time survey of landscape upon completion of work by using GNSS. I believe that we should be able to achieve a high-end civil engineering and construction workflow in the near future, where each and every D61EXi/PXi and PC210LCi model seamlessly performs all needed tasks, from surveying to excavation, finish grading and inspection surveying, and feedback through real-time progress reports and as-built data (after-work landscape information). We are studying a system which will link the daily operational data of D61EXi/PXi bulldozers to KOMTRAX, thereby visualizing construction jobsites, as if they were manufacturing factories in order to further improve customers operational efficiency. Especially in North America, post-construction inspection is accepted in the form of GNSS survey data, which had widespread ICT-intensive construction earlier on and made good progress. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 39 Feature story : Construction Equipment for the Future and with a Future KOMATSU REPORT 2013 What Is The True Value Expected on Jobsites? We can reasonably believe that not all customers want high-end construction. In some emerging countries, for example, customers want to train machine operators and make more efforts on attendance management of workers. What is expected of us by our customers differs greatly, depending on individual customers needs. As I have mentioned above, the root of our ICT applications goes back to our visualization of customers jobsites where our machines are used. Accordingly, what we must do calls for facing our customers straight on with obtained data, getting involved in their jobsite work and working to generate ideas together with them and create truly valuable solutions . Therefore, Machine Guidance or Machine Control construction equipment is only one of our attempts. We at Komatsu define our brand management as focusing on customers, deepening our relationship with them, looking into their vision and working together with them to achieve it. I believe reinforcement of this brand management approach and promotion of ICT applications to products are the paired wheels. DANTOTSU (Unrivaled) Solutions are not born from ICT but always from customers jobsites and continue to grow there. We are committed to promoting ICT applications to our machines from jobsite and customer orientations. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 40 Review of Operations in FY2012 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Sales Segment Profit and Ratio Sales by Ragion for the Fiscal Year ended March 31, 2013 (To Outside Customers) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 41 Review of Operations in FY2012 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 With respect to construction equipment, while demand increased in North America and Japan from the previous fiscal year, Chinese demand for hydraulic excavators dropped considerably. As a result, global demand remained sluggish. On the mining equipment market, centering on Indonesia, while demand for equipment declined as adversely affected by the falling price of coal, demand increased steadily for equipment, as well as parts and service from the previous year, especially in Latin America and Oceania. With this background, consolidated sales of construction, mining and utility equipment decreased by 3.7% from the previous fiscal year, to JPY1,679.5 billion (USD17,868 million). Segment profit declined by 15.2% to JPY208.9 billion (USD2,223 million). To further enhance profitability and reinforce its corporate strength, Komatsu continued efforts to increase selling prices, reduce production costs and improve operations designed to flexibly respond to changes in foreign exchange rates and market demand. Komatsu also worked to reinforce its aftermarket business by improving its strategic parts operation which includes buckets and teeth, the demand for which is strong, especially in Strategic Markets and the mining industry, as well as its Reman operations. With respect to production operation, Komatsu embarked on full-scale efforts to cut down electric power consumption at all plants in Japan during the fiscal year under review. With respect to product development, Komatsu continued its efforts on products which feature advantages in the areas of environmental friendliness and fuel economy. Following North America and Europe, Komatsu launched new emission standards-compliant models in Japan in July last year. Combined with these models, Komatsu began offering the Komatsu CARE, a new service program designed to reduce the total lifecycle costs of these models and prolong machine life. Komatsu also continued to expand sales of HB205 and HB215LC hybrid hydraulic excavators worldwide, and topped cumulative sales of 2,000 units in March this year. In the forklift truck business, Komatsu launched sales of FH Series hydrostatic-driven forklift trucks in Japan in July last year, which feature Komatsu's technological expertise in hydraulic control accumulated and refined for construction equipment over the years. With steady orders received since then, Komatsu embarked on overseas sales in February 2013. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 42 Review of Operations in FY2012 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Since around 2000, the volume of surplus used equipment exported from Japan, had surpassed demand for new equipment. It has now bottomed out, and demand has grown for construction equipment for use in restoration and reconstruction, centering on rental companies, since the Great East Japan Earthquake. As a result, demand steadily grew and sales increased from the previous fiscal year. Concerning new emission standards-compliant models, Komatsu has launched 30 models in total since July 2012 and has worked to expand sales in Japan. In solid collaboration with its distributors, Komatsu has also continued to increase the retail prices of all major models from the previous fiscal year. Demand grew from the previous fiscal year, supported by increased demand in the housing sector, as well as strong demand in the rental and energy development industries. With respect to new emission standards-compliant models, Komatsu has aggressively been introducing them by combining them with the Komatsu CARE program. As a result, these models have moved up to the top 70% of total sales of new Komatsu equipment on a unit basis. In response to strong demand for rental equipment, Komatsu worked to reinforce distributors' rental equipment business. As a result of these efforts, Komatsu increased sales from the previous fiscal year. As demand remained sluggish, even in the major markets of Germany, France and the United Kingdom, sales decreased from the previous fiscal year. While steadily advancing the market introduction of new emission standards-compliant models, Komatsu concerted efforts to prepare for the launching of ICT-intensive construction equipment, designed to automate construction, in Europe in the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2014. Demand for mining equipment remained strong, centering on copper mines in Chile and Peru, while demand for construction equipment was sluggish in Brazil, the largest market of the region. As a result, overall demand for equipment was firm. Komatsu capitalized on strong demand for mining equipment and pushed sales for the year up to a record-high level. Demand remained firm, especially in gold mines, and sales increased from the previous fiscal year. Komatsu has reached agreements with Pacific National University and Far Eastern Federal University to collaborate in human resource development for construction, mining and road construction equipment. In October 2012, Pacific National University began the first course. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 43 Review of Operations in FY2012 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Although the government introduced credit-easing measures, there were still no clear signs for new infrastructure development start-ups in the fiscal year under review. Demand for hydraulic excavators plunged considerably from the previous fiscal year, and sales dropped drastically from the previous fiscal year. In response to this sharp decline in demand, Komatsu focused its efforts on assessing retail market conditions right away and maintaining an appropriate level of inventories, by maximizing the use of the KOMTRAX (Komatsu Machine Tracking System). As there are some signs of demand bottoming out at last, Komatsu has recovered post-Chinese New Year sales of hydraulic excavators to the level of the previous year on a unit basis, partly reflecting the market introduction of new 20-ton class hydraulic excavators in February 2013, designed particularly for a fuel economy. While demand advanced for use in the reconstruction of areas damaged by the flood last year in Thailand, demand plummeted drastically for large, medium-sized and small equipment for use in mines in Indonesia, the largest market of Southeast Asia, particularly affected by the falling price of thermal coal. As a result, sales dropped sharply from the previous fiscal year. Demand for mining equipment for use in iron ore mines, as well as for construction equipment, remained steady, and sales increased from the previous fiscal year. Concerning the large-scale project to deliver driverless dump trucks to iron ore mines in Australia, under a Memorandum of Understanding signed by Rio Tinto and Komatsu in November 2011, Komatsu and Rio Tinto have continued to make steady and sound progress for success as a solid team. Sales declined from the previous fiscal year, particularly affected by sluggish demand in Turkey, the major market of the region. In October last year, Komatsu opened a new distribution base in Dubai and worked to reduce inventories of distributors and shorten delivery time. In Saudi Arabia, with promising growth in demand, Komatsu signed a new distribution contract with a leading local company in December last year. Sales increased from the previous fiscal year, supported by firm demand for equipment for use in gold mines in particular. Komatsu also continued to strengthen its sales and product support operations by opening new parts depots, jointly with distributors in southern Africa and implementing other measures, in order to improve its spare parts delivery operation. As part of its brand management activities, Komatsu made efforts jointly with a mining customer in South Africa to reduce the fuel consumption of machines owned by the customer by analyzing KOMTRAX information. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 44 Review of Operations in FY2012 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Sales Segment Profit and Ratio KOMATSU REPORT 2013 45 Review of Operations in FY2012 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 While sales of large presses and machine tools increased from the previous fiscal year, sales of wire saws dropped sharply from the previous fiscal year. Additionally, extraordinary demand for temporary housing units in the earthquake-destroyed regions came to an end. As a result, sales of the industrial machinery and others business declined by 13.9% from the previous fiscal year, to JPY216.2 billion (USD2,301 million). Segment profit decreased by 62.9% to JPY6.2 billion (USD66 million). Komatsu concerted its efforts to develop new products with improved productivity, safety and environmental friendliness. In March this year, Komatsu embarked on sales of the H1F-2 AC Servo press and the PVS8525 AC Servo press brake, which followed the NTG-4SP grinding machine launched in November last year. With respect to the laser-cutting machine business, Komatsu carried out organizational restructuring in April 1, 2013 by consolidating development, sales and service functions of Komatsu NTC Ltd. at Komatsu Industries Corp. in order to effectively use overlapping corporate resources. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 46 CSR and the Environment KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Responding to the demands of society through our core business defines Komatsu's CSR activities, based on themes to be addressed globally as we forge ahead with them. By making sure our activities reflect the demands of society and the times, we will continue to pursue CSR and management in a synchronous cycle. CSR Theme Formulation Komatsu and Global Principles Process Organization Related to CSR Major CSR Activities to Date Incorporating CSR Into External Commendations and Management Evaluations CSR Themes and Initiatives Relationship with the Hybrid Hydraulic Excavator Environment Enhanced Safety Komatsu Earth Environment Charter Power-Saving Actiities Community Based Human Resource Development The Right Working Conditions for Everyone KOMATSU Way and Human Resource Development Reconstructing Earthquake-hit Project for Creating Safe Areas Villages Dialogue with Our Frameworks for Promoting Stakeholders Compliance Initiative for CSR Procurement Risk Management To click articles with , you will be redirected to Environmental Report . Please visit Komatsu CSR Website to find detailed information or efforts for universal problem. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 47 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Selecting CSR Priorities In FY 2010, Komatsu formulated CSR themes with the help of BSR (Business for Social Responsibility), a USbased NPO. The first step of the process was to select key CSR priorities that would allow us to contribute through our core business. CSR issues relevant to Komatsu's business were selected from a large number of social issues focusing on those that are important to both to our business and to our stakeholders. Our CSR Priorities Products, Services, and Customers Environment Products that enhance safety Environmentally-friendly products Responsible marketing and customer care Environmental efficiency (facilities, such as plants, and job sites) Remanufacturing Employees Human resource development Human Rights Safety and health Respecting human rights Respecting employees Equal employment Ethics and Governance Local Community Cooperation with stakeholders Development of local communities Corporate governance and compliance Disaster relief Compliance with social norms of business partners Improving local residents' quality of life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 48 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Komatsu's CSR Themes and Key Business Activities After discussions internally and with BSR regarding CSR priorities, we defined three CSR themes that could be shared on a global level. Based on the current Mid-Range Management Plan, key CSR activities relating to the CSR themes were also identified. Our CSR Themes and Key Business Activities 1. Enhancing Quality of Life -Providing products required by societyProviding products and services that contribute to infrastructure development and improve quality of life Improving productivity, safety, and efficiency and enhancing energy conservation through the use of Information and Communication Technology (ICT) Improving environmental efficiency at operation sites and facilities, such as plants Reducing our impact on the environment throughout the product life cycle Enhancing safety for society, customers, employees, and business partners 2. Developing People Contributing to human resource development in local communities Enhancing our employees and suppliers through The KOMATSU Way Enhancing our employees and distributors through Brand Management 3. Growing with Society Engaging in dialogue with our stakeholders Providing social contributions through the use of our core technologies and resources (e.g., disaster relief or activities to remove anti-personnel land mines) Contributing to local communities where we do business Strengthening our corporate governance and compliance Promoting compliance with environmental, labor, and social norms within our group and among business partners KOMATSU REPORT 2013 49 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 We have structured our organization to ensure that CSR is integral to how we conduct our daily business throughout our entire operations. Our CSR organization reports to the president and CEO of Komatsu. In addition, our CSR Department, with the support of the CSR Committee that includes senior leaders from across the company, plans and guides our day-to-day CSR activities. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 50 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Through dialogue with stakeholders both inside and outside the company, we will focus on our CSR themes and further develop these themes and key activities. In this way we hope to enhance the trust placed in us by society as we pursue sustainable growth. Committed to “Quality and Reliability,” Komatsu strives to maximize its corporate value Management by providing products that customers are happy to own. Policy “Corporate value is the sum of trust given to us by all our stakeholders” By focusing on construction and mining equipment, and industrial machinery, we will work for sustainable growth that minimizesnegative environmental and social impacts. Business Domain Mid-range management plan “Together We Innovate GEMBA Worldwide” Implementation of (1) Growth strategies based on innovation management policy Enhancing the trust (2) Growth strategies of existing businesses placed in us → Contributing (3) Structural reforms designed to reinforce the business foundation to society by society → Further growth Management Strategy Values, basic attitudes and patterns of behavior to be passed on to future generations. 1. To further cultivate the forward-looking corporate climate and the corporate culture of continuously taking on challenges, we will thoroughly ensure group-wide practice of five Gen principles, i.e., Gemba (workpace), Genbutsu (actual things), Genjitsu (reality), Genten (the origin) and Kenzaika (making evident). 2. To anchor The KOMATSU Way, we will strengthen our Gemba capability through The KOMATSU Way Kaizen activities in our routine work. Is management in 3. We will focus our efforts on brand management activities designed for us to line with societal thoroughly understand customers’ Gemba and become indispensable for customers. demands? (Supporting customers to achieve their ideal conditions) → Always monitor Code of Worldwide Business Conduct ● Rules that Komatsu and its management and employees must abide by as a member of the business society ● Statement to society as a “responsible corporate citizen” < Policies, Standards, Principles > ● 5 Principles of Compliance ● Earth Environmental Charter Corporate ● Declaration of Biodiversity ● Global Policy of Human Resources Citizenship ● Occupational Safety and Health Policies ● Standards for Product Safety ● Principles Governing Quality Assurance ● Basic Principles for Social Contributions ● Regional Policies, Standards by Countries, etc Komatsu’s CSR Themes 1. Enhancing Quality of Life Providing products required by society 2. Developing People 3. Growing with Society < Global Principles > Demands of Society ● The UN Global Compact ● ISO26000 ● GRI ● Keidanren Charter of Corporate Behavior KOMATSU REPORT 2013 51 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Examples of Komatsu's CSR themes and key activities and concrete examples of initiatives are summarized below. Activities, policies, etc. not included in the table below are introduced on the Komatsu CSR website. CSR Themes and Key Business Examples of Concrete Initiatives Reference Activities 1. Enhancing Quality of Life -Providing products required by societyProviding products and services Construction Equipment of the KOMATSU REPORT next-generation utilizing ICT that contribute to infrastructure development and improve quality Biodiesel Fuel (BDF) Project Environmental Report of life Introducing environmentallyImproving productivity, safety, and friendly products and services to the market efficiency and enhancing energy conservation through the use of Environmental Report ICT Environmental Report Series' Improving environmental efficiency Environmental Report at operation sites and plants technology Environmental Report miniature servo press Reducing the CO2 emissions and effective utilization of resources in business units Environmental Report lower energy requirements, revamping production and alternative energy sources) Environmental Report activities to suppliers Environmental Report Environmental Report Taking measures to maintain Environmental Report biodiversity at business units and facilities KOMATSU REPORT 2013 52 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Reducing environmental impact Reducing CO2 emissions in Environmental Report throughout the product life cycle logistics utilizing nearby ports for transport Promoting the Reman business Environmental Report such as engines, and placing them back on the market Raising the recyclability of Environmental Report construction equipment hoses (Established recycle route for disposing hydraulic hoses) compliant vehicles Enhancing safety for customers, Increasing the safety of products, services, and workplace society, employees, and business partners Komatsu CSR website KOMATSU REPORT customers Komatsu CSR website occupational health and safety at the workplace KOMATSU REPORT 2013 53 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 2.Developing People Contributing to human resource Developing human resources KOMATSU REPORT related to acquiring skills for development in local communities servicing construction equipment · Developing human resources in Africa, China and Myanmar Cultivating the Next Generation · Social Contribution Efforts in Germany, Japan and Sweden Enhancing our employees and The KOMATSU Way and human KOMATSU REPORT resource development suppliers through The KOMATSU Way Enhancing our employees and Brand Management initiatives Komatsu CSR website distributors through Brand Management 3.Growing with Society Engaging in dialogues with our Communicating with stakeholders stakeholders · Dialogue with stakeholders KOMATSU REPORT · Communicating with sharehoders, Komatsu CSR website local society and employees. · Communicating with business KOMATSU REPORT partners in the supply chain Providing social contributions Disaster relief reconstruction KOMATSU REPORT after the Tohoku earthquake and through the use of our core tsunami technologies and resources Project for Creating Safe Villages KOMATSU REPORT Contributing to local communities Global social contribution programs tailored to the needs of where we do business each region · Cultivating the Next Generation in KOMATSU REPORT Germany, Japan and Sweden · Supporting the Flower Association of Komatsu CSR website Japan and Promoting Sports Strengthening corporate Ensuring compliance by top management and all employees governance and compliance · Corporate Governance KOMATSU REPORT · Promoting Compliance KOMATSU REPORT Promoting compliance with Initiatives that address CSR Procurement environmental, labor, and social norms within our group and · Establishing CSR procurement KOMATSU REPORT guidelines and bringing awareness among business partners to business partners · Pursuing environmental initiatives Environmental Report jointly with business partners KOMATSU REPORT 2013 54 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 We believe that a corporation must continuously check whether its business activities are aligned with the demands of society. We bolster our CSR review cycle by adhering to regional, national, and international guidelines and principles, such as those provided by the UN Global Compact and the International Organization for Standardization (ISO). Relationship of Komatsu's CSR activities with the Principles of the Global Compact Relationship of Komatsu's CSR Priorities with ISO26000 Relationship of Komatsu's CSR activities with the Principles of the Global Compact Recognizing our responsibility as a company with business envolving around the world, Komatsu is a signatory to the UN Global Compact. We and our business partners will act through our supply chain in consideration of this voluntary code of conduct. Each principle of GC is cross-referenced to Komatsu's internal guidelines as following table. KOMATSU'S WORLDWIDE CODE OF BUSINESS CONDUCT Komatsu Group CSR Procurement Guidelines The UN Global Compact is a voluntary code of conduct in the four areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption promoted by the United Nations for adoption by companies. Webpage of The UN Global Compact (http://www.unglobalcompact.org/) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 55 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Human Rights The United Nations Global Compact Komatsu's Activities The Ten Principles Internal Guidelines Practical Actions Businesses should Global Policy on Human Creating the Right support and respect the Resources Management Working Conditions for Principle protection of (Komatsu's Worldwide Everyone One internationally proclaimed Code of Business CSR Procurement human rights; and Conduct 5(A)) • Respect each employee's fundamental human rights make sure they are not • Achieve a balance complicit in human rights between work and personal abuses. life What we would like to ask our business Principle partners in the supply Two chain (Komatsu Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (5)) • Respect human rights KOMATSU REPORT 2013 56 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Labour The United Nations Global Compact Komatsu's Activities The Ten Principles Internal Guidelines Practical Actions Businesses should Global Global Policy on Human Resources uphold the freedom of Human Resources Management System Principle association and the Management Further Enhancing Three effective recognition of (Komatsu's Worldwide Diversity in the the right to collective Code of Business Workplace bargaining; Conduct 5(A)) • Conversations or CSR Procurement discussions with employees Initiatives to Ensure the the elimination of all or their representatives Health and Safety of Principle • Shall not tolerate child Employees Four forms of forced and compulsory labour; labor or forced labor Overview of Health and • Promote equal Safety System opportunities for Principle the effective abolition of employment and eliminate Five child labour; and discrimination/harassment in the workplace Occupational Safety and eliminate discrimination Health Policies in respect of employment (Komatsu's Worldwide and occupation. Code of Business Conduct 5(B)) • Realize a safe and comfprtable work emvironment What we would like to ask our business partners in the supply chain Principle (Komatsu Group CSR Six Procurement Guidelines (5)) • Never get involved in any child or forced labor • Create a work environment where there is no discrimination or harassment • Build up an occupational safety and health operational structure • Establish a fair and just personnel system KOMATSU REPORT 2013 57 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Environment The United Nations Global Compact Komatsu's Activities The Ten Principles Internal Guidelines Practical Actions Business should support Management Principles Environmental Activities Principle a precautionary approach (Komatsu's Worldwide Policy (Interview with the Seven to environmental Code of Business president) challenges; Conduct 1) Komatsu's Relationship • Provide products, services with the Environment and systems that are undertake initiatives to environment-friendly, safe Komatsu Earth Principle promote greater and innovative Environment Charter Eight environmental Environment Protection Relationship between responsibility; and (Komatsu's Worldwide Business Activities and Code of Business the Environment Conduct 6) Organizational Chart of encourage the Komatsu Earth the Environmental development and Environmental Charter Management Structure diffusion of • Climate Change environmentally friendly * Please refer to the • Establishment of a Sound “Environmental Report ” technologies. Material-Cycle Society for concrete efforts. • Conservation of Air, Water and OtherEnvironments as well as Management of Chemical Substances • Biodiversity • Framework of Global, Group-wide Environmental Management System Principle • Environmental Education Nine and Communication Declaration of Biodiversity by Komatsu What we would like to ask our business partners in the supply chain (Komatsu Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (4)) • Reduce environmental impact, manage chemical substances and build up environmental management systems KOMATSU REPORT 2013 58 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Anti-Corruption The United Nations Global Compact Komatsu's Activities The Ten Principles Internal Guidelines Practical Actions Businesses should work Free and Fair Trade Promoting Compliance against corruption in all (Komatsu's Worldwide CSR Procurement its forms, including Code of Business extortion and bribery. Conduct 4) • Fair Competition • Refrain from following the custom when there is conflict • Appropriate Sociality • Fair and proper relationship with governmental agencies Principle What we would like to Ten ask our business partners in the supply chain (Komatsu Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (6)) • Engage in free and fair competition and business transactions • Never accept inappropriate cash, gifts or other favors KOMATSU REPORT 2013 59 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Relationship of Komatsu's CSR Priorities with ISO26000 Komatsu undertook a materiality assessment with the support of Business for Social Responsibility (BSR), a nonprofit organization. We identified a set of CSR issues and prioritize these CSR issues by their relevance to our business and their importance to our stakeholders. Komatsu's CSR priorities are cross-referenced to ISO26000 core subjects/issues as following table. Organizational Governance ISO26000 Komatsu's Activities Issues CSR Priorities Practical Actions Organizational Governance • Cooperation with Message from Top stakeholders Management • Corporate Governance The Basic Stance of • Compliance Management • Comliance with spcoal norms including business Our Approach to CSR partners Corporate Governance Compliance Risk Management CSR Procurement Dialogue with Stakeholders Human Rights ISO26000 Komatsu's Activities Issues CSR Priorities Practical Actions 1. Due diligence • Respecting human rights Creating the Right 2. Human rights risk situations • Comliance with spcoal Working Conditions for 3. Avoidance of complicity norms including business Everyone 4. Resolving grievances partners CSR Procurement 5. Discrimination and vulnerable • Development of local groups communities Disaster Relief -The 6. Civil and political rights • Disaster relief Tohoku Earthquake7. Economic, social and cultural rights • Improving local residents' Project for Creating Safe 8. Fundamental principles and rights at quality of life Villages work KOMATSU REPORT 2013 60 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Labour Practices ISO26000 Komatsu's Activities Issues CSR Priorities Practical Actions 1. Employment and employment • Equal employment Human Resources relationships • Safety and health Management System 2. Conditions of work and social • Human resource Further Enhancing protection development Diversity in the 3. Social dialogue • Comliance with spcoal Workplace 4. Health and safety at work norms including business 5. Human development and training in partners Improvement the working the workplace environment Enhanced Safety Enhanced Safety in Workplace The Komatsu Way and Human Resources Denelopment CSR Procurement The Environment ISO26000 Komatsu's Activities Issues CSR Priorities Practical Actions 1. Prevention of pollution • Environmental-friendly Environmental Activities 2. Sustainable resource use products Policy (Interview with the 3. Climate change mitigation and • Environmental efficiency president) adaptation (facilities, such as plants, Komatsu's Relationship 4. Protection of the environment, and operation sites) with the Environment biodiversity and restoration of natural • Remanufacturing habitats Komatsu Earth Environment Charter Relationship between Business Activities and the Environment Organizational Chart of the Environmental Management Structure * Please refer to the “Environmental Report ” for concrete efforts. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 61 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Fair Operating Practices ISO26000 Komatsu's Activities Issues CSR Priorities Practical Actions 1. Anti-corruption • Corporate governance Corporate Governance 2. Responsible political involvement • Compliance Compliance 3. Fair competition • Comliance with spcoal 4. Promoting social responsibility in the norms including business Komatsu's Code of value chain partners Worldwide Business 5. Respect for property rights Conduct CSR Procurement Consumer Issues ISO26000 Komatsu's Activities Issues CSR Priorities Practical Actions 1. Fair marketing, factual and unbiased • Products that enhance Enhanced Safety information and fair contractual safety Quality and Reliability practices • Responsible marketing and 2. Protecting consumers' health and customer care Growth Strategies Based safety • Environmental-friendly on Innovation 3. Sustainable consumption products Reman 4. Consumer service, support, and • Remanufacturing Business/Improving complaint and dispute resolution Recyclability Rate 5. Consumer data protection and Please refer to the privacy Environmental Report for 6. Access to essential services environmental efforts. 7. Education and awareness KOMATSU REPORT 2013 62 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Community Involvement and Development ISO26000 Komatsu's Activities Issues CSR Priorities Practical Actions 1. Community involvement • Development of local CSR Activities through 2. Education and culture communities Our Core Business 3. Employment creation and skills • Disaster relief (Interview with the development • Improving local residents' President) 4. Technology development and quality of life Dialogue with access • Human resources Stakeholders 5. Wealth and income creation development 6. Health Communication with 7. Social investment Stakeholders CSR Procurement Disaster Relief -The Tohoku EarthquakeRehabilitation program and employment opportunities for young Chileans Project for Creating Safe Villages Accelerating the Pace of Global Human Resource Development KOMATSU REPORT 2013 63 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Overview of Komatsu's Environmental and Social Activities to Date 1962 Began continuous support for the Flower Association of Japan since its founding Earth Environment Committee established 1991 Company name changed in Japanese public relations to Komatsu, with new corporate brand logotype 1992 Komatsu Earth Environment Charter and Environmental Action Plan formulated First Environmental Report published 1994 Board of Corporate Auditors established 1995 Komatsu establishes the International Advisory Board (IAB). 1997 Oyama Plant becomes first in Japanese construction equipment industry to acquire ISO14001 certification Ethics Committee established (Renamed as Compliance Committee later) 1998 First edition of Komatsu's Code of Worldwide Business Conduct published Executive Officer system established; Board of Directors reorganized (Outside directors system 1999 introduced). Compensation Council established First Global Environmental Affairs Meeting convened 2000 Environmental Report again published; published annually thereafter 2001 Compliance Department established 2002 All seven Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan acquire ISO14001 certification 2003 Environmental Affairs Department established 2004 Corporate Social Responsibility Department established KOMATSU REPORT 2013 64 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 2005 First European Health, Safety, and Environment Meeting convened All Komatsu Group manufacturing facilities in Japan attain zero emissions 2006 The KOMATSU Way explicitly defined and promotion activities launched 2007 Seventh edition of Komatsu's Code of Worldwide Business Conduct published Agreement concluded with Japanese NPO Japan Mine Action Service (JMAS) The Komatsu Group in Japan acquire ISO14001 integrated certification 2008 Development of PC200-8 hybrid hydraulic excavator announced Signed the United Nations Global Compact Started Angola local reconstruction project with JMAS PBZ and PAS series of press brakes acquire MF eco machine* certification 2009 Basic agreement reached between Komatsu, Adaro and UT on the biodiesel project in Indonesia *The MF Eco machine Certification System is an eco-label established by the Japan Forming Machinery Association. New mediumand long-term targets are set to reduce CO2 emissions from manufacturing facilities 2010 Komatsu Earth Environment Charter is revised Vehicle equipped with a new type of engine that meets Tier4 emission standards for Japan, the U.S.A. and Europe is introduced in the North American Market Komatsu's Declaration of Biodiversity is established Komatsu establishes the Komatsu Scholarship to the students who have suffered financially from the Great East Japan Earthquake and tsunami. Local reconstruction project in Cambodia is completed with JMAS 2011 CSR themes are defined. Komatsu Green Park opens in Komatsu City, the company's birthplace Eighth edition of Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct published Held the opening ceremony of the pilot plant for the Biodiesel Fuel Project to be implemented by Komatsu, Adaro, and UT Komatsu's CSR Procurement Guideline is established Established the Komatsu Kids Oyama nursery center in the Oyama Plant 2012 The number of visitors to Komatsu-no-Mori exceeds hundred thousand. 2013 Hybrid AC Servo press [H1F Series] acquired MF eco machine certification KOMATSU REPORT 2013 65 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Recent External Commendations and Evaluations on Komatsu's Environmental Conservation and Social Activities 2013 January • Komatsu is ranked 19th among 438 companies in the 16th Corporate Environmental Management Ranking by Nikkei Inc. March • Komatsu is ranked 21st among 1,116 companies in the CSR Corporate Ranking by Toyo Keizai Shinbun, Inc • Komatsu is ranked 5th among 616 companies in the Corporate Integrity and Transparency Assessment by Integrex Inc 2012 January • Komatsu is ranked 38th among 449 companies in the 15th Corporate Environmental Management Ranking by Nikkei Inc. March • Komatsu's CSR & Environmental Report 2011 receives the award of excellence at the 15th Green Reporting Awards, organized by the Green Reporting Forum and Toyo Keizai Shinbun, Inc. • Komatsu is ranked 19th among 1,117 companies in the CSR Corporate Ranking by Toyo Keizai Shinbun, Inc. • Komatsu is ranked 4th among 611 companies in the Corporate Integrity and Transparency Assessment by Integrex Inc. August • Komatsu Asia & Pacific Pte Ltd. (KAP) is the Merit Winner of the Singapore Environment Achievement Award (Manufacturing) September • Komatsu is recognized by the Tokyo Stock Exchange as a Company Appropriately Responding to ESG issues December • Komatsu is ranked 3th among 1,020 companies according to the NICES companyrating system by Nikkei Inc KOMATSU REPORT 2013 66 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 2011 January • Ranked 16th among 253 companies in Japan in Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Ltd.'s Seventh Annual Corporate Performance Rankings • Ranked 29th among 475 companies in the 14th Corporate Environmental Management Ranking by Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. February • Awarded first prize for the 2011 Integrity Award from the Internal Control Council of Japan (ACFE) April • Komatsu Hybrid System for construction equipment receives the 2010 JSME Medal for New Technology from the Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers (JSME) July • Komatsu's mobile recycler is nominated as an example of the 2011 Recommended Technology at the New Technology Utilization System Review Conference organized by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport August • Komatsu CSR is awarded the Bronze Class by SAM Corporation, Switzerland's SRI assessment company November • Komatsu is ranked 7th among 1,005 companies according to the NICES companyrating system by Nikkei Inc. 2010 May • Received the 2010 Chairman's Award from the Japan Construction Mechanization Association for developing the PC200-8E0 Hybrid Hydraulic Excavator October • Ranked 18th among 1,900 companies in Japan in the Nippon Foundation's Annual Corporate Performance Rankings December • Awarded the Good Enterprise Grand Prix from the Japan Investor Relations Association (JIRA) • The Oyama Plant received the Environment Minister's Commendation for its activities for mitigating global warming • Komatsu ranked 8th according to the NICES company rating system by Nihon Keizai Shimbun, Inc. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 67 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 2009 January • Ranked 17th among 100 companies in Japan in Nikkan Kogyo Shimbun Ltd.'s Fifth Annual Corporate Performance Rankings February • Sadao Nozawa, Manager of the Environment and Energy Conservation Group in the General Affairs Department at the Oyama Plant in Japan, recognized with the Agency for Natural Resources and Energy Director-General's Award in the FY2008 Month of Energy Conservation organized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) of Japan • PC200-8 hybrid hydraulic excavator given the Nikkei Business Daily Award for Excellence in the 2008 Nikkei Superior Products and Services Awards sponsored by Nikkei Inc. March • Received the Seventh Annual Award for Broadening of Individual Shareholder Base in Tokyo Stock Exchange, Inc.'s 2008 TSE Awards for Listed Companies October • Ranked 17th among 1900 companies in The Nippon Foundation's The admired Japanese 100 companies of Japan 2008 February • Received the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry Award in The Japan Machinery Federation's FY2007 (28th Award) for Energy-Conserving Machinery for its hybrid electric forklift trucks March • Ranked 1st two years in a row in the Nihon Keizai Shimbun newspaper's Nikkei PRISM (Private Sector Multi Evaluation System) evaluation of top companies in Japan May • Hensley Industries, Inc. recognized as Bronze Level member of Clean Texas program in the U.S. (ranking below two Platinum Level and one Gold Level members) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 68 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 June • Received award from Minister of the Environment of Japan for being a Contributor to Local Environmental Conservation • Honored with an 85th Robotics and Mechatronics Division Award from The Japan Society of Mechanical Engineers Received the Robotics and Mechatronics Technological Achievement Award for the Komatsu Tracking System for construction equipment (KOMTRAX), IT-assisted construction system utilizing high-precision GPS, autonomous haulage system (AHS), and other technological advancements in the field • PC26MR-3 mini hydraulic excavator named Product of the Year in the European Rental Association (ERA)'s European Rental Awards 2008 appearing in the magazine International Rental News • Shinichi Kobayashi, Environmental Manager in the General Affairs Department at the Oyama Plant in Japan, recognized an award from the Minister of the Environment of Japan in the Ministry of the Environment of Japan's recognition of Contributors to Environmental Conservation, etc. in FY2008 July • D51 medium-sized bulldozer recognized as Silver Winner in the Industrial Design Excellence Awards (IDEA) co-organized by the Industrial Designers Society of America (IDSA) and Business Week magazine September • Ranked 44th among 422 companies in Japan in Nihon Keizai Shimbun newspaper's 2008 Most Pleasant Companies to Work For November • Chairman of the Board Masahiro Sakane awarded the Deming Prize for Individuals by the Union of Japanese Scientists and Engineers (JUSE) December • Ranked 47th among 1,796 manufacturers in Japan in Nihon Keizai Shimbun newspaper's 12th Nikkei Environmental Management Ratings • Komatsu Head Office's cafeteria awarded the Judging Committee's Special Prize (School and Company Cafeteria Category) in the Local Production for Local Consumption Menu Contest sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan KOMATSU REPORT 2013 69 CSR and the Environment Our Approach to CSR KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Commendations from Socially Responsible Investing (SRI) Assessment Bodies (Globally) Selected for inclusion in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI), SRI share price indexes developed by Dow Jones Indexes (U.S.) and SAM Group (Switzerland) Selected for inclusion in the listing of SRI issues developed by Morningstar (Japan) Rated as Prime among 35 machinery companies in 2012 social responsibility ratings by Oekom, a Germany-based independent CSR assessment company. We support THE GLOBAL COMPACT KOMATSU REPORT 2013 70 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Komatsu promotes environmentally-friendly activities throughout the entire Group to realize its vision of “What Komatsu Can Do and What It Must Do” for the environment and sustainable development. In recognition of the fact that our business activities affect the environment on a regional and global level, we, at Komatsu, have placed the focus on the following four key areas: 1)Climate Change 2)Establishment of a Sound Material-Cycle Society 3)Conservation of Air, Water and Other Natural Resources as well as Management of Chemical Substances 4)Biodiversity In line with the Komatsu Earth Environment Charter revised in 2010, the Komatsu Group embarks on global initiatives across business areas guided by the fundamental principles of (1)Contributions to Realization of Sustainable Society, (2)Simultaneous Realization of Environmental and Economic Performance, and (3)Observance of Corporate Social Responsibility. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 71 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Relationship of the Komatsu Group's Business Activities with the Environment You can see expanding figure by clicking figure above. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 72 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Corporate Principles 1. Contributions to Realization of Sustainable Society Mankind must not only promote the further growth of a rich and comfortable society but also pass down this indispensable environment of our planet earth to future generations in a sound and healthy condition. We, at the Komatsu Group, define environmental conservation efforts as one of the highest priority management tasks, and endeavor to contribute to the sustainable growth of society by integrating advanced technologies into environmental conservation efforts in all our business activities. This is represented by our hybrid construction equipment which features a substantial reduction of CO2 emissions while in operation and by our superior manufacturing. 2. Simultaneous Realization of Environmental and Economic Performance We are committed to improving both environmental performance and economic efficiency, as a group of companies working toward superior manufacturing for customer satisfaction. To this end, we constantly take up the challenge of advancing technologies to develop creative products that improve both environmental performance throughout the product's life cycle and the product's economic performance at the same time. 3. Observance of Corporate Social Responsibility Each company of the Komatsu Group promotes environmental conservation by not only complying with the applicable laws and regulations of the concerned host community, region and country but also by establishing its voluntary standards which consider global and local environmental concerns. Each company of the Group also strives to fulfill its corporate social responsibility by actively participating in local environmental conservation programs and thereby promoting close-knit communication with local communities, while striving to become a company trusted by all Komatsu stakeholders. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 73 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Guidelines for Corporate Activity 1. Basic Stances on Earth Environmental Problems We, at the Komatsu Group, work for sustainable society and earth environment through our global business operations by addressing the following four environmental problems with the stances discussed below. 1)Climate Change We will reduce the use of energy and emissions of greenhouse gas in all phases of our business activities ranging from research and development, procurement, production and logistics to sales and service as well as in the total life cycle of our products and services. 2)Establishment of a Sound Material-Cycle Society Through our business processes, we work to minimize the use of natural resources, such as materials and water, promote their re-use or recycle them as much as possible, and expand Zero Emissions from our manufacturing activities around the world. At the same time we ensure the thorough management of waste materials in all our business domains, including our suppliers and distributors. We also continuously work to increase the recyclabillity rate of products at the time of disposal. 3)Conservation of Air, Water and Other Environments as well as Management of Chemical Substances We comply with not only local laws and regulations but also with our established standards concerning the conservation of water quality, prevention of air pollution, noise and vibrations. As much as possible, we also ensure the thorough management of chemical substances for use in our business activities, while continuously reducing the use of potentially harmful chemical substances or replacing them with alternative substances for discontinuation of their use. 4)Biodiversity We recognize biodiversity as one of the important issues concerning the earth environment, evaluate, understand and analyze impact on it in all our business domains, and work on our tasks according to the criteria of the highest impact and/or the most effective actions. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 74 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 2. Framework of Global, Group-wide Environmental Management System The Komatsu Head Office, as well as the manufacturing facilities and main companies of the Komatsu Group, already with ISO certifications, will work to maintain and improve their environmental management system, while other manufacturing facilities and suppliers will also work to establish their environmental management systems and reduce their environmental impact. The Komatsu Environmental Committee develops environmental action plans and common guidelines for the Komatsu Group. Based on these Group-wide plans and guidelines, each division or company sets up its own midto long-term targets, develops and implements specific action plans, reviews them regularly and works to continuously improve them. 3. Environmental Education and Communication We believe that it is important to enhance the environmental awareness of each and every employee and thereby actively promote environmental awareness and education programs for all employees. We will gather environment-related information concerning not only our manufacturing facilities but also other related entities, such as major affiliated companies and suppliers, and strive to disclose such information, thereby facilitating proactive communication with all our stakeholders, such as customers, employees, local communities and suppliers and further expanding the content of environmental communication. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 75 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Power-Saving Activities KOMATSU has continuously pursued both productivity improvements and energy-saving activities. After experiencing power shortages in the service areas of Tokyo Electric Power Co., Inc. and Tohoku Electric Power Co., Inc. during the summer of 2011, it was anticipated that power shortages would occur during the summer of 2012, including the service area of Kansai Electric Power Co., Inc. In response, KOMATSU implemented large-scale reductions in power consumption. Our goal was to cut summertime peak power needs by 25% in 2012 and by 50% in 2014, compared to consumption levels in 2010. We plan to limit consumption to reduce the environmental impact from CO2 Approach to Power-Saving The fundamental methods for power reduction that we will use are: (1)Control use of electricity to eliminate waste by realizing lower energy requirements (2)Revamping production (3)Use alternative energy sources KOMATSU REPORT 2013 76 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 (1) Reducing waste by realizing lower energy requirements We are constructing a system that automatically tracks the amount of power consumption per hour by all domestic plants, then sends this information to the head office, to be made available for company-wide viewing. You can check the amount of power usage in real time from any computer in the company. At the same time, in each factory we are working on making it possible to see in even more detail the power usage of each building and facility. Seeing where power usage occurs will enable us to discover where power is being wasted, which facilities have poor energy efficiency, and the correlation between power usage and production activity. This will help us move ahead with our power-saving activities more effectively. In addition, we are promoting our activities to visitors and conducting awareness campaigns to general staff through digital signage in places like the office lobby. Centralized Monitoring of Power and Facilities Improving Efficiency by Updating Facilities KOMATSU REPORT 2013 77 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 (2) Production Reform: Reduce power usage by improving processing equipment and manufacturing processes About 60% of KOMATSU production plants' power consumption is from power used in processing parts. KOMATSU has several manufacturing processes including machine processing and welding. In each area we are working to reduce power usage by improving equipment, as well as increasing efficiency in the manufacturing process. Power Reduction with Production Equipment We can reduce power used during processing and idling with inverter control and fine-tuned stopping in auxiliary machinery such as pumps and motors. We can also shorten both processing and idling times by improving processing speed and capacity utilization, machining time. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 78 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Improving the Manufacturing Process (Using CAE) With the new production technology development, we will minimize processing range and input energy. In addition, we will reduce power consumption by accelerating the updating of facilities with highefficiency state-of-the-art equipment. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 79 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 (3) Using alternative energy: Getting the most out of sunlight and groundwater In an effective use of space, KOMATSU has installed solar panels on the rooftop of buildings to generate solar power. We are working on finding ways of taking advantage of renewable energy, such as using the stabilized temperature of groundwater to help with air conditioning. New energy-saving buildings: Updating the buildings using the latest energy-saving technology While implementing power usage reduction activities company-wide, we learned that if we incorporate energy-saving technology in to the structures being rebuilt, it would be possible to reduce power consumption by about 50% in places such as office buildings and assembly plants, where the primary power consumption is due to lighting and air conditioning. Additionally, because over 60% of KOMATSU production buildings were built over 40 years ago, there have been cases where the narrow spacing between posts inhibit the construction of efficient production systems. Therefore, we have decided take drastic measures by forging ahead with the integrated renewal of production buildings. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 80 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 In doing this, in addition to the utilizing the latest energy-saving technologies, we are aiming for significant improvement in production efficiency by incorporating production reform (streamlining) and reduction in power consumption from decreasing overall square footage of buildings, so that with controlled amounts of investment, we can expect sufficient return on investment. Starting with construction on the Awazu Plant in 2013, we are expecting to invest 300-400 billion yen by 2020. Basic Ideas (1)Use latest energy-saving technology to achieve 50% reduction in power usage (2)Increase efficiency by production reform, and reduce size of facilities by -30% (3)Have new buildings that use natural energy (sunlight, groundwater, etc.) most effectively New Awazu Assembly Plant Reduction in power usage at the newly rebuilt structure (Awazu Plant) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 81 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 In 2008 Komatsu released the PC200-8E0, the world's first mass produced hybrid hydraulic excavator. Since then, its domestic sales surpassed 1,000 units at the end of last year; and in this year, worldwide sales have finally topped 2,000 units. In 2010 the follow up model HB205-1 was released and at the end of 2012 a minor upgrade, the HB205-1M0, was made to improve fuel efficiency for continuous improvements to relieve the environmental burden. Following the PC200 class, this year the PC300 class will be sold. We will continue to develop and promote environmentally friendly construction machinery including various machine series. Hybrid Hydraulic Excavator HB205-1 Marketing Record for Hybrid Hydraulic Excator KOMATSU REPORT 2013 82 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Safety is one of the most important issues at Komatsu as we expand our business. In addition to enhancing the safety of our products and services, we also emphasize safety at customer sites and the workplaces of our employees and business partners. Enhanced Safety at Customer Sites ICT, environment, and safety are very important considerations in Komatsu's product development. In addition to supplying products that provide superior safety performance, we also strive to prevent accidents and failures. We do this by making recommendations and holding lectures together with our distributors to ensure that the machinery at customer worksites is operated safely. Content of Safety Workshops (based on case studies of construction equipment sales in Japan) Know-how in safety management and risk aversion Safety measures based on past experience Safe operation of different types of construction equipment Initiatives for Business Partners Please refer to Together with Business Partners. Initiatives to Ensure the Health and Safety of Employees Our company issues our president's message on occupational health and safety, and in April 2011, Occupational Safety and Health Policies were newly incorporated in Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct. These policies will be promoted through joint activities by the company and its employees. >> http://www.komatsu.com/CompanyInfo/profile/conduct/#c05 The Group will foster occupational safety, mainly through small zero-accidents activities held on a full participation basis. While continuing to upgrade safety-related education and training, the Group aims to support safety activities at Group companies around the globe. We will continue to strengthen our Group-wide health and safety system and also implement mental and physical healthcare management to promote employee health. >> http://www.komatsu.com/CompanyInfo/csr/2013/1-1.html KOMATSU REPORT 2013 83 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Voice Under the Slogan Full Participation, 1,200 Employees Strive for Zero Accidents Yuichi Matsumoto General Manager, Safety & Environment,Administration Department,Komatsu Forklift Japan Ltd. Komatsu Forklift Japan was established in October 2009 through the merger of nine Group forklift sales companies in Japan that had previously operated independently. At first, the new company experienced some tension over differing approaches and business cultures related to safety. These differences were Safety and health convention for all ultimately overcome, and a company-wide employees system was established by 2012 to manage occupational safety and health under the following principles. [1] We will make safety our top priority. [2] We will deliver safety and security to continuously earn customer trust and loyalty. [3] We will fully comply with our rules. Pointing and calling method for daily (pertaining to required safety equipment and inspection at the start of operations protective gear and full adherence to operational standards) Within this framework, we engage in the following activities under the slogan full participation. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 84 CSR and the Environment Enhancing Quality of Life KOMATSU REPORT 2013 1. Occupational safety and health conventions where all employees participate A convention is held nine times around the country so that all employees can hear about policies governing occupational safety and health activities from the president, reports on contingency planning case studies and lectures on safety and health. The objective of this convention is to raise employee awareness about occupational safety and health. 2. Sharing of Hiyari-Hatto (close call) Cone barriers are set up to ensure incidents, training to anticipate potential safety during work at customer sites. dangers and simulations of dangerous situations Morning safety assemblies and safety training sessions are conducted at each site under the supervision of regional safety promotion officers. The participants share local examples of Hiyari-Hatto incidents, are trained to anticipate potential dangers, and take part in simulations of dangerous situations aimed at preventing accidents. 3. Safety patrols to ensure thorough site improvements The president periodically visits sites across the nation in an ongoing effort to improve safety and ensure that safety procedures and the 5Ss* are being implemented at company sites as well as during forklift maintenance at customer sites. As a result of these activities, we were able to reduce the number of accidents in FY2012 by 35% from the previous year. We intend to draw the full participation of all employees so that efforts are continuously made every day to deliver safety and security and thereby continue earning the trust and loyalty of our customers. *Seiri (sorting), seiton (setting in order), seiso (systematic cleaning), seiketsu (standardizing) and shitsuke (sustaining) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 85 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Training Service Personnel in Regions where We are Established as a Responsible Manufacturer Developing People is one of Komatsu's core CSR themes. Our initiatives in this area focus on supporting human resource development in the locations around the world where we do business. Wherever our operations take us, mechanics are required to service and maintain construction equipment in good operating condition. As the company that sells this equipment, we believe we are responsible for cultivating the human resources needed to service it. Under this principle, we Support Center in Tanzania for developing distributor service personnel have opened training centers around the world to develop servicepersons and at the same time provide opportunities for these trainees to acquire the skills they need to qualify as mechanics. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 86 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Human Resource Development to Meet Regional Needs Komatsu develops human resources in a way that best meets the specific needs of each region. In Africa, for example, where more mechanics are required due to rising demand for our products, we cultivate work-ready personnel by collaborating with sales and service distributors and by sharing our training expertise. In China, Komatsu offers a specialized course at a university in Shandong Province to train newly recruited service personnel in an effort to more quickly turn out a greater number of mechanics. And in Myanmar, we are addressing the need for teachers who can train mechanics by collaborating with a local university and setting up a course to prepare teachers to provide specialized training for construction equipment. In addition to these efforts, Komatsu contributes to society through the use of our core technologies and resources by pursuing initiatives for empowering the younger generation which will shoulder the future of manufacturing. Komatsu Training Center in Nairobi set up at a Training course in Myanmar distributor's office KOMATSU REPORT 2013 87 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Cultivating the Next Generation at KOHAG Germany Komatsu Hanomag GmbH (KOHAG) signed an agreement with four local elementary schools to promote technical education starting in December 2011. The agreement reflects nationaland provincial-level initiatives to avoid a skills shortage in technological expertise and better equipping the next generation. KOHAG provided five toolkits developed by a German NGO free of charge to each school. KOHAG employees have been mentoring teachers on how students can use the toolkits in the classroom and provide follow-up assistance. The toolkits, which contain tools such as screwdrivers, parts such as bolts and electrical circuits, construction materials such as boards and wheels, and an instruction manual, enable students to learn the basics of construction, automotive engineering and electricity. After the class, children are invited to the KOHAG factory to see for themselves the principles they have learned by observing actual machines. KOHAG employee providing advice to elementary Children visiting KOHAG after class school teachers KOMATSU REPORT 2013 88 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Retired Employees Engage in Activities at Komatsu's Birthplace The Komatsu Green Park was opened in 2011 in Komatsu City, Ishikawa Prefecture the birthplace of Komatsu to provide an educational environment for future generations and particularly local elementary school children. The park contributes to the sound development of the children through nature hikes in its satoyama zone and science classes. The program is unique in that it is primarily staffed by retired Komatsu employees through an incorporated NPO, with four divisions that plan and conduct the nature hikes, science classes and cleanup activities and support local events. A total of 283 former employees have registered with the NPO, and the park has received over 100,000 visitors. A robot competition during a science class, where Exploring nature in the park's satoyama zone children can enjoy learning how thermoelectric devices work KOMATSU REPORT 2013 89 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Sweden's Komatsu Forest AB has extended a donation to the Technical College at the local Dragoon School to school's areas, which was named the Komatsu Technical Center in September 2012. The center has a manufacturing line equipped with the most advanced industrial robots as well as a welding workshop for training and an information processing center. A course has been added to the school curriculum to teach the KOMATSU Way of manufacturing and a scholarship was established so that outstanding students could come to Japan and experience manufacturing at Komatsu. The donation has helped to create a highly advanced educational environment with technologies similar to those used by leading corporations. As the Komatsu Technical Center generates human resources capable of forming the backbone of manufacturing education. All equipment was replaced on the manufacturing line, now closely associated with Komatsu know-how. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 90 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Voice A Technical Training Program of the Highest Standards in Europe Support from Komatsu is contributing to enhanced competitiveness and the sustainable development of Umeå Mr. Mikael Öhlund City Chief Executive, City of Umeå Umeå is northern Sweden's largest city and among the country's hottest spots for growth. It is also the European Capital of Culture 2014. One of the greatest challenges facing Umeå is long-term access to technical and industrial competence. Consequently, Komatsu's donation to the Dragoon School Technology Centre is extremely important for future industrial development in the region. We are convinced that the donation will give Umeå one of the best technical training programs in Sweden. We have already noticed that the Technology Centre's courses are attracting more young people. This will strengthen the competitiveness of industrial companies. By enabling Umeå to reinforce its position as a leading industrial region, Komatsu's donation also contributes to Umeå's continued growth. As regards courses tailored to industry, the Dragoon School Technology Centre is now an arena of the highest European level. Komatsu's donation has played a pivotal role here. The investment greatly contributes to making Umeå an attractive industrial city in which the Technology Centre plays an important role in driving Umeå's development. We have been overwhelmed by Komatsu's obligingness and the close collaboration that has emerged. For many years, the municipality of Umeå has worked ambitiously toward long-term sustainable development. In Komatsu we have found a partner with whom we can work hand in hand to achieve our ambitions. We feel this is an excellent example of how communities and trade and industry can build the future together. With mutual respect for each other's roles, we want to build further on these success factors. In the ways outlined above, the municipality of Umeå and our region are becoming ever more attractive for study and work. At the same time, with training courses that respond directly to the challenges of working life, we can supply companies with the skills they need. All this contributes to creating the conditions for Umeå to continue as a force for growth in northern Sweden. A shining and concrete example of this is that, to everyone's delight, several Dragoon School students, on passing their exams, have now been employed by Komatsu Forest. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 91 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Employees of the Komatsu Group companies are an indispensable asset for the Group, which seeks to foster a safe and comfortable working environment, while maximizing opportunities for employees. Global Personnel Policy Personnel systems reflect the history and culture of each particular region. It is therefore important to recognize and understand those differences. Based on the basic policy outlined below, the members of the Komatsu Group are creating a personnel system tailored to the needs and reflecting the circumstances of each particular region. (1) We shall respect each employee s fundamental human rights, inherent personality, individuality, and legally protected privacy. (2) We shall treat and appraise each individual employee in a fair and impartial manner. We shall not discriminate against any employee on the basis of nationality, race, religion, age, gender, physical or mental disability or other legally protected attributed that are irrelevant to his or her performance. We shall vigorously endeavor to promote equal opportunities for employment and eliminate harassment in the workplace. (3) We shall endeavor to provide employees with workplaces where they can seek a good balance between their private and professional lives, while effectively accomplishing their respective tasks with satisfaction and pride. (4) We shall endeavor to design and administer the system of human resource management in a manner that is most reasonable and persuasive to the employees. We shall make such systems open and clearly explain them to the employees to the maximum extent practicable. (5) Komatsu Group companies shall comply with all applicable laws and regulations governing employee rights in the jurisdictions in which they operate, and faithfully accommodate, wherever applicable, conversations or discussions with employees or their representatives. (6) We shall not tolerate child labor or forced labor. (7) Komatsu Group companies shall endeavor to offer to their respective employees those terms and conditions for employment that are sufficiently competitive in their respective regions. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 92 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Enhancing Work-Life Balance Reducing the Total Number of Working Hours Reducing the total number of working hours is a key factor in achieving a healthy work-life balance for employees. In Japan, for example, Komatsu has worked in coordination with labor unions on this issue to formulate numerical targets, which are now set at 2,100 or fewer working hours per year and at least 16 days of paid leave taken per year. Efforts are continuing to achieve efficient working conditions through measures such as the formulation of an activity schedule for each workplace. In 1991, an employee volunteer incentive program was established, providing for a maximum of two years of paid leave and a maximum of 12 days per year of special leave. Furthermore, as of 2012, the company has awarded the President s Volunteer Award to 39 e mployees who dedicated themselves to o utstanding longterm service to society. As for support for reconstruction in the areas devasta ted by the recent Great East Japan Earthquake, the company cooperated with the labor unions to pay a transportation allowance to emplo yees traveling to the disaster-stricken region as volunteers. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 93 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Main Programs and Measures Designed to Enhance Work-Life Balance Program/Measure Description Childcare Childcare leave Available for a maximum of three years from the birth of the child to the time support program the child enters nursery school. Also available for a maximum of three years for children up to the third year of elementary school in cases where a spouse is transferred, etc. Pregnancy, 5 days during pregnancy (for women) maternity 5 days when an employee s wife delivers (for men) and childcare 5 days for infant care (for both men and women) leave Part-time work Shortening of working hours by a maximum of 3 hours per day to allow for care of children up to the third grade of elementary school Allowance toward Allowance toward the cost of childcare for infants up to age 2 before entering the cost of using nursery school (10,000 yen/month) childcare services Nursing leave 5 days for nursing care of one child up to the third grade of elementary school, and 10 days for the second child onward Care Family-care A maximum of 3 years available to employees taking care of family members support leave program Part-time work Shortening of working hours by a maximum of 3 hours per day Care leave 5 days per year for attending to one family member in need of nursing care, and 10 days for the second family member onward Other Accumulated Accumulation of a maximum of 40 days of unused annual leave leave annual leave programs An employee can add 5 new days of accumulated leave, not to exceed 10 days per year Can be used as sick leave, to take care of sick preschool children, or for care of family members Flexible leave Provided to encourage employees to take 5 consecutive days of leave for the mental and physical rejuvenation Employees receive an additional 5 days of annual leave and a travel voucher upon completion of their 15th, 25th and 35th year of continued service Volunteer Long-term paid leave of up to 2 years, or short-term paid leave of 12 days incentive per year program KOMATSU REPORT 2013 94 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Topics Establishment of In-House Nursery Komatsu Kids Oyama To create a workplace that is appealing to parents, Komatsu Kids Oyama was established in the Oyama Plant located in Tochigi in 2012. Because in recent years the number of female employees and employees with children has increased, and to achieve a workplace that is safe, reassuring and Komatsu Kids Oyama, Nursery Room appealing for such individuals, a daycare center was established so that parents could entrust their children to care providers close to their workplace or receive support after returning to work from parental leave. Komatsu Kids Oyama is available for open enrollment for the c hildren of employees. The nursery initially began with 7 children but plans to expand to accommodate 30 children in the next 2 years. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 95 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 The development of global human resources is an ongoing theme for the Komatsu Group. In addition to disseminating education in the KOMATSU Way so that it can be shared by employees worldwide, the company has set up a system geared toward training professionals in various fields. Revision of the KOMATSU Way We distributed the second edition of the KOMATSU Way in November 2011 and held briefings for managers at our plants and subsidiaries in Japan to explain the revised content. Our overseas subsidiaries have been translating the second edition of the KOMATSU Way into the languages of their locations, and the translations for major subsidiaries were completed before March 2013. The KOMATSU Way, Second Edition I. I ntroduction / What is the KOMATSU Way? II. Top Management III. Monozukuri for all employees IV. Brand Management Key themes of the Management Section (Summary) Top management shall act with awareness of CSR, always have familiarity with the workplace, and formulate management policy based on analysis of data from the workplace. Make sure to hold board meetings regularly. Thoroughly discuss the agenda items through these steps: Reporting / Discussions / Resolutions. Top management should explain, in their own words, the current conditions and future direction of the company to all the stakeholders including employees. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 96 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Thai and Chinese versions of The KOMATSU Way; more language versions will be made available. KOMATSU Way briefing at the Ibaraki Plant Briefing at Bangkok Komatsu Human Resource Development and Training Structure Komatsu strives for sustainable growth of both the company and employees through human resource development. Our policy is that each employee should set high goals and be self-reliant and self-motivated in acquiring knowledge and skills and that the company should support employee career development through the implementation of necessary education for both the company and employees in a focused manner. While fulfilling the education of professionals in a variety of fields, the company also supports the acquisition of knowledge and skills at every level at the company. Regular explanatory sessions and discussions are convened at Group companies to disseminate the KOMATSU Way and incorporate it into human resource development around the world at each level of the company hierarchy, as well as to allow this knowledge to be handed down to younger generations. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 97 CSR and the Environment Developing People KOMATSU REPORT 2013 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 98 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Serving the Changing Needs of Disaster Areas, Step by Step Komatsu has continued to offer support through its core business that directly serves the changing needs of areas affected by the Great East Japan Earthquake. In the immediate aftermath of the earthquake, we set up our Tohoku Operation Department in Sendai City, Miyagi Prefecture. This led to a The Tohoku Operation Department served as a base cooperative effort with governments in the for evaluating local needs and providing quick support. affected areas to identify the needs and support reconstruction, primarily by meeting requests for rent-free construction equipment and temporary housing. Currently, support and cooperation for full-scale reconstruction are essential, and we continue to provide practical, step-by-step support as the situation requires. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 99 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Providing Direct Support and then Facilitating the Recovery of Local Communities First Stage Direct support for earthquake and tsunami victims Immediately after the earthquake, the most urgent challenges were to remove the scattered debris and restore damaged roads. To aid in these efforts, Komatsu gathered 264 pieces of construction equipment from around the country and loaned them free of charge. In addition, 671 employees from the sales and support divisions helped operate the equipment at 55 sites in the disaster-stricken prefectures of Iwate, Miyagi and Fukushima. Second Stage Recovery of local communities As finding a space to pursue everyday life became a top priority for residents of the disaster-stricken areas, Komatsu began contributing to local recovery efforts by providing temporary container houses and prefabricated housing free of charge. Local communities are using these facilities as schools, kindergartens, post offices and clinics. Hydraulic excavator in operation in Onagawa, Miyagi Temporary post office provided by Komatsu in Prefecture, where removal of debris was a pressing Rikuzentakata City, Iwate Prefecture need KOMATSU REPORT 2013 100 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Today: Supporting Full-Scale Reconstruction We are now in the third stage of assisting in the full-scale reconstruction. Komatsu donated forklifts to the NPO Signal of Hope to support the recovery of local industry. About 60 forklifts are now in service at damaged fisheries facilities. We also established the Komatsu Safety Training Center, Miyagi Center and cover half of the tuition to train much needed construction equipment operators and assist disaster victims' in finding employment. More than 4,700 students have already participated in the training, many of whom are now demonstrating their skills at recovery and reconstruction sites. Providing aid to students who will play important roles in manufacturing is another endeavor we are currently involved with. As part of this initiative, we provide Komatsu Scholarships through the Institute of National Colleges of Technology, Japan to students of national technical colleges in the Tohoku and Northern Kanto regions, which were stricken by the disaster. In addition, we established the Rio Tinto-Komatsu Scholarship in collaboration with the mineral resource mining company Rio Tinto and a Komatsu customer, and provided them to students at National University Corporation Tohoku University. Forklift donated to support the recovery of the Komatsu Safety Training Center, Miyagi Center, in fisheries industry Natori City, Miyagi Prefecture KOMATSU REPORT 2013 101 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Harnessing Our Advanced Technology as a Manufacturer to Support Reconstruction Komatsu is supporting reconstruction efforts by harnessing our advanced technology, which we have developed as a manufacturer of construction machinery. Komatsu sent radio-controlled equipment to remove rubble and debris at the Fukushima Daiichi Nuclear Power Station. Regarding the removal of radioactive materials, there are strong expectations for computer-aided bulldozers that utilize ICT to automatically excavate surface soil to a fixed, preset depth. Construction equipment on ships cannot be used at many reconstruction sites, such as shallow areas of rivers, debris-cluttered riverbanks and small fishing ports. In order to reach these sites, we refurbished our amphibious bulldozer for the first time in 20 years. The bulldozer was developed in 1971 as an alternative to mounting construction equipment on boats for work in shallow waters at the mouths of rivers or in bay areas, but its production has since been discontinued. We selected and upgraded one of five amphibious bulldozers still in service and then dispatched it for use in a recovery effort on a bridge that had been damaged by the earthquake. This radio-controlled bulldozer can be used not only on land but also as deep as seven meters underwater, and is currently being operated at reconstruction sites that are difficult for ships to reach. Looking ahead, we will continue to support full-scale reconstruction efforts by leveraging the Komatsu Group's management assets. Amphibious bulldozer in operation in the Natori River in Miyagi Prefecture KOMATSU REPORT 2013 102 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Voice Return of the Amphibious Bulldozer Leading the recovery and reconstruction of damaged fishing ports, bays and rivers Mr. Masaki Umakakeba, Civil Engineering Technology Dept., Aoki Asunaro Construction Co., Ltd. I was speechless as the current of the Natori River reversed and swallowed nearby houses. The tsunami was of unprecedented size! At a little after 3 p.m. on March 11, 2011, a stunning scene was unfolding before me on a monitor in the lobby of New Chitose Airport. Although two years have passed since that day, the coastal areas of Sanriku, Miyagi and Fukushima seem far from recovery. Since the first amphibious bulldozer was developed in 1971, I have been involved in construction work for breeding zones, fishing ports, bay areas and riverbanks on the northern coast of Iwate Prefecture, which was devastated by the tsunami. The five amphibious bulldozers still in service, however, were worn out from long use and required one repair after another. Two years ago, the people at Komatsu stood up for earthquake reconstruction and completed a major refurbishment of the bulldozer. Komatsu factory staff who worked on the repairs were amazed at the sophisticated technology used in 1971. We are still receiving requests to dispatch equipment to construction sites for recovery and reconstruction and for use in shallow waters and the sea. With help from my good partners at Komatsu, I hope to pass along the amphibious bulldozer and its outstanding performance to the next generation. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 103 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 In addition to maintaining a dialogue with all of our stakeholders, including employees, business partners, investors, shareholders and local communities, we also invite stakeholders from outside the company to voice their opinions on Komatsu's management and business. Global Dialogue with Our Stakeholders In February 2012, we invited stakeholders from international non-profit organizations as well as local governments and universities in Japan to a dialogue at our Osaka Plant. Under the theme of Envisioning the manufacturing base of the 21st century, participants discussed issues such as What does society expect from the Osaka Plant, which we call the 'mother plant' of Komatsu's global production? and How can we continue to contribute to society over the long term? Valuable insights we gained from stakeholder opinions included the importance of maintaining transparent communication and conducting CSR activities throughout the supply chain. Stakeholder dialogue at the Osaka Plant KOMATSU REPORT 2013 104 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Exchange between Industry-Academia Collaboration Partners While partnering with major universities in Japan, Komatsu also promotes industry-academia collaborations in China with Shandong University and Tongji University through joint research, internships and other projects. In April 2012, we invited Tongji University faculty members involved in research, career guidance and student internships to Komatsu (Changzhou) Construction Machinery Corp. and the KC Techno Center in Changzhou. We provided an overview of our construction equipment and held a dialogue between Komatsu and guests on developing skilled human resources through efforts such as offering specialized courses, providing student internship procedures and sharing laboratory resources. In November 2012 and March 2013, meetings were held to present the joint research results of Komatsu's partner universities and the company. The researchers shared technical reports and engaged in a discussion that included student participation. The proposals and opinions solicited through these discussions are both helpful and unique, and we will make efforts to see them reflected in our business and operations. Tour of the KC Techno Center Presentation of joint research results from Tongji University and Komatsu KOMATSU REPORT 2013 105 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Business partners that supply materials, parts and components are important in helping to sustain Komatsu's manufacturing activities. Komatsu encourages its partners to abide by social norms while working toward CSR procurement. Establishment and Dissemination of the CSR Procurement Guidelines Komatsu has consistently worked with its business partners on environmental and workplace safety-related activities. Following the release of the ISO26000 international guidelines on corporate social responsibility in November 2010, we established our CSR Procurement Guidelines in August 2011 to explain the priority CSR issues we would like our business partners to address. These guidelines are intended to deepen the awareness of our business partners about corporate social responsibility so that we can mobilize the entire supply chain to accelerate the pace of CSR activities. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 106 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 The Komatsu Midori-kai group is an association of 164 major business partners in Japan that supply roughly 75% of the products Komatsu purchases within Japan. Top management at these companies regularly gather for meetings, including general conferences, roundtable discussions for managers and informal New Year's business functions. On each occasion, we emphasize CSR Communication, published twice a month for the importance of CSR under our CSR guidelines to business partners in Japan since May 2011, with a total build greater awareness of CSR management. of 46 issues released by the end of FY2012 (March 31, 2013). In addition, we have begun publishing CSR Communication, a periodic journal that introduces specific examples of CSR case studies to member companies of the Komatsu Midori-kai group and other domestic business partners. Since May 2011, CSR Communication has been posted twice a month on our website for business partners in an effort to consistently promote CSR. Overseas Activities Midori-kai groups have also been organized outside Japan by our major business partners in North America, Europe and China. There are currently 37 member companies in North America, 51 in Europe and 62 in China. Overseas group members participate as observers in the general conference held by the Midorikai group in Japan, and an exchange between members from different regions is already taking place. We expect overseas members to draw upon the actions of the Japanese Midori-kai group to develop their own CSR activities that reflect the characteristics of each region. Member companies attended a meeting with other construction equipment companies in June 2013 in Detroit, U.S.A. and delivered a presentation on conflict minerals KOMATSU REPORT 2013 107 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Topics Initiative on Conflict Minerals Background on Regulations against Conflict Minerals The term conflict minerals is used in reference to four minerals tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold (abbreviated as 3TG ). Section 1502 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in July 2010 mandates that companies listed on U.S. stock exchanges report to the Securities and Exchange Commission when conflict minerals from the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC) or its neighboring countries are necessary for the Countries Associated with Conflict Minerals functionality or production of a product. The act is directed at cutting off sources of funding for military groups in the DRC, which has been ravaged by domestic conflict since 1996. Komatsu's Policy on Conflict Minerals Komatsu has adopted a policy of not using conflict minerals produced by the DRC or its neighbors (Angola, Central African Republic, Republic of the Congo, Rwanda, Southern Sudan, Tanzania, Uganda and Zambia) modeled after the U.S. Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and from our corporate social responsibility perspective. During the regular meetings we hold with our suppliers at each Komatsu plant in Japan, we explain this policy as well as Komatsu's response to the conflict minerals issue and related requests to our suppliers. With the cooperation of suppliers, we are now conducting a country-of-origin survey to determine the location of origin of the conflict minerals we use. Looking ahead, we will conduct a more detailed survey that includes refineries in its scope and continue taking steps to prevent the use of conflict minerals from the DRC and its neighbors and thereby restrict funding for military groups. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 108 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Using its expertise in construction equipment technology, Komatsu is supporting demining work in areas plagued by anti-personnel landmines. Komatsu also participates in community development projects to revitalize affected areas. Restoring Safety to the Land and Supporting the Construction of Basic Infrastructure toward Self-Reliance and Development of Communities Since 2008, Komatsu has been working jointly with the Japan Mine Action Service (JMAS), an incorporated non-profit organization (NPO), on a community-development project to demine and rebuild areas affected by anti-personnel landmines in Cambodia and Angola. Komatsu provides demining and construction machinery, developed through our expertise and Monozukuri (manufacturing) knowledge as a construction equipment manufacturer. After demining, we begin development of the safe land for agricultural use utilizing our construction equipment. We also implement community rejuvenation and reconstruction projects that include digging detention basins, building elementary schools, and repairing and building roads and bridges to support the construction of basic infrastructure so that communities will be able to sustain themselves and thrive. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 109 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Komatsu demining machine for removal of antiKomatsu construction equipment for building personnel mines infrastructure Project for Creating Safe Villages in Cambodia Over the past five years, we have completed demining efforts and rejuvenated areas spanning five villages. We have also removed landmines from an area of approximately 450 ha, repaired and built roads stretching 20 kilometers, dug around 40 detention basins, created settlements for 500 families and constructed four elementary schools. As a result, minefields have been resuscitated into farmland and distribution routes have Cornfields spread out across the safe land and the Children at a settlement Komatsu School KOMATSU REPORT 2013 110 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Project for Rebuilding Communities in Angola, Africa Since FY2009 we have also been participating with JMAS in a demining and community rebuilding project in Angola, West Africa. We have demined approximately 100 ha and offered support to the local people, including cleanup activities and efforts to improve their perception of agriculture. Plans are currently underway to move the state capital to the mine-cleared part of Mabubas. Removing landmines in Angola Plan for constructing a water purification plant as part of the effort to move the state capital KOMATSU REPORT 2013 111 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Following the principle that compliance is a top priority, Komatsu will ensure that it fully understands and complies with business rules while also reinforcing its compliance system. Strengthening Compliance To ensure that the entire Komatsu Group fully understands the rules of the business community, Komatsu has appointed an executive officer in charge of compliance and established the Compliance Department to handle this area exclusively. The Compliance Committee, chaired by the President and CEO, reviews the Group s action policies and important issues while regularly reporting on the status of compliance-related activities to the Board of Directors. Komatsu's Code of Worldwide Business Conduct The company has formulated Komatsu's Code of Worldwide Business Conduct (established in 1998 and revised seven times to date) as a compilation of best business practices to be observed by officers and employees of Komatsu Group companies both in and outside Japan. The code addresses topics such as free and fair business practices, appropriate relationships between the company and employees, endeavors for the global environment, the handling of information and the establishment of an internal control structure. The text of the code has been released to the public in its entirety. Komatsu considers CSR as a key responsibility, and Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct clearly conveys our policy of giving full weight to CSR. The pillar of Komatsu's CSR activities is based on constant repetition of the following process, outlined in the Code of Worldwide Business Conduct: (1) Establish the Code of Business Conduct, (2) Implement the Code of Business Conduct, (3) Determine the Code's current status and (4) Address inadequacies. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 112 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Process for Compliance Activities (1) Establish the Code of Business Conduct Formulate Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct as a foundation for compliance activities and revise this code (currently in its 8th edition) as required to reflect social change. (2) Implement the Code of Business Conduct Implement the Code of Conduct through education that corresponds to employee rank and the types of operations in which they are involved, and by communicating information in accordance with Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct. (3) Determine the Code's current status Determine the level at which Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct is being applied by having all business units regularly report on their use of the code and by conducting audits and enhancing the Internal Reporting System. (4) Address inadequacies Any issues identified during the above activities will be addressed in accordance with Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and preventive measures will be implemented. Toward Thorough Compliance For continual awareness of compliance among employees, the Group is working to raise their knowledge of best business practices by displaying in every Komatsu Group business unit posters that list The Five Principles of Compliance, a condensed version of the code of basic conduct related to compliance. Beyond this, we strive to provide effective awareness-raising through the use of e-Learning and well-developed, compliance-related education and training that correspond to employee rank and the types of operations in which they are involved. Moreover, the Group not only conducts financial audits, but we also undertake compliance risk auditing of our business units and Group companies to monitor compliance in important areas such as safety and environmental practices, which enables us to detect risks early and make improvements. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 113 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Internal Reporting System Komatsu has set up consultation offices both internally at Komatsu Group companies and externally at law firms, collectively known as the Employee Business Rule Consultation Offices, in order to respond to consultations with or reporting from Group company employees pertaining to best business practices or questionable actions. We promote active consultation and reporting by clearly stating in Komatsu's Worldwide Code of Business Conduct and Group company workplace rules that employees who use the system for appropriate reporting will not be treated unfairly in any way as a result of that action. State of Compliance in FY2012 The Komatsu Group experienced no substantial compliance-related infractions or incidents in FY2012. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 114 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 While Komatsu continues to make efforts to improve corporate value, it recognizes issues related to compliance, in particular the environment, product quality, accidents and information security, as risk factors for sustainable growth and is therefore implementing the following countermeasures. Basic Principles and System for Risk Management Komatsu has established Risk Management Rules to correctly recognize and manage risks, for which the company has appointed personnel in charge of individual risks, further promoting the build-up of a solid foundation for risk management. Komatsu has established a Risk Management Committee to devise risk management policies of the Komatsu Group, evaluate risk measures in place, and take control of risks when they surface. The Risk Management Committee regularly reports its reviews and activities to the Board of Directors. Komatsu will establish an emergency headquarters when serious risks surface and work to minimize damage(s) and implement appropriate measures. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 115 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Implementing a Business Continuity Plan Komatsu has formulated a business continuity plan (BCP) to carry out major operations without suspension, or restore them after a short suspension, should a disaster or accident occur. At the Head Office, we conduct regular drills to ensure that employees are capable of taking appropriate action in the event of a real emergency, assuming the occurrence of an earthquake striking beneath the greater Tokyo metropolitan area, a disaster considered to be highly probable. All our plants have been enhancing the seismic strength of their buildings and facilities while developing measures against torrential rainfall in accordance with the plans each plant has formulated. Moreover, in the event of an outbreak and subsequent epidemic of a new strain of influenza, a specialized committee will be set up to implement appropriate measures. We also strive to deepen employees' understanding by providing an action manual on how to prevent and respond to an outbreak, and related education. Drill for a first stage response by the interim Rescue drill with the Tochigi Prefectural Aviation emergency headquarters at the Head Office Firefighting Team at the Oyama Plant using a disaster prevention helicopter KOMATSU REPORT 2013 116 CSR and the Environment Growing with Society KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Promoting Risk Management throughout the Group To reinforce the risk management structure across the Group, Komatsu is working to enhance the level of management at each Group company by establishing reporting lines and manuals related to risk and through explanatory meetings and study sessions on risk management and BCPs. We are also strengthening our Group-wide system for communications in times of emergency by introducing tools such as an emergency contact and employee safety confirmation system and a wide range two-way radio and by conducting regular drills on using the system and securing communications. Consolidating Information Security With the Information Security Committee at its core, Komatsu is developing a structure for information security for the entire Group and implementing various control measures. As part of this, we distribute an Information Security Guidebook to all employees in order to raise their awareness of thorough compliance with the rules. Additional measures have included the establishment of a protective framework for our system to prevent information from being falsified, destroyed, leaked or lost due to negligence or unauthorized access from outside the company. Moreover, we undertake information security audits to confirm that measures are being effectively implemented, and to discover defects and make the required improvements. Information Security Guidebook KOMATSU REPORT 2013 117 Corporate Gavanance KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Basic Stance We, at Komatsu Ltd., believe our corporate value is the total sum of trust given to us by society and all stakeholders. To become a company which enjoys more trust from shareholders and all other stakeholders, we are working to strengthen corporate governance, improve management efficiency, advocate corporate ethics and ensure sound management on a group-wide basis. To further improve the transparency of management for our shareholders and investors, we disclose information in a fair and timely manner and actively engage in investor relations activities by holding meetings with shareholders and investors. Establishment and Improvement of Corporate Governance In 1999 Komatsu Ltd. introduced the Executive Officer System and has been working to separate management decision making and supervisory functions from executive functions to the extent permitted by laws and regulations. At the same time, we also limit the Board of Directors to a small number of members and appoint Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. To improve the effectiveness of discussions at meetings of the Board of Directors, we have worked to reform their operational aspect, primarily by putting in place a system to ensure thorough discussions of important management matters and prompt decision making. We have also established the International Advisory Board (IAB) as a means to supplement executive functions. Corporate Governance of Komatsu KOMATSU REPORT 2013 118 Corporate Gavanance KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Organizational Profile Board of Directors Komatsu Ltd. holds Board of Directors meetings periodically at least once every month. The Board of Directors deliberates and makes resolutions on important matters, determines management policies of Komatsu, and rigorously controls and supervises the execution of duties by all members of the executive management team including Representative Directors. Of the 10 Directors on the Board, three are Outside Directors to ensure transparent and objective management. Outside Directors (As of June19,2013) Name Title Reasons for Selection Kensuke Hotta Chairman and Having served as Representative Director of The Representative Sumitomo Bank, Ltd. (name at the time) and having Director of Greenhill & experience as Representative Director of Morgan Stanley Co. Japan Ltd. Japan Securities Co., Ltd. (name at the time), Mr. Kensuke Chairman and Hotta has been active internationally in the financial field Representative and has considerable insight and rich experience in the Director of Hotta business world. Using this insight and experience, his Partners Inc. proposals concerning the overall management of the Company are expected to contribute to sustaining and improving transparency and soundness of management and enhancing corporate governance. Therefore, we have elected him as an Outside Director. Noriaki Kano Professor Emeritus at Having served as President of the Japanese Society for Tokyo University of Quality Control, Dr. Noriaki Kano has been active Science internationally as a specialist of quality control and has considerable insight and rich experience. Using this insight and experience, his proposals concerning the overall management of the Company are expected to pursue higher “Quality and Reliability,” the fundamentals of the Company s management, and enhance corporate value. Therefore, we have elected him as an Outside Director. Kouichi Ikeda Corporate Advisor of Having served as Representative Director of Asahi Asahi Group Breweries, Ltd. (name at the time), Mr. Kouichi Ikeda has Holdings, Ltd. considerable insight and rich experience in the business world. Using this insight and experience, his proposals concerning the overall management of the Company are expected to contribute to sustaining and improving transparency and soundness of management and enhancing corporate governance. Therefore, we have elected him as an Outside Director. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 119 Corporate Gavanance KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Audit & Supervisory Board The Audit & Supervisory Board determines such matters as audit policies and the division of duties among Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Each Audit & Supervisory Board Member attends meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings, and audits the execution of duties by Directors. Meetings of the Audit & Supervisory Board are in principle held periodically at least once every month, and the Board performs appropriate audits by such means as hearing reports from members of the executive management team on their execution of duties. The Company has also established the Office of Corporate Auditors Staff to assist the Audit & Supervisory Board Members in their duties. At least half of the five Audit & Supervisory Board Members are Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (As of June 19, 2013) Name Title Reasons for Selection Makoto Okitsu Advisor of Teijin Having served as Representative Director of Teijin Limited Limited and Nabtesco Corporation, Mr. Makoto Okitsu has considerable insight and profound experience in the business world. Using this experience, we expect him to execute his duties as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member from the standpoint of a specialist. Therefore, we have elected him as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Hiroyuki Kamano Partner (Attorney at Having served as an international attorney at law, Mr. law) of Kamano Sogo Hiroyuki Kamano has rich experience in the field of Law Offices international legal affairs. Using this experience, we expect him to execute his duties as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member from the standpoint of a specialist. Therefore, we have elected him as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Kunihiro Matsuo Attorney at law Having served as Prosecutor-General of the Supreme Public Prosecutors Office, Mr. Kunihiro Matsuo has rich experience in the legal profession. Using this experience, we expect him to execute his duties as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member from the standpoint of a specialist. Therefore, we have elected him as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member. Compliance We have established the Compliance Committee as the group to oversee compliance, and it regularly reports its reviews and activities to the Board of Directors. We shall also establish a system to ensure Directors and employees thorough compliance to business rules as well as laws and regulations through a variety of measures, including the provision of Komatsu Code of Worldwide Business Conduct, appointment of the Executive Officer in charge of compliance, and establishment of the Compliance Department. Through all of these, we work to supervise, educate and train Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members and employees. In addition, we shall establish the internal reporting system where those who are discretely reporting questionable actions in light of laws and regulations and business rules will not be penalized. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 120 Corporate Information KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Outline Name Komatsu Ltd. Head Office 2-3-6 Akasaka, Minato-ku, Tokyo 107-8414, Japan Date of Establishment May 13, 1921 Common Stock Outstanding Consolidated: ¥67,870 million (US$828 million) based on U.S. GAAP Non-consolidated: ¥70,120 million (US$855 million) Number of Employees Consolidated: 46,790 Non-consolidated: 9,921 Shareholder Information Shares of Common Stock 953,327,882 shares Issued and Outstanding Number of Shareholders 245,103 Number of Shares per Trading Unit 100 Securities Code 6301 (Japan) Stock Listings Tokyo and Osaka Transfer Agent for Common Stock/ Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Management Institution for 4-5, Marunouchi 1-chome, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8212, Japan Special Account Depositaries (ADRs) The Bank of New York Mellon 101 Barclay Street, New York, NY 10286, U.S.A. Non-U.S. Callers: +1-(201)-680-6825 U.S. Callers: 888-269-2377 (888-BNY-ADRS) URL: http://www.adrbnymellon.com Ticker Symbol: KMTUY KOMATSU REPORT 2013 121 Corporate Information KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Major Shareholders (Top Ten) (As of March 31, 2013) Number of Equity Name of Shareholders Shares Held Ratio (thousand shares) (%) Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 51,721 5.4 The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 42,892 4.4 Taiyo Life Insurance Company 34,000 3.5 Nippon Life Insurance Company 33,283 3.4 State Street Bank and Trust Company 24,561 2.5 (standing proxy: Tokyo Branch, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited) The Bank of New York Mellon as Depositary Bank for Depositary Receipt Holders 23,145 2.4 (standing proxy: Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation) SSBT OD05 OMNIBUS ACCOUNT TREATY CLIENTS 21,153 2.2 (standing proxy: Tokyo Branch, The Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation Limited) JPMorgan Chase Bank 380055 20,671 2.1 (standing proxy: Settlement & Clearing Services Division, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.) State Street Bank and Trust Company 18,202 1.9 (standing proxy: Settlement & Clearing Services Division, Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd.) Sumitomo Mitsui Banking Corporation 17,835 1.8 Notes : Shareholding ratio is calculated by subtracting treasury stock. 2. Although the Company holds 29,802 thousand shares of treasury stock, it is excluded from the major shareholders listed above. Breakdown of Shareholders (As of March 31, 2013) KOMATSU REPORT 2013 122 Corporate Information KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Stock Prices on the Tokyo Stock Exchange KOMATSU REPORT 2013 123 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Section Financial Section Financial Section Financial Review 01 Five-Year Summary 09 Consolidated Balance Sheets 11 Consolidated Statements of Income and 13 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Consolidated Statements of Equity 14 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 15 Business Segment Information 16 Komatsu Group Investment Holdings 18 For notes to consolidated financial statements and other information, please see FORM 20-F filed on U.S. SEC. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section Results of Operations In this section, KOMATSU LTD. is hereinafter referred to as the (2) Impact of Foreign Exchange Rate “Company,“ and together with its consolidated subsidiaries as In comparison to the previous year, Japanese yen depreciated “Komatsu.” against the U.S. dollar, the Euro and the Renminbi during the current year. Such currency fluctuations impacted segment profit (1) General in the Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment segment for Consolidated net sales of construction, mining and utility equipthe year favorably by approximately ¥6.7 billion from the previment sales declined from the previous fiscal year, reflecting a ous year. drastic decline in demand for construction equipment in China The impact of currency fluctuations is determined as the sum and a sharp drop in demand for mining equipment mainly in of the amounts obtained by multiplying foreign currency transIndonesia, as adversely affected by the falling price of coal. In actions of each entity by the change in the applicable exchange the industrial machinery and others business, while sales of rate. However, the effects of change of selling price due to curlarge presses to the automobile manufacturing industry, as well rency fluctuations were not taken into account. as machine tools for use in automotive engine production increased from the previous fiscal year, those of wire saws for use (3) Net Sales in slicing silicon ingots for the solar cell market sharply fell. As a (In this section, the amount of sales represent sales to the exterresult, consolidated net sales in this business segment declined nal customer.) from the previous fiscal year. Consolidated net sales decreased by 4.9% as compared to the Consolidated net sales decreased by 4.9% from the previprevious year, to ¥1,884,991 million (US$20,053 million) from ous fiscal year to, ¥1,884,991 million (US$20,053 million at ¥1,981,763 million. Net sales in Japan decreased by 5.6% US$1=¥94). With respect to profits, Komatsu focused conas compared to the previous year, to ¥380,024 million from tinuous efforts to increase selling prices and reduce production ¥402,505 million. Net sales in overseas countries decreased by costs. Affected by a big drop in sales volume from the previous 4.7% as compared the previous year, to ¥1,504,967 million from fiscal year, profits declined in both businesses of construction, ¥1,579,258 million. mining and utility equipment as well as industrial machinery and others. Operating income declined by 17.5% to ¥211,602 Business results by operation segment are described below. million (US$2,251 million). Operating income ratio decreased Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment by 1.7 percentage points to 11.2%, and income before inWith respect to construction equipment, while demand income taxes and equity in earnings of affiliated companies decreased in North America and Japan from the previous fiscal clined by 18.0% to ¥204,603 million (US$2,177 million). Net year, Chinese demand for hydraulic excavators dropped conincome attributable to Komatsu Ltd. amounted to ¥126,321 siderably. As a result, global demand remained sluggish. On million (US$1,344 million), a decline of 24.4% from the previthe mining equipment market, while demand for equipment ous fiscal year. declined, centering on Indonesia, as adversely affected by the [Markets as Positioned by the Komatsu] falling price of coal, demand increased steadily for equipment Traditional Markets: Japan, North America and Europe especially in Latin America and Oceania as well as parts and Strategic Markets: China, Latin America, Asia, Oceania, service from the previous year. With this background, conAfrica, Middle East and CIS solidated net sales of construction, mining and utility equipment decreased by 3.6% from the previous fiscal year, to ¥1,677,049 Results for the Year Decrease million (US$17,841 million). Net sales 1,884,991 million yen 4.9% To further enhance profitability and reinforce its corporate Operating income 211,602 million yen 17.5% strength, Komatsu continued efforts to increase selling prices, Income before income taxes reduce production costs and improve operations designed to and equity in earnings of flexibly respond to changes in foreign exchange rates and maraffiliated companies 204,603 million yen 18.0% ket demand. Komatsu also worked to reinforce its aftermarket Net income attributable to business by improving its strategic parts operation which inKomatsu Ltd. 126,321 million yen 24.4% Net Income Attributable to R&D Expenses as a Capital Investment as a Shareholders’ Equity Ratio Komatsu Ltd. on Net Sales Percentage of Net Sales Percentage of Net Sales % % % % 10 5 12 50 8 4 10 40 8 6 3 30 6 4 2 20 4 2 1 2 10 0 0 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 01 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section cludes buckets and teeth, the demand for which is strong, espeequipment on a unit basis. In response to strong demand for cially in Strategic Markets and the mining industry, as well as its rental equipment, Komatsu worked to reinforce distributors’ Reman (Remanufacturing) and rebuild operations. With respect rental equipment business. In Latin America, demand for mining to production operation, Komatsu embarked on full-scale efforts equipment remained strong, centering on copper mines in Chile to cut down electric power consumption at all plants in Japan. and Peru, while demand for construction equipment was slugWith respect to product development, Komatsu continued gish in Brazil, the largest market of the region. As a result, overits efforts on products which feature advantages in the areas all demand for equipment was firm, and sales in the Americas of environmental friendliness and fuel economy. Following advanced from the previous fiscal year. North America and Europe, Komatsu launched new emission As the result, net sales in the Americas increased by 20.9% standards-compliant models in Japan in July last year. Combined to ¥535,750 million (US$5,699 million) as compared to the prewith these models, Komatsu began offering the KOMATSU vious fiscal year. CARE, a new service program designed to reduce the total lifecycle costs of these models and prolong machine life. Komatsu <Europe & CIS> also continued to expand sales of HB205 and HB215LC hybrid As economic uncertainty prevailed against the backdrop of hydraulic excavators worldwide, and topped cumulative sales sovereign-debt problems, demand remained sluggish, even in of 2,000 units in March 2013. In the forklift truck business, the major markets of Germany, France and the United Kingdom. Komatsu launched sales of FH Series hydrostatic-driven forklift As a result, sales in Europe decreased from the previous fiscal trucks in Japan, which feature Komatsu’s technological expertise year. While steadily advancing the market introduction of new in hydraulic control accumulated and refined for construction emission standards-compliant models, Komatsu concerted efequipment over the years. With steady orders received since forts to prepare for the launching of intelligent Machine Control then, Komatsu embarked on overseas sales in February 2013. construction equipment, designed to automate construction, in Europe in the current fiscal year ending March 31, 2014. In <Japan> CIS, demand remained firm, especially in gold mines, and sales As the sales of surplus used equipment exported from Japan increased from the previous fiscal year. As the result, net sales bottomed out, which had outnumbered demand for new equipin Europe and CIS decreased by 5.3% to ¥189,833 million ment since around 2000, demand for new construction equip(US$2,020 million) as compared to the previous fiscal year. ment increased. Komatsu has reached agreements with Pacific National The increase in demand for new construction equipment was University and Far Eastern Federal University to collaborate in due in part to increased purchases of such equipment by rental human resource development for construction, mining and companies who experienced greater demand for such equiproad construction equipment. In October 2012, Pacific National ment in light of the fact that the restoration and reconstruction University began the first course. projects after the Great East Japan Earthquake continued. As a result, demand steadily increased and net sales increased by <China> 2.2% to ¥292,732 million (US$3,114 million) as compared to Although the government introduced credit-easing measures, the previous fiscal year. there were still no clear signs for new infrastructure development Concerning new emission standards-compliant models, we start-ups. Demand for hydraulic excavators plunged considerably have launched 30 models in total since July 2012 and worked to from the previous fiscal year, and sales plunged drastically. expand sales in Japan. In solid collaboration with its distributors, In response to this sharp decline in demand, Komatsu foKomatsu has also continued to increase the retail prices of all cused its efforts on assessing retail market conditions right away major models from the previous fiscal year. and maintaining an appropriate level of inventories, mainly by maximizing the use of the KOMTRAX. As there are some signs <Americas> of demand bottoming out at last, Komatsu has recovered postIn North America, demand grew from the previous fiscal year, Chinese New Year sales of hydraulic excavators to the level of supported by increased demand in the housing sector as well the previous year on a unit basis, partly reflecting the market as strong demand in the rental and energy development indusintroduction of new 20-ton class hydraulic excavators, designed tries. With respect to new emission standards-compliant models, particularly for a fuel economy. Komatsu has aggressively been introducing them by combinAs a result, net sales decreased by 40.4% to ¥119,940 miling them with the KOMATSU CARE program. As a result, they lion (US$1,276 million) from the previous fiscal year. have moved up to the top 70% of total sales of new Komatsu KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 02 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section <Asia & Oceania> carried out organizational restructuring in April 1, 2013 by conIn Asia, while demand advanced for use in the reconstruction of solidating development, sales and service functions of Komatsu areas damaged by the flood in Thailand in 2011, demand plumNTC Ltd. at Komatsu Industries Corp. in order to effectively use meted drastically for large, medium-sized small equipment for overlapping corporate resources. use in mines in Indonesia, the largest market of Southeast Asia, particularly affected by the falling price of thermal coal. As a re(4) Cost of Sales, Selling, General and Administrative sult, sales dropped sharply from the previous fiscal year. Expenses In Oceania, demand for mining equipment for use in iron ore Cost of sales decreased by 4.4% from the previous year to mines, as well as for construction equipment, remained steady, ¥1,377,459 million (US$14,654 million) in the current year. Its and sales increased from the previous fiscal year. As a result, net ratio to net sales was 73.1% up 0.4 percentage points from the sales decreased by 14.6% to ¥411,059 million (US$4,373 milprevious year mainly due to decreased sales volume which could lion) from the previous fiscal year. Concerning the large-scale not absorb certain fixed costs. Selling, general and administraproject to deliver driverless dump trucks to iron ore mines in tive expenses (SG&A) increased by 4.0% from the previous year Australia, under a Memorandum of Understanding signed by to ¥293,520 million (US$3,123 million). Research and developRio Tinto and Komatsu in November 2011, Komatsu and Rio ment (R&D) expenses, which are included in cost of sales and Tinto have continued to make steady and sound progress for SG&A, increased by 10.8% from the previous year to ¥60,788 success as a solid team. million (US$647 million). <Middle East & Africa> (5) Impairment Loss on Long-lived Assets In the Middle East, sales declined from the previous fiscal year, Impairment loss on long-lived assets decreased by ¥1,199 milparticularly affected by sluggish demand in Turkey, the major lion to ¥1,907 million (US$20 million) as compared to ¥3,106 market of the region. In October last year, Komatsu opened a million for the previous year, which primarily included impairnew distribution base in Dubai and worked to reduce inventories ment losses on property, plant and equipment. of distributors and shorten delivery time. In Saudi Arabia with promising growth in demand, Komatsu signed a new distribu(6) Other Operating Income (Expenses), net tion contact with a leading local company in December last year. Other operating expenses was ¥503 million (US$5 million) as In Africa, sales increased from the previous fiscal year, supcompared to other operating income of ¥786 million for the ported by firm demand for equipment for use in gold mines in previous year. This was due primarily to decrease of gain resultparticular. Komatsu also continued to strengthen its sales and ing from sales of property, plant and equipment. product support operations by implementing measures, including the opening of new parts depots, jointly with distributors (7) Operating Income in southern Africa, in order to improve its spare delivery parts Due to the reasons discussed above, operating income in the operation. As part of its brand management activities, Komatsu current year of ¥211,602 million (US$2,251 million) decreased made efforts jointly with a mining customer in South Africa to by ¥44,741 million as compared to ¥256,343 million in the reduce the fuel consumption of machines owned by the cusprevious year. tomer by analyzing KOMTRAX information. As a result, net sales increased by 0.6% to ¥127,735 million (US$1,359 million) from (8) Other Income (Expenses), net the previous fiscal year. Interest and dividend income in the current year of ¥4,277 million (US$46 million) increased by ¥501 million as compared to Industrial Machinery and Others ¥3,776 million in the previous year. Interest expense in the curWhile sales of large presses to the automobile manufacturing rent year of ¥8,236 million (US$88 million) increased by ¥452 industry, as well as machine tools for use in automotive engine million as compared to ¥7,784 million in the previous year. production, increased from the previous fiscal year, sales of wire saws dropped sharply from the previous fiscal year. Additionally, (9) Income Before Income Taxes and Equity in Earnings of extraordinary demand for temporary housing units came to an Affiliated Companies end. As a result, net sales of the industrial machinery and othAs a result of the above factors, income before income taxes ers business declined by 14.2% from the previous fiscal year, to and equity in earnings of affiliated companies in the current year ¥207,942 million (US$2,212 million). of ¥204,603 million (US$2,177 million) decreased by ¥45,006 Komatsu concerted its efforts to develop new products with million as compared to ¥249,609 million in the previous year. improved productivity, safety and environmental friendliness. In March this year, Komatsu embarked on sales of the H1F-2 AC (10) Income Taxes Servo press and the PVS8525 Servo press brake, which followed Income taxes in the current year of ¥69,089 million (US$735 the NTG-4SP grinding machine launched in November last year. million) decreased by ¥5,381 million as compared to ¥74,470 With respect to the laser-cutting machine business, Komatsu million in the previous year. The actual effective tax rate in the KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 03 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section current year increased by 4.0 percentage points to 33.8% as ¥173.47 in the previous year. Diluted net income attributable compared to 29.8% in the previous year. The difference beto Komatsu Ltd. on a per share basis dropped to ¥132.51 in the tween the Japanese statutory tax rate of 38.1% and the actual current year as compared to ¥173.32 in the previous year. effective tax rate of 33.8% was mainly caused by income of foreign subsidiaries taxed at a rate lower than the Japanese statu(15) Segment Result tory tax rate. (Segment profit is determined by subtracting the cost of sales and selling, general and administrative expenses from net sales (11) Equity in Earnings of Affiliated Companies attributed to the operating segment) Equity in earnings of affiliated companies in the current year of Segment profit in the construction, mining and utility equip¥1,621 million (US$17 million) increased from ¥1,609 million in ment segment decreased by ¥37,340 million from the previous the previous year. year to ¥208,951 million (US$2,223 million). This decrease was primarily due to decreased sales by reflecting a drastic decline in (12) Net Income demand for construction equipment in China and a sharp drop Net income in the current year of ¥137,135 million (US$1,459 in demand for mining equipment mainly in Indonesia, as admillion) decreased by ¥39,613 million as compared to ¥176,748 versely affected by the falling price of coal. million in the previous year. With regards to the industrial machinery and others segment, while sales of large presses to the automobile manufac(13) Net Income Attributable to Noncontrolling Interests turing industry, as well as machine tools for use in automotive Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests in the curengine production increased from the previous fiscal year, those rent year of ¥10,814 million (US$115 million) increased by of wire saws for use in slicing silicon ingots for the solar cell ¥1,107 million as compared to a ¥9,707 million in the previous market sharply fell. As a result, the segment profit decreased year. This increase was mainly due to increased earnings recordby ¥10,557 million from the previous year to ¥6,222 million ed by Komatsu Marketing Support Australia Pty Ltd. and other (US$66 million). subsidiaries with noncontrolling interest. Consequently, overall consolidated segment profit decreased by ¥44,651 million from the previous year to ¥214,012 million (14) Net Income Attributable to Komatsu Ltd. (US$2,277 million). Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. in the current year Although consolidated segment profit is not a consolidated decreased by 24.4% to ¥126,321 million (US$1,344 million) as income statement measurement under U.S. GAAP, it is included compared to ¥167,041 million in the previous year. Accordingly, (in annual report) because management considers it to be one basic net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. on a per share of key management indices. basis dropped to ¥132.64 in the current year as compared to KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 04 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section Liquidity and Capital Resources (1) Funding and Liquidity Management and Komatsu Capital Europe S.A. have established a US$1.2 bilKomatsu’s principal capital resources policy is to maintain suflion EMTN program. Any of these three issuer entities can issue ficient capital resources to be able to respond promptly to future notes in various currencies under the EMTN program. The princapital needs in connection with its operations and to maintain cipal amount of notes outstanding as of March 31, 2013 under an appropriate level of liquidity. Consistent with this policy, the EMTN program was ¥80,734 million (US$ 859 million). Komatsu has secured various sources of funding, such as loans, Komatsu’s short-term debt as of March 31, 2013, which corporate bonds, notes and lines of credit. Komatsu expects primarily consisted of bank loans decreased by ¥10,668million to use cash generated from its operations and funds procured to ¥205,156 million (US$ 2,183 million) from March 31, 2012. through such external sources to satisfy future capital expenSuch short-term debt was used as working capital. ditures and working capital needs. In addition, in order to imKomatsu’s long-term debt, including the debt with maturity prove the efficiency and effectiveness of its cash management, dates on or before March 31, 2014, increased by ¥42,631 milKomatsu’s overseas subsidiaries participate in a global cash lion to ¥474,607 million (US$ 5,049 million) in the fiscal year pooling arrangement with a single financial institution, which is ended March 31, 2013 as compared to the fiscal year ended used to fund their liquidity needs. Participating overseas subsidMarch 31, 2012. As of March 31, 2013, Komatsu’s long-term iaries are allowed to withdraw cash from this financial institution debt, excluding market value adjustment, consisted of (1) based upon the aggregate cash deposits made to such financial ¥263,897 million in loans from banks, insurance companies and institution. This arrangement contains specific provisions for other financial institutions, (2) ¥120,000 million in unsecured the right to offset positive and negative cash balances on a bonds, (3) ¥80,734 million in EMTNs and (4) ¥9,976 million in global basis. Komatsu’s consolidated Balance Sheet as of March capital lease obligations. Such long-term debt was used primar31, 2013 reflects cash net of withdrawals of ¥57,568 million ily for capital expenditures and long-term working capital needs. (US$612 million) in this global cash pooling arrangement. As a result, Komatsu’s interest-bearing debt as of March Komatsu’s short-term funding needs have been met mainly 31, 2013, including its capital lease obligations, increased by by cash flows from its operating activities, as well as by bank ¥31,963 million to ¥679,763 million (US$ 7,232 million) as loans and the issuance of commercial paper. As of March 31, compared to March 31, 2012. Net interest-bearing debt after 2013, certain consolidated subsidiaries of the Company maindeducting cash and deposits also increased by ¥22,112 million tained committed credit line agreements totaling ¥49,997million to ¥585,926 million (US$ 6,233 million) in the fiscal year ended (US$ 532 million) with financial institutions to secure liquidity. As March 31, 2013. As a result, Komatsu’s net debt-to-equity of March 31, 2013, approximately ¥14,738 million (US$ 157milratio as of March 31, 2013 was 0.49, compared to 0.56 as of lion) was available to be used under such credit line agreements, March 31, 2012. which contain customary covenants. Komatsu is not subject to As of March 31, 2013, current assets increased by ¥91,684 any covenants limiting its ability to incur additional indebtedmillion to ¥1,492,056 million (US$15,873 million), while curness. In addition, the Company has a ¥150,000 million (US$ rent liability decreased by ¥36,134 million to ¥827,576 million 1,596 million) commercial paper program, ¥109,000 million (US$8,804 million). As a result, the current ratio, which is calcu(US$ 1,160 million) of which was unused as of March 31, 2013. lated by dividing current assets by current liabilities, as of March To fulfill Komatsu’s mediumto long-term funding needs, 31, 2013, was 180.3%, which reflected an increase of 18.2 perthe Company has established a bond program as well as a Euro centage points from the previous year. Medium Term Note (“EMTN”) program. As discussed below, Based on anticipated cash flows from its operating activities, in addition to the Company, some of its subsidiaries may also the available sources of funds and the level of its current ratio, issue EMTNs under the EMTN program. In November 2012, the Komatsu believes that it has sufficient means to satisfy its liquidCompany’s bond program was renewed such that it could issue ity needs and future obligations. up to ¥100,000 million (US$ 1,064 million) of variable-term As of March 31, 2013, Komatsu’s total cash and cash equivabonds within a two-year period. Under this renewed program, lents was ¥93,620 million (US$ 996 million). Out of total cash the Company has issued ¥30,000 million (US$ 319 million) of and cash equivalents, ¥71,683 million was held outside of Japan bonds as of March 31, 2013 and ¥70,000 million (US$ 745milin various overseas subsidiaries as of March 31, 2013. Under lion) remains unused. As of March 31, 2013, the Company also current tax laws and regulations, if cash and cash equivalents has ¥120,000million (US$ 1,277 million) aggregate principal associated with the overseas subsidiaries’ undistributed earnings amount of bonds outstanding, of which includes the outstandwere to be repatriated in the form of dividends or deemed dising issued under the bond program prior to its 2012 renewal. tributions to Komatsu, Komatsu would be subject to additional As for EMTNs, the Company, Komatsu Finance America Inc. Japanese income taxes and foreign withholding taxes in certain KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 05 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section countries. However, Komatsu sets aside a part of its cash and to ¥124,539 million used in investing activities for the previous cash equivalents in order to invest in its overseas operations. As fiscal year. This increase is mainly due to the purchase of fixed of March 31, 2013. Komatsu plans to re-invest approximately assets as well as shares of subsidiaries. Net cash used in financhalf of its total cash and cash equivalent held outside of Japan in ing activities totaled ¥71,814 million (US$764 million), mainly its overseas operations. due to the payment of cash dividends and repayment of debt. The Company obtains credit ratings from three rating agenFor the previous fiscal year, net cash of ¥18,781 million was procies; Standard and Poor’s Ratings Services (“S&P”), Moody’s vided by financing activities. After adding the effects of foreign Investors Services, Inc. (“Moody’s”) and Rating and Investment exchange fluctuations, cash and cash equivalents, as of March Information, Inc. (“R&I”). As of March 31, 2013, the Company’s 31, 2013, totaled ¥93,620 million (US$996 million), an increase issuer ratings were as follows : of ¥10,541 million from the previous fiscal year-end. S&P : A (long-term) Moody‘s : A2 (long-term) (3) Capital Investment R&I : AA(long-term), a-1+(short-term) In the construction, mining and utility equipment business, Komatsu invested for expanding its production capacity in * Net debt-to-equity ratio = (Interest-bearing debt – Cash and cash equivalents – response to a demand increase in the future for its equipTime deposits) / Komatsu Ltd. shareholders’ equity ment, and to strengthen its sales and service operations in the Strategic Markets. In the Industrial Machinery and Others oper(2) Cash Flows ating segment, Komatsu made capital investments to renovate Net cash provided by operating activities totaled ¥214,045 milits production facilities. lion (US$2,277 million), an increase of ¥108,437 million from As a result, Komatsu’s capital investment, on a consolidated ¥105,608 million for the previous fiscal year, mainly reflectbasis, for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2013 was ¥136,962 ing decreased inventories. Net cash used in investing activities million (US$1,457 million), an increase of ¥14,924 million from amounted to ¥131,397 million (US$1,398 million), compared the previous fiscal year. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 06 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section Business Risks Komatsu is engaged in business on a global scale with developengaging in production locally. Komatsu also engages in hedgment, production, sales and other bases established around the ing activities to minimize the effects of short-term foreign curworld. Komatsu has identified the following as its primary risks rency exchange rate fluctuations. Despite Komatsu’s efforts, if based on information currently available. the foreign currency exchange rates fluctuate beyond Komatsu’s projected fluctuation range, Komatsu’s results of operations may (1) Economic and market conditions be adversely affected. The business environment in which Komatsu operates and the market demand for its products may change substantially as a (3) Fluctuations in financial markets result of economic and market conditions, which differ from While Komatsu is currently working to improve the efficiency region to region. of its assets by reducing its interest-bearing debt, its aggregate In economically developed countries in which Komatsu opershortand long-term interest-bearing debt was approximately ates, Komatsu’s business is generally affected by cyclical changes ¥680 billion as of March 31, 2013. Although Komatsu has in the economies of such regions. Therefore, factors which are strived to reduce the effect of interest rate fluctuations using beyond Komatsu’s control, such as levels of housing starts, invarious measures, including procuring funds at fixed interest dustrial production, public investments in infrastructure developrates, an increase in interest rates may increase Komatsu’s interment and private-sector capital outlays, may affect demand for est expenses and thereby adversely affect Komatsu’s results of Komatsu’s products. operations. In addition, fluctuations in the financial markets, In newly developing countries in which Komatsu operates, such as fluctuations in the fair value of marketable securities Komatsu constantly pays careful attention to the changes in deand interest rates, may also increase the unfunded obligation mand for its products. However, these economies are impacted portion of Komatsu’s pension plans or pension liabilities, which by a number of unstable factors, such as commodity prices and may result in an increase in pension expenses. Such an increase considerable reliance on exports to economically developed rein interest expenses and pension expenses may adversely affect gions and thus, changes in these factors could adversely affect Komatsu’s results of operations and financial condition. Komatsu’s business results. Furthermore, when economic and/or market conditions (4) Laws and regulations of different countries change more drastically than forecasted, Komatsu may also Komatsu is subject to governmental regulations and approval experience, among other things, fewer orders of its products, procedures in the countries in which it operates. If the governan increase in cancellation of orders by customers and a delay in ment of a given country were to introduce new laws and regulathe collection of receivables. tions or revise existing laws and regulations relating to customs These changes in the economic and market conditions and duties, currency restrictions and other legal requirements, the business environment in which Komatsu operates may lead Komatsu may incur expenses in order to comply with such laws to a decline in sales, and inefficient inventory levels and/or proand regulations or its development, production, sales and serduction capacities, thereby causing Komatsu to record lower vice operations may be affected adversely by them. With respect profitability and incur additional expenses and losses. As a reto transfer pricing between Komatsu and its affiliated compasult, Komatsu’s results of operations may be adversely affected. nies, Komatsu is careful to comply with applicable taxation laws of Japan and the concerned foreign governments. Nevertheless, it is possible that Komatsu may be viewed by the concerned tax (2) Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations authorities as having used inappropriate pricing. Furthermore, if A substantial portion of Komatsu’s overseas sales is affected by intergovernmental negotiations were to fail, Komatsu may be foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. In general, an apcharged with double or additional taxation. When facing such preciation of the Japanese yen against another currency would an unexpected situation, Komatsu may experience an unfavoradversely affect Komatsu’s results of operations, while a deable impact on its business results. preciation of the Japanese yen against another currency would have a favorable impact thereon. In addition, foreign currency (5) Environmental laws and regulations exchange rate fluctuations may also affect the comparative Komatsu’s products and business operations are required to prices between products sold by Komatsu and products sold by meet increasingly stringent environmental laws and regulations its foreign competitors in the same market, as well as the cost in the numerous countries in which Komatsu operates. To this of materials used in the production of such products. Komatsu end, Komatsu expends a significant share of its management restrives to alleviate the effect of such foreign currency exchange sources, such as research and development expenses, to comply rate fluctuations by locating its production bases globally and with environmental and other related regulations. If Komatsu KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 07 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Financial Review Financial Section is required to incur additional expenses and make additional energy prices were to exceed Komatsu’s expectations or a procapital investments due to revised environmental regulations longed shortage of materials and parts were to occur, Komatsu’s adopted in the future, or if its development, production, sales results of operations may be adversely affected. and service operations are adversely affected by such revised regulations, Komatsu may experience an unfavorable impact on (9) Information security, intellectual property and other its business results. matters Komatsu may obtain confidential information concerning its (6) Product and quality liability customers and individuals in the normal course of its business. While Komatsu endeavors to sustain and improve the quality Komatsu also holds confidential business and technological and reliability of its operations and products based on stringent information. Komatsu safeguards such confidential informastandards established internally, Komatsu may face product tion with the utmost care. To forestall unauthorized access by and quality liability claims or become exposed to other liabilities means of cyber-attacks, tampering, destruction, leakage and if unexpected defects in its products result in recalls or accilosses, Komatsu employs appropriate safety measures, including dents. If the costs for addressing such claims or other liabilities implementing technological safety measures and strengthening are not covered by Komatsu’s existing insurance policies or its information management capabilities. However, when its other protective means, such claims may adversely affect its network and information systems crash and/or problems, such financial condition. as a leak of confidential information concerning customers and individuals, occur, Komatsu may become liable for damages, or (7) Alliances and collaborative relationships its reputation or its customers’ confidence in Komatsu may be Komatsu has entered into various alliances and collaborative readversely affected. In addition, if Komatsu’s confidential busilationships with distributors, suppliers and other companies in its ness and technological information were leaked or misused by industry to reinforce its international competitiveness. Through a third party, or Komatsu’s intellectual properties were infringed such arrangements, Komatsu is working to improve its product upon by a third party, or Komatsu were held liable for infringing development, production, sales and service capabilities. While on a third party‘s intellectual property rights, Komatsu‘s business Komatsu expects its alliances and collaborative relationships to results may be adversely affected. be successful, Komatsu’s failure to attain expected results or the termination of such alliances or collaborative relationships may (10) Natural calamities, wars, terrorism, accidents and adversely affect Komatsu’s results of operations. other matters If natural disasters (such as earthquakes, tsunamis and floods), (8) Procurement, production and other matters epidemics, radioactive contamination, wars, terrorist acts, riots, Komatsu’s procurement of parts and materials for its products accidents (such as fires and explosions), unforeseeable criticism is exposed to fluctuations in commodity and energy prices. or interference by third parties or computer virus infections were Price increases in commodities, such as steel materials, as well to occur in the regions in which Komatsu operates, Komatsu as energies, such as crude oil and electricity, may increase the may incur extensive damage to one or more of its facilities that production cost of Komatsu’s products. In addition, a shortthen could not become fully operational within a short period age of product parts and materials, bankruptcies of suppliers of time. Even if Komatsu’s operations were not directly harmed or production discontinuation by suppliers of products used by by such events, confusion in logistic and supply networks, Komatsu may make it difficult for Komatsu to engage in the shortages in the supply of electric power, gas and other utilitimely procurement of parts and materials and manufacture of ties, telecommunication problems and/or problems of supplier’s its products, thereby lowering Komatsu’s production efficiency. production may continue for a long period of time. Accordingly, With respect to an increase in the cost of production as mainly if delays or disruption in the procurement of materials and parts, affected by an increase in the cost of materials, Komatsu mainly or the production and sales of Komatsu’s products and services, strives to reduce other costs and make price adjustments of its or deterioration of the capital-raising environment or other products. Komatsu also strives to minimize the effects of posadverse developments were to take place as a result of such sible procurement or manufacturing issues by securing new events, Komatsu’s business results may be adversely affected. suppliers or promoting closer collaboration among its related business divisions. However, if the increase in commodity and KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 08 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Five-Year Summary Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Millions of yen (except per share amounts) 2013 2012 For the fiscal period Net sales ¥1,884,991 ¥1,981,763 Cost of sales 1,377,459 1,440,765 Operating income 211,602 256,343 Income before income taxes and equity in earnings of affiliated companies 204,603 249,609 Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. 126,321 167,041 As percentage of sales 6.7% 8.4% Capital investment 136,962 122,038 At fiscal period-end Total assets ¥2,517,857 ¥2,320,529 Working capital 664,480 536,662 Property, plant and equipment 585,220 529,656 Long-term debt—less current maturities 343,814 312,519 Komatsu Ltd. shareholders’ equity 1,193,194 1,009,696 As percentage of total assets 47.4% 43.5% Per share data Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. per share: Basic ¥ 132.64 ¥ 173.47 Diluted 132.51 173.32 Cash dividends per share* 45.00 41.00 Komatsu Ltd. shareholders’ equity per share 1,252.33 1,060.31 *Cash dividends per share provided above are based on dividends paid each fiscal year. Yen per U.S. dollar 2013 2012 Other information Exchange rate into U.S. dollars (per the Federal Reserve Bank of New York): At fiscal period-end ¥94 ¥82 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 09 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Five-Year Summary Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Millions of yen (except per share amounts) 2011 2010 2009 ¥1,843,127 ¥1,431,564 ¥2,021,743 1,343,464 1,101,559 1,510,408 222,929 67,035 151,948 219,809 64,979 128,782 150,752 33,559 78,797 8.2% 2.3% 3.9% 97,738 96,191 162,512 ¥2,149,137 ¥1,959,055 ¥1,969,059 444,384 398,375 370,952 508,387 525,100 525,462 291,152 356,985 292,106 923,843 833,975 814,941 43.0% 42.6% 41.4% ¥ 155.77 ¥ 34.67 ¥ 79.95 155.66 34.65 79.89 26.00 26.00 44.00 954.48 861.51 842.04 Yen per U.S. dollar 2011 2010 2009 ¥83 ¥93 ¥99 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 10 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2013 and 2012 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Assets 2013 2012 2013 Current assets Cash and cash equivalents ¥ 93,620 ¥ 83,079 $ 995,957 Time deposits 217 907 2,308 Trade notes and accounts receivable 606,904 559,749 6,456,426 Inventories 633,647 612,359 6,740,926 Deferred income taxes and other current assets 157,668 144,278 1,677,319 Total current assets 1,492,056 1,400,372 15,872,936 Long-term trade receivables 235,825 184,294 2,508,777 Investments Investments in and advances to affiliated companies 19,404 20,565 206,426 Investment securities 59,279 54,192 630,628 Other 2,574 2,582 27,382 Total investments 81,257 77,339 864,436 Property, plant and equipment—less accumulated depreciation and amortization 585,220 529,656 6,225,745 Goodwill 34,703 31,229 369,181 Other intangible assets—less accumulated amortization 58,523 57,953 622,585 Deferred income taxes and other assets 30,273 39,686 322,053 ¥2,517,857 ¥2,320,529 $26,785,713 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 11 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Consolidated Balance Sheets Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries March 31, 2013 and 2012 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars Liabilities and Equity 2013 2012 2013 Current liabilities Short-term debt ¥ 205,156 ¥ 215,824 $ 2,182,511 Current maturities of long-term debt 130,793 119,457 1,391,415 Trade notes, bills and accounts payable 226,275 273,460 2,407,180 Income taxes payable 33,227 23,195 353,479 Deferred income taxes and other current liabilities 232,125 231,774 2,469,415 Total current liabilities 827,576 863,710 8,804,000 Long-term liabilities Long-term debt 343,814 312,519 3,657,596 Liability for pension and retirement benefits 49,912 50,685 530,978 Deferred income taxes and other liabilities 43,860 36,158 466,596 Total long-term liabilities 437,586 399,362 4,655,170 Total liabilities 1,265,162 1,263,072 13,459,170 Commitments and contingent liabilities Equity Komatsu Ltd. shareholders’ equity Common stock: Authorized 3,955,000,000 shares Issued 983,130,260 shares Outstanding 952,778,859 shares in 2013 and 952,261,022 shares in 2012 67,870 67,870 722,021 Capital surplus 138,818 138,384 1,476,787 Retained earnings: Appropriated for legal reserve 38,230 37,954 406,702 Unappropriated 1,034,504 951,395 11,005,362 Accumulated other comprehensive loss (43,440) (142,389) (462,128) Treasury stock at cost, 30,351,401 shares in 2013 and 30,869,238 shares in 2012 (42,788) (43,518) (455,191) Total Komatsu Ltd. shareholders’ equity 1,193,194 1,009,696 12,693,553 Noncontrolling interests 59,501 47,761 632,990 Total equity 1,252,695 1,057,457 13,326,543 ¥2,517,857 ¥2,320,529 $26,785,713 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 12 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Consolidated Statements of Income and Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 Thousands of Consolidated Statements of Income Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2013 2012 2011 2013 Net sales ¥1,884,991 ¥1,981,763 ¥1,843,127 $20,053,096 Cost of sales 1,377,459 1,440,765 1,343,464 14,653,820 Selling, general and administrative expenses 293,520 282,335 264,691 3,122,553 Impairment loss on long-lived assets 1,907 3,106 5,142 20,287 Other operating income (expenses), net (503) 786 (6,901) (5,351) Operating income 211,602 256,343 222,929 2,251,085 Other expenses, net Interest and dividend income 4,277 3,776 4,493 45,500 Interest expense (8,236) (7,784) (6,475) (87,617) Other, net (3,040) (2,726) (1,138) (32,340) Total (6,999) (6,734) (3,120) (74,457) Income before income taxes and equity in earnings of affiliated companies 204,603 249,609 219,809 2,176,628 Income taxes Current 74,628 66,420 57,923 793,915 Deferred (5,539) 8,050 6,783 (58,926) Total 69,089 74,470 64,706 734,989 Income before equity in earnings of affiliated companies 135,514 175,139 155,103 1,441,639 Equity in earnings of affiliated companies 1,621 1,609 2,724 17,244 Net income 137,135 176,748 157,827 1,458,883 Less : Net income attributable to noncontrolling interests 10,814 9,707 7,075 115,043 Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. ¥ 126,321 ¥ 167,041 ¥ 150,752 $ 1,343,840 Yen U.S. dollars Per share data: Net income attributable to Komatsu Ltd.: Basic ¥ 132.64 ¥ 173.47 ¥ 155.77 $ 1.41 Diluted 132.51 173.32 155.66 1.41 Cash dividends per share ¥ 45.00 ¥ 41.00 ¥ 26.00 $ 0.48 Thousands of Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2013 2012 2011 2013 Net income ¥ 137,135 ¥ 176,748 ¥ 157,827 $ 1,458,883 Other comprehensive income (loss), for the period, net of tax Foreign currency translation adjustments 99,195 (8,952) (39,529) 1,055,266 Net unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale 4,690 725 1,978 49,894 Pension liability adjustments 1,440 (1,943) (91) 15,319 Net unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivative instruments 555 (1,506) (26) 5,904 Total other comprehensive income (loss), for the period, net of tax 105,880 (11,676) (37,668) 1,126,383 Comprehensive income 243,015 165,072 120,159 2,585,266 Less: Comprehensive income attributable to noncontrolling interests 17,745 9,395 4,839 188,777 Comprehensive income attributable to Komatsu Ltd. ¥ 225,270 ¥ 155,677 ¥ 115,320 $ 2,396,489 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 13 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Consolidated Statements of Equity Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 Millions of yen Retained earnings Accumulated Total NonCommon Capital Appropriated other Treasury Komatsu Ltd. Unapprocomprehensive controlling Total equity stock surplus for legal stock shareholders’ priated interests reserve loss equity Balance at March 31, 2010 ¥67,870 ¥140,421 ¥31,983 ¥ 724,090 ¥ (95,634) ¥(34,755) ¥ 833,975 ¥42,824 ¥ 876,799 Cash dividends (25,178) (25,178) (994) (26,172) Transfer to retained earnings appropriated for legal reserve 2,511 (2,511) Other changes (51) 7 (44) 2,168 2,124 Comprehensive income (loss) Net income 150,752 150,752 7,075 157,827 Other comprehensive income (loss), for the period, net of tax Foreign currency translation adjustments (37,237) (37,237) (2,292) (39,529) Net unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale 1,978 1,978 1,978 Pension liability adjustments (91) (91) (91) Net unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivative instruments (82) (82) 56 (26) Comprehensive income 115,320 4,839 120,159 Issuance and exercise of stock acquisition rights 109 109 109 Purchase of treasury stock (583) (583) (583) Sales of treasury stock 44 200 244 244 Balance at March 31, 2011 ¥67,870 ¥140,523 ¥34,494 ¥ 847,153 ¥(131,059) ¥(35,138) ¥ 923,843 ¥48,837 ¥ 972,680 Cash dividends (39,701) (39,701) (6,447) (46,148) Transfer to retained earnings appropriated for legal reserve 3,460 (3,460) Other changes (245) 34 (211) (4,024) (4,235) Comprehensive income (loss) Net income 167,041 167,041 9,707 176,748 Other comprehensive income (loss), for the period, net of tax Foreign currency translation adjustments (8,759) (8,759) (193) (8,952) Net unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale 725 725 725 Pension liability adjustments (1,930) (1,930) (13) (1,943) Net unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivative instruments (1,400) (1,400) (106) (1,506) Comprehensive income 155,677 9,395 165,072 Issuance and exercise of stock acquisition rights 699 699 699 Purchase of treasury stock (31,118) (31,118) (31,118) Sales of treasury stock (13) 520 507 507 Retirement of treasury stock (2,580) (19,638) 22,218 Balance at March 31, 2012 ¥67,870 ¥138,384 ¥37,954 ¥ 951,395 ¥(142,389) ¥(43,518) ¥1,009,696 ¥47,761 ¥1,057,457 Cash dividends (42,877) (42,877) (5,958) (48,835) Transfer to retained earnings appropriated for legal reserve 276 (276) Other changes (47) (47) Comprehensive income (loss) Net income 126,321 126,321 10,814 137,135 Other comprehensive income (loss), for the period, net of tax Foreign currency translation adjustments 92,176 92,176 7,019 99,195 Net unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale 4,690 4,690 4,690 Pension liability adjustments 1,503 1,503 (63) 1,440 Net unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivative instruments 580 580 (25) 555 Comprehensive income 225,270 17,745 243,015 Issuance and exercise of stock acquisition rights 434 434 434 Purchase of treasury stock (32) (32) (32) Sales of treasury stock (59) 762 703 703 Balance at March 31, 2013 ¥67,870 ¥138,818 ¥38,230 ¥1,034,504 ¥ (43,440) ¥(42,788) ¥1,193,194 ¥59,501 ¥1,252,695 Thousands of U.S. dollars Retained earnings Accumulated Total NonCommon Capital Appropriated other Treasury Komatsu Ltd. Un approcontrolling Total equity stock surplus for legal comprehensive stock shareholders’ priated interests reserve loss equity Balance at March 31, 2012 $722,021 $1,472,170 $403,766 $10,121,223 $(1,514,777) $(462,957) $10,741,446 $508,096 $11,249,542 Cash dividends (456,138) (456,138) (63,383) (519,521) Transfer to retained earnings appropriated for legal reserve 2,936 (2,936) Other changes (500) (500) Comprehensive income (loss) Net income 1,343,840 1,343,840 115,043 1,458,883 Other comprehensive income (loss), for the period, net of tax Foreign currency translation adjustments 980,596 980,596 74,670 1,055,266 Net unrealized holding gains on securities available for sale 49,894 49,894 49,894 Pension liability adjustments 15,989 15,989 (670) 15,319 Net unrealized holding gains (losses) on derivative instruments 6,170 6,170 (266) 5,904 Comprehensive income 2,396,489 188,777 2,585,266 Issuance and exercise of stock acquisition rights 4,617 4,617 4,617 Purchase of treasury stock (340) (340) (340) Sales of treasury stock (627) 8,106 7,479 7,479 Balance at March 31, 2013 $722,021 $1,476,787 $406,702 $11,005,362 $ (462,128) $(455,191) $12,693,553 $632,990 $13,326,543 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 14 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31, 2013, 2012 and 2011 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2013 2012 2011 2013 Operating activities Net income ¥ 137,135 ¥ 176,748 ¥ 157,827 $ 1,458,883 Adjustments to reconcile net income to net cash provided by operating activities: Depreciation and amortization 89,322 90,106 89,467 950,234 Deferred income taxes (5,539) 8,050 6,783 (58,926) Impairment loss and net loss (gain) from sale of investment securities 3,058 2,516 54 32,532 Net gain on sale of property (567) (915) (2,807) (6,032) Loss on disposal of fixed assets 1,867 2,108 1,928 19,862 Impairment loss on long-lived assets 1,907 3,106 5,142 20,287 Pension and retirement benefits, net (979) 1,536 (3,795) (10,415) Changes in assets and liabilities: Decrease (increase) in trade receivables (21,656) (21,862) (147,477) (230,383) Decrease (increase) in inventories 42,040 (137,354) (97,790) 447,234 Increase (decrease) in trade payables (54,347) (38,207) 101,595 (578,159) Increase (decrease) in income taxes payable 9,407 (15,185) 17,876 100,074 Other, net 12,397 34,961 21,599 131,883 Net cash provided by operating activities 214,045 105,608 150,402 2,277,074 Investing activities Capital expenditures (142,992) (126,090) (100,820) (1,521,191) Proceeds from sale of property 11,436 8,364 9,605 121,659 Proceeds from sale of available for sale investment securities 3,766 1,757 2,132 40,064 Purchases of available for sale investment securities (11) (1,457) (1,379) (117) Acquisition of subsidiaries and equity investees, net of cash acquired (5,051) (8,649) 976 (53,734) Collection of loan receivables 706 2,101 1,926 7,511 Disbursement of loan receivables (50) (440) (1,236) (532) Decrease (increase) in time deposits, net 799 (125) 287 8,500 Net cash used in investing activities (131,397) (124,539) (88,509) (1,397,840) Financing activities Proceeds from debt issued (Original maturities greater than three months) 292,013 352,731 148,147 3,106,521 Payment on debt (Original maturities greater than three months) (392,647) (260,212) 133,800 (4,177,096) Short-term debt net (Original maturities three months or less) 84,823 54,405 (20,015) 902,372 Repayments of capital lease obligations (6,591) (45,271) (28,637) (70,117) Sale (purchase) of treasury stock, net 38 (30,680) 175 404 Dividends paid (42,877) (39,701) (25,178) (456,138) Other, net (6,573) (12,491) 2,943 (69,925) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities (71,814) 18,781 (56,365) (763,979) Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (293) (995) (3,733) (3,117) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents 10,541 (1,145) 1,795 112,138 Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of year 83,079 84,224 82,429 883,819 Cash and cash equivalents, end of year ¥ 93,620 ¥ 83,079 ¥ 84,224 $ 995,957 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 15 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Business Segment Information Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Operating segments: Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2013 2012 2011 2013 Net sales: Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment— External customers ¥1,677,049 ¥1,739,348 ¥1,615,689 $17,840,947 Intersegment 2,530 4,925 2,392 26,915 Total 1,679,579 1,744,273 1,618,081 17,867,862 Industrial Machinery and Others— External customers 207,942 242,415 227,438 2,212,149 Intersegment 8,349 8,724 10,916 88,819 Total 216,291 251,139 238,354 2,300,968 Elimination (10,879) (13,649) (13,308) (115,734) Consolidated ¥1,884,991 ¥1,981,763 ¥1,843,127 $20,053,096 Segment profit: Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment ¥ 208,951 ¥ 246,291 ¥ 220,830 $ 2,222,883 Industrial Machinery and Others 6,222 16,779 20,965 66,191 Total segment profit 215,173 263,070 241,795 2,289,074 Corporate expenses and elimination (1,161) (4,407) (6,823) (12,351) Total ¥ 214,012 ¥ 258,663 ¥ 234,972 $ 2,276,723 Segment assets: Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment ¥2,195,232 ¥1,965,406 ¥1,859,004 $23,353,532 Industrial Machinery and Others 282,342 278,232 270,736 3,003,638 Corporate assets and elimination 40,283 76,891 19,397 428,543 Consolidated ¥2,517,857 ¥2,320,529 ¥2,149,137 $26,785,713 Depreciation and amortization: Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment ¥ 78,589 ¥ 80,521 ¥ 80,780 $ 836,053 Industrial Machinery and Others 9,416 8,494 7,662 100,170 Consolidated ¥ 88,005 ¥ 89,015 ¥ 88,442 $ 936,223 Capital investment: Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment ¥ 127,706 ¥ 115,518 ¥ 92,049 $ 1,358,575 Industrial Machinery and Others 9,256 6,520 5,689 98,468 Consolidated ¥ 136,962 ¥ 122,038 ¥ 97,738 $ 1,457,043 Business categories and principal products and services included in each operating segment are as follows: a) Construction, Mining and Utility Equipment Excavating equipment, loading equipment, grading and roadbed preparation equipment, hauling equipment, forestry equipment, tunneling machines, recycling equipment, industrial vehicles, other equipment, engines and components, casting products and logistics b) Industrial Machinery and Others Metal forging and stamping presses, sheet-metal machines, machine tools, defense systems, temperature-control equipment and others Transfers between segments are made at estimated arm’s length prices. KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 16 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Business Segment Information Financial Section Komatsu Ltd. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Years ended March 31 Geographic information: Net sales determined by customer location Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2013 2012 2011 2013 Japan ¥ 380,024 ¥ 402,505 ¥ 349,184 $ 4,042,808 The Americas 561,962 460,814 397,427 5,978,319 Europe and CIS 203,878 207,848 165,418 2,168,915 China 156,030 270,017 428,208 1,659,894 Asia (excluding Japan and China) and Oceania 454,394 513,575 398,366 4,833,979 Middle East and Africa 128,703 127,004 104,524 1,369,181 Consolidated net sales ¥1,884,991 ¥1,981,763 ¥1,843,127 $20,053,096 Property, plant and equipment determined based on physical location Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars 2013 2012 2013 Japan ¥ 367,610 ¥ 356,424 $ 3,910,745 U.S.A. 85,499 67,350 909,564 Europe and CIS 32,015 29,483 340,585 Others 100,096 76,399 1,064,851 Total ¥ 585,220 ¥ 529,656 $ 6,225,745 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 17 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 Komatsu Group Investment Holdings Financial Section (As of March 31, 2013) Subscribed Subscribed capital capital in millions in millions (except for* Participation (except for* Participation Company in thousands) (%) Company in thousands) (%) Komatsu Ltd. ¥67,870 — PT Komatsu Indonesia (KI) RP192,780 94.9 PT Komatsu Marketing & Support Indonesia (KMSI) Consolidated Subsidiaries US$5 (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Construction Equipment Sales and Service Japan Ltd. PT Komatsu Undercarriage Indonesia (KUI) US$15 (84.3) 84.3 ¥950 100.0 PT Komatsu Remanufacturing Asia (KRA) US$1 (51.0) 51.0 Komatsu Forklift Japan Ltd. ¥500 100.0 Bangkok Komatsu Co.,Ltd. (BKC) BHT620 (74.8) 74.8 Komatsu Rental Ltd. ¥100 100.0 Komatsu Bangkok Leasing Co., Ltd.(KBL) BHT550 (60.0) 60.0 Komatsu Used Equipment Corp. ¥290 (4.5) 100.0 Komatsu Asia & Pacific Pte Ltd. (KAP) S$28 100.0 Komatsu Castex Ltd. ¥6,979 100.0 Komatsu India Private Limited (KIPL) Rp4,645 (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Diesel Co.,Ltd. ¥50 100.0 Komatsu Marketing Support Australia Pty.Ltd. (KMSA) Komatsu Cabtec Co.,Ltd. ¥300 100.0 A$21 (40.0) 60.0 Komatsu Logistics Corp. ¥1,080 100.0 Komatsu Australia Pty.Ltd. (KAL) A$30 (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Business Support Ltd. ¥1,770 100.0 Komatsu Australia Corporate Finance Pty. Ltd. (KACF) Komatsu Industries Corporation ¥990 100.0 A$49 (60.0) 60.0 Komatsu NTC Ltd. ¥6,014 100.0 Komatsu Southern Africa (Pty) Ltd. (KSAf) ZAR1* 80.0 Komatsu House Ltd. ¥1,436 (1.8) 100.0 Komatsu General Services Ltd. ¥160 100.0 Gigaphoton,Inc. ¥5,000 100.0 Subscribed Komatsu America Corp. (KAC) US$1,071 100.0 capital Participation Komatsu Finance America Inc. (KFA) US$140 (100.0) 100.0 Company in millions (%) Komatsu do Brasil Ltda. (KDB) BRL73 (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Brasil International Ltda. (KBI) BRL27 (100.0) 100.0 Affiliated Companies Accounted for by the Equity Method Komatsu Holding South America Ltda. (KHSA) US$100* (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Saitama Ltd. ¥635 (40.0) 40.0 Komatsu Cummins Chile Ltda. (KCC) US$34 (81.8) 81.8 Sanuki Lease Ltd. ¥90 (35.0) 35.0 Komatsu Cummins Chile Arrienda S.A.(KCCA) US$43 (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Cummins Engine Co.,Ltd. (KCEC) ¥1,400 50.0 Komatsu Equipment Company (KEC) US$1 (100.0) 100.0 Qualica Inc. ¥1,234 20.0 Modular Mining Systems,Inc. (MMS) US$16* (100.0) 100.0 Cummins Komatsu Engine Company (CKEC) (50.0) 50.0 Hensley Industries, Inc. US$2* (100.0) 100.0 PT Komatsu Astra Finance US$54 (50.0) 50.0 Komatsu Financial Limited Partnership (KFLP) — (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Europe International N.V. (KEISA) Euro50 100.0 Komatsu Europe Coordination Center N.V. (KECC) Euro141 (100.0) 100.0 Notes: 1. In addition to the above list, there are 91 consolidated subsidiaries. Komatsu Capital Europe S.A. (KCE) Euro1 (100.0) 100.0 2. Similarly, there are 29 additional affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method. Komatsu UK Ltd. (KUK) £23 (100.0) 100.0 3. Participation represents the percentage of voting stock concerning consolidated Komatsu Hanomag GmbH (KOHAG) Euro19 (49.3) 100.0 subsidiaries. The figures contained in parentheses represent the percentage of indirect ownership by other Komatsu Group companies and are included in the Komatsu Mining Germany GmbH (KMG) Euro5 (100.0) 100.0 overall participation percentage. Komatsu France S.A.S. (KFSA) Euro5 (100.0) 100.0 4. Komatsu Financial Limited Partnership is a limited partnership in compliance with Komatsu Utility Europe S.p.A. (KUE) Euro6 (100.0) 100.0 the regulations of the U.S. state of Delaware. Net assets equivalent of common stock in the company totals US$400 million. Investment was made through our Komatsu Forest AB (KFAB) SKR397 100.0 subsidiary Komatsu America Corp. Komatsu CIS LLC (KCIS) RUB5,301 100.0 5. Cummins Komatsu Engine Company is a general partnership in compliance with the regulations of the U.S. state of Indiana. Our cumulative investment in the Komatsu Manufacturing Rus LLC (KMR) RUB4,273 (94.2) 94.2 company totals US$2 million through our subsidiary Komatsu America Corp. Komatsu Financial Europe N.V. (KFE) Euro40 (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu (China) Ltd. (KC) US$135 100.0 Komatsu (Changzhou) Construction Machinery Corp. (KCCM) US$41 (10.0) 85.0 Komatsu Shantui Construction Machinery Co.,Ltd. (KSC) US$21 (30.0) 60.0 Komatsu Undercarriage China Corp. (KUCC) ¥4,800 (75.0) 75.0 Komatsu (Shandong) Construction Machinery Corp. (KSD) US$188 (100.0) 100.0 Komatsu Financial Leasing China Ltd. (KFLC) RMB1,630 (100.0) 100.0 KOMATSU REPORT 2013 _ Financial Section 18 For inquiries concerning KOMATSU REPORT 2013, contact 【 Management and financial matters 】 Business Coordination Department E-mail : ir@komatsu.co.jp TEL : +81-3-5561-2687 FAX : +81-3-3582-8332 【 CSR matters 】 CSR Department TEL : +81-3-5561-2799 FAX : +81-3-3505-9662 【 Environmental matters 】 Environmental Affairs Department E-mail : kankyo@komatsu.co.jp TEL : +81-3-5561-2646 FAX : +81-3-5561-2780
