t th e e n v ironmen onsider ent Please c ting this docum rin before p ALL PLAYERS IN THE GREEN ECONOMY ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 SPIE, Sharing a vision for the future MINI GREEN, SMART GREEN OR GREEN MASTER, HOW DO YOU RATE ON THE GREEN ECONOMY? Download MyGreenSPIE CONTENTS A source of progress for everyone 02 • Profile 04 • 10 • 12 • 18 • Highlights 2011 in figures Interview with Gauthier Louette, Chairman and CEO Senior management team 02 SPIE, in 20 • 24 • 26 • Corporate governance and shareholder structure Close-up: New core shareholders SPIE around the world perspective 28 • Overview of 2011 Everyone responsible with our partners 32 • 36 • 38 • Social responsibility Environmental responsibility Close-up: SPIE powered by electricity 30 SPIE, on 42 • 44 • Corporate citizenship Communicating responsibly the move Everyone committed with our customers 48 • REGIONAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 50 • Sustainable cities 52 • Close-up: Val-de-Reuil public-private partnership 54 • Urban well-being 56 • Regional development 58 • ENERGY 60 • 62 • 64 • Renewable energies Close-up: Toul-Rosières solar power plant Nuclear energy 46 SPIE, in 66 • Oil and gas action 68 • BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS 70 • Services and housing sector 72 • Close-up: Broadgate Estates 74 • Industrial facilities 76 • Close-up: Polyol Belgium 78 • Communication systems, IT facilities management and data centres 80 • Corporate directory Download this document to your mobile phone SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 1 PROFILE A source of progress for everyone A European leader in electrical, mechanical and HVAC engineering, energy, and communication networks, SPIE improves the quality of our living environment by helping local and regional authorities and businesses to design, build, operate and maintain facilities that are more energy efficient and more environmentally friendly. Watch the video SPIE, partner of long-term confidence 2 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 SPIE, in perspective 04 • Highlights 10 • 2011 in figures 12 • Interview with Gauthier Louette, Chairman and CEO 18 • Senior management team 20 • Corporate governance and shareholder structure 24 • Close-up: New core shareholders 26 • SPIE around the world 28 • Overview of 2011 SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 3 HIGHLIGHTS 4 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 15,000 EMPLOYEE SHAREHOLDERS Change in the shareholder structure With the launch of a second leveraged buyout alongside new financial investors, 15,000 employees have become Group shareholders. This represents more than 50% of the workforce, twice as many as in 2006 for the first LBO. It is also a proof of confidence in SPIE’s ability to step up its pace of growth in Europe and around the world and to develop its high value-added expertise to serve customers more effectively. Photo: Corporate Mutual Fund Meeting in Nantes Watch the video on 14 November 2011. SPIE 2011 Shareholder Base SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 5 HIGHLIGHTS 6 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Organic growth 6% In 2011, SPIE returned to strong growth in all its markets. Organic growth was up an average of 6% overall and 7.7% in France. The year saw solid advances in various segments of the green economy, in particular in the areas of energy efficiency and low-carbon energies. Photo: Group employees on the EPR construction site in Flamanville, Watch the video France. SPIE and the Flamanville EPR SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 7 HIGHLIGHTS External 14 COMPANIES ACQUIRED growth The Group pursued its assertive external growth programme in 2011, acquiring 14 companies in Belgium, France and the Netherlands that represent an additional €124.6 million in full-year revenue. This is 60% more than in 2011, reflecting SPIE’s commitment to developing its network of multi-technical skills in promising, sustainable markets throughout Europe. Photo: Watch the video Employees at Chauffage Chauffage Declercq joins SPIE Declercq in Belgium. 8 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 9 2011 IN FIGURES A good performance See the press In a year that saw the launch of a second release on the Group’s 2011 leveraged buyout with the support of new investors, financial results SPIE enjoyed very strong organic and external growth in all its markets. € 4.047bn IN REVENUE* +9.4% +11.2% EBIT IN 2011: €218.2 MILLION IN 2010: €196.2 MILLION BY REGION Pro forma EBIT totalled €218.2 million, a year-on-year increase of 11.2% that ranked SPIE alongside the leaders in its business. 66% France 24% Rest of Europe 10% Rest of the world * Pro forma. 10 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 ness ening our busi SPIE, strength y. reen econom through the g +6% ORGANIC GROWTH PRO FORMA BY STRATEGIC SEGMENT (in € millions) 2010 2011 MRS* France 1,855 2,049 10.50% MRS* Rest of Europe 934 991 6.00% SPIE Nucléaire 152 182 19.80% Year ended st , 294 326 10.80% december 31 SPIE Communications 2011 s 422 437 3.40% carbon energie SPIE Oil & Gas Services PRO FORMA* TURNOVER Energy efﬁcien cy Green IT Low , stepped ications services , more *Multi-technical regional services. +9.4%n SPIE, a Europea n leader in ene ment in the gree rgy and commun n economy in 2011 by developi dly offers. ng new €4.047 billio up its engage ronm enta lly frien and more envi energy efﬁcient than 50% loyees: more our 29,055 emp FIT (EBIT) t is shared by OPERATING PRO y. This engagemen reho lders of the compan sha of them are now +11.2% llion €218.2 mi Pro forma consolidated revenue totalled €4.047 billion, 29,055 an increase of 9.4% that was led by sustained organic EMPLOYEES See the press release growth, especially in France, and by continued external uchi MORE THAN Agency: Muchim 50% www.spie.com growth, with revenue provided by acquisitions amounting EMPLOYEE www.myspie.e u RS SHAREHOLDE to 60% more than in 2010. Business in Europe was stimulated by the re-launch of capital spending *Pro forma produ ction projects, the development of services for energy and communications operators and dynamic expansion in the health and housing sectors. In oil and gas markets outside Europe, the slowdown in business SPIE Nucléaire had strong organic growth and enjoys was due to geopolitical instability in the Middle East, a promising outlook, both in France (with postwhich was offset by vigorous demand in Africa. Fukushima modifications and longer power plant Lastly, in the area of low-carbon energies, lifespans) and in the United Kingdom. BY SEGMENT BY BUSINESS 30% Services sector 33% General electrical installations 13% External networks 29% Energy 11% Oil and gas services 18% Industry 10% HVAC engineering 13% National and 10% Mechanical engineering local authorities 8% Communication systems and facilities management 6% Building technologies 6% Telecommunications 5% Nuclear engineering 4% Transport 4% Industrial processes and automation SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 11 Interview with Gauthier Louette, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SPIE “SPIE, is supporting the green economy more effectively every day ” FIVE YEARS AFTER THE FIRST LEVERAGED BUYOUT, SPIE CONDUCTED A SECOND ONE WITH NEW INVESTORS. WHAT ARE THE KEYS TO SUCCESS IN THIS KIND OF OPERATION? Our business model, like our corporate culture, is conducive to leveraged buyouts. First of all, our model is based on excellent fundamentals, with a broad, balanced portfolio of businesses, close-to-the-customer service, and recurring, small-scale contracts. This enables us to hold up well in times of recession and to take advantage of business opportunities wherever they arise. During the first leveraged buyout, between 2006 and 2011, we demonstrated the validity of our model and built up our strength by considerably improving our margins and cash generation. This cash allowed us to make approximately 60 acquisitions – 14 of which in 2011 – in markets that remain fragmented and in which potential targets are numerous. Our corporate culture is very powerful. It is based on respect for the individual entrepreneur, a shared focus on the front line, a commitment to performance and the recognition of everyone’s contribution. In this respect, I am delighted by the success of the recent corporate mutual fund, which led to an increase in the number of employee shareholders, from 7,000 to 15,000. More than 50 % of employees now hold shares in the company 12 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 I am delighted by the success of the recent corporate mutual fund, which led to an increase in the number of employee shareholders, from 7,000 to 15,000. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 13 Interview with Gauthier Louette, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SPIE 6 % organic growth for the Group as a whole Once again, in the unsettled economic enviIn the previous LBO, our net debt-to-EBITDA nesses like health and housing. Last year, we ronment we experienced in 2011, our busiratio was 7, whereas this time we’re at also benefited from an economic environness model performed very well and we will 4.5 after just a few months. ment that was more favourable than in 2010. continue to extend it while taking into This was due to a solid performance in the account each region’s particularities. services sector and to the impact of the end IN THIS REGARD, HOW WOULD YOU of a cycle, which incited our customers to reCHARACTERISE YOUR GROUP’S launch their spending programmes. Lastly, SPIE COULD HAVE CHOSEN AN ALLIANCE 2011 RESULTS? our teams took the offensive in certain WITH ANOTHER INDUSTRIAL GROUP. SPIE’s performance is in line with its goals and important aspects of our offerings, in particWHY DID YOU OPT FOR A SECOND ambitions. All of our subsidiaries returned to ular energy efficiency, which has become a LEVERAGED BUYOUT? strong organic growth, which averaged nearly key consideration for most of our customers, Our confirmed ambition is to remain an 8% in France and 6% for the Group as a whole. given the increase in energy prices. independent European market leader. This As for external growth, our solid cash perforThe past year also demonstrated our LBO comes at the right time to speed up our mance enabled us to pursue a sustained ability to develop despite a still contrasting development in Europe. It represents the programme of acquisitions that generate European business environment. In the best possible way to prepare for our initial nearly €125 million in additional full-year Netherlands and Belgium, we saw very public offering. Our new investors are also revenue. Overall, we ended the year with a satisfactory growth in sectors like petrohighly professional, very responsive and 9.4% increase in revenue to more than chemicals and energy infrastructure. In committed to our growth strategy. They €4 billion and record backlog for 2012. France, our multi-technical services enjoyed provide us with additional room for manoeuEBIT totalled €218.2 million, a year-on-year sustained growth, as did our communications vre so that we can envision major acquisiincrease of 11.2% that ranked SPIE among businesses in such areas as information tions in Scandinavia and Germany, in addition the leaders in its business. This seventh consystems and hosted services. In the field of to regional acquisitions financed by our own secutive annual increase reflects the quality nuclear energy, where safety requirements cash flow. of the Group’s positioning in its markets as are underpinning demand for our services, The new leveraged buyout also involved a well as its disciplined management of operawe acquired two companies during the year. balanced financing package, with three tions. We’re present in very buoyant markets times more equity than for our first LBO and such as energy, telecommunications and a strong capacity to pay down debt. industry, as well as in targeted services busi14 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 EBIT totalled €218.2 million, a year-on-year increase of 11.2% that ranked SPIE among the leaders in its business. What’s more, we made the right decisions GIVEN THE CONTRASTING SITUATION THAT whenever and wherever we were faced with YOU MENTIONED, IS THE GREEN ECONOMY problems. STILL ONE OF YOUR PRIORITIES? In the United Kingdom, for example, the colThe green economy is a long-term phenomelapse in the regional services market was parnon that is continuing to assertive itself in all tially offset by our diversification into industry, aspects of society. The cost of energy is rising which began in 2009. And we decided to withand global warming is advancing. Everyone draw from Spain, even if it was a hard choice to feels concerned about the need to protect our make. Lastly, in oil and gas markets outside environment, even if the corporate and political Europe, the slowdown in business was due to timeframes are not the same. Our mission is geopolitical instability in the Middle East, which to respond to this increasingly strong, strucwas offset by vigorous demand in Africa. tured market demand, especially for energy SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 15 Interview with Gauthier Louette, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of SPIE 215 grams of CO2 equivalent emissions per euro of revenue efficiency and renewable energies. In 2011, WITHIN THE ORGANISATION, WHAT In other areas – such as gender parity – we signed our first energy performance conCOMMITMENTS HAVE YOU MADE TO SUPPORT change is coming more slowly. We need to tract in the housing services sector. We also SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT? confront persistent false ideas and to change joined with EDF to install one of the world’s mentalities because women too have a role Our operations require us to constantly largest photovoltaic plants in Toul-Rosières. to play on worksites. enhance our technical culture and listen With peak capacity of more than 100 MWp, closely to customers, as well as to manage Lastly, I want to remind you of the imporit will be able to power a city of more than risk, behave responsibly and adjust to each tance of our commitment to environmental 60,000 inhabitants by 2013. project’s specific features. Employee safety stewardship. We know that at present our From another standpoint, the green economy is our top priority and to honour that comemissions of CO2 equivalent amount to 215 gives meaning to our actions. I firmly believe mitment we need to be present on all fronts. grams per euro of revenue, and this fact is that we need not only to support this In our front-line operations, it’s also a quesenabling us to effectively structure our economy but also to be a source of new solution of attitude. Identifying hazardous situaaction plans. All areas of our operations are tions for our customers. Thanks to our tions is not enough. We also need to avoid concerned, from introducing sustainable network of local operators, customers know them at all costs and at all times. It’s not just purchasing policies to recycling electrical they can rely on us to help them improve about statistics, even if our accident rate is waste and finding more environmentally their technical, economic and environmental half that of the industry average. There friendly ways of travelling. This is reflected in performance, respond proactively to change should be no deaths or injuries on the job. our decision to purchase more than 700 and more effectively manage the impact of The only acceptable organisation is one that electric vehicles last year. We are also very regulatory requirements. For SPIE, the goal is entirely accident-free. attentive to our day-to-day actions and to our is to be a fully committed player in the culture of environmental responsibility. This Our Group also brings together many differchange process. We took part, for example, year, we received several awards in Europe, ent professions and people of some 75 in the first nationwide conference on chargnotably the Top Com corporate business nationalities. Given this diversity, it is crucial ing stations, which is a crucial sector for the award in recognition of our responsible comto provide managers with multicultural, success of the electric car. munication initiatives. international experience and to encourage mobility. We want to promote all forms of diversity, which represents both an opportunity and an asset for the company. Over the past year, we made progress in hiring the disabled by setting up a network of contacts extending across all subsidiaries to facilitate the integration process. Our regional teams have also been working with young people from disadvantaged backgrounds. 16 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 ACQUISITIONS 14 companies joined SPIE in 2011 Pursuing its external growth policy at a sustained pace in 2011, SPIE improved its coverage of European markets and strengthened its multi-technical capabilities. 124.6 IN ADDITIONAL REVENUE* THROUGH ACQUISITIONS € m SPIE ÎLE-DE-FRANCE SPIE BELGIUM SPIE SUD-OUEST NORD-OUEST €12.3 m Chauffage Declercq €2.9 m Sono Technic €16 m PORRAZ €5 m Boisson et Eri €4.6 m POIRET SPIE NEDERLAND €1.7 m Chambouleyron €10.5 m KIN Sprinklertechniek B.V. SPIE EST SPIE SUD-EST AND €5.4 m ANQUETIL Climaticiens SPIE NUCLÉAIRE SPIE NUCLÉAIRE €15.6 m ATMN €28.2 m Reyes Industries SPIE SUD-EST €3.4 m TRENTO SPIE SUD-OUEST AND €0.7 m Ent. Gilles Terras SPIE OUEST-CENTRE SPIE acquires €18.3 m Groupe SOFIP-ENELAT SOFIP-ENELAT * Calculated on a full-year basis. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 17 SENIOR MANAGEMENT TEAM Working together in full synergy The composition of the Management Committee reflects the Group’s European governance structure. The Management Committee, which determines and deploys the Group’s operating strategy, is comprised of the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, the Finance and Administration Director, the Human Resources Director, the Strategy and Development Director, and the subsidiary Managing Directors. Gilles Brazey Managing Director, SPIE Communications Philippe Cosson Johan Dekempe Philippe Guidicelli Managing Director, SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest Managing Director, SPIE Belgium Managing Director, SPIE Ouest-Centre James Thoden van Velzen Lei Ummels Pierre Vanstoflegatte Managing Director, SPIE UK Managing Director, SPIE Nederland Managing Director, SPIE Northern Europe until June 30th, 2012 18 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Gauthier Louette Thierry Baussart Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, SPIE SA Managing Director, SPIE Sud-Est Francis Butel Denis Chêne Yves Compañy Managing Director, SPIE Nucléaire Finance and Administration Director, SPIE SA Managing Director, SPIE Oil & Gas Services Cor Kloet Pascal Poncet Thierry Smagghe Managing Director, SPIE Nederland Managing Director, SPIE Est and Germany Human Resources Director, SPIE SA Alain Langlais Alfredo Zarowsky Managing Director, SPIE Sud-Ouest Strategy and Development Director, SPIE SA SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 19 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE Deciding together in total transparency For years, SPIE has been attentive to maintain transparency, responsibility and integrity in its corporate governance, in line with the Charter that expresses the Group’s core values and principles. The Board of Directors applies the highest standards of governance and involves all stakeholders in the corporate decision-making process. SPIE SA BOARD OF DIRECTORS SPIE SA is a limited liability company incorporated in France as a société anonyme and governed by a Board of Directors. Its headquarters are located at 10 Avenue de l’Entreprise, 95863 Cergy-Pontoise, France. CHAIRMAN AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER: Gauthier Louette NON-VOTING MEMBERS AND OBSERVERS: DIRECTORS: Justin Méthot Michel Bleitrach Roberto Quarta Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec Keolis Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Alexandre Motte Denis Chêne Christian Rochat AXA Private Equity SPIE SA Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Jean Artur Dominique Gaillard Éric Rouzier SPIE Sud-Ouest AXA Private Equity Clayton, Dubilier & Rice Pascal Castagné Sir Peter Mason KBE Alfredo Zarowsky SPIE Communications Balfour Beatty Limited SPIE SA Chrystelle Marthus-Richelin SPIE SA 20 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Shareholder structure, a new dynamic for the future Completed on 30 August 2011, the acquisition of SPIE brings together three major shareholders: the Clayton Dubilier & Rice investment fund and its partners, AXA Private Equity and Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec. The shareholder base also includes more than 50% of all SPIE employees, through the Corporate Mutual Fund. INVESTMENT FUNDS CD&R / AXA / CDPQ* 100% FCPE SPIE ACTIONNARIAT 2011 & MANAGERS’ COMPANIES LUXEMBOURG HOLDINGS 10.4% 89.6% CLAYAX ACQUISITION FRANCE 100% FRENCH HOLDINGS 100% SPIE SA 100% * Consortium led by Clayton Dubilier & Rice in partnership OPERATING SUBSIDIARIES with AXA Private Equity and Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 21 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND SHAREHOLDER STRUCTURE Deciding together in total transparency Pascal Castagné, Director of Development, SPIE Communications, Observer and non-voting member of the SPIE SA Board of Directors. YOU WERE RECENTLY NAMED TO THE SPIE BOARD WHAT DOES THIS NOMINATION MEAN FOR YOU, FROM BOTH OF DIRECTORS AS A NON-VOTING MEMBER A PERSONAL AND A PROFESSIONAL STANDPOINT? AND OBSERVER. IS THIS THE FIRST TIME THAT Since 1994, I have had the opportunity and the good fortune to be SPIE HAS USED THIS SYSTEM? in contact with many colleagues from very different backgrounds No, it’s not. In 2006, when the first leveraged buyout took place, and professions, first at the regional level, then at SPIE headquarthere was already at least one representative of the Managers’ ters and currently at the SPIE Communications head offices. Companies on the Board of Directors, although the nomination Clearly, our Group’s success is underpinned by their individual process was different at the time. I was a nominee in 2009, qualities and their diversity, which lends itself to a sort of collective although not elected, then again this year when a new voting discipline. As a lover of team sports – in which success is likewise system was used to choose two observers for the Managers’ based on a concerted effort – I have always felt that it’s important Companies. At the time, I expressed an interest in representing for each individual to fully understand what we want to accomplish my fellow employees at SPIE Communications, as well as a together. That’s a key driver of day-to-day performance. number of managers from other subsidiaries with whom I have Lastly, my position as an observer has bolstered my professional been in regular contact through inter-subsidiary committees or skills. One of my responsibilities is to oversee SPIE Communicaother bodies. tions’ acquisitions in an IT market whose fundamentals are not the same as those of the Group’s other markets. If I more fully WHAT IS YOUR ROLE DURING BOARD MEETINGS? understand SPIE’s strategy with regard to shareholders’ expectations, I will be better able to make decisions and implement I was elected along with Jean Artur, Director of Purchasing at actions that will help me to attain my own goals. SPIE Sud-Ouest. Unlike other directors, we do not have the right to vote according to the bylaws. We do, however, take part in discussions, give advice and in some cases answer questions from members of the Managers’ Societies who elected us, while complying with the rules of confidentiality that govern exchanges at Board meetings. 22 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Five standing committees MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE* ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSALS COMMITTEE** The Management Committee, which meets The Acquisitions and Disposals Committee studies proposed once a month, is comprised of the Chairman acquisitions or disposals totalling more than €5 million and Chief Executive Officer, the Finance and representing revenue of over €15 million. It then submits and Administration Director, the Human Resources a written report to the Board of Directors. Director, the Strategy and Development Director, and the subsidiary Managing Directors. It defines and deploys the company’s operating strategy and coordinates initiatives. THE COMPENSATION COMMITTEE** AUDIT COMMITTEE** The Compensation Committee makes recommendations to the Board of Directors on the compensation of other executives, and on any significant changes in collective agreements or the Group’s employee relations strategy. The role of the audit committee is to review and It also informs the Board of decisions concerning managers control the financial and accounting information, other than officers. the mission and independance of the statutory auditors, the internal audit procedures and to monitor the efficiency of the internal control and risk management systems. THE RISK ASSESSMENT COMMITTEE* The Risk Assessment Committee authorises project feasibility studies, capital projects and legal proceedings, and ensures compliance with internal competitive * SPIE SA. bid procedures. It meets at least twice a year. ** Clayax Acquisition 4. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 23 www.cdr-inc.com Since its founding in 1978, Clayton, Dubilier & Rice has pursued an investment strategy of building value by strengthening the development and operating performance of the companies in its portfolio. CDR’s professionals include a combination of experienced financial executives and senior managers from major corporations such as ABB, Unilever, BAE, BBA, Disney, Dow, Emerson Electric, Gap, General Electric, IBM, Procter & Gamble and Tesco. Based in New York and London, CD&R manages the investment of approximately $16 billion in 49 US and European businesses – mostly subsidiaries or divisions of large multinational corporations –representing a broad range of industries with an aggregate transaction value of around $80 billion. www.axaprivateequity.com AXA Private Equity is a world leader in private equity, with assets of $28 billion managed or advised in Europe, North America and Asia. The company offers its investors a wide choice of funds covering the full range of asset classes: funds of funds (primary, early secondary and secondary), direct funds including infrastructure, small and mid-market enterprise capital, innovation & growth, co-investment and private debt. With offices in Paris, Frankfurt, New York, Singapore, Milan, London, Zurich and Vienna, AXA Private Equity is committed to supporting companies in their long-term growth by providing access to its international network. AXA Private Equity provides regular, high-quality reporting on the performance of its funds and the companies in its portfolio, as a service to its investors. www.lacaisse.com The Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec is a financial institution that manages funds primarily for public and private pension and insurance plans. At 31 December 2010, it had net assets of $151.7 billion. One of the leading institutional fund managers in Canada, the Caisse invests in the main financial markets, as well as in private equity and real estate. Its Private Equity unit, including the Infrastructure portfolio, had net assets of $21.8 billion at 31 December 2010. The unit invests in companies across a wide range of industrial sectors, including manufacturing, distribution and services, media and telecommunications, natural resources, financial services, energy and infrastructure. The Private Equity team also invests in specialised investment funds. 24 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 CLOSE-UP On 30 August 2011, the Clayton Dubilier & Rice investment fund and its partners AXA Private Equity and Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec acquired SPIE New through a new leveraged buyout. Five years after the first leveraged buyout, SPIE conducted Core a second one with new investors. Following PAI Partners, a consortium comprised of the US investment fund Clayton Dubilier & Rice in partnership with AXA Private Equity Shareholders and Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec became the Group’s new shareholder. “With the first LBO winding down, we wanted to start a new cycle in order to significantly improve the Group’s room for manoeuvre, especially to finance acquisitions,” explains Denis Chêne, Administrative and Financial Director of SPIE Group. GREATER ROOM FOR MANOEUVER The first LBO was a clear success. The Group’s revenue Denis Chêne, increased from €2.8 billion in 2006 to €3.7 billion in 2010, Finance and while EBIT margin improved from 3.6% to 5% and debt Administration was reduced from 6.5 to 2.4 times EBITDA(1). Director, Backed by these good results, the SPIE management team SPIE Group. is confident about the new LBO, especially since the initial prospects are in many respects more favourable. We have entered into this secondary Internationally present and financially solid, SPIE’s new leveraged buyout with partners that share SPIE’s shareholders are among the world’s leading private equity two main management objectives: pursue external funds(2). The initial equity provided at the outset is greater growth opportunity with new capacity for debt and the room for manoeuvre is superior than for the first LBO. and prepare for an initial public offering once the second LBO winds down. STRENGTHENING THE BALANCE OF THE BUSINESS PORTFOLIO 58.2% The strategy underpinning this new leveraged buyout is to finance acquisitions in addition to the semi-organic growth financed by cash flow from SPIE’s businesses. Clayton, The objective is to increase the Group’s territorial coverage Dubilier & Rice in Europe while continuing to diversify and balance the business portfolio and enhancing awareness of SPIE 15.7% across the region, with the goal of generating €5 billion in revenue by 2015. This strategy of profitable organic and external growth is perfectly in line with the LBO’s financial policy to reduce the debt ratio. AXA Private Equity “By improving the Group’s margins, in particular for subsidiaries that have not yet reached the target level, and actively managing working capital to generate cash flow, we hope to quickly decrease our financial leverage (3), as with the first LBO,” says Denis Chêne. (1) Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation. (2) Collective investment schemes that generally invest in unlisted companies. (3) Paying down leveraged buyout debt. 15.7% Caisse de dépôt et placement du Québec See the press release about the change in the SPIE shareholder structure SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 25 SPIE AROUND THE WORLD To contact us Asserting our leadership in Europe 29,000 EMPLOYEES Europe In 2011, SPIE continued to extend its network of operations in Europe, targeting acquisitions that improve its regional coverage and enhance its multi-technical capabilities. During the year, 14 companies joined the Group, in Belgium, France and the Netherlands. EUROPE A GROWING PORTFOLIO OF BUSINESSES ■ Germany ■ Belgium BELGIUM following safety requirements added ■ France after the accident in Fukushima. In ■ Netherlands During the year, SPIE profited from communication systems and facilities ■ Portugal favourable market conditions management, SPIE also enjoyed strong ■ United Kingdom in Belgium, especially in the industrial growth in unified communication, data ■ Switzerland sector, whose dynamic extended centres, IT security, operated services to markets in Germany and Northern and cloud computing. Europe. The acquisition of Chauffage Declercq, based in Izegem in Western Flanders, has provided the Group NETHERLANDS with leading-edge HVAC skills, Growth in the Netherlands was driven thereby strengthening its operations by the industry and infrastructure in the region. Present in both sectors, in particular by a project the services and industrial sectors, with operator TenneT to modernise the company generated approximately high voltage lines.The Group also made €12 million in revenue in 2011. the acquisition of KIN Sprinklertechniek B.V., which deploys building safety FRANCE systems. The multi-technical business in France expanded sharply, across all the Group’s regional subsidiaries. With revenue up 10,5%, the business benefited from buoyant markets in energy, communications and health, as well as in certain segments like industrial automation devices and water treatment.Business in the nuclear sector continued to grow, increasing by 20%, led by projects on existing sites 26 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 SPIE’S LOCATIONS ON YOUR MOBILE PHONE 31 SPIE maps, the smartphone application for geolocating SPIE’s operations around the world, is available free COUNTRIES of charge at the Android Market, the Apple Store and the BlackBerry App World. 75 NATIONALITIES Download SPIE maps Scan the data matrix code to download SPIE maps. Rest of the World Despite the geopolitical instability in the Middle East and a number of African countries, SPIE consolidated its positions in fast-growing oil and gas-producing regions, particularly in Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Angola. AFRICA ASIA/PACIFIC PARTNERING WITH OIL AND GAS OPERATORS ■ Algeria ■ Brunei ■ Angola ■ China SAUDI ARABIA QATAR ■ Congo ■ Indonesia ■ Gabon ■ Kazakhstan Active in Saudi Arabia in recent years In Ras Laffan, a 106-square-kilometre ■ Libya ■ Malaysia through a number of technical industrial city that has made Qatar ■ Morocco ■ Myanmar assistance and oil and oil-related the world’s leading producer of liquefied ■ Nigeria ■ Singapore operational support projects, the Group natural gas, SPIE has for several years ■ Thailand stepped up its development in 2011 with been providing operational and ■ Vietnam the signing of a major commissioning maintenance services for pumping support contract with Satorp, a joint stations and seawater treatment plants. company created by Saudi Aramco and MIDDLE EAST Total.The project involves engineering, ANGOLA procurement and construction work for ■ Saudi Arabia ■ Kuwait the Jubail refinery, one of the world’s Since the creation in 2002 of Sonaid, ■ United Arab Emirates ■ Qatar largest, which will process more than an Angolan joint venture that specialises ■ Iraq ■ Oman 400,000 barrels of crude oil a day while in oil-field tubular goods and related ■ Iran ■ Yemen complying with the strictest services, SPIE has continued to expand environmental standards. alongside oil industry operators. One example is the Kizomba Satellites contract with ExxonMobil and its prime contractor, Ponticelli, to modify installations on two floating, production, storage and offloading (FPSO) platforms. Other projects during the year included two extensions of the maintenance contract for Total’s Dalia FPSO in the Gulf of Guinea. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 27 OVERVIEW OF 2011 The green economy in pictures With expertise in sustainable buildings, renewable energies, urban eco-mobility systems, new data SPIE news on your centres and other solutions, SPIE helps customers mobile phone to protect the environment while improving the performance of their facilities. HOTELS • PORTUGAL SOLAR ENERGY FOR AN EXCEPTIONAL VENUE The magnificent Douro Palace tourist complex north of Oporto now benefits from the installed capacity of 400 photovoltaic solar panels for internal use as well as 42 thermal solar sensors to heat hot water and the swimming pool in the spa. Overall, SPIE’s solutions generate 215 MWh of electrical power a year. SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY • FRANCE V’LILLE: THE MOST VIABLE ALTERNATIVE TO THE CAR After Lyon, Rennes and Paris, the Greater Lille Urban Council inaugurated its first self-service bicycle stations as an extension of its public transportation network. From identifying locations to installing terminals, SPIE delivered a range of services that took into account the existing urban environment. For example, special teams were brought in to install paving stones in Lille’s historic centre. COMMUNICATIONS • UNITED KINGDOM A HIGH-POWER DATA CENTRE FOR CAP GEMINI Infrastructure at the Cap Gemini data centre in London has been renovated to increase its cooling capacity and density to 1,000 watts per square metre while also reducing carbon emissions. SPIE installed new generators and replaced the electrical distribution circuit and air-conditioning units without disrupting the centre’s operations. 28 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 PUBLIC LIGHTING • FRANCE ROAD TRANSPORT • BELGIUM LIGHTING UP ARCACHON SPIE renovated and upgraded the lighting network COINTE TUNNEL in Arcachon, a major French seaside resort. Optimising maintenance of electro-mechanical equipment at Among the installations were traffic lights and the E40-E25 motorway junction near Liège is crucial for ensuring electric signage, decorative and special events traffic flows and reducing environmental impact. SPIE deployed lighting, retractable and movable vehicle barriers a full-fledged road management centre that includes dynamic and video-protection systems. Moreover, SPIE’s signage, vehicle counters, remote management services, radio solution reduced energy use by 40%. relaying and remote-controlled lighting systems. RENEWABLE ENERGIES • FRANCE A HYDROELECTRIC POWER STATION UNDER A GLACIER Because of the gradual melting of one of the largest Alpine glaciers, near Chamonix, EDF decided to relocate the water collection point for its underground hydraulic power station.SPIE installed the entire electrical network in arduous working conditions. Teams had to take a private cable car, walk one kilometre underground and then climb with ropes to reach the worksite. COMMERCE AND RETAIL • FRANCE ATOLL, FRANCE’S FIRST ENVIRONMENTALLY RESPONSIBLE SHOPPING MALL Western France’s largest shopping mall, located near Angers, offers a full range of environmentally responsible features in such areas as insulation and soundproofing, energy efficiency and photovoltaic solar panels. SPIE supported this large-scale project, providing its expertise in electrical and HVAC systems, energy efficient lighting and rainwater recovery solutions. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 29 Everyone responsible with our partners In its pursuit of corporate responsibility, SPIE aligns its approaches to social development, environmental protection and corporate citizenship and pursues them continually. This longstanding commitment calls for close cooperation and synergy with all stakeholders, including employee representatives, industrial partners, trade groups and associations, national and local government authorities, public and private organisations and international institutions. Sharing Guiding a vision for Diversity principles* the future* charter* * See these documents on your mobile phone. 30 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 SPIE, on the move 32 • Social responsibility 36 • Environmental responsibility 38 • Close-up: SPIE powered by electricity 42 • Corporate citizenship 44 • Communicating responsibly SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 31 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Promoting the creation of shared value After several years of continuous growth, SPIE in 2011 reaffirmed its social policy, which is based on dialogue and shared value. This commitment saw a new employee shareholder dynamic as part of the Group’s second leveraged buyout. Some 15,000 employees are now company CREATING share holders, representing 62% of the workSKILLS ENHANCEMENT PROGRAMMES force eligible to take part in the programme. SPIE allocated €30 million for training in 2011, In addition, €24 million were paid to employan investment that reflects the need to conees in 2011 through profit shares and incentive stantly adapt the Group’s capabilities to its bonuses. operations and to its outlook for change. The Skills Development Centre offers training A SLIGHT INCREASE through two units – the Management School and IN THE EMPLOYEE BASE the Technology Institute – overseen by a steering Following a stabilisation in the workforce in committee. In all, more than 70 customised 2010, hiring began again in first-half 2011 training modules in 16 fields are offered, with the Meeting in Toulouse with employees because of an improved economic environment backing of specialised organisations and infrom the subsidiaries of the southwest in continental Europe. However, a return to house facilitators. The Technology Institute region to discuss the leveraged buyout. offers extended technical skills enhancement recession in the second half slowed the recovery, which was also impacted by economic difprogrammes in SPIE’s key professions, supficulties in the United Kingdom. Overall, the ported by practical on-site training in such areas Group had 29,055 employees at 31 December as multi-technical maintenance, optic fibre-to2011, a year-on-year increase of 3.8% (excludthe-home networks and energy efficiency. In ing Spain, from which the Group withdrew in 2011, the Institute welcomed its 500th intern, Following the success of the first leveraged July 2011), with 987 employees from compawho took part in a low-voltage network installabuyout carried out five years ago, the Group’s nies acquired during the year. tion programme. social responsibility commitment this year focused on sharing the benefits of growth. In this environment, hiring at SPIE continued to Improvements to the human resources planEmployees who subscribed to the corporate be driven by growth in maintenance and ning and development process were continued mutual fund in 2006 recorded capital gains that energy-related services requiring ever-higher during the year, thanks to the BNDC, a highly averaged seven times their initial investment. levels of professional skills. Excluding acquisiefficient database that helped to establish The confidence they displayed in SPIE’s project tions, approximately 2,000 new employees gateways between different businesses. also led other employees to subscribe to the joined the Group during the year, most of them Company resource assessment and developcorporate mutual fund set up with new finanmanagers and technicians. Temporary workers ment committees meet once a year to identify cial investors for the second LBO. Thanks to accounted for 15% of the total, a figure in line high-potential employees at all levels and highly favourable support measures, all job with the profile of the company’s businesses. In prepare their career paths. To showcase talcategories had access to the programme, with addition, apprentices account for 5% of the ented individuals, SPIE also created the Junior the company contributing matching funds of workforce, a good level that is backed by an Innovation Trophy contest, which is open to all €35 million. assertive tutoring policy. interns and apprentices in secondary level or 32 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 higher programmes. Last year, four Trophies Kingdom, a pilot module based on enhancing were awarded for innovations in the areas the professional skills of worksite managers of safety, the green economy and human was organised in 2011 for deployment in resources. 2012. In the Netherlands, business managers shared best practices to develop a reference document for their profession, which is ENSURING of critical importance for SPIE. In Île-de-France/ RESPONSIBLE MANAGEMENT Nord-Ouest, a customised programme was In the “Discover SPIE” orientation seminar, developed for the region’s more than 500 newly hired managers meet with senior managers. executives who present the company’s corThe Group’s international expansion increasporate values of performance, local manageingly calls for managers with the training to ment and responsibility. Special attention is meet these special challenges. The new SPIE paid to safety in the workplace. Talents programme provided high potential In a decentralised organisation with small young people with an introduction to internateams spread across the entire territory, a tional management, in partnership with the The Technology Institute local management style is the cornerstone of ESSEC business school, whose teachers welcomes its 500th intern. the company’s success and a topic covered in come from around the world. many training programmes. In the United GLOBAL COMPACT: More about AN INTERNATIONAL COMMITMENT the Global Compact In 2003, SPIE pledged to support the United Nations Global Compact, which invites companies to embrace, support and enact, within their sphere of influence, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. The principles in each of these categories are as follows: PRINCIPLES EXAMPLES AT SPIE HUMAN RIGHTS ■ Businesses should support and respect the protection ■ Deployment of the OHSAS 18001 (or equivalent) workplace health and safety management system. of internationally proclaimed human rights, within their ■ International business travel safety guide. sphere of influence. ■ National agreements in Africa and the Middle East to employ locals. ■ Make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. ■ Stress management agreements. ■ Supplier assessment studies with EcoVadis. LABOUR ■ Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and ■ A social dialogue organisation within the European Works Council. the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. ■ Diversity committee that coordinates initiatives to prevent discrimination: ■ The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment to improve employment opportunities for the disabled; and occupation. to increase gender parity; ■ The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. to provide work opportunities for the young as well as for older employees; ■ The effective abolition of child labour. to promote diversity. ENVIRONMENT ■ Business should support a precautionary approach ■ Deployment of the ISO 14001 environmental standard. to environmental challenges. ■ Training and awareness-building programmes on energy and climate issues. ■ Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ■ Extension of the carbon footprint analysis programme. responsibility. ■ Environmentally friendly management of the corporate vehicle fleet and eco-driving courses for employees. ■ Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally ■ Commitment to purchasing 730 electric vehicles between 2011 and 2015. friendly technologies. ■ Environmentally responsible digitisation of corporate publications for on-demand printing. ■ Environmental criteria used to assess suppliers. ■ Special training programmes at the SPIE Technology Institute. ANTI-CORRUPTION ■ Businesses are encouraged to combat all forms of corruption, ■ Handbook on ethical business practices. including extortion and bribery. ■ Services agreement procedure. ■ Training in business ethics, with a special module on the Bribery Act in the United Kingdom. ■ Supplier assessment studies with EcoVadis. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 33 2011 SERCE Safety Contest: a very strong performance by SPIE, which received seven awards from the National Association of Electrical and Environmental Engineering Companies (SERCE) and the Public Works Prevention Trade Organisation (OPPBTP). See the press release Similarly, the Ambition Manager programme newsletter. In addition, a Health and Safety PreIt also pursued actions to support young people brought together high level managers from difvention Director was appointed to more effecfrom disadvantaged neighbourhoods. Two ferent countries for approximately ten days, tively coordinate existing systems and lead the examples were the School for a Second Chance while Business Unit Manager sessions were search for new paths to improvement. in the Greater Lille region and cooperative venheld for new profit centre managers. tures with FOREM, the public employment and SPIE is an industry leader in the area of safety, training service in Belgium. In France, a right-to-work training programme having broadly deployed safety management was introduced with the goal of creating consystems with 77% of its facilities certified to tacts in each subsidiary who are certified to OHSAS 18001 (or equivalent) standards. What’s STRENGTHENING train frontline managers. more, in the main host countries, SPIE’s workSOCIAL DIALOGUE place accident frequency rate is better than Lastly, the commitment to corporate ethics was In the areas of social dialogue and employee that of the industry as a whole. strengthened in a UK legislative environment relations, the year saw a variety of developshaped by the application of the Bribery Act. During the year, prevention efforts focused on ments, in particular: While continuing to update its business ethics taking into account stress and arduous working ■ The agreement on supplemental health insurmanual, SPIE, with the support of Vigeo, the conditions, in an environment shaped by more ance for employees in multi-technical and socially responsible rating agency, introduced a stringent regulations and consultations with nuclear services subsidiaries in France was training programme for managers – beginning employee representatives. renegotiated and unanimously approved. At prewith subsidiary management committee sent, the agreement covers 33,000 employees members – based on real-life examples of management issues encountered in each unit. DIVERSITY, and their families. Coverage has been improved AN ASSET FOR THE COMPANY since the system’s introduction in 2008 and thanks to a rise in employer outlays, employee The Diversity Committee created in 2008 at corA PRIORITY porate level, with contacts in the subsidiaries, is contributions will not increase in 2012. FOCUS ON HEALTH AND SAFETY now fully operational. In 2011, SPIE deployed a ■ The Board of the European Works Council In 2011, the focus was on revitalising safety network of contacts in the subsidiaries to share met three times during the year, including a programmes, following a difficult year in 2010. best practices and support local hire-the-handspecial meeting to discuss the changes in icapped initiatives. These included agreements shareholder structure. In addition, the Council To strengthen the company’s safety culture, a with specialised organisation, specially adapted held three plenary sessions, of which two that range of measures and actions were taken, training programmes, financial support for focused on the same topic. including the deployment of safety standards Handisport activities, and participation in a that exceeded regulatory requirements, sys■ Two special meetings of the SPIE SA Works week-long jobs-for-the-disabled event. tematic prevention inspections of worksites and Council were held as part of the information facilities, and on-going major efforts to provide The practice of interviewing employees in the and consultation process related to the change training in safety management. Several initialatter part of their career was extended, and in the shareholder base. At the second meeting, tives helped to diffuse the key issue of safety several hundred older team members were employee representatives gave their unanimore widely across the organisation. Among involved in tutoring and training initiatives for mous approval to the operation. them were the workshops and meetings held in young people. To increase the number of ■ The agreement concerning the French Works all subsidiaries on 28 April 2011 – the ILO’s women in the workforce, SPIE bolstered its Council, which dated back to 1997, was renegoWorld Day for Safety and Health at Work – on partnerships with engineering schools, like tiated to take into account the new scope of the subject of identifying hazardous situations. EPF in France, while promoting worksite visits operations. The revised agreement was unaniAnother was the publication of a special safety and get-togethers with women already employed mously approved. issue of Rencontres, the Group’s in-house by the Group. 34 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY HIRING As European leader in electrical and mechanical As European leader in electrical and mechanical engineering and HVAC services, energy and communication systems, SPIE enhances build, operate and maintain facilities that are more Show your engineering and HVAC services, energy and communication systems, SPIE enhances build, energy-efﬁcient and environmental. talent by being operate and maintain facilities that are more energy-efﬁcient and environmental. Show your ELECTRICAL HVAC ENGINEERING MECHANICAL UTILITY NETWORKS superinnovative! talent by being AND STREET LIGHTING IT AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS NUCLEAR Nurturing ELECTRICAL OIL & GAS MAINTENANCE HVAC RENEWABLE superinnovative! ENGINEERING ENERGIES TRANSPORTS MECHANICAL UTILITY NETWORKS AND STREET LIGHTING IT AND COMMUNICATIONS SYSTEMS NUCLEAR OIL & GAS MAINTENANCE RENEWABLE ENERGIES Our ambition… TRANSPORTS Our ambition… Take you to a new level of experience. Take you to a new level of experience. Develop your skills and capabilities within Develop your skills and capabilities within an international, multi-business group that an international, multi-business group is actively involved in the green economy. that is actively involved in the green Provide ongoing support for career and geographic mobility. the employer brand economy. Join a company in which diversity is viewed as a factor of development. Provide ongoing support for career and SPIE, sharing a vision for the future geographic mobility. Join a company in which diversity is viewed as a factor of development. SPIE, sharing a vision for the future Join the SPIE Group www.spie-job.com To support the growth of its activities, SPIE decided to redefine its employer brand policies and resources. Our commitment... Bring opportunities within easy reach! As European leader in electrical and mechanical engineering Initiatives were pursued throughout the year, including UTILITY NETWORKS AND and HVAC services, energy and STREET LIGHTING NUCLEAR TELECOMS communication systems, SPIE enhances build, operate and maintain facilities that are more energy-efﬁcient and RENEWABLE environmental. ENERGIES IT AND COMMUNICATIONS new communication materials, media actions, campaigns SYSTEMS TRANSPORTS HVAC ENGINEERING MECHANICAL ELECTRICAL in the press and on the Web, and revitalised partnerships Join the SPIE Group www.spie-job.com OIL & GAS MAINTENANCE with schools. Another example was the five-year scientific Visuals from the new and technological sponsorship agreement signed Our ambition… hiring campaign. Take you to a new level of experience. Develop your skills and capabilities within an international, multi-business group that is actively involved in the green economy. with the INSA Foundation in Lyon, whose purpose is Provide ongoing support for career and geographic mobility. Develop your skills. Join a company in which diversity is viewed as a factor of development. SPIE, sharing a vision for the future to develop the Group’s relations with several of the school’s Join the SPIE Group www.spie-job.com departments and two applied research laboratories. HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM OHSAS 18001/VCA CERTIFIED UNITS As % of total workforce 2011 79 20100 76 20099 75 20088 74 20077 71 Talented young people Based on 2010 scope of reporting. Award ceremony for the Junior Innovation Scope of reporting at 1 January 2012 excluding Spain and including Trophy. From left to right: Gauthier Louette 2011 acquisitions. (Chairman & CEO, SPIE Group,) Sylvia Decarsin (intern), Quantin Jonis (intern), Laura Angles (intern) and Thierry Smagghe (Human Resources Director, SPIE Group). WORKPLACE ACCIDENT FREQUENCY RATE AWARD 12.4 2011 5.5 20100 5.4 13.4 Initial success of the 20099 5.1 13.8 Junior Innovation Trophy SPIE presented the first Junior Innovation Trophy to four trainees 15.0 20088 and apprentices in secondary level or higher programmes. 5.8 The entries submitted covered a wide range of areas and showed 15.9 a high degree of creativity, among them a board game called Trivial 20077 6.5 POURSPIE, digital petrol expense vouchers, a method for improving high voltage tube bending measurements between two devices, Industry* (source: SERCE**) and a system for securing a microtrench filled with liquid mortar. SPIE* This same approach can also be found in the Group-wide innovation contest organised each year, to which some 150 projects * Number of accidents with lost time per million hours worked. were submitted. ** France’s Association of Electrical and Environmental Engineering Companies. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 35 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY SPIE and the environment Transforming constraints into opportunities In line with its eco-responsible approach, SPIE has made respect for the environment a key driver of improvement for all of its operations. This vision is increasingly shared by businesses and government authorities in response to the new challenges of the green economy. Despite the recent economic difficulties, enviMANAGING ronmental requirements in Europe have ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT become increasingly demanding, shaped by At the same time, the Group pursued its inrapidly changing regulations and ever-more house environmental responsibility programmes ambitious government initiatives. To protect in the area of purchasing, which accounts for biodiversity in the United Kingdom, for example, 50% of its business and 70% of its carbon footthe public agency Natural England is planning print. At year-end 2012, 80% of purchases idento test a compensation programme that sets tified as sensitive had been assessed by objectives for each pilot region for the period EcoVadis, the Group’s partner, using corporate 2012-2014. In France, energy-efficient buildsocial responsibility criteria. More than 70 new ings were more widely deployed during the suppliers were added to the Group’s representayear because of the government’s recently tive supplier panel. The goal is not only to posiintroduced thermal regulations (RT 2012) for tion them using a common yardstick but also to new buildings. Overall, a large majority of work with them to develop improvement plans, Europeans (95%) think that environmental proin particular to reduce the carbon footprint. tection is important and nearly eight out of ten (77%) feel that it can stimulate economic According to the most recent carbon analysis, growth. SPIE’s operations emit – either directly or indirectly – some 770,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide Against this backdrop, SPIE has decided to equivalent, which amounts to an average of develop structured approaches to such chal215 grams per euro of revenue. In addition to lenges, as environmentally responsible cities, providing information about the carbon depensustainable mobility, intelligent networks, and dence of its operations, the analysis also renewable and low-carbon energies. In the makes it possible to target areas for improvearea of social housing, the first energy performent in terms of organisation, processes, mance contract was signed in France as part of practices, purchases and energy savings. Europe’s FRESH(1) project. SPIE is committed to reducing final consumption by 47%, leveragIn the subsidiaries, actions plans have been ing a new financing model adapted to the needs prepared to optimise consumption, improve of its customer ICF Habitat. travel and recycle waste from electrical and electronic equipment. Among the measures (1) Financing energy REfurbishment for Social Housing. deployed during the year were the extension of 36 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 EVENT Tango Project: less energy, more power Designed to improve the security, reliability and quality of SPIE’s information system support services, the Tango project will also help to reduce energy use by 80%. The operation calls for replacing 750 servers by 150 new systems located in a secure data centre. By pooling and outsourcing system infrastructure to a common platform managed by IBM, the project will substantially reduce operating costs, while limiting investment needed for infrastructure overhauls or extension programmes. SPIE’s secure data centre, managed by IBM. a new waste collection and recycling unit, in line with the European Union’s Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Directive. Developed in partnership with the Recylum network, the unit collected 35.7 tonnes of this type of waste at 53 collection points. Programmes within the Group were also strengthened in 2011. With nearly 2,000 fleet vehicles to be renewed each year, SPIE pledged to order 730 electric vehicles by 2015, through a purchasing consortium involving 19 public and private companies. A COMMITMENT UNITS WITH ENVIRONMENTAL MANAGEMENT TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SYSTEMS CERTIFIED TO ISO 14001 STANDARDS As % of total workforce Nearly 70% of SPIE employees currently work under an environmental management system 2011 68 certified to ISO 14001 or equivalent standards. 0 2010 66 This practice is evolving, led by improvements made for new certification programmes and 20099 65 the sharing of best practices. In 2011, AFNOR, the French standards association, presented 20088 60 the new ISO 26000 corporate responsibility 20077 58 standard at a forum in France. A number of subsidiaries in France and the Netherlands have decided to implement the standard, which makes the environment a key focus of corporate responsibility programmes. SPIE announces the acquisition of more than 700 electric vehicles SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 37 01. SPIE received its first shipment of electric vehicles – based on the Renault Kangoo – in Éragny north of Paris. 02. and 03. Charging stations installed by SPIE at the Renault facility in Plessis-Robinson. 04. Rapid charging station installed for Total as part of the SAVE project, the largest electric mobility experiment ever undertaken in France. 05. SPIE employees getting hands-on experience with the electric vehicles. 01 02 03 04 05 38 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 CLOSE-UP UP UNTIL NOW, ELECTRIC VEHICLES HAVE NOT SEEN VERY MUCH USE. IS THAT GOING TO CHANGE? Even if sales of EVs remain low, we have seen a sharp rise in interest in this type of transport, which has been supported by most carmakers. It’s an irreversible, global trend and charging stations will play a key role. The objective in France is to have 2 million electric vehicles by 2020, SPIE with 4.4 million charging stations. powered by WHAT CHALLENGES ARE INVOLVED IN SETTING UP THE CHARGING INFRASTRUCTURE? The first is financial. Without widely available charging solutions, few people will buy EVs. At the same time, funds to widely deploy charging stations will not be available if there aren’t a large number of EVs on the road. electricity So it’s a paradoxical situation. This type of vehicle also has limited range, which is another issue. Even if EVs will most often be recharged at home and at the workplace, extensive coverage of the territory and interoperable charging infrastructure are also needed. Lastly, system standardisation is very important. Europeans have not yet agreed on the type of plug to be used, which is slowing deployment. It’s also important to anticipate the electricity challenges of the future, which means how to integrate the solution into a smart grid. A regulatory system is also necessary to avoid overloading the network. There’s an advantage in encouraging users to recharge when network demand and national power output are low. There are also sustainable development issues to consider, since the energy consumed during peaks always Gabriel Werlen, has much higher carbon content. Department head at SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest and member of the committee in charge of deploying electric vehicles HOW DO YOU SEE SPIE’S COMMITMENT nationwide at SPIE. IN THIS NEW MARKET? We should first mention the company’s own needs. 730 SPIE has committed to ordering 730 electric vehicles by 2015, which represent 10% of its current fleet. That’s the first step in developing this emerging market. The Group intends to play a role in all key segments – with large accounts for their own or their customers’ vehicle fleets, with local authorities, in car parks and with small and mid-size businesses. SPIE has developed an innovative offer for renting charging infrastructure as well as partnerships with charging station manufacturers. electric vehicles WHAT ARE SPIE’S ADVANTAGES in service by 2015 COMPARED WITH ITS RIVALS? Our Group benefits from its understanding of the market, its experience in the segment and its all-important upstream positioning. It also enjoys technical expertise across the entire value chain, from engineering and design to installation and maintenance. It’s also important to remember our local network, which provides responsiveness and enables rapid intervention, as well as its ability to manage deployment projects over a very wide area. SPIE is destined to become Watch the video a major European player in this market. Handing over the keys to the first electric vehicle to SPIE SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 39 At the local level, teams pursued their initiaThe Group is also involved in major environtives to support environmental protection. mental projects, particularly in the area of Numerous measures were deployed to drive energy infrastructure. In the Netherlands, SPIE continuous improvement in such areas as is part of a national consortium that has awareness-building of everyday, “green” launched construction of one of the country’s actions, online carpool platforms, training in largest onshore wind farms, whose 35 turbines eco-driving techniques, “clean” vehicle use, are designed to withstand the most severe bike maps, and energy-efficient buildings. In weather conditions. In France, the Group is eastern France, for example, employees can working in partnership with EDF to install the monitor their progress in eco-driving by comenormous Toul-Rosières solar power station, paring their fuel consumption with that of one of the world’s largest photovoltaic energy same-type vehicles in the subsidiary’s fleet. To projects. Covering more than 400 hectares, the SPIE shares its experience in installing electric vehicle improve waste processing, an audit of each plant will be capable of meeting the energy charging stations worksite was carried out to assess the material needs of a city of 62,000 inhabitants through a resources to be made available and to choose network of 150,000 solar panels. appropriate treatment channels. In offices, 01. SPIE took part in France’s first specially adapted environmental protection systems were introduced, for example, for IMPROVING nationwide conference on charging THE LIVING ENVIRONMENT sorting waste paper and transporting it to cerinfrastructure, which was held in Nice. Thanks to its strong presence throughout tified recycling centres. 02. The SPIE stand at the 2011 Exhibition France, SPIE is helping to raise-awareness among public officials and their constituents of for Mayors and Local Authorities. NEW GENERATION the environmental challenges faced by cities GREEN SOLUTIONS today and sustainable regional development Solutions that take into account environmental programmes, notably through public discusconsiderations are increasingly popular with sions. At the 2011 Exhibition for Mayors and government authorities and businesses, even Local Authorities in Paris, SPIE welcomed in those like transport and industry that may nearly 60,000 visitors to its stand, which focused have a very negative impact on the environon such issues as energy performance, intelliment. The 2011 report of France’s Circle of gent buildings and new healthcare models. Industry shows, for example, that more than During the year, environmental stakeholders 01 60% of French manufacturing companies see also came together for other events, like the the green economy as an opportunity rather international public-private partnership meetthan a constraint. ings and France’s first nationwide conference on EV charging infrastructure. To support this trend, all projects led by SPIE systematically include environmental criteria To publicize its environmental approach more that focus on sustainable development issues. widely, SPIE also conducts a range of initiatives For long-term contracts, such as publictargeting young people, from sponsorship proprivate partnerships, the Group responds to grammes to relations with schools. In 2011, a this challenge with a technical, administrative partnership agreement was signed with and financial solution that takes into account France’s School for Energy, Water and the Envispecific project requirements. For the Val-deronment (ENSE3), whereby the Group will conReuil planned community, for example, the tribute to educational programmes and 02 solution deployed aims for a 56% reduction in showcase its own operations. Other initiatives energy use through a 15-year programme to in France’s regions included a tour for 16 engirenovate public lighting and video communicaneering school students of Bouygues Immotion installations bilier’s Green Office® in Meudon, which is the first large-scale positive energy office complex. The partnership with Val-de-Reuil has led to the creation of a special company to ensure SPIE presents its offering that quality standards are maintained until the to local authorities project is completed. 40 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY THE ECONOMY Reducing the Group’s carbon footprint As part of its programme for lowering greenhouse gas emissions, SPIE plans to reduce emissions of CO2 equivalent by 20,000 tonnes within five years. The objective will be achieved mainly by improving work-related car travel through fleet renewals (in order to reduce emissions from internal combustion engine vehicles and integrate EVs), eco-driving techniques, and organisational solutions such as geolocation, in-house carpooling and telecommuting. Energy consumption in the Group’s buildings is another emissions factor, which is expected to decline thanks to the optimisation of existing facilities as well as new energy-efficient buildings, like the new agency in France’s Lorrain region. Lastly, suppliers will be made aware of purchase families that have the largest carbon footprint, in particular construction, air-conditioning and heating materials, cables and cable troughs. This critical challenge also requires analyses of materials used and of the environmental impact of end-of-life products. SPIE’s energyefficient agency in Metz (Lorraine), France. REGION More about V’Lille: V’Lille preserving the cobblestones of northern France Following Lyon, Rennes and Paris, Lille has set up a network of self-service bicycles. Contracted to SPIE, the project required people with a range of professional skills, including special teams called in to install cobblestones in Lille’s historic centre. In the long run, some 2,000 bicycles will be available in 210 stations, as well as 8,000 others under long-term leases. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 41 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Living in a supportive, inventive society Through its local network, SPIE supports a broad range of initiatives that promote the development of a more responsible world. These initiatives involve all aspects of life, including sports, culture, history, work, technology and human interaction. In Europe, many local actions involve health Another example is the backing provided to the and social insertion programmes. This was the Musée d’Unterlinden in Colmar to restore and case in the United Kingdom, where financial acquire works of art, organise temporary exhisupport was provided to the British Heart bitions and launch cultural and educational Foundation, and in France, where the partneractivities. In Paris, SPIE is one of a group of ship with Stade Toulousain Rugby Handisport companies that support the Musée du Louvre has helped people to see physical disabilities in in carrying out its broad-based cultural, educaa different light. tional and social missions. Outside France, following its involvement in major operations with the non-governmental ALONGSIDE organisation Electricians Without Borders in THE ROYAUMONT FOUNDATION Haiti and with the Borneo Orangutan Survival www.royaumont.com For more than ten years, SPIE has helped to Foundation to support members of the Dayak build the Royaumont Foundation’s internatribe, in 2011 SPIE took part in a rural electrificational reputation in the areas of art and culture. tion project in Madagascar. With fewer than 5% of In 2011, the Group pursued its corporate citizenSPIE has provided support for its music prothe country’s rural population having access to ship actions, which are intended both to respond grammes, particularly the discovery and proelectric power, the challenge is not only to bring to current social problems (from programmes motion of young international vocalists, electricity to a village of fishermen but also to that reach out to the needy to others that protect instrumentalists and composers. support the emergence of economic initiatives the vulnerable) and to promote artistic and culthat provide local inhabitants, especially young It also renovated the library that houses the tural heritage in all its forms. One example people, with work opportunities for the future. François-Lang music collection. Assembled during the year was SPIE’s contribution to the just before the Second World War, this imporacquisition of Environs de Southampton, a mastant private music collection includes nearly terpiece by French painter Jules Dupré (1811A LONG-STANDING 1,300 handwritten and printed documents 1889), which was purchased for the Musée d’Art COMMITMENT TO CULTURE extending from the 16th to the 20th century and et d’Histoire Louis-Senlecq in L’Isle-Adam. Cultural patronage is aligned with the Group’s covering major composers from across expertise in developing and lighting cultural Europe. It includes musical manuscripts and SUPPORT spaces as well as with its commitment to supletters from Fauré, Debussy, Berlioz, Weber FOR HUMANITARIAN PROJECTS porting projects that showcase a region’s artisand Liszt, an annotated score of Debussy’s tic heritage. Pelléas et Melisande, and original sheet music For years, SPIE has encouraged communityby major figures of the French Baroque period, minded projects by providing human, technical Through its network of local subsidiaries, SPIE like Couperin and Rameau, and the German and financial resources to initiatives launched has helped to launch a number of ambitious romantic movement, from Beethoven to by subsidiaries. These initiatives cover such projects over the years. In France, it supports Schubert and Schumann. areas as aid for local development, the creation La Folle Journée de Nantes, which every year of sustainable projects and support for people organises an outstanding musical event spotin disadvantaged countries. lighting a major composer. 42 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 DISABILITIES Disabilities: a unique experience In December 2011, SPIE organised a day-long event in Cergy that was devoted to raising employee awareness of disabilities. The goal was to enable employees to better understand the phenomenon through interactive workshops. Participants were invited to move about in a wheelchair in order to better understand the importance of accessibility to buildings and to follow a path using senses other than eyesight. The event also focused on digital accessibility, with the presentation of appropriate IT resources, and on adjustments in workstations. Watch the video SPIE and the disabled Wheelchair basketball: A day-long event to raise awareness of disabilities a champion’s held at SPIE headquarters. Diversity enables everyone to learn more about others. viewpoint To raise employee awareness of disabilities, SPIE decided to organise a sports event in partnership with Ryadh Sallem, three-time European Wheelchair Basketball Champion and President of CAPSAAA, an association that promotes sports, art, adventure and friendship. One of the goals is to dispel the idea that disabilities are a problem. Experience has shown that everyone may have problems, values are universal and exchanges between disabled players and company employees help to put an end to preconceived ideas. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 43 COMMUNICATING RESPONSIBLY Enabling the convergence of communication, technology and CSR commitments Thanks to a commitment that has developed into a corporate project called “SPIE, a player in the green economy,” sustainable development is an integral part of the Group’s operations, including its communication strategy. The objectives are to reaffirm SPIE’s positioning as a leading company capable of providing customers with long-term solutions that meet society’s environmental and energy challenges and to deploy a responsible corporate communication strategy that puts the principles of sustainable development into practice. CORPORATE PUBLISHING: ACCESSIBLE, ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY INFORMATION Enabling the convergence of traditional publications, mobile services and the Web has been a reality at SPIE since 2009, thanks to the Group’s unique approach to corporate publishing. The approach combines the demands of corporate communication and sustainable development with the latest editorial and multimedia technological advances. These include an environmentally responsible “printing on demand” service, digital accessibility for the disabled, documents that can be read on all types of digital media, and exchanges on social networks. Both inside and outside HIGH-TECH CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY: THE WEB 2.0 RESPONSIBLE ANNUAL REPORT HYPERDOCUMENT the organisation, SPIE is recognised as a pioneer in the deployment of responsible In line with the 2009 edition, which unveiled the new “Spie, a player in the green economy” communication tools. corporate project and heralding the 2011 edition entitled All Players in the Green Economy, the 2010 SPIE Annual and Sustainable Development Report – The Green Economy, Our Vision and Solutions – outlines the progress made in the Group’s commitment to developing while taking into account the scarcity of resources. Designed and produced as a hyperdocument – meaning a paper document with multimedia content accessible thanks to quick response codes – the report is at the heart of an unrivalled digital, multi-platform, online and offline editorial ecosystem See the 2010 Annual that can be read via PC, Android, iPad and other devices. An exemplary document, its digital Report on you mobile versions are handicap-accessible and can be printed “on demand” in just the right quantities, phone in line with the Group’s commitment to environmental responsibility. 44 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Trad SPIE’s commitment to communicating responsibly again recognised in 2011 SPIE’s efforts to develop lasting communication tools aligned with its social responsibility commitments have received many awards in Europe over the past few years, such as the Sustainable Development Grand Prize presented for the 2007 Annual Report. After receiving seven nominations in 2011 at the Digital al Communication Awards (Berlin) and the European Excellence Awards (Amsterdam), as well as awards from the association Communication et Entreprises and the business journal Stratégies (Paris), SPIE’s innovative, responsible approach to communication, illustrated by two of its publications released in 2011, triumphed at the 2012 Top Com Corporate Business 2012 awards. Trad SPIE cited at the Top Com TTr Trad Tra rraad awards At the TOM/COM awards ceremony in Paris in February 2012 that was attended by Gauthier Louette (Chairman & CEO of SPIE Group) and Pascal Omnès (Communication Director, SPIE Group), SPIE was presented with four major trophies: A HISTORY FOCUSED ON THE FUTURE: ■ The TOP/COM Gold Medal for publishing in the unlisted THE FIRST DIGITAL company annual report category. ORIGAMI ■ The TOP/COM special prize for sustainable development. If only books could unfold their content ■ The TOP/COM special prize for best oral presentation – like origami, the traditional Japanese in the publishing section. art of paper folding – using new, ■ The Grand Prize in the publishing section (all categories) augmented reality virtual technologies. See the book for A History of SPIE: Born and Reborn. Welcome to the ethereal world of histoire.spie.com A History of SPIE: Born and Reborn, on your mobile phone a corporate document that for the first time integrates all of the possibilities Find out more... offered by digital publications, mobile technologies and Web functionalities Watch the video – including the paper. The free digital on the Responsible Watch the video online version of this work is entirely Annual Report on the first digital handicap-accessible. SPIE has indeed hyperdocument origami come a long way since 1846. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 45 Everyone committed with our customers Improving the living environment is a profession and sometimes a passion. For many years, in Europe and around the world, SPIE has been pursuing this path alongside tens of thousands of customers who trust in the Group. Their ambitious goals are enabling the creation of new urban models, more intelligent facilities and buildings, and environmentally responsible industries. Our customers are the real driving force behind a sustainable change process that we at SPIE fully support. 46 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 SPIE, in action 48 • REGIONAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT 58 • ENERGY 68 • BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 47 REGIONAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT For an environmentally responsible, mutually supportive lifestyle Regional development has taken a turn. Urban and rural areas now communicate in a borderless world, while innovative new solutions for mobility, work and interaction are emerging, driven by the technologies of the future. Positioned at the heart of this change process, SPIE provides open solutions that are helping cities to reinvent themselves and improve community life for their inhabitants, with a focus on sustainable development. SUSTAINABLE CITIES URBAN WELL-BEING REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT • Exterior networks and public lighting systems • Urban transportation • Development of regional digital systems • MAN and high-speed networks • Mass transit • Management of water and sanitation facilities • Public building equipment and management • Urban security and video protection systems • Electrical distribution networks solutions • Healthcare establishments • Road transport • Production of renewable energies • Living, leisure and cultural spaces • Airport facilities • Enhancing the value of property assets • Inland waterway and maritime transport 48 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 “OUR SIGNAL LIGHTS CAN OPERATE ON SOLAR ENERGY.” To develop their new waterway signal system near Amsterdam, Joep and Andy are convinced that the best solution involves installing signal lights powered by photovoltaic panels. The advantage is to protect the natural surroundings while also enabling self-contained installations in closed areas that are easily accessible by boat. Joep de Graam Andy Etienne Rijkswaterstaat SPIE Hofman Watch the video on SPIE Hofman SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 49 SUSTAINABLE CITIES A new vision of urban development With its knowledge of eco-neighbourhoods, positive energy buildings, intelligent infrastructure and advanced communication systems, SPIE is leading the way to new OUR OBJECTIVES √ IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE lifestyles through solutions that promote sustainable √ PROTECT THE urban development. ENVIRONMENT I ncreases in the urban population and envithe necessary investments immediately. Cov√ CREATE ronmental problems are speeding the ering all aspects of the project, from financing SUSTAINABLE transformation of cities, in particular with to the reconstruction and maintenance of urban NETWORKS the rapid development of “smart cities” that infrastructure, the solution will make it possiprovide optimised management solutions for ble to renovate a network of 3,200 lamps and housing, infrastructure and technologies. In 9 intersection traffic lights and to deploy 22 video Fort d’Issy-les-Moulineaux just outside Paris, surveillance cameras. SPIE has been involved since 2011 in an innovative, 12-hectare eco-neighbourhood project that leverages new technologies and environOPTIMISED MANAGEMENT OF PUBLIC PROPERTY ASSETS mental protection. Using a touchscreen or smartphone, residents can regulate the heat, Whether for town halls, schools, museums or turn lights on or off, and open or close rolling sports complexes, SPIE ensures the sustainshutters in their homes and monitor their able management of public buildings based on energy use. The intelligent home fits perfectly solutions that favour energy efficiency and into this friendly, distinctly “green” neighbourrenewable energies. In 2011, the first energy hood, which includes a four-hectare orchard. performance contract was signed with the Musée d’Art Moderne in Saint-Étienne, which has enabled a 40% reduction in energy use. This ENHANCING year, the Aquitaine Regional Council in southURBAN AREAS western France signed a contract with SPIE to Urban renovation efforts are continuing in operate and manage energy installations in Europe, with a priority focus on sustainable 21 secondary schools, with a range of services neighbourhood development programmes as that includes monitoring of water quality. with the PNRU2 urban renovation legislation in The Group also helps to improve public infraFrance or the localism agenda in the United structure through its positioning as an inteKingdom. In line with these developments, the grated operator capable of managing and The public-private partnership Group signed its first energy performance in Moissy-Cramayel involves supervising different urban networks. In the contract for a social housing programme in the financing, construction, area of lighting, for example, it delivers innovaSchiltigheim in Alsace. The contract calls for maintenance and operation tive solutions like the CityNetworks system of public lighting, traffic signal, reductions of at least 47% in energy use and of that ensures round-the-clock remote manageevents lighting and video 60% in carbon emissions. Certified to France’s ment of thousands of public lamps while prosurveillance systems over HPE and BBC energy-efficiency standards and viding customers with both quality service and a 15-year period. aligned with both the EU’s FRESH(1) project and energy savings. Another example is a car park France’s law against social exclusion, the project lighting system that varies light intensity in provides a unique home financing solution. various sections of the facility depending on the Faced with growing budget restrictions, cities number of cars parked there. This solution won are also looking for new ways to finance their first prize in the Green Economy category at the renovation and expansion plans. In Moissy2011 Innovation awards. SPIE and Saint-Étienne Métropole sign the first Cramayel, in the Greater Paris area, SPIE has energy performance forged a 15-year public-private partnership service contract contract designed to reduce costs while making (1) Financing energy REfurbishment for Social Housing. 50 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 REGIONAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT According to the EU, approximately two-thirds of final energy demand is for urban use and cities generate up to RENOVATING THE LOCAL GOVERNMENT ARCHIVES IN LYON 70% of carbon emissions. In the Part-Dieu district of Lyon, a new type of energy-efficient building certified to France’s HQE® environmental standards will soon be operational. Covering some 19,000 square metres, it will set new standards in terms of archive conservation, with a layer of insulation 70 centimetres from the wall to create a technical void that allows air to circulate. SPIE’s installations will maintain temperature at an optimal level 01 (between 5° and 18 °C depending on the type of document) while guaranteeing relative humidity of 35% to 50%. MOVING TOWARD NEW URBANISATION MODELS 02 03 The intelligent cities of the future are developing their energy networks, encouraged by inter01. SPIE was awarded a contract national events like the prestigious Intelligent to operate energy installations City of the Year award given by the Intelligent for 21 secondary schools in France’s Community Forum (ICF). SPIE is already Aquitaine region. involved in meeting this challenge – especially 02. Dynamic LED lighting at the Palais in relation to the Greater Paris development Lumière in Evian, France. programme – with solutions that focus on the environmentally responsible city, sustainable 03. Deployment of a very high-speed mobility and intelligent buildings. As part of network in the city of Laval for France that programme, the Group is helping to build Télécom. the D2 Tower in the city’s La Défense business Optimising secondary district, a bold eco-project that is scheduled for school energy performance delivery in 2014. in Aquitaine SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 51 01. Lighting in a downtown pedestrian area. 02. Municipal and SPIE teams in charge of the VAL DE LUM project. From left to right: Gino Teyssandier, SPIE work supervisor; Marie-Claude Marien, Municipal Finance Officer; Fabrice Barbe, General Manager of Municipal Services; Maryse Gefflot, Municipal Public Contract Officer; Claude Godefroy, SPIE business manger; Stéphane Evain, VAL DE LUM Project Manager, SPIE. 03. The Town Hall lighting system. 04. Installing new public lighting enclosures. 05. Lighting system in a residential neighbourhood of Val-de-Reuil. 01 04 02 03 05 52 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 CLOSE-UP In January 2011, the City of Val-de-Reuil signed its first public-private partnership with SPIE. Today, this community Lighting up of 15,000 inhabitants in Upper Normandy has entirely renovated its public lighting and video communication installations. HOW DID SPIE BECOME INVOLVED IN YOUR URBAN RENOVATION PROJECT? We should bear in mind that Val-de-Reuil, which dates from the early 1970s, is the most recently created community in France. Thirty years later, our “new city” has aged and its modern equipment Val-de-Reuil has become obsolete. An ambitious urban renewal project was launched in 2001 that enabled us to restore the city, enhance the comfort of its inhabitants and re-launch its urban and demographic development. Overall, 3,100 homes out of a total of 4,600 were renovated and upgraded. We modernised public areas, such as the pedestrian mall that characterises the community, and installed new facilities, a police station, a theatre and a sports stadium. With the completion of the renovation plan, we needed to launch a major urban project that would concern all neighbourhoods and all residents of Val-de-Reuil. WHAT SPECIFIC URBAN DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS ARE COVERED BY THE PROJECT? We wanted an extensive, end-to-end overhaul of our network infrastructure that would position our city as a pioneer in terms of environmental responsibility and services for residents. The solution involved a renovation of the public lighting network. This meant replacing more than 1,200 street lamps that are managed remotely by the CityNetworks system, deploying 50 kilometres of fibre optic cable for the digital terrestrial television and very high-speed networks, and building a 24-kilometre Fabrice Barbe, underground electrical network. This is a structuring project General Manager of Municipal for Val-de-Reuil, which will benefit from cutting-edge services Services, Val-de-Reuil. such as electric vehicle charging stations, electronic information panels and video surveillance systems. Looking to the future, we’re also studying the deployment of home automation applications, for example, to allow older residents to continue 1,248 living at home or to manage energy consumption. YOU OPTED FOR A PUBLIC-PRIVATE PARTNERSHIP. WHAT ARE THE KEY POINTS IN THIS TYPE OF AGREEMENT? This goal was to manage a sustainable €15-million, 15-year project, from initial studies and installation to maintenance and operations management, with a technical and financing package that would enable us to quickly meet our objectives. The project is already street lamps remotely operational and will generate significant energy savings of around 56% for the renovated public lighting system and 26% for the city managed by SPIE as a whole. A project of this type involves much more than just a contractual agreement. It is underpinned by the mutual trust and close relations we’ve established with our partners. To that end, we set up a company, Val de Lum, to oversee the contract alongside agents on the frontline. We meet every month to handle on-going issues and teams are positioned to step in very quickly if needed. This is a key success factor for all stakeholders. SPIE wins two new public-private partnership contracts SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 53 URBAN WELL-BEING Improving OUR OBJECTIVES √ FACILITATE residents’ quality of life URBAN LIVING √ SUPPORT THE HEALTHCARE SECTOR √ PROTECT RESIDENTS SPIE delivers innovative solutions in such areas as the environment, education, housing, healthcare, safety, transportation, and leisure, with the goal of improving community life. CREATING W ith the OECD’s launch of a wellin Metz, France. It also provides a host of other being indicator for Europe in 2011, LIVEABLE CITIES services to make mass transit more traveller quality of life has become a major friendly, such as lighting networks and noise Resident well-being depends on an array of focus of urban policies. In the area of healthmonitoring systems in metro stations. services that SPIE provides in many European care, for example, SPIE supports leading-edge cities, ranging from reception areas in public telemedicine projects, as in France’s Picardy region where 400 healthcare establishments buildings to public housing and leisure infraACTIVELY SUPPORTING structure. In the area of housing, the Group is PUBLIC HEALTH will be equipped with installations enabling involved in renovating neighbourhoods through them to treat patients at a distance. Also in The aging of the population, improvements in programmes to develop housing estates and France, as part of the government’s “Investing medical research and childcare are among planned urban projects. As for sports facilities, in the Future” plan, a major project was today’s public health concerns. Working with in 2011 SPIE helped to renovate the Parc des launched to develop remote diagnosis and major players in the health sector, SPIE is Princes stadium in Paris, installing a lighting monitoring tools to improve the quality of life deploying appropriate solutions, helping to build system for the pitch that complies with the for people with chronic diseases. a range of facilities, from retirement homes specification standards required for the UEFA with medical equipment to research centres European Football Championship in 2016. like Cancéropôle in Toulouse. In the United The Group is also committed to supporting Kingdom, the Group leveraged its expert skills urban prevention and security policies in city in medical installations, from radiology departcentres. Annecy, Strasbourg, Le Havre, Belfort, ments to hydrotherapy facilities, in the project Mulhouse, Colmar and Argenteuil are among to build the Children’s Hospital for Wales. Approximately the many French cities that have contracted For years, SPIE has also been committed to 350 with SPIE. In Cernay, for example, the video improving hospital information and communiprotection project involved deploying 600 cation systems by providing direct access to cameras throughout the area. personal medical records, interoperability between regional healthcare institutions and LISTENING patient services in such areas as telephone million people in the European TO THE CONCERNS OF TRANSPORT USERS reception and leisure activities. Through the UNIHA procurement cooperative, 34 regional Union live in urban areas with SPIE also supports innovative, environmentally and university hospitals will be equipped with responsible initiatives in the area of transit more than 5,000 inhabitants. new network infrastructure and WiFi systems solutions, such as installing electric vehicle This represents more than 70% recharging infrastructure and self-service to optimise their budgets. of the total EU population. bicycle stations. In the Greater Lille area, the Group will gradually install 210 stations for 2,000 bicycles to be used by inhabitants. SPIE also plays a major role in improving metro, bus and tramway lines by providing equipment and systems designed to make city travel easier. Following the installation of a system to manage traffic lights in Paris, this SPIE year SPIE has introduced a network traffic and local communities management and traveller information system 54 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 REGIONAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT DEVELOPING ONLINE SERVICES FOR INHABITANTS Following the migration of its telephone systems to IP standards, the Isere General Council contracted with SPIE in 2011 to enhance user service quality in 58 districts and 533 communities. This solution will also help reduce operating costs while optimising telephone system management by employees, who will be able to connect from their computers and install new telecommuting services from a virtual workspace. This approach is in line with current projects to break down the barriers separating communication channels with the goal of managing cities more effectively and providing residents with local services. 01 01. As authorised agent of Groupement Ospitel, SPIE was chosen by the e-Santé healthcare cooperative in France’s Picardy region to deploy a regional telemedicine platform that handles remote consultations, assistance and expertise services. 02. HVAC and plumbing systems for a medicalsurgical technical support centre at the university hospital in Nantes, France. 03. A contract was signed to provide technical infrastructure maintenance services for the main campus and other sites at Imperial College, in the London borough of Kensington. 04. For Line 3 of the tramway in Montpellier, France, SPIE provided technical services, including public lighting, low-voltage networks, traveller information systems, electronic 02 ticketing and operating assistance. 03 04 SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 55 REGIONAL DEVELOPMENT Supporting sustainable regional development OUR OBJECTIVES √ IMPROVE TRANSPORT SYSTEMS √ PROTECT NATURAL RESOURCES √ DEVELOP INTELLIGENT To help local officials implement their sustainable regional development projects, SPIE is leveraging its expertise in transport systems, energy 9.2 billion euros were released by the EC in 2011 for pan-European digital infrastructure projects, NETWORKS networks and optimisation with at least 7 billion euros of natural resource use. allocated for high-speed networks. S ustainable management of France’s public lighting networks, closed-circuit video SPIE to renovate the Belliard underground regions is supported by quantified greensurveillance systems and the MAN network.In storm water runoff basin to ensure that the city house gas reduction targets as well as other sectors, such as airports, train stations, is protected in the event of flooding or heavy ambitious infrastructure objectives, such as and maritime and inland waterway installarainfall. The solution provides lasting protecclosing the digital technology gap between tions, the Group provides made-to-order solution for this important European city thanks to urban and rural areas and pursuing balanced tions. For example, the international airport in hydrostatic water level measurements, autodevelopment projects. In line with these goals, Strasbourg contracted with SPIE to renovate its matic systems to regulate flows to waterSPIE is taking part in a range of structuring access control and video surveillance systems, exchange collectors through hydraulic valves, projects for the future. In the Bordeaux area, for with an upgradeable solution based on a single and management of dynamic images. example, a 1,060-kilometre fibre optic network software interface. International airports in is now up and running to facilitate contact with constituents and make the region more selfLondon, Paris and Amsterdam, among others, have already gained in efficiency thanks to DEPLOYING THE NETWORKS OF THE FUTURE sufficient. In other sectors such as water, SPIE’s expertise in runway lighting, air traffic transportation and energy, the Group is also control consoles, passenger gateways, baggage The aim of today’s very high-speed network pursuing ambitious projects like one in the control and sorting, centralised technical manprogrammes is to provide coverage for all of Netherlands to reorganise high-voltage lines, agement systems and building management. France. SPIE is committed to helping meet this thereby making it possible to pool decentralchallenge through a range of expert capabilities extending from site location negotiations to ised electrical power sources that use renewable energies. WATER, optic networks tests and measurements. In A VITAL RESOURCE Eastern France and Luxembourg, for example, The growing interdependence of rural and an array of projects are being pursued, includMANAGING urban areas requires disciplined management ing one in Metz that seeks to integrate its digital TRANSPORT INFRASTRUCTURE of natural resources. For the Bordeaux Urban development into a network of connected cities. Road transport accounts for 80% of total transCommunity, SPIE has for years managed treatThe solution involves the sharing of public data, portation energy consumption and 90.6% of ment of wastewater from the giant Clos de exchanges between educational institutions, emissions. SPIE is helping to reduce this impact Hilde treatment plant in Bègles. The plant’s mobility and accessibility services for residents, with innovative solutions. Two examples are treatment capacity has tripled in recent years and citizen forums. In January 2013, Metz will the deployment of no-stop toll plazas and cenand continued to expand in 2011, when the host the national meeting of French cities tralised technical management systems. In Group installed electrical systems and autoawarded the Villes Internet label in recognition Belgium, SPIE has been designated to ensure mation devices. Water resources are also of their efforts to make digital technologies operational maintenance of the Cointe tunnel managed more effectively through the use of more widely available. near Liège, with services that include dynamic other expert skills, for example in risk prevention signage, vehicle counters, remote management and flood management. The Brussels Water services, radio relaying, remote-controlled Management Authority (SBGE) contracted with 56 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 REGIONAL AND INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT IMPROVING ROAD TRAFFIC IN GUADELOUPE SPIE is committed to ensuring road safety and traffic flows in Guadeloupe, in line with the island’s economic 01 and social revitalisation programme. Supported by the European Regional Development Fund, the project calls for the deployment of new equipment that will enable a dynamic traffic management system. The goal is to provide real-time traffic monitoring. 02 01. Electrical and hydraulic installations at the ASA irrigation pumping station in Cambiac Sainte-Marie, France. 02. Fréjus tunnel operating support system, installed for the tunnel SPIE authorities (SFTRF). acquires Poiret 03 03. Installing cables for traveller information and electronic ticketing equipment for the Nimes bus network. 04. Deploying a fibre-to-the-home network in Metz for telecommunications operator SFR. SUPPORTING FRENCH TELECOM SFR French telecommunications operator SFR continues to rely on SPIE to help drive its growth, with solutions that extend from managing noise levels on worksites to improving the energy efficiency of its facilities. SPIE has made some 100,000 technical adjustments to the network and deployed 200,000 CPE (1) devices, which it currently maintains. Having risen to the challenge for SFR, the Group is reaping the benefits of its outstanding performance in the areas of sustainable development, innovation and customer service. (1) Customer Premises Equipment. 04 SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 57 ENERGY Pursuing a balanced, sustainable energy mix In an environment shaped by limited resources and threatened by global warming and the impact of human activities, no energy source – even one that is renewable – provides a totally satisfactory solution to the challenges of sustainable development. That’s why SPIE gives priority to technologies, skills and methods that make a tangible difference in protecting our natural surroundings and easing the world’s transition to new energies. LOW CARBON ENERGIES FOSSIL ENERGIES Renewable energies Nuclear Oil and gas • Solar energy • Consulting and engineering services • Well services • Wind energy • New construction • System integration • Hydraulic energy • Maintenance and dismantling • Project expertise and assistance • Biomass • Technical support • Skills enhancement • Biofuels • Operating support 58 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 “THE BEST SOLUTION IS TO COMBINE SEVERAL ENERGY RECOVERY SYSTEMS.” To equip two long-energy laboratories in Hainaut, Belgium, Thierry, Cédric and Francis decided to combine a number of energy systems. A battery-powered recovery wheel produces forced air, while chilled ceilings supplied by cold water from a geothermal field provide cool air to the offices and a heat pump produces hot water. Thierry Stellian Cédric Leclercq Francis Sputael SPIE, Senior SPIE, Dow Corning Project Manager Project Manager More about Dow Corning SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 59 RENEWABLE ENERGIES Increasing SPIE and renewable energies the percentage of renewable green energies OUR OBJECTIVES √ DELIVER END-TO-END With a unique array of resources and expertise SOLUTIONS in photovoltaic, wind, biomass, geothermal √ SUPPORT and hydroelectric energy, SPIE is helping to transform INNOVATIVE PROJECTS many segments of the Europe energy landscape. √ REDUCE THE IMPACT OF CO2 A ccording to the European Union climate In the area of hydraulic energy, SPIE has for from SPIE’s expertise in building-integrated and energy package, €70 billion should years been involved in major projects throughand personalised solutions for such applicabe invested in renewable energies every out Europe, such as the Pracana and Veiros tions as hot water, air conditioning and heating year between now and 2020. This agenda is dams in Portugal, and in developing maritime systems. backed by major projects throughout Europe and inland waterways, particularly in Belgium involving solar photovoltaic plants, new generation wind farms, the production of biodiesel, and the Netherlands. In 2011, a 450-kilowatt micro-power station equipped with control BIOMASS: A HIGH POTENTIAL MARKET ethanol and other biofuels, and the developvalves was built on the Rhone river to help ment of hydroelectric installations. restore the migration of fish between France With the growing use of biofuels, biogas, bioand Switzerland. Designed to foster biodiverwaste and collective wood heating systems, the The past year saw the emergence of ambitious sity, the power station, which is comprised of 66 biomass market in Europe is expected to grow projects that are speeding the integration of interconnected basins, provides most of the by 44% between now and 2020, in the energy renewable sources into the energy mix. After attraction water at the lower end of the fish sector as well as for community and industrial helping to develop the Les Mées solar photoladder so that the fish can move about freely. usage. SPIE designed and installed a methvoltaic plant in Provence, with installed capacanisation unit on a hog farm in Brittany that will ity of 90 megawatts, SPIE is involved in the produce heat and electricity from organic project to build the giant Toul-Rosières power SPOTLIGHT waste, including pig manure and fatty waste station in eastern France with photovoltaic ON SOLAR POWER STATIONS from local food companies. The matter is concapacity of 143 megawatts – enough electricity Despite a decline in solar energy purchase sumed by acetogenic bacteria and the gas proto meet the needs of a city of 62,000 inhabitants. prices, the sector is expanding rapidly in Europe, duced is then piped to a cogeneration engine. led by the development of large, groundMore generally, SPIE is working to improve CAPTURING mounted photovoltaic plants. The trend indibiomass technologies through its participation THE VALUE OF THE NATURAL ENVIRONMENT cates a changeover from traditional solar in innovation clusters. Axelera, an environmeninstallations to full-fledged energy production tal chemistry cluster in Lyon, brings together a The local use of natural forces such as water, power stations that are both profitable and relinumber of companies to pursue projects involvwind and geothermal power represents a top able. During the year, SPIE installed electrical ing lignocellulosic fibres, oil-bearing plants priority for sustainable development pronetworks at the Chaillac solar power plant in and other bioresources. grammes. During the year, SPIE took part in a project in the Netherlands to build one of the central France, which is expected to provide largest onshore wind farms, located in southpower to some 2,500 households. At the same ern Flevoland province. time, the construction of traditional solar energy installations with installed capacity of 34% The Group leveraged its wide-ranging skills several hundred kilowatts in urban areas is increase in photovoltaic and capabilities to build the substation, install continuing. the cables, manage the electrical hook-ups installations worldwide and connect the farm – whose 36 wind turbines Encouraged by new regulations, such as in 2011, representing deliver installed capacity of 122 megawatts – to France’s RT 2012 building code for new cona year-on-year increase from 17.7 to 23.8 gigawatts, the country’s power network. struction projects, these installations benefit according to the IHS iSuppli market research firm. 60 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 ENERGY 01. Design, development and production of shade structures with 250 kilowatt-peak photovoltaic capacity for the car park at the Regional Innovation and Entrepreneurship Centre in Dijon. 02. Electrical installations and automation devices for the boilers at the biomass cogeneration plant in Limoges, for Dalkia. 03. SPIE was awarded a contract to design and produce a 2,000 kilowatt wood-burning boiler, a 4,000 kilowatt gas-burning boiler and a heating network 02 for the town of Graulhet. 01 02 03 PROMOTING WOOD HEATING SYSTEMS An important source of renewable energy production, wood-burning collective and industrial heating systems could generate 5.2 million In the Netherlands, tonnes of oil equivalent by 2020 while enabling sustainable forestry SPIE helps to build one of the largest operations. In southern France, SPIE was chosen by the town onshore wind farms of Graulhet, winner of a regional sustainable development award in 2010, to build a 2,000-kilowatt wood-burning boiler, a 4,000-kilowatt gas-burning boiler and a two-kilometre heating network to supply the town’s main buildings. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 61 SPIE teams carrying out various installation operations at the Toul solar energy plant. 62 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 CLOSE-UP EDF Énergies Nouvelles decided to build an enormous photovoltaic plant in Toul-Rosières in eastern France. Marc Chiron, the project manager, presents the plant, which is one of the world’s largest photovoltaic Toul-Rosières energy projects with 1.4 million soaks up the sun solar panels. WHAT ARE THE SPECIAL FEATURES OF A GIANT SOLAR POWER PLANT LIKE THE ONE IN TOUL-ROSIÈRES? Building a solar energy plant of this size was a challenge for EDF Énergies Nouvelles. The company had 18 months in which to complete a project that should have taken several years. We were able to meet the challenge thanks to our partner companies, which demonstrated a high degree of professionalism and enthusiasm for this exceptional project. We take pride in the fact that the plant will soon be producing enough electrical power to meet the needs of nearly 55,000 people. HOW DO YOU VIEW SPIE’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE PROJECT? We chose SPIE to manage the electrical hook-ups for a part of the plant that produces 60 out of a total of 114 megawatts. SPIE’s teams had already demonstrated their experience in this type of work during an earlier project with EDF Énergies Nouvelles in the Landes region of southwestern France. Once again, they leveraged their expertise, team spirit and professionalism throughout the entire project. 150 WHAT WILL BE THE PROJECT’S LONG-TERM IMPACT FOR THE MEURTHE-ET-MOSELLE DEPARTMENT AND FOR LORRAINE AS A WHOLE? In terms of business activity, hundreds of people were involved in the project, of which more than half were from the region. Both the department and the region are now assured of significant tax revenue for all the local communities. More generally, the power plant enhances kilometres of cable to connect the region’s standing. It clearly shows that it’s possible to revitalise sites that have fallen into disuse through the photovoltaic panels innovative, environmental solutions using renewable energies. A reception area for the public will present the base’s past as a military installation as well as its transformation and future as a solar photovoltaic energy plant. See the press release SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 63 NUCLEAR ENERGY Sharing SPIE and nuclear energy power plant safety requirements From construction projects to power plant OUR OBJECTIVES √ SUPPORT NUCLEAR dismantling operations, SPIE has for years PROJECTS helped to effectively harness nuclear energy √ OPTIMISE CYCLE MANAGEMENT and improve the fuel life cycle. √ PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT MEETING CHALLENGES S een as a long-term solution for reducing The improvements concern approximately ten carbon emissions, the nuclear industry ALONGSIDE OPERATORS machine rooms at facilities in Saint-Laurentbegan 2011 on a high note. However, the des-Eaux, Chinon and Cruas. More generally, While construction projects have been mainFukushima accident in Japan revived public the Group has stepped up its initiatives in this tained, particularly in the United Kingdom fears, leading governments to reconsider their area, from worksite inspections to event organwhere several EPR reactors are scheduled to policies in this sector. In France – the world’s isation. During the year, a daylong event on be built in the years ahead, the new safety second largest producer of nuclear energy after electrical and fire risk held at the EPR plant in requirements offer an especially favourable the United States – the Atomic Energy ComFlamanville was attended by 3,200 people. outlook for projects to upgrade existing facilities. mission launched a nationwide audit to verify In particular, the challenge involves fortifying the condition of its 58 reactors. The audit recommended additional safety requirements to the control rooms and installing self-sustaining SITE CLEAN-UP generator units to ensure power during electriAND DISMANTLING ensure the installations’ vital functions in case cal shutdowns. of a natural disaster or other exceptional event. Europe’s nuclear power plants have aged in the At the same time, operators are continuing to thirty years since they were first widely deployed. These new requirements have provided added monitor the quality and reliability of their faciliAccording to a European Commission study, demand for SPIE’s services, in particular for ties, from electrical distribution to measurebetween 50 and 60 of the 155 reactors currently initial studies as well as for preparatory work ment and control instruments. At the La Hague operating in the EU will be dismantled by 2025. prior to shutdowns and services to keep plants plant, for example, Areva contracted with SPIE This trend has accentuated following the accioperating longer. In 2011, the Group posted to manage all preventive and corrective maindent in Fukushima, which has incited a number organic growth of 10.4% in the sector and made tenance operations, including the upkeep and of countries, such as Switzerland and Germany, two acquisitions – ATMN and Reyes Industries repair of remote handling devices and manto gradually withdraw from the nuclear energy – which have strengthened its expertise in agement of video surveillance systems. sector. mechanical maintenance, electrical networks, automation devices and industrial information Lastly, efforts to enhance personal protection In France, SPIE is already involved in dismansystems. continue to be a top priority. During the year, tling such installations as Brennilis, Bugey 1, the EDF engineering centre in Tours contracted Creys-Malville and Saclay. During the year, the with SPIE to upgrade its systems for evacuating Atomic Energy Commission centre in Fontenaysmoke in the event of fire. aux-Roses contracted with the Group to build a shielded cell to prepare for the clean-up and dismantling of the Petrus cell, a research instal436 lation designed in the late 1960s. Upstream studies to analyse the radiological condition of nuclear reactors are currently operating in 31 countries the premises, characterise the waste and and 61 more are being built, according to the Power Reactor design encapsulation solutions will be crucial Information System database (April 2012). Four countries – France, Japan, to the success of this operation in a potentially Russia and the United States – account for 244 of the units. hazardous environment. 64 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 ENERGY SPIE acquires ATMN (mechanical maintenance CREATING A TRUE and industrial cleaning) SAFETY CULTURE SPIE acquires Reyes Industries (electrical systems and automation devices) In addition to implementing best practices for servicing, materials efficiency and risk prevention systems, safety in a nuclear power plant requires that all tasks be carried out with the utmost care and that practices and results obtained be systematically challenged. While SPIE is improving its performance year after year, as reflected in a number of safety awards from France’s Association of Electrical and Environmental Engineering Companies (SERCE), on-the-job behaviour represents a major challenge. The Group deploys an integrated approach that extends from testing skills and audit procedures to motivating employees and developing their sense of responsibility. 01. Fire installation maintenance operations for AREVA at the facility in La Hague, following an extension of the site’s automatic fire detection system. 02. A shielded cell was built in preparation for the clean-up and dismantling of the Petrus cell for the Atomic Energy Commission centre in Fontenay-aux-Roses. 03. As part of a consortium for which SPIE is the authorised agent, the Group’s teams were awarded a contract by EDF for all general electrical installations at the EPR plant in Flamanville. 01 02 03 SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 65 OIL & GAS Optimising SPIE and fossil energies the use of fossil energies Present in the Middle East, Africa, OUR OBJECTIVES √ SUPPORT EACH OPERATOR the Asia-Pacific region and Europe, √ DELIVER CUSTOMISED SPIE leverages its extensive capabilities SERVICES √ PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT and local resources to support oil and gas companies in their exploration projects and operations. POOLING D espite a slowdown in the global economy, In the area of storage, the Group has developed demand from emerging markets conEXPERTISE AROUND THE WORLD installations that comply fully with operator tinued to drive industry growth in 2011, requirements. In Rotterdam, Rubis contracted Alongside industry operators, engineering which was also fuelled by geopolitical instabilwith SPIE to install ultramodern storage facilifirms and contractors, SPIE continued to leverity in the Middle East and Africa, the drawing ties. The Group leveraged its expert skills to age its skills and capabilities in a fast-growing down of petroleum inventory in Europe and the improve oil depot performance, securing elecmarket. In electrical equipment and instruments, accident in Fukushima. As a result, the price of trical equipment, deploying instruments that for example, the Group worked for the third oil soared during the year to $111 a barrel on continuously measure and monitor tanks, and year in a row with Ponticelli offshore Angola to average. increasing traffic and transport capacity. connect two FPSO platforms to underwater While reorganising its operations in the most installations. In Brunei, Total signed a new fiveunsettled regions, including Iran, Iraq, Yemen, year maintenance contract with SPIE. The two LOCAL HIRING Libya and Nigeria, SPIE benefited from new companies have worked together for 12 years AND TRAINING INITIATIVES positions in Saudi Arabia and strong developon onshore units that process an average of For years the Group has taken part in hiring ment in Indonesia. Overall, the Group improved 3.5 million cubic metres of gas a day without events around the world. At the 2011 Elite its portfolio of operations in anticipation of solid recording a single lost-time accident. Careers Forum in Luanda, Angola, SPIE’s local growth in the oil and gas market in 2012. teams welcomed more than 800 short-listed MORE EFFECTIVE RESOURCE applicants with professional skills to their USE AND MANAGEMENT stand. Intended to fill both technical and managerial positions, this approach had already Ensuring gas production in increasingly difficult proven successful last year in Johannesburg, conditions, such as in deep water or oil sands, South Africa. requires the use of sophisticated methods and technologies. The Group also excels in the area of skills enhancement and has developed specialised On the Jubail site in Saudi Arabia, SPIE is helping units in Africa and the Middle East. With experito bring on stream one of the world’s largest The average price of a barrel of oil ence in designing tailored training programmes refineries with capacity of 400,000 barrels a rose from $80 to $111 in 2011, certified to the highest professional standards day. From instruments to alarm systems, the a one-year increase of nearly and in sharing its industry-leading expertise Group’s expertise in commissioning ensures with teams in the field, SPIE is ideally posi30% rigorous control during the start-up phase. tioned to develop the talent of people in its host This is especially challenging since the instalcommunities. lations are required to process oil that has high sulphur content and is rich in heavy residues. 66 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 ENERGY MANAGING LIQUEFIED NATURAL GAS PRODUCTION With petroleum resources becoming increasingly scarce and operating costs on the rise, more and more industry operators are turning to the production and storage of liquefied natural gas (LNG). In Qatar, SPIE has for years been involved in producing LNG in the industrial city of Ras Laffan, deploying its expertise through an operating agreement that includes maintenance of equipment for pumping and treating seawater used to cool plants. In this country that has become the world’s leading producer of LNG, the Group provides qualified workers, with a broad array of training programmes covering technical skills, academic subjects, personnel safety and installation security. In the area of exploration, SPIE recently set up operations in Australia, a country that is expected to triple its production of LNG by 2035 and to surpass Malaysia and Indonesia, which are currently the largest producers in the Asia-Pacific region. 01 02 01. SPIE manages operations and maintenance of the water treatment plant in Ras Laffan for Qatar Petroleum. 02. A contract for the maintenance of production installations has been signed for the Amenam facility offshore Port Harcourt, Nigeria. Comprised of two production facilities, living quarters, two well platforms and two flares on tripods, the facility produces 80,000 barrels a day and can transport gas to the liquefaction unit on Bonny Island. 03. Logging studies are conducted for a range of oil companies. SPIE partners 03 with the Kazakhstan Ministry of Education Total renews and Sciences its confidence in SPIE SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 67 BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS Promoting environmentally responsible performance Sustained by technological innovation and changes in business practices, environmental performance is a key competitiveness factor in the industry and services sectors. With the wider use of France’s HQE® and BBC building standards and the integration of sustainable development concerns within the framework of ISO 15392, SPIE is providing a new vision of buildings and their installations, with the aim of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80% between now and 2050. SERVICES AND COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, IT FACILITIES HOUSING SECTOR INDUSTRY MANAGEMENT AND DATA CENTRES • Energy efficiency • Automation platforms • Converging networks • Electrical engineering • Instruments • Unified applications • HVAC engineering • Energy distribution • Mobility, safety and video surveillance solutions • Mechanical engineering • Information networks • Servers and workstations • Multi-technical and • Production unit transfers • Data centres multi-service maintenance • Information system outsourcing 68 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 “WE’RE AIMING FOR A REDUCTION IN FINAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION OF AT LEAST 47%.” To sharply reduce the energy consumption of 64 homes in Schiltigheim, Alsace, Jean-Baptiste and Fabien are relying on the first energy performance contract in the social housing segment. This unique financing solution, which aims to reduce carbon emissions by 60%, enables customers to improve the “green value” of their property assets while protecting their investment capacity. SPIE and ICF sign Jean-Baptiste Beraud Fabien Bosch the first energy ICF Habitat Nord-Est Account Manager, Alsace Agency, performance contract Housing Department, Mulhouse in the social housing sector SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 69 SERVICES AND HOUSING SECTOR Ensuring overall property performance SPIE and the services sector OUR OBJECTIVES √ COMBINE THE BEST EXPERTISE To support property managers, SPIE delivers √ ENSURE SUSTAINABLE CONSTRUCTION solutions adapted to the growing complexity √ OPTIMISE BUILDING of buildings and to sustainable development SERVICES requirements thanks to a close-to-the-customer network that extends across Europe. W ith the launch of the RT 2012 reguoffset by the energy produced by 1,100 square the programme’s architects, SPIE teams lation (1), the wider deployment of metres of photovoltaic panels. designed a specially adapted HVAC solution HQE® and BBC-compliant buildings that includes smoke-removal systems, floor At the same time, operating and maintenance and the renovation of homes as part of the PNRU heating that is also used to cool the units, and costs are being reduced considerably since buildprogramme (2), the services sector continues solar sensors to produce domestic hot water. ings can be managed depending on their occuto change, driven by increasingly demanding pancy or at a distance through real-time data. energy efficiency and environmental protection legislation. AXA, for example, signed a three-year contract SUPPORTING with SPIE to provide preventive and corrective SERVICE SECTOR OPERATIONS During the year, the Group was involved in major maintenance services for its installations in Whether healthcare institutions, train stations, property operations such as the construction of Nanterre, which cover a total surface area of logistics facilities, recreational centres or laboraAtoll, France’s first eco-shopping mall, near 100,000 square metres. The Group’s services tories, professional buildings are also equipped Angers. SPIE leveraged its expert skills in elecalso include facilities management and equipto help improve operators’ day-to-day perfortrical distribution, dynamic signage and HVAC ment regulation, optimisation of energy and mance. As part of a project to build a new engineering for this impressive 91,000-squarefluids, and the introduction of an HQE® energy32,000-square-metre building for a hospital in metre building, which features innovative archiefficiency operations process. Louvain, Belgium, SPIE installed specially tecture and was designed to comply with France’s adapted HVAC systems for the emergency care first HQE® standard for shopping centres. RENOVATING unit, ten operating rooms and new intensive care sections. In another project, at the Rungis HOMES AT A FASTER PACE A NEW APPROACH market near Paris, the Group created a service TO OUTFITTING LARGE BUILDINGS Upgrading city buildings, which account for more centre designed to improve management of the than 40% of European energy use and carbon supply chain, from materials reception to storage Optimising energy management in service-sector emissions, mainly concerns the housing sector. and disposal. complexes requires new technologies, such as In Toulouse, SPIE was involved in the construcdouble flow ventilation systems. Installations tion of 173 social housing units in the Edgar are becoming more intelligent, thanks to infraDegas programme. The buildings were designed structure improvements and inter-system to comply with France’s BBC-Effinergie® stanexchanges for safety, HVAC and other functions. dards, which aim to limit annual primary energy At the new headquarters for France’s Intellecconsumption to 50 kilowatt hours per square tual Property Institute (INPI), a 12,000-squaremetre. metre wood and glass building, SPIE applied its leading-edge skills in electrical power and A housing programme’s function can also be renewable energy. Integrating bioclimatic architailored to occupants’ needs. In Saint-Martintecture to reduce the need for heating, cooling d’Hères, near Grenoble, a new building has been (1) French thermal regulation to be applied – depending and lighting systems, the building, located in designed for disabled residents who want a on the sector – between 2011 and 2013. Courbevoie near Paris, will produce more living environment that takes into account their (2) France’s national urban neighbourhood renovation energy than it absorbs, its consumption being handicap. Following working groups that involved programme. 70 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS SPIE acquires Porraz (HVAC engineering) SPIE acquires KIN Sprinklertechniek B.V. 02 01 03 04 01. The GL Event facilities management contract was renewed. It covers management and coordination of all technical operations at the Square de Bruxelles centre, as well as management and optimisation of energy use. 30% 02. SPIE installed high and low-voltage electrical systems and roof-top photovoltaic panels at the new INPI headquarters in Courbevoie, near Paris. 03. HVAC engineering and electrical solutions were provided of the energy used for the Morocco Mall in Casablanca. It is the biggest shopping centre in Africa and one of the five biggest in the world, with a total surface area in the European Union of 250,000 square metres. is consumed by public and private buildings, of which 04. For Bouwfonds Marignan, SPIE installed electrical, high and low-voltage, 75% by housing units, according to the Buildings access control and fire detection systems in 12 HQE-compliant buildings Performance Institute Europe in Brussels. comprising 290 housing units in Lyon’s new Confluence district. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 71 Trevor Quintyne, site supervisor, SPIE Matthew Hall. AN AWARD FOR EXCELLENCE IN LONDON As the preferred supplier of Broadgate Estates, the well-known London property manager, SPIE provides all basic and auxiliary services for two new prestige buildings, Broadgate Tower and 201 Bishopsgate. The Group delivers specialised solutions in electrical infrastructure and climate control as well as minor preventive and corrective maintenance services. In recognition of SPIE’s flawless commitment, Broadgate Estates presented Trevor Quintyne, the supervisor in charge of the two sites, with an award for excellence, a distinction that is rarely attributed. 72 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 CLOSE-UP Broadgate Estates is an international property management firm, recognised by customers for its unrivalled portfolio Broadgate Estates of mixed-use developments and landmark properties throughout cares for its the United Kingdom. WHY DID YOU CHOOSE occupants SPIE MATTHEW HALL RATHER THAN ONE OF ITS COMPETITORS? Our cooperation began when our company took over a building for which SPIE Matthew Hall provided services and was included in the list of preferred suppliers. In 2009, SPIE Matthew Hall was awarded a contract over four other competitors. Our final decision was influenced by both the cost and the service the company committed to providing. WHAT WERE THE MOST SIGNIFICANT ASPECTS OF THE SERVICES TO BE Jason Collet, DELIVERED FOR SITES LIKE Engineering Manager, Broadgate Estates. BROADGATE TOWER? Most importantly, we were looking to forge a partnership that would enable us to ensure top quality service Trevor has all the qualities for our buildings’ occupants. We wanted a provider of mechanical and electrical solutions capable of delivering we expect in a service provider and a basic service with a planned preventive maintenance his commitment is much to SPIE’s credit. programme as well as a supplier that could respond quickly to requests submitted to the support office and deploy solutions rapidly. HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE TREVOR QUINTYNE’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE PROJECT? Trevor is the site supervisor and his involvement in ensuring that the site functions smoothly is unequalled. He always does more than is expected of him. He is courteous and friendly when we ask him questions and always gets back to us quickly. Above all, Trevor wants to ensure the project’s success. The quality of service he provides and his commitment are truly exceptional. He fully deserves the award for excellence 164 metres is the height of Broadgate Tower, the fourth tallest building in London that we gave him. www.broadgateestates.co.uk SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 73 INDUSTRY Working together to create industrial value OUR OBJECTIVES √ IMPROVE INDUSTRIAL EFFICIENCY √ EQUIP PRODUCTION FACILITIES √ MANAGE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT Through its expertise T he Group’s services for industrial comThe Group is also recognised for its mechanical panies in Europe improved in 2011, led and electromechanical expertise, covering procentres, which are widely by the energy, pharmacy, food and duction unit installation, industrial information recognised across Europe, mining sectors, in an environment that was systems, automation devices, and maintenance favourable to the deployment of innovative of compressors and steam turbines. In the pharSPIE helps industrial solutions capable of simultaneously delivering maceutical sector, for example, SPIE deployed its companies to sustainably performance, safety, control procedures and expertise in life sciences and the production of cost reductions. Against this backdrop, the injectables for Virbac, the world’s eighth largest develop their facilities, Group strengthened its local industrial services producer of veterinary pharmaceuticals. improve their production network, with acquisitions like Reyes Industries processes and ensure in France’s Rhône valley. OPTIMISING The year was also shaped by SPIE’s success in MAINTENANCE AND SERVICES the efficiency of their the aviation sector. The Group will install a Throughout Europe, SPIE provides services to manufacturing resources. 16-hectare multi-technical maintenance soluindustrial companies to ensure continuous tion for Airbus Industrie’s sites in Toulouse, operations of their production facilities, esperepresenting a technical surface area of 44,000 cially through the deployment of remote mansquare metres. In La Barigoude, a site that agement tools like Telview®. Combined with a hosts one of two Air France-KLM data centres, specialised customer service centre, this soluSPIE was awarded a ten-year contract to tion makes it possible to schedule and monitor ensure the installations’ energy performance 4 all maintenance operations on line. Thanks to and the data centre’s continuous operations. its local presence, the Group can also deliver Factor of SPIE is committed to reducing The Group is also leveraging its advanced expertise in mechanical, automation and electrical systems to outfit an aircraft tire producresponsiveness and security in very special circumstances. For example, Ugitech, the world’s leading producer of stainless steel bars and tion line for Michelin. greenhouse gas emissions by wires, contracted with SPIE to service its electrical installations without any loss of produca factor of 4 over a 40-year period (by 2050). This means producing IMPROVING tion. The challenge was met thanks to very INDUSTRIAL EFFICIENCY short machine shutdowns that were staggered the same amount while using four over time. A specialist in outfitting industrial facilities, times less raw material and energy. SPIE has developed solutions adapted to differSPIE’s services also help customers to more ent types of buildings, with expertise that fully integrate industrial regulations, especially extends from electrical systems to HVAC in the area of environmental protection. In 2011, installations and process supervision. To at a Sanofi Aventis facility near Montpellier, a double production capacity for Pierre Fabre, smoothing basin was installed to recover and the European leader in skincare cosmetics, the blend effluent from the various buildings on the Group helped to equip a 17,500-square-metre site. Comprising electromechanical equipment facility with air processing services, air-condifor the pumping station, the installation of tioning systems and clean rooms. SPIE was cables and automation devices, conditioned also in charge of the production and distribuwaste storage facilities, and operations units, tion of technical fluids like steam, cold water, the Group’s solution makes it possible to nitrogen and compressed air that are used in monitor the quality and quantity of effluent the manufacturing units. Lastly, energy and before it is released into the Montpellier wastewaste management was enhanced with the water system. SPIE deployment of a procedure aligned with France’s and industry HQE® environmental standard. 74 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS 01 02 03 04 01. In Freeport, Texas (US), Dow Chemical outsourced the construction of a chlorine and nitrogen production plant to Samsung, which in turn contracted with SPIE to install the electrolytic generator. 02. A mechanical maintenance contract was signed with Petrogal for the Matosinhos Refinery. The contract covers preventive and corrective maintenance services for all static and dynamic equipment, CERN: A MODEL INDUSTRIAL PARTNERSHIP as well as metal structures and pipes. 03. Electrical installations and HVAC engineering systems for Sulky’s new Alongside the European Centre for Nuclear Research (CERN), 25,000-square-metre production plan one of the world’s most prestigious scientific laboratories in the field in Chateaubourg, which manufactures of basic physics, SPIE has for years been involved in projects seed drills and fertiliser spreaders. that require its leading-edge expertise in electrical installations 04. In line with its development strategy for industrial applications. With an underground ring measuring and as part of its project to expand its Soual production site by 17,500 square metres, 27 kilometres in circumference in Switzerland and France, the site Pierre Fabre, the skincare cosmetics needs regular servicing that requires extreme precaution and manufacturer, contracted with SPIE to provide especially high safety levels. From logistics to work scheduling, air processing services, air-conditioning systems and clean rooms as well as production the Group provides a full range of tools and methods to handle and distribution solutions for technical fluids. the very large difference in workloads between the operational phases and periods of machine downtime. SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 75 Polyol Belgium ● Dow Chemical’s polyurethane division ● Founded in 1989 ● 4 production lines ● Annual output of 65,000 tonnes ● 42 employees 76 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 CLOSE-UP WHAT WERE THE CHALLENGES OF THE DOWGEP PROJECT FOR POLYOL? This major project was critically important for Polyol because Polyol Belgium of its impact on the production lines and safety and because of the budget involved. It was essential for everything to be carefully prepared in terms of preliminary studies and work schedules, then perfectly orchestrated during the deployment phase so that each line came back on stream as planned while complying with safety guidelines. is attentive to WHY DID YOU CHOOSE SPIE RATHER THAN ONE OF ITS COMPETITORS? I was very quickly won over by SPIE because they had already carried out similar projects on other sites and it was interesting to have their feedback on such a complex, multidisciplinary project. Their understanding of the site and technical skills its process in instruments and electrical systems clearly represented an advantage. I also wanted to develop a partnership with a single service provider capable of managing maintenance as well as new programmes and of deploying specialised skills for each new project. That’s why I contracted with SPIE to manage all aspects of the DowGEP project. HOW WAS THE PROJECT DEPLOYED? We began by carrying out a preliminary study with SPIE. Then their engineering and design department conducted a more detailed study that included choosing instruments, preparing a budget and scheduling the work. In September 2011, when it was time for the installation stage to begin, each line was shut down one at a time over a two-week period. Bernard Deloffre, As the tests were successful and the new equipment was Director of the Polyol Belgium site. immediately integrated, the production lines were restarted exactly as planned. The fact that SPIE was responsible for all electrical, instrument and piping services certainly helped keep the project on schedule. I was very quickly won over by SPIE because they had already carried out similar IN WHAT WAYS WERE YOU SATISFIED projects on other sites and it was interesting WITH SPIE? to have their feedback on such a complex, The maintenance team’s experience proved valuable to the SPIE multidisciplinary project. project team, which was able to adjust to the site quickly and more fully understand the process. Our teams also benefited from SPIE’s feedback on this type of project. The team from Emerson, which was in charge of supplying the safety automation system, cooperated very effectively with the Polyol and SPIE teams. Today, I’m very satisfied with everything we’ve accomplished in all phases. If things continue this way, SIL2 I clearly would like to forge a long-term partnership with SPIE. www.dow.com That’s the ten-year safety integrity level for the DowGEP project SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 77 COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS, IT FACILITIES MANAGEMENT AND DATA CENTRES Accelerating the changeover to digital services NOS OBJECTIFS √ STREAMLINE ORGANISATIONS In a technological environment that is changing √ SUSTAINABLY REDUCE COSTS in response to new energy and environmental √ REDUCE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT challenges, SPIE is helping organisations to develop high-performance, flexible information and communication systems adapted to their service and safety needs. ENSURING C onverging offers that combine infrathe Group is today in charge of related services structure and managed services are THE CONVERGENCE with the deployment of 500 WiFi terminals. very much in demand from government OF COMMUNICATION SYSTEMS Because of the exponential increase in inforagencies and companies looking to improve In the field of unified communications, new mation, data centres play an increasingly their day-to-day performance. This trend calls real-time uses are developing, shaped by the important role in information and communicafor integrated management of information and unrestricted sharing of data, documents and tion systems. From technical, financial and communication systems, with ever-stronger applications. This change is being sustained by energy studies to data centre operational requirements in terms of service levels. the development of IP networks, which serve maintenance, SPIE benefits from important In 2011, for example, UGAP, a French governas the backbone of today’s companies. To carry references throughout Europe. ment purchasing agency, awarded SPIE a major out its mobility projects in a multi-site environThe Group also helps companies to optimise contract for information system security, a ment, Interlek contracted with SPIE for the the data handling their information systems sector that expanded by more than 10% during LAN architecture and Cisco ToIP that will require. For example, a new generation of the year, according to the Gartner Group. provide the quality and safety required by this switches was deployed to help LaSer Cofinoga Governments’ security needs are increasing at multinational company, which must verify a wide improve its data centre architecture. Delivered a fast pace, led by demand for solutions that range of products, processes and systems. for the first time in France, this new generation protect data, deliver uninterrupted service, Easy to manage and enabling substantial cost of highly reliable equipment will enable data comply with current legislation and standards, reductions, these solutions respond to the from backup streams and virtualised servers and allow the risk-free integration of new comsometimes complex problems faced by organto be converged on the same network. munication tools. isations, especially in sectors like banking and industry. For Crédit Agricole, for example, the challenge was above all to improve customer FACILITIES MANAGEMENT: SUSTAINED GROWTH IN DEMAND service quality, with a centralised solution From user support to workstation manage16.6 allowing 24,000 subscribers to connect to the same server, while enabling advisors in the field ment, SPIE enables organisations to reduce to more effectively manage their phone calls. costs, improve their flexibility and more effecbillion dollars, which tively integrate technological developments. the International Data Corporation The French Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for UPGRADING example, contracted with the Group to manage estimates will be the size of the TODAY’S ORGANISATIONS its environment workstation, as well as its IT, European unified communications Information systems respond to new requiretelephone and network systems. Also in 2011, a market in 2015, a threefold increase ments for design, infrastructure and related new contract was signed in partnership with over 2010. services. In the healthcare sector, SPIE has for IBM that will enable EDF to optimize the manthe past three years worked closely with the agement of 65,000 workstations while reducing Cannes Hospital, which wanted to thoroughly costs. renovate the information system for all its installations. After defining the communication SPIE network’s overall organisation (firewalls, network and communication access control, LAN network and fibre optic systems terminals) for 55,000 square meters of buildings, 78 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 BUILDINGS AND INSTALLATIONS CLOUD COMPUTING: A STRATEGIC CHOICE SPIE sees cloud computing as a key component in the overall optimisation of information systems. It enables businesses and government agencies to combine the cost savings generated by shared services and opex-based invoices (i.e. involving no capex) 01 with the guarantees of reliability and personalisation provided by the leading public and private cloud models. It also provides a full 01. Remote management range of resources and related of information systems services, local contact with interfaces, and telephone networks for AMF, the French securities regulator. direct relations through private networks, secure and highly reliable 02. Renewal of telephone information resources, and greater communication systems for APRR, the French motorway operator, flexibility for configuring representing 118 sites and 2,700 users. and managing virtual servers. Discover the SPIE Communications 03. Upgrades to the data centre website distributed on three CDiscount sites. 02 03 SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 | 79 Corporate directory FRANCE SPIE Oil & Gas Services NETHERLANDS SPIE SA Parc Saint-Christophe – Pôle Edison SPIE Nederland FRA-95861 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX Parc Saint-Christophe Huifakkerstraat 15 Tel.: +33 (0)1 34 22 59 00 FRA-95863 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX NLD-4815 PN BREDA Fax: +33 (0)1 34 22 51 69 Tel.: +33 (0)1 34 24 30 00 Tel.: (31)76 544 54 44 www.spieogs.com www.spie.com Fax: (31)76 571 04 30 www.myspie.eu SPIE Nucléaire www.spie-nl.com SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest Parc Saint-Christophe Pôle Galilée 28 bis, boulevard Ornano FRA-95865 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX PORTUGAL Tel.: +33 (0)1 34 24 47 93 TecnoSPIE FRA-93287 SAINT-DENIS CEDEX Fax: +33 (0)1 34 24 47 40 Headquarters Tel.: +33 (0)1 48 13 42 42 Fax: +33 (0)1 48 13 45 99 Estrada do Outeiro de Polima, GERMANY Lote A – Abóboda SPIE Est PRT-2785 – 521 SAO DOMINGOS DE RANA SPIE Deutschland 2, route de Lingolsheim System Integration (Lisbon) BP 70330 – Geispolsheim Gare Tel.: (351) 21 448 12 00 Ruschgraben 135 FRA-67411 ILLKIRCH CEDEX Fax: (351) 21 448 12 10 DEU-76139 KARLSRUHE Tel.: +33 (0)3 88 67 56 00 www.spie-pt.com Tel.: (49)721 9632 0 Fax: +33 (0)3 88 67 40 33 Fax: (49)721 9632 168 SPIE Sud-Est www.spie-de.com UNITED KINGDOM 4, avenue Jean-Jaurès SPIE UK Head Office TSA 70017 BELGIUM 33 Gracechurch Street FRA-69551 FEYZIN CEDEX SPIE Belgium LONDON Tel.: +33 (0)4 72 21 12 00 EC3V 0BT Digue du Canal 112 Vaartdijk Fax: +33 (0)4 78 70 60 43 Tel.: (44) 020 7105 2300 BEL-1070 BRUSSELS SPIE Ouest-Centre Tel.: (32)2 529 73 00 www.spieuk.com 7, rue Julius et Ethel Rosenberg Fax: (32)2 529 73 71 BP 90263 www.spie-be.com SWITZERLAND FRA-44818 SAINT-HERBLAIN CEDEX SPIE Suisse Tel.: +33 (0)2 40 67 06 06 MOROCCO 3, chemin des Léchères Fax: +33 (0)2 40 63 48 78 SPIE Maroc CHE-1217 MEYRIN SPIE Sud-Ouest Route d’El Jadida PK 374-815, Km 13,5 Tel.: (41)22 719 88 88 70, chemin de Payssat Commune rurale Oulad Azzouz Fax: (41)22 989 08 89 ZI Montaudran – BP 34056 Province de Nouaceur FRA-31029 TOULOUSE CEDEX 4 MAR-20190 CASABLANCA Tel.: +33 (0)5 61 36 75 75 Tel.: (212)5 22 65 92 00 Fax: +33 (0)5 61 36 74 70 Fax: (212)5 22 65 93 00 www.elecam.ma SPIE Communications 53, boulevard Stalingrad FRA-92247 MALAKOFF CEDEX Tel.: +33 (0)1 41 46 41 46 Fax: +33 (0)1 41 46 41 47 www.spiecom.com Download SPIE maps 80 | SPIE ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT REPORT 2011 Acknowledgements We would like to thank everyone who helped to prepare the 2011 Annual Report. Special thanks are due to those who agreed to take part in special features. ■ Our customers: Joep de Graam (Tijkswaterstaat); Fabrice Barbe, Maryse Gefflot and Marie-Claude Marien (Ville de Val-de-Reuil); Francis Sputael (Dow Corning); Marc Chiron (EDF Énergies Nouvelles); Jean-Baptiste Beraud (ICF Habitat Nord-Est); Jason Collet (Broadgate Estates); Bernard Deloffre (Polyol Belgium). ■ Our employees: Pascal Castagné (SPIE Communications); Josselyn Quignon and Gabriel Werlen (SPIE Île-de-France Nord-Ouest); Andy Etienne (SPIE Hofman); Stéphane Evain, Claude Godefroy and Gino Teyssandier (SPIE Ouest-Centre); Michel Durigneux, Cédric Leclercq and Thierry Stellian (SPIE Belgium); Fabien Bosch (SPIE Est); Trevor Quintyne (SPIE Matthew Hall). Design and production: Publication editor: Pascal Omnès Project manager: Anne Lefèvre SPIE / Corporate Communication. Copywriting: VOCEM / Blaise de Obaldia. Photo credits: SPIE Photo Library, David Aubert, Philippe Bauduin, Xavier Boymond, Yves Chanoît, Nicolas Dohr, Vincent Jacques, AVEM Media Library, Natekko Group Media Library. Illustration: HypeStudio Architecture: tryptique Bidard & Raissi. Fondation Royaumont / Gilles Abegg, Éric Thibaud, all rights reserved. Document published by SPIE Corporate Communication. This copy was printed on demand from a virtual version, which can be viewed online at www.spie.com and www.myspie.eu, using high-definition digital printing techniques and 100% recycled Cocoon Silk paper. SPIE’s eco-responsible printing service reduces the use of paper, energy and chemical products to a minimum by eliminating inventory and unused copies. Réf : POD-SPIE-RA2011-EN-REV01 www.spie.com SPIE SA Parc Saint-Christophe 95863 CERGY-PONTOISE CEDEX FRANCE Tel. : +33 (0)1 34 24 30 00 www.spie.com www.myspie.eu
