communication on progress September 2013 2 Communication on progress Nefab Support statement CEO , DAVID MÖRK In October 2008, Nefab signed the United Nations Global Compact. The Global Compact is a global strategic business initiative on corporate responsibility initiated by the former UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan in 1999. Global Compact brings together businesses with UN Agencies, labour and civil society in the common objective of achieving a more sustainable and inclusive global economy. Being reflected in our core values and underlined in our code of conduct, the principles of Global Compact are a natural part of our way of doing business. We realize that continuous improvements are necessary in order to promote and further integrate the ten principles of Global Compact within and outside Nefab. Nefab wants to secure a place in a sustainable future society. To do that, we are actively working in our operations to achieve sustainable development and manage our stakeholders’ requirements and expectations. We focus on the key aspects of the company’s social and environmental impact, based on stakeholder dialogue and the strategic importance of each area for the company. Cooperation with other stakeholders is an important part of our commitment and there are many opportunities to join forces with engaged customers, employees, suppliers, owners, authorities and the society in general. Employees, as example, are proud of working for a company that recognizes a wider responsibility and works actively to embody this responsibility. Customers, as another example, are interested to partner with us in order to create win-win situations. An example of that can be when we support customer objectives of CO2 reductions by analyzing and proposing new packaging solutions. We believe that our continuous commitment to the Global Compact Initiative will be beneficial for Nefab and its stakeholders and at the same time help to improve the conditions in general for the global community. Consequently, I am pleased to confirm Nefab’s continuous support of the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this Communication on Progress (COP), we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. Jönköping, September 2013 David Mörk CEO, Nefab AB Communication on progress Nefab 3 sustainability Sustainability work is an important part of Nefab’s customer offering. A structured process leads to a favourable business climate that attracts skills, provides more efficient control and strengthens the brand. The sustainability work will help to open new doors for business with customers with the same mindset. The sustainability work is governed by Nefab’s vision, core values and code of conduct as well as the policies established in relation to laws and regulations. Nefab’s core values Supply chain In 2011, Nefab’s values were simplified and clarified in order Nefab has increased the demands on suppliers in terms of to create optimal conditions for implementation and undersustainability aspects. In our supplier evaluations, we have standing throughout the Group. During the year, the values asked for more information regarding products and sup“Simplicity”, “Respect” and “Empowerment” have been plier’s processes and policies. By doing this we also increase introduced for employees in every part of the Group. These our possibility to meet customer demands. words can be summarized to say that Nefab offers simple solutions to complex processes. Customers and the world Internal processes at large will encounter humble people who show respect for Nefab continuously work with certification according to their own and others’ cultures, and who are committed to ISO 14001. During 2012, this work has continued, mainly for their work. renewal of certificates, but also with preparation for new certificates, e.g. in Mexico. During the year, Nefab has started The continuous work to communicate the core values to all the implementation of the tool “GreenCALC”. The tool employees continued during 2012 and in our yearly employgenerates complete life cycle analysis and is used mainly by ee survey, 89 % answered that they thought our core values the packaging designers and the sales organization. were communicated either “OK” or “Good”. Customer offering Vision and strategy for sustainability The demand for sustainable packaging solutions is increasing In 2011 strategies were established for Nefab sustainability and therefore, life cycle analysis generated by “GreenCALC” work, with measurable objectives for the next three years. are an important part of the customer offering. During The overall goal is to position Nefab as a leading “green” the year, we have actively tried to identify new innovative company within industrial packaging. Nefab uses the term environmentally friendly packaging materials. Still the “green” to communicate its sustainability work from a broad possibilities to offer many of these products on a large scale perspective. For this to be achievable, three basic strategies are limited, with secure supply being a major concern. have been developed: The interest however, is noticeable, especially in the Telecom segment. • Nefab will ensure sustainability throughout the supply chain. Organization • Sustainability shall be more clearly instilled into Nefab’s Nefab’s sustainability work is directed by its “Green Team”, own operations and internal processes. a network with representatives from various parts of the • Sustainability will be an integrated part of Nefab’s global organization, with responsibility to initiate new concustomer offering. cepts and tools. During 2012, sustainability work has been focused on realizing Stakeholder dialogue strategies and some progress can be seen, in all areas. Stakeholders to Nefab’s business are employees, customers, suppliers, owners, environment and society (e.g. authorities 4 Communication on progress Nefab and various interest groups). The company engage in a Environment continuous dialogue with the stakeholders on multiple levels. Nefab’s greatest contribution to the environment is directly linked to the business offering, in which the customer is Employees and customers presented not only with the most cost efficient packaging Every year, employees and customers are given the opporsolution, but also its environmental impact. With the use of tunity to express their views and wishes in comprehensive the new ”GreenCALC” tool, customers are offered life cycle surveys. The employee survey addresses issues relating to analysis, showing how a (new) packaging solution can health, leadership, job satisfaction and working conditions, impact the Global Warming Potential and other environwhile customers express how Nefab meets their requiremental indicators. ments in terms of quality, product safety and corporate responsibility. Nefab’s packaging is always optimized to give maximum protection with minimal material consumption. In this way, Suppliers resources can be saved in the packaging supply chain, The dialogue with suppliers is on-going in daily contacts while also reducing losses due to damage and discarded as well as in the work of supplier evaluations. Questions products. Designing the packaging properly leads to more about code of conduct, including human rights, working efficient loads in trucks and containers, which means that conditions, quality, delivery precision and environment are customers carry less air and can reduce C02 emissions. As asked, following a continuous process established in global far as possible, all packaging solutions from Nefab are also procurement guidelines. designed with consideration to recycling. The customer offering includes a range of smart returnable packaging Owners and rental systems that increase utilization and reduce the Owners question the business model and how it can be consumption of materials and energy. sustainable in its value creation. The organization is always prepared to answer specific questions. Environmental policy Nefab’s environmental policy is based on the principle that Economic value creation with our complete packaging solutions, we can avoid wastSustainability work affects both revenues and costs and is part ing resources both in the packaging itself and in terms of of Nefab’s long-term value creation, which is of vital impordamages. The goal is that the packaging products should tance not only for the company but also for society as a whole. have low environmental impact throughout their life cycles. The minimum requirement in our own production is to Created and distributed economic value, SEK m Stakeholders 2012 comply with current laws and regulations and the aim is to Directly created economic value surpass them. Today, 13 of Nefab’s facilities are certified in Revenues Customers 3,014 accordance with ISO 14001 with the aim of all production Distributed economic value facilities becoming certified – a process that will take a few Operating costs Suppliers 2,215 years. Personnel costs Employees 655 Financial net Owners/Banks 225 Key ratios 2012 2011 Tax Society 23 Plywood consumption (m3) 90,444 104,181 Investments Steel consumption (tons) 8,141 9,810 Net investments Suppliers 65 Consumption of paint and coatings (tons) 55 45 Water consumption (m3) 53,456 80,932 Environment and society Direct and indirect emissions of Authorities in the countries where Nefab operates are greenhouse gases (tons) 1) 981 878 1 Emissions from our own production, excluding inbound and outbound transportation. mainly concerned about safety, working conditions and health issues. The dialogue primarily takes place through recommendations and inspections. As a member of Global Within the framework of ISO, local entities are involved in Compact, Nefab also indirectly contributes to a comprehenvarious improvement projects, like energy efficiency and sive global stakeholder dialogue. Communication on progress Nefab 5 reduction of emissions from own vehicles. The measurement Internal trainings – Web Academy & Pakademy of Nefab’s own emissions of direct and indirect emissions of Web Academy is Nefab’s intranet-based skills portal. As greenhouse gases (as reported above) has further improved part of Web Academy, employees are offered a variety of during 2012. basic tutorials on the company’s packaging solutions and sales processes, as well as courses dealing with the comEmployees and community pany’s social responsibility, environment and human rights. Nefab is a knowledge-based company and its marketleading position is maintained by focusing on the indiPakademy started in China in order to address the need to vidual employee’s development. Nefab will offer attractive educate newly recruited engineers and salespeople. The opportunities to ensure that employees choose to remain five week training program includes theory and practice while allowing valuable new skills to be recruited. Nefab is regarding packaging materials, sales processes and testing characterized by a customer-oriented corporate culture methods. During 2012, Pakademy has further developed where employees are encouraged to develop a proactive into a global training program. approach. Nefab’s values and code of conduct form the basis for the corporate culture to reflect the Group’s global Key ratios 2012 2011 expertise and diversity. Percentage of employees who have union agreements 22 % 19 % Hours of training per employee 14.5 12.2 Every year, all employees are invited to participate in an emPercentage of employees who have ployee survey in which they respond to a number of quesregular development talks 32 % 29 % tions concerning health, job satisfaction, leadership, physical Board members for the Group, 8 % female 5 % female and psychological working conditions, etc. Based on the gender breakdown. 92 % male 95 % male outcome, a so called “Employee Satisfaction Index (ESI)” is Presidents and other senior executives 1) 17 % female 20% female 83 % male 80% male measured, which easily can be compared year by year. Percentage of employees trained in Units that scored the lowest index are subject to improveanti-corruption policies 8% 7% ment measures. The employee survey is conducted by an 1) Management team members and similar. external partner to ensure the methodology and integrity in every aspect. EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AGE DISTRIBUTION ALL EMPLOYEES INDEX (ESI) – ALL EMPLOYEES – BY FUNCTION 100% 75% 8% 30% 70% 29% 67% 50% 26% 58% 25% 13% 36% 2012 2011 2012 employee satisfaction index (ESI) EMPLOYEES UP TO 29 YEARS OLD MANUFACTURING/ENGINEERING RESPONSE RATE EMPLOYEES 30–39 YEARS OLD ADMINISTRATION EMPLOYEES 40–54 YEARS OLD SALES, MARKETING & DISTRIBUTION EMPLOYEES 55 years OR OLDER 6 Communication on progress Nefab GENDER DISTRIBUTION Average number of EMPLOYEES ALL EMPLOYEES – BY REGION – ALL EMPLOYEES 100% 3,200 20% 21% 23% 3,047 2,797 80% 79% 75% 2,400 77% 20% 2,442 41% 50% 1,600 25% 800 39% 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Men Asia Women Europe AmericaS Commitment and actions The Nefab Code of Conduct is an important document to Nefab will continuously seek to implement the ten princifulfill this commitment, as it guides employee behavior to ples of the United Nations Global Compact. be in line with Global Compact principles. Comparison of UNGC principles and the Nefab Code of Conduct UNGC Principles Nefab Code of Conduct Human Rights Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of Nefab supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed internationally proclaimed Human Rights human rights and ensures that the company is not complicit in human rights abuses. 2. Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Labour standards 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the Freedom of association effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. As local or relevant laws allows, all employees are free to form, join or not to join unions and have the right to collective bargaining when employed by Nefab. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Forced and compulsory labour and compulsory labour. No form of forced or compulsory labour is tolerated by Nefab and all employees have the right to leave their employment as stated by contracts or local laws. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Child labour Nefab shall not be complicit in any form of child labour or other forms of child exploitation. No one is employed below the completion of compulsory school or under the age of 15 and no one under the age of 18 is employed for hazardous work within Nefab. Communication on progress Nefab 7 UNGC Principles Nefab Code of Conduct Labour Labour standards 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in Workplace respect of employment and occupation. Nefab shall provide a working environment that is healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. Discrimination Diversity among Nefab employees is a positive attribute and no one regardless of race, color, sex, sexual orientation, nationality, parental status, marital status, pregnancy, religion, political opinion, ethnic background, social origin, social status, age, union membership or disability shall be discriminated. Harassments in the form of physical or psychological abuse are strongly prohibited within Nefab as are any kinds of intimidation or other threats. Environment Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Precautionary approach environmental challenges. Sustainable development is a key concept for Nefab and finite resources is avoided as often as possible. Nefab also has a precautionary approach towards environmental challenges whereby dangerous materials are avoided when suitable and more environmentally friendly alternatives are available. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environmental responsibility environmental responsibility. Innovative developments in products and services that offer environmental and social benefits as well as greater environmental responsibility are promoted and supported by Nefab. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Nefab’s reputation of honesty, integrity and responsibility must be upheld including extortion and bribery. and any involvement in bribery, extortion or corruption is not tolerated by Nefab in any form. Consumer interests When dealing with consumers, Nefab acts in accordance with fair business, marketing and advertising practices. Nefab also ensures that the goods or services it supplies meet all agreed and legal standards. In 2012, one violation of Nefab’s code of conduct was reis handled by an external partner. The response rate for 2012 ported. Measures were taken immediately at the local site to was 86 %, which is considered to be very satisfying. prevent this from happening again. From the Staff Survey a combined key ratio, ESI (Employee Human rights Satisfaction Index), is communicated as a generic output Using our e-learning system (Web Academy), Nefab from each survey. The idea of a combined key ratio is to developed a basic course in “Human Rights”, which was make it simple to communicate and simple to set targets in launched in June 2010. At the end of 2012 we had in total terms of improvements from one year to another. 216 (of which 67 during the reporting period) students with a diploma in this course. For the entities reporting the lowest ESI, root causes are analyzed and actions designed in order to improve. The course material contains the Universal Declaration on Human Rights as well as the principles from Global Compact Environment and more business oriented issues in terms of Human Rights. Nefab’s business concept is to offer engineered complete packaging solutions that reduce total cost and environmenLabour tal impact. In line with this, Nefab has developed a tool to Nefab’s annual Staff Survey gives each employee the right quantify environmental impact from packaging solutions, to provide feedback on working conditions, managers’ the Nefab “GreenCALC”. behavior, physical and psycho-social working environment, stress and more. In addition, free text comments can be “GreenCALC” – features: submitted. All answers are anonymous and the entire survey • A Life Cycle Assessment method analyzing environ8 Communication on progress Nefab mental impact from raw material, production, logistics, updating the Code of Conduct to align to new legislation use phase and end of life. concerning anti-corruption. This resulted in an update of the • Analyzing multiple impact categories, such as Global wordings in the Code of Conduct with reference to a new Warming Potential (GWP), water and energy consumption. Anti-corruption policy, which gives direction and guidance • The impact calculations are based on the databases of on a more detailed level, based on a risk assessment. one of the World’s leading LCA software; SimaPro. (The new Code of Conduct and the Anti-corruption policy GreenCALC has been developed hand in hand with the are scheduled for approval by the Board of Directors in French Environmental consultancy company EVEA. September 2013.) By using “GreenCALC” Nefab can support customers in In one of our Chinese entities we conducted training in antitheir green initiatives by: corruption for 104 employees, as a result from an ongoing • Quantifying environmental impact in packaging solution. stakeholder dialogue with one of our customers. Identify areas of improvements. • Quantify improvements in reduction of Global Warming For 2013 we plan to launch a more extensive anti-corruption Potential. training plan, most likely using a mix of online and class• Implementing engineered complete packaging solutions room training. that are optimized in terms of total cost and environmental impact. Performance Nefab reports performance according to GRI guidelines. Anti-Corruption Below is a table, summarizing the performance indicators During 2012, the board of directors initiated the work of information that can be found in this COP. GRI-TABle Performance indicators Ref.page Reported Comments Economic effects EC1 Direct economic value, generated and distributed 4 Complete Environmental impact EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 4 Complete EN8 Total water consumption 4 Complete EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions by weight 4 Complete Working conditions and working terms LA1 Total number of employees, by employment type and region. 5-6 Complete LA2 Total number of employees and staff turnover by age group, gender and region 5-6 Partially LA4 Percentage of employees covered by union agreements 5 Complete LA10 Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category 5 Partially LA12 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance evaluation and career development. 5 Complete LA13 Composition of the Board and management and breakdown 5 Partially of employees per category according to gender, age group, minority group membership and other indicators of diversity. SO3 Percentage of employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption practices. 5 Complete Your mission is our mission. We develop complete packaging solutions optimized to reduce total cost and environmental impact in your supply chain. With our global engineering and supply capabilities we serve you in every corner of the world. n e fa b .co m
