ON THE WAY TO SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Contents Our Achievements 4 Corporate Values 6 History 8 Today 9 Structure of Obolon Corporation 10 Economic Results 12 Main News of the Corporation 13 Brands of Obolon Corporation 16 Product Export 20 Beer Production Process 22 Corporate Management 24 Investment іn personnel 26 Environmental Management 30 Ecology of Production Processes 32 Social investments 34 List of the Major Partner Organizations of Obolon 36 Awards Received in 2012–2013 38 Independent Assurance Report 40 Table of Conformity to GRI 3.1 42 Oleksandr Slobodian President of Obolon Corporation The world around us is always in motion, since motion is life itself. As an integral part of the business and economic life, Obolon Corporation does not stop for a moment, either. We work every day, not only to be the first and to leave nobody thirsty on the planet, but also to be an efficient part of the socioeconomic environment. We are proud that the national business, as represented by Obolon Corporation, once again shows growth and strengthens its positions both in the Ukraine and abroad. Our achievements this year included opening new production facilities and new markets, launching new products, and ensuring a balanced coexistence and mutual development in the regions of our presence. I would like to underscore that the 5th Sustainability Report of Obolon Corporation, titled “On the Way to Sustainability”, is a milestone of efficient cooperation and dialogue among all stakeholders. Year after year, we remain on our path of efficient and transparent growth, demonstrating a proactive social attitude, and innovative environmental activity. Our plans for the nearest future are not limited to further growth in the same direction, but include opening new and promising horizons. About Obolon Corporation Our Achievements 5million521 UAH Proceeds from product sales in 2012 Main brewery in Kyiv, also the 224 million UAH largest Net profit in 2012 brewery in Europe ¹ 1 By rated production capacity 7million UAH 72 million UAH Investments in the company’s own crouton factory in Kolomyia 1million214 Investments in the company’s PET preforms factory in Oleksandriia (Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast) UAH Total payments (taxes, excise, charges) (Kirovohrad Oblast) by Obolon Corporation in 2012 3610 Kyiv brewery 6027 Total number of employees across all corporate units of Obolon Corporation 4-5 Bulgaria, Hong Kong, New markets New Zealand, in 2012 UAE, 29,8 % Panama, Singapore, 73 % Slovakia, Turkey, Share of Obolon Corporation Chile, in the total beer production in 2012 Japan Share of Obolon Corporation in Ukrainian beer export 1073,55 -7 % Reduction of production waste in 2012 thousand m3 Amount of recycled water used at the facilities of Obolon Corporation in 2012і 35 million -17,9 % 1-liter plastic bottles Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in 2012 Equivalent of plastic waste recycled at our Oleksandriia plant per year About Obolon Corporation Corporate Values The principal values of Obolon Corporation belong to the corporate culture, promoting the unity within of our team and inspiring us for future success. Responsibility to take responsibility for all actions and potential impact on the society, environment, and business stakeholders in a dignified and conscientious manner. Integrity to be honest with everyone: consumers, partners, competitors, and colleagues. Leadership to be bold and uncompromising while promoting unconditional leadership of the corporation in each area and Respect at each position. equality, prevention of discrimination, and top priority of a human being within the corporation Transparency as well as in the relations every step of our way with all participants of our towards success, to business processes. demonstrate the dignity Innovation of the corporation in every operation and transaction to strive for perfection through systematic and and superiority through transparent reporting. innovation and creative thinking every day while performing our duties. 6-7 Corporate social responsibility map of Obolon corporation Economic impact: • creating jobs • national production • export of products • payment of taxes • responsibility for the product at each stage of its life cycle Environmental safety: • environmental investments • optimization of resource External consumption Stakeholders • reduction of the environmental Internal impact Government Agencies Stakeholders • waste disposal and minimization Local Authorities NGOs Shareholders Consumers Employees Partners Working conditions: Mass Media International Organizations • high social standards Financial and Credit • fair wages Organizations • personnel training and development Residents of communities • standardized occupational where the company and personnel safety program has its facilities • employment of people Social investments: • educational projects • assistance to socially vulnerable parts of the population • promotion of the spiritual revival as well as historical and cultural heritage • promotion of sports About Obolon Corporation History The history of the corporation dates back to the construction of the Kyiv brewery 1974, the opening of which was timed to coincide with the 1980 Olympics. The brewery was named after the Obolon district of Kyiv in 1986. The word obolon dates back to the times of Kyivan Rus, when it used to mean low water meadows. Soon after that, the facility initiated the formation of the largest beverage production corporation in Ukraine. Built according to a Czech project, the brewery produced beer which rapidly gained popularity. After Ukraine gained independence, Obolon Corporation became the first company to export its beverage to the European countries and to the USA. Beer bearing the Obolon trademark came to be seen around the world as the traditional Ukrainian beer. Launching its legendary low-alcohol Gin & Tonic, the company pioneers the low-alcohol beverages market both in the Ukraine and in Europe. Obolon Brewing and Soft Drink Association established on the basis 1994 of Kyiv Brewery No. 3. The construction of Kyiv 1986 brewery begins. 1974 1992 Obolon receives privatization certificate No. 1 from the State Property Fund of the Ukraine, 1980 making history as the first privatized enterprise of the independent Ukraine. Kyiv Brewery No. 3 is officially opened, and the first batch of beer is brewed. 1974 1975 1976 1977 1978 1979 1980 1981 1982 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 8-9 Obolon Corporation starts producing PET preforms. The malting plant of Obolon Corporation in Chemerivtsi, Khmelnytskyi Oblast begins its 2012 2013 operation, becoming the most Reissue advanced malting plant in Europe. of the main brand TM “Obolon” 2009 2011 Obolon becomes a public stock corporation. The company commissions the largest beer bottling line in the world, with a capacity of 110 thousand of 0.5 l bottles per hour. 2008 Obolon becomes the first company 2004 in the food industry to receive four management system certificates at once. ISO ISO 9001: 14001: 2008 2004 2002 ISO OHSAS 2000 Obolon launches a PET bottle recycling facility 22000: 2005 18001 2007 Zhyvchyk, the new soft drink, is released into in Oleksandriia, the market. Kirovohrad Oblast. Today In late April 2011, the meeting of shareholders resolved to convert Obolon from a private stock corporation into a public one. Ukrainian law requires such a transformation for stock corporations with over one hundred shareholders. This means that our company shall be more transparent for the public. In addition, in accordance with the provisions of the law, the shareholders' meeting resolved to perform the mandatory conversion of its shares from certificated into book-entry form. The twenty-year-old strategy, aimed at building Obolon into a powerful national company, remains valid for the future. Obolon has always been and will remain a company in the Ukrainian market wholly owned by Ukrainians. We continue writing the history of Ukrainian business, this time through innovations in corporate governance. Obolon proves yet again that a domestic business headquartered in Kyiv really can operate successfully. 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 About Obolon Corporation Structure of Obolon Corporation Management Structure of Obolon Corporation Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory Board Executive Board 10-11 About Obolon Corporation Economic Results of Obolon Corporation, thousand UAH 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Income before tax 4 176 304 4 107 760 4 558 949 4 861 378 5 521 097 Net income 3 209 382 3 166 103 3 352 095 3 577 451 4 075 269 Net profit -449 396 175 351 89 476 118 501 223 878 Assets 3 253 017 3 051 718 3 151 266 3 400 066 3 595 732 Excise paid 318 209 357 237 538 609 568 115 620 492 Total payments 635 763 659 004 990 524 1 032 454 1 214 828 to the state *Obolon PJSC, PAT Obolon, Zibert`s Brewery DE of PJSC Obolon, Krasylivske DE PJSC, Obolon Agro LLC, Obolon-Rus FR Economic Results Obolon today is a nationally diversified corporation: we invest in new businesses while maintaining our leadership as a beverage producer. Most of the corporation’s profits come from the sale of beer and soft drinks. In spite of all difficulties and challenges faced by the present day global and Ukrainian economy, we continue to strengthen our potential and, as a result, increase our investments into domestic economy: in 2012, the income of Obolon Corporation increased by 14 %, and the payments to the state and city budgets increased by 18 %. It should be mentioned that, despite crisis effects recently observed in the beverages market, Obolon adheres to principles of transparency and integrity in its relations with its partners and the state. Good reputation has always been our main priority in business. 12-13 Main News of the Corporation March 2012 – March 2013 Ukrainian Beer is Back in Belarus “Obolon” is a Top Socially Responsible Company in the Oleksandr Slobodian, the president of Obolon Corporation, met with Petro Poroshenko, the MinUkrainian Food Market ister of Economic Development and Trade of the Ukraine, at Obolon brewery. During the meeting, Obolon Obolon Corporation became one of the top 10 socially responsible companies Petro Poroshenko said that the Belarusian government suspended the licensing requirement for the Becomes No. 1 of the Ukraine, according to the ranking Ukrainian beer, thus removing all restrictions on Soft Drinks Producer published in March 2012 by GVardiia, a specialized journal. beer exports. in the Ukraine Based on the results of the UNIK Drink first 6 months of 2012, Obolon Czech Zlata Praha Beer with Anti-Radiaion Properties Corporation became the largin Cans Obolon Corporation launched Unik, a new and truly est producer of soft drinks in the Ukraine. The high quality Obolon launched the production of Zlata unique beverage with juice content. Unik is the first of its products and efficient Praha premium beer in 0.5 l aluminum sugar free soft drink in the Ukraine made with arteimplementation of the marcans. Zlata Praha Czech beer is now also sian water, apple juice, elite fructose, and Echinacea, ket and marketing strategies available in a stylish and convenient an herb known for its therapeutic properties. This is made Obolon the leader in container. The elegant design of the can why it is recommended for people with diabetes. It production of soft drinks, with is based on the distinctive symbols of is unrivalled in the world as a food product promota 15.5 % share in the market. the historical Prague. ing the elimination of cesium and strontium from the human body (hence its name, Unik). March 2012 April 2012 May 2012 June 2012 July 2012 Get Ready for the Season Rio-de-Mojito – with Obolon Beer a Refreshing Drink with the Taste of Summer! For all fans of the refined hop taste and just In the beginning of the summer season, Obolon expanded its range of soft anyone who enjoys friendly and cheerful recdrinks, introducing the light and refreshing Rio-de-Mojito. This natural, prereation, Obolon launched its “Get Ready for servative free drink exactly replicates the refined taste of the classic mojito. the Season” campaign. Obolon Successfully Passes International Audit Right Non-Alcoholic beer DEKRA Certification Kft, a German company, carried out an international New design “Obolon Non-Alcoholic” is insupervisory audit of the integrated management system of Obolon Corpotended to emphasize the combination of high ration. The international auditors noted an improvement in the operation product quality and classic brewing techof the management system used by Obolon Corporation. nology, saving its traditional elegance. The leit-motif of the revised “appearance” was the inscription on the label – “NonAlcoholic “ Obolon Promotes Growing of Beer Barley Obolon Corporation organized a Field Day, held in Khmelnytskyi Oblast. The participants of the event discussed key aspects of beer barley technology and the foundations of the financial policy for procurement of barley and sale of seeds. About Obolon Corporation Hike Urban at Kyiv Beaches A New Variety This summer, the hike team caused a of British Carling Beer real beer fever on largest beaches of the Enters Ukrainian Market Ukrainian capital. Hike Urban, the new exclusive beer, was introduced in an As a part of its cooperation with Molson unusual way: the people enjoying their Coors Brewing Company, Obolon Corporabeach holiday and swimming would find tion launched Carling Royal, a new lager and pull out of the water… real boxes of beer, in the Ukrainian market. Carling cold and tasty beer! Royal is brewed using unique Carling yeast races, top quality hops from the Western Europe, and the best Ukrainian Lemon Flavored Cola Nova, barley. a Natural Drink Launching the new Lemon Flavored Cola “Obolon: 20 Years Together” Nova, Obolon Corporation expanded the range of modern beverages. The Lemon Exactly 20 years ago, the first Ukrainian Flavored Cola Nova is produced using beer brand was born. This is when Obolon artesian water and natural ingredients. brewery started its production of Obolon Lemon juice makes the drink more reSvitle (Obolon Light) beer. To celebrate freshing and adds a pleasant flavor, while the anniversary of Obolon Svitle, Obolon caffeine, traditional for the “cola” drinks, invited everyone to participate, organizhas a tonic effect. ing a nationwide event. August 2012 September 2012 October 2012 November 2012 Obolon Launches a New Low-Alcohol Beverage Obolon Corporation For Obolon, the beginning of autumn was marked by the launch of Publishes its 2011-2012 new products. The connoisseurs of exotic drinks can now taste the Sustainability Report refreshing coolness of the low-alcohol Rio-de-Mojito. Obolon continues its assertive movement towards sustainability, maintainHigh Quality of Obolon Corporation ing its leadership in the sphere of social Beverages Recognized by Experts responsibility. In addition, the new Sustainability Report was the first one on The beverages produced by Obolon Corporation won 30 awards in the national FMCG market to pass an invarious categories of the International Organoleptic Contest of dependent audit. Beer, Soft Drinks, Low-Alcohol Drinks, Mineral and Potable Water. Professional experts from the Czech Republic, Russia, Belarus, Obolon Corporation Begins Moldova and Ukraine by blind tasting rated 107 samples of native producers and unanimously noted its high quality. Exports to Latin America In September, Obolon made its first shipment of beer to Chile, which became the 40th country on the map of the company’s exports. 14-15 Obolon Enters the Snacks Market Obolon has launched production of beer snacks, marketed under the Obolonski trademark. The production facility is located in KoBeer Production lomyia, Ivano-Frankivsk Oblast. A large hike Presents a Limited by Obolon Increased in 2012 portion of the investments went into the renovation of the existing premises and “Chocolate” Series “hike Obolon Corporation, the largest national beverage manufacturer, increased purchase of a modern snacks production line. The range of Obolonski products inpremium chocolate” its beer production in 2012 by 1.8 % to cludes wheat and mixed rye-wheat crou89.5 million dal as compared to 2011. The tons with five flavors popular among the On the New Year’s Eve, hike presented Corporation’s share in the total Ukrainiconsumers. “chocolate”, a unique limited series. This an beer production in 2012 increased by unusual beer with chocolate flavor will 1 %, reaching 29.8 %. make you warm during winter holidays, Economic Director adding a new impressive flavor to them. Obolonska Mineral Water of Obolon Corporation Is Redesigned among Top 10 Financial Obolon Corporation Directors in the Ukraineи Enters Persian Gulf Market Changes have been made to the shape of the bottle and the label design. The Olena Peresada, Economic and FinanObolon Corporation, the largest national new PET bottle of Obolonska has an cial Director of Obolon Corporation, beverage manufacturer, started to exergonomic shape developed for better was named one of the top ten financial port its soft drinks and mineral water convenience. The refined label design directors in the Ukraine, according to to the market of the UAE. Obolon is the emphasizes the key values of Obolonska the “Top 10 Financial Directors of the only Ukrainian company exporting bevmineral water: it is natural, lightness, Ukraine” ranking published annually by erages to the Middle East. and energy-giving. & FINANSYST journal. December 2012 January 2013 February 2013 March 2013 Obolon Corporation Wins Obolon Corporation Green Awards Ukraine 2012 Joins the Informational Campaigns The project of Obolon Corporation for the recycling of its within the National Tuberculosis Week own PET containers won first place at Green Awards Ukraine 2012, an annual international environmental contest, nomiin the Ukraine nated as the “Top ‘Green’ Project in Industry”. Obolon Corporation, with expert support from the US Agency for International Development (USAID) project, held an information event dedicated to the InternationThe Sustainability Report of Obolon al Tuberculosis Day at its central brewery in Kyiv. In the Corporation Ranked One of the Best course of the event, representatives of the USAID project conducted a question and answer session for the personin the Ukraine nel on prevention, diagnostics, and treatment of tuberculosis, carried out a training session for the brewery’s mediThe 2011–2012 Sustainability Report of Obolon Corpocal personnel, and distributed information materials. ration was selected as one of the Top 10 finalists of the Readers’ Choice Award social reporting contest. Obolon Corporation Encourages Efforts to Stop the Climate Change through the 2013 Earth Hour This is the fourth time Obolon Corporation joins the Earth Hour, the global environmental initiative organized by the World Wide Fund for Nature (WWF) to draw public attention to the problem of global warming by turning off power for 1 hour. About Obolon Corporation Brands of Obolon Corporation The main types of products offered by Obolon Corporation include beer, soft drinks, potable and mineral waters, low-alcohol drinks, and beer malt. Other activities include the manufacture of plastic products (from recycled PET bottles) and various agricultural products. The primary selling market is Ukraine, as over 80% of the products are sold on the domestic market. PREMIUM BEER MEDIUM-PRICE SEGMENT NEW DRINKS SERIES CLASSIC LOW-ALCOHOL DRINKS LAD 2,7 million dal 16-17 DRINKS WITH NOSTALGIA SERIES MODERN DRINKS KVASS JUICE CONTENT SD 19.4 million dal SPECIAL BEER LOW-PRICE SEGMENT BEER 89,5 million dal WATER PRODUCED MINERAL AND POTABLE WATER BY REGIONAL COMPANIES WATER 8,7 million dal Snacks Malt Brewer’s grains Rim band Plastic products INDUSTRIAL GOODS AND OTHER About Obolon Corporation Major beer brands ТМ “Obolon” of Obolon Corporation 10,13% in the Ukrainian market, 2012 р. ТМ “Zibert” 6,28% ТМ “Klasyka” (Classic) 5,01% ТМ “BeerMix” 0,99% TM “hike” 0,29% TM “Carling” (licensed production) 0,39% ТМ “Okhtyrske” 0,21% TM “Zlata Praha” 0,31% Other brands 0,29% (Private label, Slava Krainu) 24,7 % Total in the Ukrainian market Beer Soft Drinks Mineral Water Low-Alcohol Drinks 112,9 96,1 20,2 17,7 9,7 8,3 4,1 2,8 2008 2009 18-19 One out of four glass — beer «Obolon» PET Preforms Productionи In 2012, the corporation made a giant step towards more efficient use of its own resources and raw materials. A PET preforms plant was commissioned at the company’s production facility in Oleksandriia. The total amount of investment into the project was 72 million UAH. Having launched its own preforms production, Obolon became the only corporation in the Ukraine to run a beginning-to-end production cycle, from the production of polymer preforms to the recycling of PET bottles and manufacture of rim band from the recycled materials. The plant is a modern industrial facility in compliance with all technical and sanitary regulations. The preforms production line is equipped with machinery produced by Husky, the global leader in industrial equipment. The production line has a capacity of 43 thousand preforms per hour. Croutons Production Obolon is the first beer company in the Ukraine to start production of beer snacks as a part of business diversification process. The company now offers wheat and mixed rye-wheat croutons with flavors popular among the consumers. The croutons are an affordable and tasty beer snack. The total amount of investments into the new production is estimated at 7 million UAH. Beverage Production Volumes, * Obolon PJSC, Zibert`s Brewery DE of PJSC Obolon, million dal Krasylivske DE PJSC, Obolon Agro LLC, Obolon-Rus FR 98,7 87,3 89,5 20,2 20,5 19,4 11 8,9 8,7 2,6 2,5 2,7 2010 2011 2012 About Obolon Corporation Product Export 73 % exported Ukrainian beer was produced by Obolon Corporation 21 million In 2012, we discovered new markets decaliters of beer exported to over America 40 countries Canada on 5 continents Panama USA Chile 20-21 Europe Belgium Belarus Bulgaria United Kingdom Greece Georgia Denmark Estonia Iceland Spain Italy Cyprus Latvia Asia Lithuania Azerbaijan Luxembourg Armenia Moldova Vietnam Netherlands Hong Kong Germany Israel Poland Kazakhstan Portugal China Russia UAE Singapore Australia Slovakia France Turkey Turkmenistan Australia Czech Rep. Switzerland Japan New Zealand Beer Production Process About Obolon Corporation 1 Malt is produced at the company's Early in the production process, own malting plant from barley crushed malt is mixed with water. (or sometimes wheat) grains The mix is them warmed up in a set germinated and dried in specific temperature environment.. temperature and humidity At this stage, the proteins and starch conditions. contained in the malt are released into the solution and transform into sugars, which arelater fermented by the yeast. WATER meter CLARIFICATION 3 Then the wort is clarified. The clarified wort is cooled to the brewing temperature, after which the yeast is added. 300 meter artesian well drilled into O₂ Throughout the production process, Jurassic and Cenomanian aquifers the beer is never exposed to air, because oxygen is bad for the taste. 22-23 Four main ingredients are used in beer production WATER HOPS MALT YEAST The resulting solution (wort) is filtered. The best varieties of hops 2 After that, the hops are added, and the mix are grown in Ukraine, the Czech Republic, is boiled for the beer to develop its flavor and Germany. and pleasant bitterness. FILTRATION WORT + 4 In order for it to mature, the young beer BOTTLING is held for some time in special tanks at a temperature of -1 to -2 °С. This gives it its unique flavor and natural saturation with carbon dioxide. BOTTLES CANS KEGS 5 MATURING After the fermentation, the beer is filtered and poured into bottles, cans, or kegs. Corporate Management Fair Competition Obolon Corporation is one of the key players in the Ukrainian beverages market. We recognize the responsibility conferred on us by this position, and make it our mission not to allow violations of antitrust regulation and fair competition. We value our good name, which is the result of more than 30 years of team effort. Code Anti-Corruption Policy of Ethics Integrity and honesty are the guarantee for business success in the long run. In Obolon Corporation, we do not in any way support or allow any corrupt practices, and prevent such practices both within and outside the company. In 2012, Responsible Procurement enacted new We apply the strictest quality and safety requirements to our products and production processes. Collective Agreement ISO ISO ISO OHSAS 9001: 14001: 22000: 18001 2008 2004 2005 2007 This is a part of the corporate integrated management system, which was successfully audited by DEKRA Certification Kft, a German company, in 2013. All products arriving at the production facilities must pass an additional quality check. Obolon is also one of the few production facilities testing the products for safety in its own radiologic laboratory. Responsible Marketing The Drink Responsibly program was initiated by Obolon Corporation as a pilot project appealing to the so-called high-risk groups (people under 18). In particular, we have started to mark all beer bottles with notices about norms of consumption and carried out several media events among young people to disseminate information about proper and responsible beer drinking. More details about the “Drink Responsibly!” program can be found at www.enjoyobolon.com. 24-25 Code of Ethics 2012–2013 2013–2014 In 2012, the corporation developed its Code of Ethics, a document which contains Achievements Plans provisions defining corporate ethical behavior in the relations with colleagues, partners, and counterparts, as well as human rights The company implemented Training sessions for the perand gender equality policies, which must be the Code of Ethics, estabsonnel as a part of the comstudied and complied with not only by the company employees, but by all our business lished the Ethics Committee, prehensive business ethics partners as well. and created a mechanism for activities in the corporation. review of applications regardEthical ing ethical matters. Behavior Responsible Marketing Obolon Corporation initiated the Drink Responsibly program as a pilot project appealing to the so-called high-risk groups (people under 18). The corporation developed Information sessions Human Rights and implemented a Human on Human Rights Rights Regulation. for the personnel. The corporation included the Development of a separate anti-corruption, conflict of Anti-Corruption Policy and Antiinterests, and bidding transactivities promoting the Corruption parency provisions to awareness of personnel. its Code of Ethics. Counterparty interactions Development of a program policies have been developed promoting the awareness of as a part of the Code of Ethics the counterparties about Responsible Procurement the ethics principles of the company’s operations; moniWe apply the strictest quality toring of compliance with the and safety requirements to said principles. our products and production Counterparty processes. Interactions ISO 9001:2008 ISO 22000:2005 ISO 14001:2004 OHSAS 18001:2007 (This is a part of the corporate integrated management system, which was successfully audited by DEKRA Certification Kft, a German company, in 2013.) Investment in personnel Investment іn personnel 14,1 million UAH the total amount of financial assistance provided to employees in 2012 Our employees are our greatest value: a large family and, at the same time, a team of professionals, passionate about their work and not indifferent to what 12 % happens around them. by We realize that our success and well-being depend from each member of the Obolon team. Below is the list of key qualities Obolon Corporation values in its employees. increased the average salary as compared with Professionalism – a quality which, in addition to doing one’s the previous year. job perfectly and showing high business results, helps the employees inspire their colleagues to friendly competition and continuous growth. Dynamism – ability to change oneself and others is a key quality in the modern day world, which is why our business processes are centered around people who are in continuous self-development and are able to quickly adapt to the circumstances. Commitment – conscientiousness and responsibility of our colleagues are the stronghold for our everyday activity, as we need to trust each other and rely on each other every minute of every day in our common efforts. Initiative and leadership – aiming for improvement and being able to unite and inspire each other is necessary for the success of our business and for the career growth of each of us. Loyalty – enthusiasm andloyalty to the product and the company are the traits which not only unite us, but also make each of us an important part of Obolon Corporation. Team spirit – capability and desire to work in a team, perform one’s duties in a professional manner, be responsible for the common efforts, and work together – these are the qualities expected from everyone. 26-27 2012–2013 2013–2014 Results Plans Personnel and Working Conditions: Informing employees about Gender Equality A new collective bargaining Labor changes in the new collective Obolon Corporation became one of the first agreement entered into force Ukrainian companies to follow the European Practices in late 2012. bargaining agreement in a practice by developing its own gender equality form accessible for everyone. plan. The project was implemented with support from the European Union and the International Labor Office as part of the proAs the first company to develject titled «Equality of Women and Men in the op a gender equality plan, the Personnel interviews, training World of Labor». Obolon’s gender equality plan Gender corporation takes part in the sessions for specialists on is a specific plan of action aimed at providing equal opportunities for the employees of both Equality 3-year EU project “Re-Integrahuman resources, participation genders, jointly developed by management tion of Parents to Professional in project activities. and workforce representatives, based on an Life After a Parental Leave”. in-depth gender review of the company, with clear result indicators and timelines. Based on the results received, the team that developed the gender plan made a list of the most urgent Occupational Health and Safety: issues and areas requiring special attention. St. Nicholas Day for the Boarding School Children In 2012, the employees organized a holiday The company achieved a twoReducing the number of workon St. Nicholas Day at the boarding school in fold decrease in the number place injuries through conMostyshche, Kyiv Oblast. The students of the of workplace injuries in 2012 tinuous risk monitoring and school are 85 children with various forms of as compared to the previous improvement of production mental retardation. The event, organized by the volunteers from the company personnel, period. processes in the corporation. was held in the form of games with prizes Frequency ratio: 0.55 from Zhyvchyk. Earth Hour Prevention activities aimed at The 2013 Earth Hour at Obolon brewery inA lethal accident happened complete elimination of lethal volved remarkable personnel involvement: the Workplace in 2012. employees of the Kyiv brewery received canworkplace accidents. dles and information materials encouraging Injuries them to support the environmental initiative The corporation invested Reduction of risks to an and oppose the climate change. 3.5 million UAH in comprehenacceptable level, improvement sive engineering and technical of microclimate in the working activities and workplace certiareas in accordance with the fication and 2.4 million UAH in standards. special clothes, footwear, and personal protection equipment. 3,472 employees were trained in occupational safety. Investment in personnel 2012–2013 2013–2014 Results Plans Healthcare An awareness campaign for the Awareness and information Tuberculosis employees was held at the cencampaigns at the regional Day tral brewery jointly with the facilities of the corporation. USAID Project in the Ukraine. An awareness campaign was Engaging the regional faciliheld jointly with the specialties in the awareness activiMelanoma ists from O. Bohomolets dermaties: training of the medical Day tology clinic. The employees personnel, distribution of have been tested. information materials. Occupational Safety The company policy is aimed at raising employees’ professionalism, improving their working conditions and workflow safety, and assuring their social security. In pursuit of these goals, Obolon has implemented an occupational health and safety management system certified under OHSAS 18001:2007. Social Matters The social package, which is also available to retired employees, includes one-time benefit for health improvement, recreation trips for children, holiday cash bonuses, financial aid at childbirth, retirement, marriage, or in emergencies. The company is equipped with a first aid station with modern equipment as well as with gym facilities. In 2013, Obolon Corporation joined the project of the European Union and League of Social Workers of the Ukraine “Back to Work: Re-Integration of Parents to Professional Life after a Parental Leave”. The project is planned to last for 3 years and is intended to investigate the needs of employers as well as parents related to this issue. Volunteering Corporate volunteering is a part of the corporate charity program, under which the company provides resources (including volunteers) to support socially important areas, promoting public benefit and creating a positive public opinion about the company. One of the first examples of Obolon’s corporate volunteerism is the donor initiative, which has been in place for over ten years. The corporation is proud of its employees who are quickly adopting the initiative, and with the response the corporate initiative find in their hearts. 28-29 Structure of employees Corporation Obolon 3610 employed at Global Tuberculosis Day Obolon Corporation, with the expert support from the US Agency for International Development (USAID) project, held an the Kyiv brewery information event dedicated to the International Tuberculosis Day at its central brewery in Kyiv. In the course of the event, the representatives of the USAID project held a question and answer session for the personnel on prevention, diagnostics, and treatment of tuberculosis, carried out a training session for the brewery’s medical personnel, and distributed information materials. The Ukraine has been suffering from the tuberculosis epidemics for 18 years. Every day 84 of our fellow countrymen get sick with TB, and 19 die of it. 6027 Stop Melanoma Campaign Together with Stop Melanoma NGO, Obolon Corporation held a Stop Melanoma awareness raising campaign. In the course of the event, the company employees were examined and received medical consults from the leading employees specialists. at all business The project informed over 2.5 thousands of the company employees about the signs Corporation Obolon of moles developing into a melanoma. The employees received the information materials. Meetings with the line managers 278 were held. The medical personnel of the company received training and carried out an initial examination of the employees who requested medical consults. The next stage persons with of the project was the examination of the personnel by the specialists of the Center disabilities employed for Teledermatology, Teledermatoscopy, and Remote Diagnostics of Dr. Bohomolets’ Dermatology and Cosmetology Institute. 1737 female 4018 workers 4290 male 2007 engineering and technical staff Environmental Management Environmental Management Resource Consumption Unit 2010 2011 2012 A water recycling project made it possible to spare Natural gas 1 thousands m3 30328 27003 26825 500 thousand tons of water every year. Steam 1 Gcal 217273 202638 201094 thousands Power 1 kW h 88390 82754 85846 Local water thousands m3 3978 3718 3781 intake 2 Specific tons per waste thousand dal 0,44 0,35 0,30* production 1 O bolon PJSC, Zibert`s Brewery (subsidiary, Fastiv), Obolon Krasylivske DE PJSC (subsidiary Daughter Enterprise of Public Joint Stock Company, Krasyliv) 2 Obolon Krasylivske DE PJSC (subsidiary Daughter Enterprise of Public Joint Stock Company, Krasyliv) 3 Obolon PJSC *I n 2012, most of the wet malt grains had been remitted for drying and granulation. Due to this reduced implementation wet malt wort to 1800.00 tons per year. 30-31 Environmental Activity Matrix energy resources production waste water resources plastic bottles Ecology Innovative of Production Environmental Processes Projects atmosphere alternative energy Promotion of Environmental Awareness team outside events green office Plan to reduce energy consumption Reduction of Heat Waste A comprehensive optimization of the steam consuming and condenser equipment carried out in 2012 to reduce the resource consumption allowed the company to reduce the amount of heat used for the production of 1 thousand dal of beer from 1,750 Mcal to 1,440 Mcal. Water Recycling by by A water recycling project implemented in 78800 4300 2012 made it possible to spare around 500 thousand tons of water per year by recycling the used water. The amount of recycled water in 2012 was 1,073.5 thousand m3. This type of water is used to wash the equipment and kW h kW h glass bottles. by installing low-pressure by replacing fluorescent lamps with compressor station at LED in the premises of the enterprise. neutralizing runoff. Environmental Management Ecology of Production Processes Atmospheric emissions*, tons carbon monoxide carbon monoxide 0,4 grain dust grain dust 12,6 0,5 11,3 grain dust carbon monoxide 0,4 9,9 43 tons 42 tons 34 tons nitrogen nitrogen nitrogen compounds compounds compounds 29,9 29,6 24 2010 2011 2012 15.3 23.6 million UAH 19.5 million UAH million UAH Expenses on environment protection 1. c urrent expenditure for environ2. capital investment to establish a 3. payment for environmental services mental protection: purchase of raw modern gas cleaning equipment with utilization of certain types of waste materials for maintenance of environhigh efficiency; mental equipment; Obolon Corporation as a whole, and each of its employees, is responsible for the environmental safety of the whole production Recycling of PET Containers process and the product in general. This means that we undertake In 1995, Obolon Corporation was the first among the obligation to ensure the environmental safety of the raw mathe Ukrainian production companies to start using PET bottles. The company also pioneered the recycling terials, final products, and all production processes, and to ensure of these containers (in 2002) into a final product. In safety and compliance with all quality standards specified by the 2008, the company established a facility in Oleksanstate for the final products, as well as to comply with the UN Globdriia, which became the first one in Ukraine al Compact. to recycle PET bottles into rim band. It only took the company 8 months to deliver the first batch of the product after the initial idea. In addition to the environmental safety of all production processThe Oleksandriia facility recycles over 800 tons es, Obolon Corporation undertakes to build new production facilof PET packaging per year (which is equivalent ities and use the existing ones with the lowest possible negative to 30 million plastic bottles). impact on the environment, population, and society. Each of us in Moreover, in the recent years Obolon has been Obolon Corporation is responsible for the compliance of all mateworking to implement an environment-friendly project for PET bottle collection in Kyiv, which involves rials, processes, and decisions with these requirements. the installation of specialized containers. In 2013, Obolon received an award at Green Awards Ukraine, an annual international contest, nominated as the “Top Green Project in the Industry”, for its PET bottle recycling project. 32-33 Distribution of Waste by Type of Disposal, 2012 156 592,3 t Recycled and reused 94,5 % for the company’s own production sold as organic waste for cattle feeding (spent malt, yeast, grain waste, scrap boxes) 3,5 % Burned, buried, and otherwise disposed 3168,6 т 1,9 % Transferred for recycling (waste paper, used tires, fluorescent lamps, glass scrap, scrap ferrous and non-ferrous metals, polyethylene film, used electronic equipment, etc.). with 100 % of condensate returned to the boiler Brewer’s Grain Recycling room. This allows the company to spare about Obolon Corporation became the first Ukrainian 35 thousand m3 of natural gas per month. company to recycle brewer’s grains (brewing In 2012, the corporation produced 27,236.5 of waste). granulated brewer’s grains, which is 3.6 % more This innovative technology makes it possible than in 2011. to convert the production waste into an environmentally safe product used in agriculture as a nutritious fodder for cattle. A dry granule Environmental Impact installation has been in operation at the KyObolon sells, recycles, and reuses 96.4 % of its iv-based facility since April 2008. It is capable own waste, a result that makes us especially of processing up to 700 tons of raw grain proud and demonstrates the company’s responper day without any harmful impact on the sible attitude toward the environmental probenvironment. As a result, the wet grain waste lems in Ukraine. This parameter is growing each has been reduced by 91 % in five years, the year, despite increasing production volumes. sanitary condition of the territory has improved, and the amount of vehicle exhaust gasses has decreased due to the reduction in wet grain transportation. Part of the heat used by Obolon to dry the brewer’s grain comes from the secondary steam, Social investments Social investments has long been a vital part of Obolon Corporation In the present day dynamic business environment, we realize our impact and responsibility in the movement towards sustainability. We believe that the main step to ensure sustainability is to connect the business interests with efforts to: • Preserve and protect the environment • Develop social volunteering with participation of our employees • Promote the welfare of communities in which our facilities are located and • Carry out activities for promotion of culture, arts, education, healthcare, and sports, as well as protection and restoration of national landmarks Obolon Corporation encourages its employees to be responsible citizens and promote sustainability by their everyday work and by every managerial decision. We believe that our team will meet today’s global challenges with dignity and will not wander off the way of stability, prosperity, and perseverance. 34-35 Promotion of the Revival of Spiritual Values Investments and the Historical and Cultural Heritage in the Podillia Region The largest number of Obolon facilities is concentrated in Khmelnytskyi Oblast. In 2012, Ukrainian book publishing development program. the corporation invested 1 million 243 thousand UAH into that region. In the course of the proIn the last 15 years, Obolon has supported publishing of over two hundred textbooks, ject, the company built children’s playgrounds guides, collections, catalogues, reference books, fiction, science, history, and children’s litand carried out beautification programs in erature. Special emphasis is placed on supporting books promoting national awareness of adjacent territories. A school in Zavadnytsi, Chemerivtsi District, received boiler equipment, the Ukrainians, Ukrainian textbooks, and historical literature. purchased and commissioned by the company. The company renovated a medical and obstetric Support of the historical and architectural heritage. station in Ivankivtsi, Horodetskii District. Obolon is involved in the renovation of historical and architectural monuments, such as the Temple of the Protecting Veil of the Mother of God in Mariupol, the Church of Volodymyr the Children’s Day Great in Vyshhorod, Saint George Monastery on Cossack Graves in Pliasheva (Rivne Oblast), On the Children’s Day, the employees of Obolon Saint Panteleimon Church in Lubny (Poltava Oblast), the Church of Saint Martyr Liudmyla in Corporation organized a sports and recreation event for the students of Zmina sports school. Horodok, and others. The company also aids cultural institutions such as the National MuseThe event was held at Obolon Arena stadium um of Taras Shevchenko in Kyiv, the Museum of Hetmans, the National Museum of Ukrainian with the participation of coaches and players Folk Decorative Arts, the Museum of Ivan Honchar, and others. of Obolon Brovar soccer club. During the event, the players of Obolon Brovar Development of Ukrainian Sports held several training sessions for the Zmina trainees, sharing some of their soccer skills. The final part of the event was a friendly match, in which the youngest team defeated their more Obolon Corporation promotes children’s football in Zmina Olympic Reserve Sports School for experienced opponents, scoring 2:0. Children and Young People, which trains 700 children, aged 7 to 17. The company also sponsors international sport competitions, including the International Football Tournament for Summer Institute of Corporate Children and Young People, which has been held annually for 15 years at Kyiv School No.170 Social Responsibility and Zmina Sports School. Obolon Corporation joined the project of the Ukrainian Association for the Development of Obolon Corporation continued its cooperation with the Supreme League as the general Management and Business Education (UARMBO), the Summer Institute of Corporate Social Responsor of the Ukrainian Football Championship. sponsibility, implemented with the support from the UN Global Compact Network in Ukraine. The Educational Projects project involved seminars and training sessions for the instructors of the Ukrainian universities, in which we shared CSR business cases and our long-standing experience on the way to Obolon is a long-time supporter of the Petro Yatsyk International Contest of the Ukrainian sustainability. Language held by the League of Ukrainian Sponsors. Every year the company offers prizes for the contest winners – children from all over Ukraine and the diaspora. Cooperation with “In Children’s Hands” NGO Obolon Corporation is a partner of AIESEC, the global student organization, and the Europein the support of children an Youth Parliament: we support the gifted and forward-looking Ukrainian youth, as they with Down’s syndrome are our future. Obolon Corporation became a partner of the charity project intended to aid children with Aid to Socially Vulnerable Parts of the Population Down’s syndrome. The project was initiated by the Administration of Obolonskyi District of Kyiv and an NGO called “In Children’s Hands”. The goal of the project activities was to raise The Corporation maintains partnership relations with NGOs caring for orphaned children, funds for the functioning and development the disabled and people with special needs, and veterans. of the Center helping children with Down’s syndrome and other psychophysical disorders to become productive members of the community. It also provides aid to individuals, families with many children, and to three family-type orphanages. This is a special targeted type of aid provided directly to families. This form of cooperation is the most effective, and, most importantly, can be sustained in the long term. Social investments List of the Major Partner Organizations of Obolon History, culture, and arts: Education and sports: • League of Ukrainian Sponsors, • Kyiv City Center of Family, Children, International Charity Foundation and Youth Social Services • Ivan Franko National Academic • The Office for Family and Youth of Obolon Drama Theater District State Administration • Literaturna Ukraina, a newspaper • Zmina Sports School for Children of Ukrainian writers and Young People • The Church of Saint Mykola (Prytyska) in Kyiv • Obolon-Grand Master Chess Club • The Temple of the Protecting Veil of the • The Foundation for Development of Rugby Mother of God in Mariupol for Children and Young People in the Ukraine • The Church of Volodymyr the Great in • Kyiv School No. 170 Vyshhorod • Children’s School of Arts No. 5 in Kyiv • Saint George Monastery on Cossack Graves in Pliasheva (Rivne Oblast) • Sports and Children International Charity Foundation • Saint Panteleimon Church in Lubny (Poltava Oblast) •“In Children’s Hands” NGO • The Church of Saint Martyr Liudmyla •“Leadership, Youth, Innovation”, All-Ukrainian in Horodok (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) Non-Governmental Youth Organization • The Church of the Protecting Veil • Student Fraternity of the National University of the Mother of God in Teofipol of the Kyiv-Mohyla Academy (Khmelnytskyi Oblast) • Shyshak Boarding School for Gifted Children • The Church of Saint Nicholas in Fastiv (Poltava Oblast) (Kyiv Oblast) • Placement Center for Homeless Minors under • The Church of Assumption the Kyiv Administration of the Ministry of of the Virgin Mary in Okhtyrka (Sumy Oblast) Internal Affairs • The Ukrainian Institute of National Memory • Mostyshche Special Boarding School of 1st and 2nd Levels • The National Museum of Taras Shevchenko in Kyiv •“The Ukraine for the Children”, National Fund for Social Protection of Mothers and Children • The Museum of Hetmans •“Children are Our Future”, Charity • The National Museum of Ukrainian Folk Decorative Arts • Saint Mary’s International Charitable Foundation • The Museum of Ivan Honchar 36-37 Organizations Veterans: of the disabled: • The All-Ukrainian Association of World War II Veterans •“Soniachnyi promin” [Sunray] Society of Disabled Mothers, Obolon District of Kyiv • Kyiv City Charitable Foundation for Social Protection of Prisoners and Victims of Nazi •“Dimfo” Art Association for Children Persecution and Young People with Limited Abilities, Kyiv • The Organization of the Disabled of War •“Dytynstvo” [Childhood] Society and Military, Obolonskyi District in Kyiv for Rehabilitation of Disabled Children, Kyiv • The Society of Afghan War Veterans, •“Dity Chornobylia” [Children of Chornobyl] Obolonskyi District in Kyiv Obolonskyi District Organization • Kyiv Hospital for Disabled Victims of WWII • The Foundation of the Chornobyl Disabled Victims, Obolonskyi District of Kyiv • KASITsEP Kyiv Association of the Disabled with Cerebral Palsy •“Vidrodzhennia” [Renaissance] Rehabilitation Center for People With Spinal Disability, an NGO •“Yednist” [Unity] Podillia District Center of the Disabled • Kyiv Organization of the Ukrainian Society of the Blind • Kyiv Organization of the Ukrainian Society of the Deaf • The Association of NGOs for the Disabled in Kyiv • Dniprovskyi District Society of the People with Musculoskeletal Disabilities • Cerebral, Children’s NGO, Darnytsia District of Kyiv • Kyiv Center of Vocational Guidance for Children with Disabilities • Horytsvit NGO (Novobilychi Psychoneurological Nursing Home for Men) Awards Received in 2012–2013 Award winning product, Contest Award brand, or entity Project for recycling Cup and 1st Place of the company’s own Green Awards Ukraine Certificate PET containers 2012, international environmental contest 2011–2012 Top 10 Readers’ Choice Sustainability Report Award non-financial reporting contest Silver Lion for the first Carling Beer million decaliters of Carling beer Molson Coors Brewing Company Award Award for mobility in PAT Obolon the cooperation with the employment service Kyiv Congress of Employers Obolon Svitle light beer Top Quality Award Capital City Quality Standard contest 38-39 Contest Award winning product, brand, or entity Award Cup for the best product Bohatyrskyi kvass appearance design Obolon Oksamytove [velvet] Grand Prize, Certificate Obolon Bezalkoholne [non-alcoholic] Grand Prize, Certificate Obolon Pshenychne Grand Prize, Certificate Rio de Mojito Grand Prize, Certificate BeerMix Grapefruit Grand Prize, Certificate Obolonska Carbonated Grand Prize, Certificate Prozora Vershyna yakosti carbonated Grand Prize, Certificate Obolon Svitle Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Premium Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Soborne Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Exclusive Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Mitsne Gold Medal, Certificate Obolon Zhyve Gold Medal, Certificate Beer Fest 2012 Zlata Praha Gold Medal, Certificate hike premium Gold Medal, Certificate Carling Gold Medal, Certificate Zibert Svitle Gold Medal, Certificate Zibert Bavarske Gold Medal, Certificate Zibert Bile Gold Medal, Certificate Zhyhulivske Gold Medal, Certificate Okhtyrske Kozatske Gold Medal, Certificate BeerMix Lemon Gold Medal, Certificate BeerMix Raspberry Gold Medal, Certificate BeerMix Energy Gold Medal, Certificate Zhyvchyk with Apple Juice, carbonated Gold Medal, Certificate Zhyvchyk with Apple Juice, non-carbonated Gold Medal, Certificate Obolonska-2, non-carbonated Gold Medal, Certificate Bohatyrskyi kvass Gold Medal, Certificate Okhtyrske Zolote Pero Silver Medal, Certificate Obolon Sustainability Report 2012/13 Independent Assurance Report Independent Assurance Report To the readers of the Sustainability Report 2012/13 We were engaged by the Management of Obolon to provide assurance on the Sustainability Report 2012/13 (further ‘The Report’) of Obolon JSC (further ‘the Company’). The Management is responsible for the preparation of The Report, including the identification of material issues and the determination of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Application Level. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on the engagement outlined below. Scope Our assurance engagement was designed to provide limited assurance on whether: • The Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the G3 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G3.1) of the GRI; In addition we were asked to check whether the company’s GRI Application Level, as disclosed on page 42, is consistent with the GRI criteria for the disclosed Application Level B. We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of the objectives, targets and expectations of the Company. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assurance are aimed at determining the plausibility of information and are less extensive than those for a reasonable level of assurance. Assurance Standards We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagement (ISAE 3000): Assurance Engagement other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board We also comply with the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants to ensure our independence. We used a multidisciplinary team including specialists in environmental, social and financial aspects with experience in similar engagements. 40-41 Work undertaken Our procedures included the following: • An evaluation of processes for determining the material issues at corporate level; • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify relevant environmental, safety and social issues for the Company in the reporting period; • Interviewing senior management representatives responsible for the sustainability strategy, management and reporting; • Interviews with relevant staff responsible for providing the information in The Report and reviewing internal control procedures on the data in The Report; • An analytical review of the data and trend explanations submitted by all businesses units; • Evaluating internal and external documentation, based on sampling, to determine whether the information in The Report is supported by sufficient evidence; • With respect to our work on the disclosed GRI Application Level, our procedures were limited to checking whether the GRI Content Index is consistent with the criteria for the disclosed. Conclusions In relation to the report: Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that The Report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the G3.1 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative. Report on GRI application level Based on the procedures performed we conclude that the Application Level B+ as disclosed on page 42 and based on the GRI G3.1 Content Index on page 42-43 is consistent with the GRI criteria for this Application Level. Kiev 26 July 2013 BDO Sustainability Henning Drаger Partner Table of Conformity to GRI 3.1 This Social Report of Obolon corporation was prepared in compliance with the international standards of non-financial reporting for sustainable development, GRI v3, and meets Grade «B» criteria. The fully detailed table of conformity of this Social Report to GRI standards can be found on our official website at: http://obolon.ua/ukr/corporate-responsibility/social-reporting/. GRI Page UNGC GRI Page UNGC GRI Page UNGC STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS 4.16 LABOR PRACTICES 1.1 4.17 LA1 1.2 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE LA2 6 INDICATORS ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE LA3 (add.) EC1 2.1 LA4 * 1, 3 EC3 2.2 LA5 * 3 EC4 2.3 LA6 (add.) EC5 (дод.) 1 2.4 LA7 EC6 2.5 LA8 EC7 2.6 LA9 (add.) * EC8 2.7 LA10 EC9 (дод.) 2.8 LA11 (add.) ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY 2.9 LA12 (add.) EN1 8 2.10 LA13 1, 6 EN2 8, 9 REPORT PARAMETERS LA14 1, 6 EN3 8 3.1 HUMAN RIGHTS EN4 8 3.2 HR1 EN5 (дод.) 3.3 HR3 (add.) EN6 (дод.) 3.4 HR4 1, 2, 6 EN7 (дод.) 3.5 HR5 * 1, 2 EN8 8 3.6 HR6 * 1, 2, 5 EN9 (дод.) 8 3.7 HR7 * 1, 2, 3, 4 EN10 (дод.) 8, 9 3.8 HR8 (add.) EN11 8 3.9 HR9 (дод.) EN12 8 3.10 SOCIETY EN13 (дод.) 8 3.11 SO2 EN14 (дод.) 8 3.12 SO3 10 EN15 (дод.) 8 INTERACTION WITH STAKEHOLDERS SO4 10 EN16 8 4.1 SO7 (add.) 10 EN17 8 4.2 * PRODUCT AND CONSUMERS EN18 8, 9 4.3 * PR1 1 EN19 8 4.4 * PR2 (add.) 1 EN20 8 4.5 PR3 EN21 8 4.6 PR4 (add.) EN22 8 4.7 PR5 (add.) EN23 8 4.8 PR6 EN24 (дод.) 8 4.9 PR7 (add.) EN25 (дод.) 8 4.10 PR8 (add.) EN26 8, 9 4.11 PR9 EN27 8, 9 4.12 EN28 8 4.13 * EN29 (дод.) 8 Indicators not covered in the Social 4.14 Report are not shown in the table. EN30 (дод.) 8, 9 4.15 * * Explained on the corporate website at www.obolon.ua This Sustainability Report of Obolon was printed on environment-friendly paper certified under the FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) international standard. This certification guarantees that the paper was produced in accordance with the principles of responsible forestry practices without harm to the environment and communities. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2013 Obolon Public Stock Corporation vul. Bohatyrska, 3, Kyiv, 04655 Ukraine Please leave your feedback by contacting the representative of Obolon Corporation +38 (044) 201 47 81, csr@kiev.obolon.ua © Text and photo Obolon Public Stock Corporation © design Bambuk Design Studio www.bambus.com.ua
