ed o n O n go ing P r ogr ess ! Fasten Communication on progress 2013 Communication sur le progrès 2008 www.gris-decoupage.com www.unglobalcompact.org G R I S D E C O U PA G E ’s c o m m i t m e n t to the Global Compact GRIS DECOUPAGE, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components and flat or conical die-cut washers in medium or large runs. GRIS DECOUPAGE signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS DECOUPAGE had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. Participation in the Global Compact was a logical step in the continuous improvement process adopted by the company a number of years ago. Continuous improvement was implemented initially in the fields of industry, quality and management and led to the ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949 certifications obtained in 1993. It was subsequently extended in the early 2000s to cover environmental and sustainable development issues, as confirmed by the awarding of ISO 14001 certification in June 2007. GRIS DECOUPAGE is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2014. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Francis GRIS Président Communication sur le progrès 2008 Progress update from Global Compact participant I L L U S T R AT E D P R I N C I P L E S 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2013 For 2013, GRIS DECOUPAGE chose to illustrate the following groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2013  Human rights / Labour Top Management completed a large project entitled “PERF 2013” in collaboration with a consulting firm. The aim of this project was to design a new organisational structure that would better suit our activity and take full advantage of each person’s skills. All parts of the company were involved in this initiative. A number of meetings were held with representatives from the various sectors of the company and from different hierarchical levels. A new organisation was presented to the whole workforce in September 2013. Actions were also undertaken with the CHSCT workplace health and safety committee to improve employee working conditions. These included a psychosocial risks investigation carried out by an occupational health psychologist. The PERF 2013 initiative was launched in September 2012 and its results reported in October 2013 to the Steering Committee (COPIL) and to all members of staff. The Steering Committee comprised the members of the CHSCT, the Administration, Accounts and Human Resources Director, the Trade Union Representative and the Health, Safety and Environment Manager. The personnel were informed of the progress of the initiative at each of its stages. Actions performed by the CHSCT include quarterly internal audits in the different parts of the company, workshop inspections at regular intervals, updating of the single occupational risk assessment document and analysis of the causes of work-related accidents. These undertakings give rise to action plans which are incorporated in the regularly reviewed safety action plan.  Environment In the framework of our ISO 14001 certification, a fire simulation drill was held with the SDIS 54 fire and rescue service in November 2013. The purpose was to test how our personnel respond in an emergency and to identify areas for improvement. The involvement of the SDIS in this exercise was highly instructive.  Anti-corruption GRIS DECOUPAGE Communicationissur not affected le progrès 2008 by this issue. However, our suppliers and subcontractors have been made aware of this problem. M E A S U R E M E N T O F R E S U L T S O B TA I N E D 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR  Psychosocial risks A questionnaire on well-being in the workplace was distributed to all employees. An analysis of the results reveals a very satisfactory response rate of 75%. The results provide an initial overview of our strengths and the areas requiring improvement. Below are some of the answers. Concerning skills, 84% of administrative personnel consider that their work enables them to learn new things compared with 29% of workshop personnel. 76% of administrative personnel think they fully employ their skills in their work in contrast to 36% of workshop personnel. Finally, 42% of administrative personnel and 37% of workshop personnel regard their annual interview (employment and skills planning programme) as a useful tool. Concerning facilities, 76% of administrative personnel feel they have the right facilities to produce high-quality work compared with 44% of workshop personnel. 80% of administrative personnel think they receive the right information to produce high-quality work compared with 37% of workshop personnel. 84% of administrative personnel report they have the right facilities to handle emergencies and priorities compared with 46% of workshop personnel. As for work pressures, 24% of the GRIS DECOUPAGE workforce consider they have an excessive workload. 33% replied that they did not have enough time to do their work correctly. 82% frequently interrupt one task to deal with another, unplanned task and in that case 64% view this interruption as a negative aspect of their work. With regard to management, 64% of GRIS DECOUPAGE’s personnel think that the people issuing instructions are familiar with the work. 23% of GRIS DECOUPAGE employees consider they are consulted when there are technical or organisational changes. The results of this questionnaire were reported in the company’s internal newsletter. They were also presented by the occupational health psychologist and discussed at working group meetings with volunteers from different sectors. This work has given rise to twenty proposed action plans / avenues for improvement which will be reviewed and studied with Top Management and the Steering Committee members in early 2014 .  PERF 2013 project: organisation and social relationship To allow for its strong growth, strengthen its competitive edge and ensure that its organisational structure remains truly fit for purpose, GRIS DECOUPAGE’s Management undertook a thoroughgoing review of the organisation of its departments and the operation of the company in general. It engaged the services of a consulting firm to put in place an organisation capable of meeting the new challenges the company is preparing to address. This project is known as “PERF 2013”. After a year of work (interviews, working groups, Executive Committee strategic seminar), the performance objectives of the whole value chain could be identified. These include:  updating certain flagship macroprocesses,  creating a truly integrated supply chain,  creating a well-defined forward-looking function associated with the industrialisation department,  underpinning the whole organisation by a new Information System which will be part of the “ERP2015” project currently in preparation. The PERF 2013 project gave all employees the opportunity to take part in a process review and express their opinions on the strengths and weaknesses of the various departments with which they work. An action and performance plan has been drawn up to serve as a basis for putting the future organisation in place: Communication new organisation chart,surclarification le progrès 2008 of each person’s roles and responsibilities, creation of new posts, improvement of cross-functionality of operations and hence of communication within and between services. A range of actions will address the problems raised by the psychosocial risks initiative. Both initiatives were in fact conducted jointly. M E A S U R E M E N T O F R E S U L T S O B TA I N E D  Renegotiation of company profit-sharing agreements GRIS DECOUPAGE’s employees receive a bonus related to company performance calculated on the basis of the company’s operating income before depreciation and amortisation. Instalments are paid. The company makes an employer contribution representing 20% of the sums placed in a company savings scheme. In addition to this bonus, there is a special profit-sharing reserve for employees based on the legal formula and, further, in 2013 the workforce received a profit-sharing bonus of €150 /employee, 15% higher than in 2012.  Employee training Cost of training 120.00 € 109.25 € 106.50 € 5.00 4.47 95.05 € 4.50 100.00 € 4.00 3.93 Actual cost in K€ 80.00 € 69.98 € 3.50 3.32 3.00 Obligation 1.6% of payroll 2.73 60.00 € 2.50 2.00 40.00 € 41.04 € 43.34 € 45.87 € 1.50 39.09 € 1.00 20.00 € 0.50 0.00 € 0.00 2010 2011 2012 2013 Breakdown of training costs in 2013 Technical Office Systems 11% 5% Safety Accounts/Finance/HR 9% 23% Office Systems Quality 3% Accounts/Finance/HR Languages Quality Safety Technical Languages 49% The cost of training in 2013 was 45.87 K€. This represents 3.32% of the payroll, which is far higher than our obligation to spend 1.6% of the payroll. In 2013 there was an increase of over 9% in language training, giving a total of 49% of the overall cost of the training plan.  Gender equality Women hold positions of authority in the company, e.g. in Top Management and on the Executive Committee. In addition, women and men have equal access to training.  Human rights Meetings are held monthly between Top Management and the Trade Union Representative. These provide an opportunity to pass on employees’ questions and, whenever possible, find solutions.  Staff turnover The staff turnover rate for 2013 was 5.43%. This is relatively low when compared with the figures from the metallurgical and automotive sectors (staff turnover between 7% and 15%). A change can be noted in comparison with last year, when the rate was 7.14%. As a dynamically performing enterprise, GRIS DECOUPAGE has always favoured open-ended employment contracts as a way of combating job insecurity. In 2013 there were 90 open-ended contracts, 2 fixed-term contracts and 8 temporary agency workers.  Partnership with workers with disabilities Communication sur le progrès 2008 GRIS DECOUPAGE employs two people with officially recognised status as workers with disabilities. The company has also built up partnerships over a number of years with French support and work assistance establishments (CATs) and French associations for the paralysed (APFs). In 2012 this represented 6016 APF hours worked (i.e. approximately 4 fulltime individuals) and 946 CAT hours worked (i.e. 0.5 full-time individual for one year). M E A S U R E M E N T O F R E S U L T S O B TA I N E D  Work conducted with CHSCT members The members of the CHSCT are involved on a day-to-day basis in employee health and safety in the workplace. Internal safety audits are performed each quarter by the Health, Safety and Environment Manager and the CHSCT members. These internal audits provide an opportunity for reporting any malfunctions and drawing up any necessary action plans. Furthermore, the members of the CHSCT have taken part in meetings to update the single professional risk evaluation document, helped analyse work-related accidents and participated in actions conducted on the severe working condition record sheets in the various sectors (actions currently underway). Workshop inspections also take place jointly with the members of the CHSCT. If action plans need to be put in place, these are defined and validated together with the members of the CHSCT.  Communication to employees The safety action plan is regularly updated and distributed to employees. In addition, after each CHSCT meeting all personnel are given a leaflet describing the key points raised at the meeting. Articles on work performed in the area of health and safety in the workplace are also published regularly in the company’s internal newsletter. In 2013 the administrative personnel were also given awareness raising on screen work by an occupational health ergonomist and nurse. 2. ENVIRONMENT Under the terms of our ISO 14001 certification, we have to regularly test the procedures in place to deal with any emergencies that could arise in the company. Therefore, in order to test the fire instructions, a fire simulation drill with evacuation of the personnel was prepared and carried out with the SDIS 54 fire and rescue service on 21/11/2013. So that this exercise could take place in the best possible conditions, several prior exchanges were arranged with the fire-fighters: Awareness raising sessions on fire evacuation were held in March and April 2012 for all members of staff. Two preparatory meetings for the fire simulation drill were held in September / October 2013. This exercise helped identify the strengths of our site and the areas for improvement: Strengths The fire-fighters were well received on arrival at the site. A “contact person” was available to answer the fire-fighters’ questions and give them relevant information. The plan kept at the site entrance is complete and provides details on the types and quantities of products present in the company. All personnel quickly evacuated the site and gathered at the assembly point. Areas for improvement This exercise identified several points to be improved, e.g. additions to be made to the plan supplied to the firefighters, instructions to be drafted, account to be taken of the environmental pollution risk, etc. Following this exercise, action plans were prepared and incorporated into the Environment Quality Management Programme. Overall, this exercise provided us with the opportunity to review the fire risk and the internal means at our disposal to address it. 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION GRIS DECOUPAGE is not affected by this issue. However, our suppliers and subcontractors have been made aware of this problem. They have all been informed of our participation in the UN Global Compact. The contract we send them each year Communication requires sur them to uphold the basic values of human rights, labour standards, environment and antile progrès 2008 corruption. We also demand they ensure that no product sold has been made by children or by foreign nationals working illegally as undeclared labour in France.
