Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Contents Editorial Policy Contents • Editorial Policy • Corporate Profile 1 We publish the Minebea Group CSR Report annually as Commitment from the President 3 a way to inform our stakeholders of our Group’s CSR Establishment of Charitable Trust for Orphans approach and initiatives. In addition to representative of the Great East Japan Earthquake 5 initiatives described in this report, our website provides Obtaining the Highest Environmental Rating detailed information on corporate governance, from DBJ 6 environmental measures and various other activities. Minebea Products in Society 7 This year’s report provides an update on the status of measures we are taking to meet our CSR goals as well as case studies on ways we are engaging with local Special Developing Minebea’s CSR Together Feature 1 with the Local Community 9 communities in which we do business, including a stakeholder dialogue conducted at the Karuizawa Plant Special Nurturing a Culture in Pursuit of in Japan and locally rooted CSR activities in the United Feature 2 Sustainability 13 States. We consider the publication of the CSR Report to be Management Report one important means of communication with stakeholders, and in keeping with this approach, we CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results 17 have endeavored to make the contents relevant and Minebea Group CSR 19 clear. We are always pleased to receive forthright comments from our readers on our CSR activities. Compliance 20 Risk Management 21 Scope of report Social Report Minebea and its 55 group companies Relationships with Customers 22 Period covered by this report Relationships with Suppliers 24 FY2012 (April 1, 2012–March 31, 2013) Relationships with Employees 25 However, this includes some activities before this period Relationships with Local Communities and and from FY2013. Global Society 29 Publishing information Relationships with Shareholders 31 Published September 2013 (previous edition published September 2012; next edition planned for September 2014) Environmental Report Reference guidelines Environmental Management 32 Japanese Standards Association, ISO 26000:2010 Initiatives for Preventing Global Warming 34 (guidance on social responsibility) Initiatives for Effective Use of Resources 35 GRI “Sustainability Reporting Guidelines” (edition 3.1) Initiatives for Reducing Impacts on Japanese Ministry of the Environment “Environmental the Environment 36 Reporting Guidelines” (2007 edition) Product-related Initiatives for the Environment 37 Enquiries regarding this report CSR Promotion Office, Corporate Finance & Compliance Third-party Opinion 38 Promotion Division, Minebea Co., Ltd. TEL: +81-3-6758-6724 Information available on the CSR website: The Minebea Group website offers more detailed information on our CSR activities. The website also publishes reports on recent activities as necessary. Please see the website for more information. http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/environment/index.html 1 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Corporate Profile (as of March 31, 2013) Corporate name Minebea Co., Ltd. Headquarters 4106-73 Oaza Miyota, Miyota-machi, Kitasaku-gun, Nagano 389-0293, Japan TEL: +81-267-32-2200 Tokyo Head Office 3-9-6 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8330, Japan TEL: +81-3-6758-6711 Established July 16, 1951 Capital 68,258 million yen Yoshihisa Kainuma, Representative Director, Representative President and Chief Executive Officer Machined component business, electronic devices and Main business components business Net sales Consolidated: 282,409 million yen Operating income Consolidated: 10,169 million yen Ordinary income Consolidated: 7,673 million yen New Tokyo Head Office In January 2013, in conjunction with the establishment of the Tokyo Research & Development Center, the Tokyo Net income Consolidated: 1,804 million yen Head Office was relocated to Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo. Number of employees Consolidated: 53,327 persons Number of consolidated subsidiaries and affiliates 51 companies Net sales by business segment (FY2012) Total production by region (FY2012) Net sales by region (FY2012) Others Machined components North America Europe Others China (including Hong Kong) 4% 40% 8% 3% 18% 29% 9,726 113,573 (million yen) (million yen) Japan Electronic 8% devices and Malaysia components 1% 20% Europe 57,190 10% (million yen) Thailand 51% China United 25% States 10% Rotary components 36% Singapore Thailand Japan 101,919 4% 13% 20% (million yen) Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 2 Commitment from the President Looking Back on FY2012 The Minebea Group’s history spans more than 60 years, since its founding in 1951. When I was appointed head of the company four years ago, I felt a strong need to develop a foundation which anticipates our 100th anniversary, and I have committed both internally and externally to achieve this. A critical element to delivering on this commitment is communicating with and meeting the expectations of all of our stakeholders—including our employees, customers, shareholders, local communities, and the global society as affirmed in our basic management policy, the “Five Principles”—as well as suppliers and the environment. In FY2012, we implemented a number of CSR initiatives based on this awareness. The Minebea Group marked its 60th anniversary in July of 2011, the year in which the Great East Japan Earthquake struck. As a sign of respect towards the precious lives lost during this major disaster, we Yoshihisa Kainuma canceled commemorative business plans and instead, Representative Director in August 2012, we established the “Charitable Trust President and Chief Executive Officer Minebea Scholarship Fund for Orphans of the Great Minebea Co., Ltd. East Japan Earthquake.” We began the trust to commemorate the 60th anniversary of our founding, to show appreciation to all the people around the world initiatives. We are utilizing this rating to obtain who have supported us over the years, and to serve as environment rating-tied financing to build a new plant a social contribution project to instill employee pride in with the highest energy efficiency among domestic their company and work. In March 2013, we invited Group plants on the premises of our Matsuida Plant in junior high school scholarship recipients to Tokyo to Annaka, Gunma Prefecture (scheduled for completion celebrate their graduation, presented them with gift in November 2013). The new plant will maximize our money, and organized events for them. The cheerful, cumulative global know-how on energy-efficient plant positive demeanor of the young students despite their construction, boasting low-capacity air conditioners painful experiences reaffirmed our commitment to this through high thermal insulation and lower energy initiative. Going forward, through various activities we consumption using highly energy-efficient equipment. will continue to provide long-term and wide-ranging This design will make it possible to take environmentally support for children who have lost their parents, to conscious manufacturing to a new level. ensure they can enjoy fruitful lives. We also recognize the importance of deepening Furthermore, we have made progress bolstering our communication with local communities in order to environmental management based on the Minebea remain a company essential to society. In October Group’s long-held position that it is a company’s basic 2012, we invited the mayor and other community responsibility to reduce its environmental burden. As representatives of Miyota Town, Kitasaku District, evidence of our progress, in FY2012 we received an “A” Nagano Prefecture, to our headquarters, to join us in a rating, the highest possible, under the environmental dialogue. The discussions gave us an opportunity to rating system administered by the Development Bank of explain Minebea Group’s business and management Japan Inc. (DBJ) in recognition of reduction of policies and hear the various requests and opinions of environmental impact in manufacturing processes, the the community. Following the supplier dialogue held last supply of environmentally friendly products, and other year, this type of direct communication with our 3 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 stakeholders afforded an opportunity to make new by consolidating our accumulated expertise and Commitment from discoveries. We are actively using the opinions superior technological capabilities while transcending expressed to enhance the operation of our local plant organizational barriers between divisions to maximize the President and expansion of our business. At the same time, I our comprehensive strengths. Additionally, each of our would like to deepen trust by continuing these types of employees must aim to instill our manufacturing with consultations with all of our stakeholders. new ideas and practices unconstrained by yesterday’s notions. I am confident that achieving “smarter” ways Evolving Based on “Manufacturing with Sincerity” of manufacturing, combined with our traditional Hot Topics philosophy of manufacturing higher quality products, at As stated in our Basic CSR Policy, one of the core a lower price, faster, and in greater quantities, will missions of the Minebea Group is to efficiently and enable us to make even greater contributions to society stably provide a growing number of products with higher in the future. As part of this effort, we relocated our reliability and lower energy consumption to markets Tokyo Head Office to Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo in January around the world. In other words, we are striving to 2013. In conjunction with the move, we enhanced our thoroughly achieve our commitment to “manufacturing product development environment by opening a new Minebea Products with sincerity,” the basic belief behind our business. Tokyo Research & Development Center. The center Amid intense competition, we are striving for higher reinforces our R&D structure and promises to raise the efficiency and optimization and actively investing in effectiveness and efficiency of our product in Society R&D to generate new technologies. Over the years, our development. This center will spearhead our initiatives dedication to this approach to manufacturing has made to develop new products based on our precision Minebea the company it is today. machining, small motor and sensor technologies, as Special Feature In recent years, however, the business environment well as to innovate highly reliable hybrid components. has continued to change at a tremendous speed. The Through manufacturing that utilizes these innovations, Great East Japan Earthquake and the Thai floods in we will continue to seek to make even greater October 2011 highlighted the need for companies to contributions to society. develop more sophisticated systems to manage the risk of natural disasters and to find solutions through Passion Breeds Success: Working as One business activities. We have also witnessed rapid Management Report technological innovation and the shortening of business In striving to achieve “manufacturing with sincerity” and cycles, underscoring the need for us to take the Group’s earn the trust of society, there is nothing that can “manufacturing with sincerity” to another level. In the substitute for the strength of our employees. Our automotive industry, for example, to realize highly fuelsuccess rests on the ability of our employees to and energy-efficient cars, attention has turned to the maintain a broad-minded perspective, encourage one development of high-performance parts to meet other to self-improvement, and work with passion. stringent standards. We supply high-performance I have often said that to achieve an objective, there is Social Report resolvers (rotation angle sensors) which help to raise nothing more important than passion. Our corporate the energy efficiency of cars and the driving message, “Passion to Exceed Precision,” reflects the performance of hybrid electric vehicles (HEV) and passion our employees have to go beyond the scope of electric vehicles (EV). Last year, we developed a new traditional precision parts manufacturing and evolve VR-type resolver for the drive motors of EVs and began into a new kind of manufacturing company. Everyone in supplying this to automakers. Additionally, this autumn the Minebea Group cherishes this message, which Environmental we will begin mass production of bearing units for binds us together to achieve greater things in the future. turbochargers, which help to reduce the size of car This report describes the business activities and engines. In these and other ways, we are fulfilling our CSR initiatives we have undertaken in that spirit. I look Report mission to society in diverse fields. forward to the comments of readers. We firmly believe in the need to develop our manufacturing capabilities even further to continually meet society’s expectations. One way we will do this is Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 4 Hot Topics Establishment of a Charitable Trust for Orphans of the Great East Japan Earthquake In August 2012, Minebea established the “Charitable Trust Minebea Scholarship Fund for Orphans of the Great East Japan Earthquake” in order to support children who lost their parents in the disaster. The trust is providing support for these orphans until their graduation from junior high school. grants of ¥100,000 for orphans of elementary school Watching over the Growth of Orphans and junior high age. The fund pays the grants annually The Great East Japan Earthquake of 2011 caused until junior high school graduation in order to ensure massive damage and claimed many precious lives. An long-term support for the children. The grants have no estimated 240 children lost their parents in the disaster. restrictions and may be used for any purpose. As a result, these children are unable to receive the kind Many people in the disaster region are providing of educational support they could have normally generous support for the trust. For example, in order to expected. Out of concern for these children’s welfare, ensure fairness of trust operations, educators in three Minebea decided it was necessary for society as a prefectures (Fukushima, Miyagi, and Iwate) have whole to provide long-term, comprehensive support to volunteered to join the operational committee. ensure that the children, as well as relations and other people raising them in place of their parents, do not feel isolated from society as time passes. On the basis of this thinking, Minebea established the “Charitable Trust Minebea Scholarship Fund for Orphans of the Great East Japan Earthquake” as an endowment. The fund will provide annual scholarship Charitable trust operational committee Aiming to Provide Wide-ranging, Employees Participate as Supporters Long-term Support I took part in the ceremonies for graduating students with a desire to support people from the disaster In 2012, the trust received 117 applications and region. I was somewhat uneasy about whether I was up approved grants to all the applicants. In March 2013, to the task of supporting children who had been junior high school children receiving support from the through so much, losing not only their parents but relatives, friends and other loved ones. Instead I was trust were invited to Tokyo to celebrate their graduation, truly heartened by the bright, smiling faces of the receive congratulatory gifts and take part in various students and their steady focus on the events. Many of the children commented that they future. The Minebea scholarship fund would cherish memories of the occasion and expressed is unique in that it is grant aid which appreciation for the opportunity to learn about society. can be used by students for anything and provides long-term support for In its first three years, the fund is expected to make over 10 years. I feel a strong desire to contributions of ¥130 million. From its fourth year, in work steadily each day in order to do consideration of the estimated applications, the fund my part in providing support for these Akane Matsuda will have a maximum of ¥230 million available for future children. President’s Office contributions. projects to commemorate our 60 th anniversary in 2011 Fulfilling our Mission with Pride and to express our appreciation to the many One of our “Five Principles,” our basic management stakeholders who have supported us over the years. To policy, specifies that we will be a company where our continually realize our aspirations, we must fulfill our employees are proud to work. For Minebea, support for mission of consistently generating a certain level of orphans in the disaster region is a social contribution profit through sound business activities. Going forward, project which heightens the pride our employees have we will engage with our stakeholders as we strive for in the company. The scholarship fund is also one of the “manufacturing with sincerity.” 5 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Obtaining the Highest Environmental Rating from DBJ In July 2012, Minebea received an “A” rating, the highest possible, under the environmental rating system administered by the Development Bank of Japan Inc. (DBJ). We have obtained environmental rating-tied financing from DBJ based on this, which will be used to advance our environmentally conscious management. Commitment from the President assessment that its environmentally conscious Minebea’s Environmental Management Level initiatives are particularly advanced. The evaluation Environmental rating-tied loans are loans whose specifically noted our efforts to lower the environmental financing terms are decided based on an assessment of burden in manufacturing processes by producing the company’s environmental management level and manufacturing equipment in-house, as well as the the long-term sustainability of its business. The development of environmentally conscious products by Hot Topics environmental management assessment screens leveraging ultra-high-precision machined components. companies on the basis of overall management, The assessment also lauded our aim for business-related factors, and performance-related comprehensive sustainable management as reflected factors, assigning an overall rating on a four-level scale in the formulation of a medium-term CSR plan and the from A, the highest, to D, the lowest. In FY2012, holding of stakeholder dialogues. Minebea received an “A” rating based on the Exemplary Initiatives Minebea Products Overall management Business-related Performance-related • Clear medium-term plan for CSR • Broad lineup of environmentally conscious products • Achievement of 40% improvement in Society activities achieving resource efficiency, lightweight design, in energy efficiency at new ball • Holding of a supplier dialogue energy efficiency bearing plant constructed within • Consideration of employee diversity, • Formulation of criteria for Minebea Green Products Bang Pa-in Plant in Thailand, and work-life balance based on unique characteristics of each type of product compared with previous plants • Execution of social contribution • Procurement activities based on the CSR Procurement • Achieving zero wastewater at two activities at global sites Guidelines Thai plants and two Chinese plants Special Feature Aiming for an Even Higher Level of Energy efficiency measures at the new Matsuida Plant Environmentally Conscious Manufacturing Measure Purpose Effect Reduction % (target) Insulation against heat from direct Air conditioner Though many of our environmental initiatives have 1 Roof insulation sunlight on roof and external air heat capacity reduction 10%received positive assessments, the evaluation Insulation against heat from direct Exterior wall Air conditioner processes have shown us that there are many ways in 2 insulation sunlight on walls and external capacity reduction 10%air heat which we need to improve our global warming Management Report Prevention of external air and dust intake Air conditioner countermeasures. New financing will be used to 3 Windbreak room and escape of internally controlled air capacity reduction 10%actively address these issues and advance initiatives to Minimization of Reduction of air conditioned room Air conditioner 4 10%raise the level of environmentally consciousness of our room capacity capacity capacity reduction business operations. 5 Substation Use of highly efficient transformer Power loss reduction 5%With the financing, we Electric power Suitable management 6 Electric power demand monitoring 15%are building a new plant monitoring equipment of equipment operation with the highest energy Energy-efficient Use of highly efficient lighting, LED Electric power 7 lights, luminance correction and auto 10%efficiency among domestic lighting on and off control functions burden reduction Group plants on the Social Report Energy-efficient Use of inverter air conditioners and Suitable equipment premises of our new 8 inverters fans operation 30%Matsuida Plant (scheduled Air conditioning Electric power 9 Use of highly efficient air conditioners 10%for completion in Artist’s impression of the completed New equipment burden reduction November 2013). The new Matsuida Plant (building in the foreground) 10 Air exhaust Use of eco-fans Electric power 6%equipment burden reduction plant’s thermal insulation features will enable low-capacity air conditioners, while substations and 11 Reduction in external air intake for air conditioning Use of total heat exchangers Air conditioner capacity reduction 5%other equipment will lower energy consumption and the Suitable air Use of flow regulating valves and Electric power electrical burden. With this plant design, we are 12 10%Environmental pressure pressure reducing valves burden reduction preparing for a higher level of environmentally conscious Cooling with outside Use of cold outside air for manufacturing Electric power 13 10%manufacturing. Report air in winter processes generating high heat burden reduction Moving forward, as a Group we have set a target of 14 Fuel gas Change from heavy oil air Greenhouse gas 20%reducing our CO2 emissions per unit of production 5% conditioning to gas systems reduction by FY2015 (in comparison to FY2010) by pursuing new Reduction in water 15 Health facilities Use of waterless urinals consumption and 10%initiatives both at the Matsuida Plant and in other areas wastewater generation of our business, including raising logistics efficiency and bolstering our measures at other sites. *Please see P32for a detailed explanation of environmental initiatives we are currently taking. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 6 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Minebea Products in Society The ball bearings, motors, and electronic devices that we manufacture are incorporated in a wide range of final products, improving the lives of people around the world, and helping to bring about a richer society. Although our products are not normally visible to consumers, this page will introduce the role they play in society. Telecommunication base stations Service robots Hydrofoil boats CT scanners Automobiles Crossing gates Trains Vacuum cleaners Audio-visual equipment Dental handpieces Bathroom scales Televisions Game devices/DVD & Blu-ray players Power tools Machined components Electronic devices and components Products Products Ball bearings, rod end & spherical Hard disc drive spindle motors, small bearings, roller bearings, fasteners, precision motors, stepping motors, pivot assemblies, precision brushless motors, fan motors machined components Product applications Product applications Personal computers, hard disc drives, Personal computers, hard disc drives, information and telecommunications information and telecommunications equipment, OA equipment, consumer equipment, OA equipment, consumer electronics, audio-visual equipment, mobile electronics, audio-visual equipment, phone communication base stations, ATMs, automobiles, aircraft industrial machinery, automobiles 7 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Space rockets Aircraft Commitment from the President Lighting equipment Multi-function copier-printers Hot Topics Industrial machinery PCs Air-conditioners Minebea Products in Society Special Feature Portable music players Digital cameras Mobile phones Management Report Fishing equipment Social Report ATMs Products Products Lighting devices for liquid crystal displays, Special components measuring components, heat management Environmental system modules (HMSM), next-generation Product applications input devices, LED drivers Industrial machinery, defense Report equipment, automobiles Product applications Personal computers, digital cameras, mobile phones, smartphones, portable music players, projectors, measuring equipment, automobiles, space rockets, lighting equipment Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 8 Special Developing Minebea’s CSR Feature 1 Together with the Local Community Minebea recently held a stakeholder dialogue at the Karuizawa plant with citizens of Miyota Town, Kitasaku District, Nagano Prefecture, where the company’s headquarters is located. First, company representatives explained the business and key environmental initiatives. A dialogue was then held with citizens to discuss their various questions and requests. Miyota Town Mayor Mr. Yuji Moteki Miyota Town Chamber of Commerce Chairman Mr. Akinori Kashiwagi Miyota Town Council Vice-Chairman Mr. Takeshi Sasazawa Miyota Town Tourism Association Chairman Mr. Katsuhiko Sakurai Miyota Town Chairman, Board of Education Mr. Takao Uehara Miyota Town Office Manager, General Administration Division Mr. Shigenobu Shimizu Miyota Town Office Manager, Citizen Affairs Division Mr. Kiyosumi Odai Miyota Town Deputy Mayor Mr. Toyohiko Uchibori Miyota Town Office Manager, Industrial and Economic Affairs Division Mr. Mamoru Iizuka Dialogue Participants Committee of Miyota Town area mayors Chairman (Mayor of Shiono area) Mr. Tadashi Kanazawa Miyota Town Office Manager, Construction Division Mr. Hiroshi Ogihara Asama Highland Sports Club President Ms. Mikiko Tsuchiya Miyota Town Office Assistant Manager, Planning and Finance Division Mr. Haruki Ogihara (incorporated non-profit organization) Miyota Town Mr. Sakio Takayama Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Education Minebea Co., Ltd. Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi Chief of HDD Motor Manufacturing Headquarters Miyota Junior High School Principal Mr. Naoya Kodama Managing Executive Officer, Officer in charge of Minebea Co., Ltd. Mr. Masayuki Imanaka Miyota Kita Elementary School Principal Mr. Hirohisa Asachi Finance & Compliance Promotion Division Minebea Co., Ltd. General Manager, Plant Maintenance Department Mr. Kazunari Shimizu Miyota Minami Elementary School Principal Mr. Shoichi Kobayashi Senior Manager, Karuizawa Personnel and General Committee of Miyota Town area mayors Vice-Chairman (Mayor of Heiwadai area) Mr. Iwai Sasaki Minebea Co., Ltd. Mr. Yasuyuki Orimo Affairs Department Committee of Miyota Town area mayors Vice-Chairman (Mayor of Mukaihara area) Mr. Masahiro Tokuyoshi Senior Manager, Group Environment Minebea Co., Ltd. Mr. Masayuki Onoyama Management Department Miyota Town Physical Training Association Chairman Mr. Eiichi Odai Minebea Co., Ltd. General Manager, CSR Promotion Office Mr. Masaki Ishikawa The Hachijuni Bank, Ltd. Branch Manager, Miyota Branch Mr. Noboru Watanuki Minebea Co., Ltd. CSR Promotion Office Mr. Hidenori Kobayashi Chairman, Civic Construction and Miyota Town Council Mr. Hiromu Furukoshi Cre-en Inc. CSR Consultant Mr. Takehiko Mizukami Economy Committee *Titles of participants are current as of date of stakeholder dialogue (October 25, 2012) Introduction combined 13% of all municipal tax revenues, including corporate and property taxes. Of those seven largest Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: This year corporate taxpayers, Minebea alone accounts for about marks the 50th anniversary of 30% of tax revenues. Minebea’s operation in Miyota Town. Currently, our population stands The enduring support of the at about 15,000 people, but we have citizens of Miyota is one reason we a goal of increasing that to 20,000 have been able to operate without under our “20,000 Park Town incident for a half century. Today, we Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi, Concept” aimed at revitalizing the Minebea would like to hear from the citizens of community and its economy. We the town, whose support we enjoy on a daily basis, and would love to see more Minebea Mr. Yuji Moteki, Mayor, Miyota Town reflect the outcome of the discussions in our activities employees purchase and rent homes moving forward. Thank you in advance for your kind in our town. To that end, we would appreciate having the cooperation. town introduced to your employees as a great place to live, perhaps through your in-house magazine. Working Together to Energize the Community Mr. Yasuyuki Orimo: Currently, about 200 of our employees are living in singles dormitories in the town, Mr. Yuji Moteki: Miyota Town has developed over the and another 50 families are living in company housing years thanks to the support we have received from local here. Under the company rules, single employees must business over a long time. In the past several years, the move out of the dormitory after 12 years of residence, largest seven companies have accounted for a and other employees must move out of company 9 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 housing after 15 years. We would like to cooperate with also be beneficial for the town. the town in promoting the qualities of Miyota Town to Mr. Yasuyuki Orimo: Just as you those employees. You are already providing us with mentioned, between 30-50 people posters on events in the town, and we would like to visit our plant daily. We will place Commitment from actively place them in the cafeteria and other prominent maps of the town showing local places around the company facilities. eateries and other shops so that the President Mr. Masayuki Imanaka: We publish an in-house Mr. Yasuyuki Orimo, people can easily stop by. Minebea magazine twice a year. The Corporate Communications Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: The employee Office is responsible for the magazine, and they publish cafeteria is operated by an outside company, and we CSR-related articles in each issue. The CSR Promotion will begin discussions with that company soon. Office is also involved and we will collaborate with all Regarding sundry goods we use within the plant, for Hot Topics the parties to promote the town. goods that can be procured locally, we will study Mr. Toyohiko Uchibori: The town’s administration is whether or not we can switch all of the procurement to implementing a number of excellent welfare, education local goods. and other policies to ensure we can compete with the Mr. Takeshi Sasazawa: In regard to the parts you use surrounding municipalities on quality of living. Also, in your products, it would also be beneficial to the town land is relatively cheap compared to other areas. community if you procured these parts locally. Minebea We would appreciate it if Minebea could promote those may produce many of the parts for its products advantages. internally, but could you tell us how many local Minebea Products in Society Mr. Noboru Watanuki: At the same time, it would be companies you procure from, not just in Miyota, but in great if Minebea could find more opportunities to Saku City, Komoro City and other local municipalities? introduce its business and products Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: We do not have any major local to the community. The people of suppliers, but there are many smaller local suppliers we Miyota are very proud to host the work with. We have a basic policy of actively Special Feature mother plant of an illustrious global outsourcing business. company which has been here since 1963. You have a very large Environmental Management at the Plant Mr. Noboru Watanuki, presence in our community. Even Hachijuni Bank though we all know Minebea is an Mr. Takeshi Sasazawa: I would like amazing company, many people do not know exactly to ask you one question in regard to what the company makes. If, for example, your products environmental management activities Management Report were exhibited at Miyota Station, the gateway to the carried out by the plant, that you town, people from out of town could learn a lot and the explained earlier. Looking at the data town’s children could also discover that this is a from the Saku Water Supply company that makes parts for Boeing airplanes, for Mr. Takeshi Sasazawa, Authority, it appears your plant’s Miyota Town Council example. It would also encourage young people to water consumption has declined dream of working at Minebea here in the future. significantly. Are you using well water? Mr. Masayuki Imanaka: We agree that it would be very Mr. Kazunari Shimizu: In the past, we drew water from Social Report effective for townspeople to get to know our products a local well, but there was a concern it could cause land better. The train station is operated by Shinano Railway, subsidence and other problems, so we no longer use it. so we would appreciate the support of town Currently, for everything but drinking water, we use administrators in arranging exhibits there. spring water from a spring inside the Mr. Noboru Watanuki: I believe your plant draws not plant grounds. The spring has an only visitors from Tokyo, but customers, salespeople output of about 1,000 tons of water and representatives of subcontractors from all over the per day. In the past, when the spring world. The town would benefit greatly if those visitors wasn’t used, it caused flooding in the Environmental Report patronized local eateries and other businesses. residential areas around the plant Additionally, Miyota is well known for its buckwheat during heavy rains, so we came up Mr. Kazunari Shimizu, Minebea noodles, leaf vegetables, and other foods, and the with a system a few years ago to regular use of these by your employee cafeteria would reuse the water. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 10 Special Feature 1: Developing Minebea’s CSR Together with the Local Community Mr. Masayuki Imanaka: The Development Bank of Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: We have many employees who Japan has an environmental management assessment could talk about our global business with your students. system to rate companies with superior programs, and We look forward to having discussions with your in 2012, we received the highest rating, “A.” We were educators to make this happen and hearing more about among a handful of private companies that received this what the children would most like to hear about. We’d ranking. That makes us proud of the fact that we have like to consider not only lessons for your junior high sound environmental programs. school, but for your elementary schools as well. Mr. Takao Uehara: On a related topic, exactly what kind Employees Sharing their Know-How of people is Minebea interested in hiring? Through Lectures to Students Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: It changes from year to year. This year, we focused on bolstering our manufacturing Mr. Takao Uehara: I am the capabilities and placed an emphasis on people for our chairman of the town’s Board of manufacturing operations. In five or 10 years, we may Education, and from my viewpoint, a seek to strengthen research and development, and then large company like Minebea is like a we would hire more university graduates. “treasure chest” of knowledge and skills. Internship Program for University Students Mr. Takao Uehara, Chairman, Miyota Would it be possible to open this Town Board of treasure chest to the community by Ms. Mikiko Tsuchiya: Following up Education having your employees visit schools with the discussion on education, I to share their knowledge, skills, and experience with think it would be beneficial if you children? created more opportunities for Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: Please tell us more about your elementary and junior high school idea of employees giving lectures. students to learn that this illustrious Mr. Takao Uehara: For example, having your company, the “Global Minebea,” is Ms. Mikiko Tsuchiya, Asama Highland employees give science lessons at junior high schools. located right here in their hometown. Sports Club (incorporated Mr. Naoya Kodama: Minebea’s bearing products are Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: In the near non-profit organization) used in many different applications future, we would like to arrange around the world, and just a regular plant tours for elementary discussion of that would raise and junior high school students. They could take a tour students’ awareness of technology. of the facilities and then have discussions with us over a In the past, Minebea cooperated tea break. It’s important to build a tradition of those with our vocational study program at types of events. the junior high school. Now, we’re Mr. Naoya Kodama, Ms. Mikiko Tsuchiya: I’m the mother of a university Miyota Junior High trying to find out the kind of skills School student. Speaking from that viewpoint, I would like to people need to be useful members of see Minebea, with its global business scope, offer society. If we can determine what skills young people internship programs to university students from Miyota. need, we have a better idea of what students need to Mr. Yasuyuki Orimo: In the past, the Karuizawa Plant learn at junior high and high schools. I think it would be has not actively hosted interns, but from this year we great if your employees could provide talks to students are hosting graduate students, though not limited to and nurture their dreams. local students. Of course, from the company’s Mr. Yuji Moteki: Whenever I have discussions with standpoint, the program is a very important way of people from Minebea, it’s always a stimulating having young people understand our business, and in experience, and I feel my horizons have broadened. the future we must continue to enhance it. You have a global business strategy, pursuing dynamic At the same time, it’s not something we can do business on a huge scale. It would be a great lightly. For some students, the internship counts as educational benefit for children to experience this global credit towards their degree, so we cannot simply take vision. the students in and have them do something. We need 11 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 to ensure that we have a precisely managed program, where students make a presentation at the end of their internship, for example. We want the program to be a good experience for the students. Commitment from Building Trust Through Dialogue the President Mr. Toyohiko Uchibori: Minebea has cooperated on the preservation of the local environment in many The Plant Manager explains the product lineup to visitors different ways over the years. We are very grateful for your assistance in beautifying the community’s landscape, through the planting of cherry trees inside Hot Topics the plant site and your help adding flowerbeds to town Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: It’s important to have regular sidewalks. opportunities to sit down face to face to have In March 2002, a townscape discussions on all kinds of topics. Could we schedule planning agreement was created for two regular dialogues a year, for instance? the Obayashi area. Based on the Mr. Takao Uehara: How would autumn and spring do? Minebea Products agreement, we formed a Townscape We could start the first regular meeting from next April Committee, which Minebea to match the start of the fiscal year. in Society generously chaired for two years, Mr. Eiichi Kobayashi: That’s a plan. Beginning in 2013, leading townscape planning and Mr. Toyohiko Uchibori, we will have regular dialogues in April and October Deputy Mayor, development efforts to build an Miyota Town each year. It’s important that the dialogue not end after appealing community. We would a couple of years, but continue year after year. appreciate your continued cooperation moving forward. Mr. Masayuki Imanaka: This will be a very important Special Feature Mr. Tadashi Kanazawa: In that sense, we’re very event from a CSR standpoint as well, so I would like to grateful that Minebea has created this opportunity for invite the CSR staff to join in the discussions. communication with the local citizens. Of course, the presence of Conclusion companies in the community increases the number of residents Mr. Masayuki Imanaka: On behalf of all of us at Management Report and this is very beneficial. At the Minebea, I would like to thank the citizens of Miyota for same time, the number of people from sharing their valuable views with us today. Minebea outside the community also rises. As operates on the basis of “Five Principles,” one of which Mr. Tadashi Kanazawa, Committee of Miyota a result, vehicle traffic increases and is: “Work in harmony with the local Town area mayors drivers speed on our backstreets. community.” Today’s dialogue will Dangerous driving is typical of the help us to advance our CSR kinds of problems we face with population increases. management and build even closer Social Report Ideally, we would like to hold these dialogues on a relations with the citizens of the regular basis so that we could share our community community. We look forward to problems and find solutions together. moving ahead hand in hand with Mr. Masayuki Imanaka, Mr. Yasuyuki Orimo: The issue with unsafe driving is Miyota’s citizens. Minebea very regrettable. In the past, we have responded to similar issues the town has brought up, but we understand that our efforts are still insufficient in some areas and we plan to redouble our measures. Environmental Overall, we plan to work harder than ever building Report trust with the community by continuing to hold these types of dialogue. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 12 Special Feature 2 Nurturing a Culture in Pursuit of Sustainability — Initiatives by New Hampshire Ball Bearings, Inc. (United States) — New Hampshire Ball Bearings, Inc. (NHBB) is a manufacturing subsidiary of Minebea in the United States. Operating three plants in New Hampshire and California, the company produces bearings for the aerospace, Laconia Plant Chatsworth Plant defense and medical markets. NHBB is one of the five largest corporations in New Hampshire and has close ties Peterborough Plant to the community. This special feature introduces NHBB’s approach to sustainability in the United States as a Minebea Group company. Ingraining Sustainability into Our Corporate Culture Sustainability at NHBB Sustainability at NHBB is founded upon our mission and values. In the 1990s, we implemented organizational development programs with the aim of enhancing our capabilities as an organization. This entailed transforming the culture, in other words our values and Gary C. Yomantas President NHBB actions, and the structure of our organization in order to Managing Executive Officer Minebea Co., Ltd. strengthen its foundations. We spent several years carrying out various studies and analyzing the current about best practices overseas and formulation of state of the organization and then used the results to strategic plans. Sustainability is embodied in our daily establish a mission and values that would serve as actions. We don’t tell employees that they need to guides for doing business. Our mission is “To exceed practice sustainability or carry out CSR activities the expectations of our customers through an because the most important part of promoting empowered organization resulting in profitable growth sustainability is incorporating it into employees’ daily and world class leadership.” Quality, Integrity, actions. By changing the way employees act, we can Partnerships, A Learning Organization and Social establish a culture that allows us to push ahead with Sensibility are our five values. activities that in 10 years we can look back on and say, One of those values, Social Sensibility, “That was for sustainability.” encompasses our environmental responsibilities, civic responsibilities and the health and safety of our Advancing Activities employees. These ideas have long been fundamental in line with a Sustainability Vision values of our business and I believe that is why NHBB has been able to keep developing all these years. In 2011, we newly established a Vision of Sustainability Given this history, we do not treat sustainability as a and Values of Sustainability to entrench sustainability special activity, but rather as inherent to the business as part of our corporate culture. The Sustainability process and as part of our corporate culture. We Vision declares NHBB’s aim to nurture “a company believe that all activities undertaken at plants contribute culture which fosters long-term economic, social and to sustainability. These include improvements made to environmental viability.” In accordance with this policy, cleaning systems to reduce water usage, research into we are working to incorporate the concept of the introduction of solar power generation, learning sustainability into all NHBB’s different principles and all 13 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 its divisions and in doing so build up a culture that achieving greater sustainability. allows achievement of long-term management plans In New Hampshire—where two of our plants are alongside greater sustainability. located—it is very difficult to secure technically To help realize this vision, we formulated a qualified employees because not only is the population Sustainability Roadmap. The Sustainability Roadmap aging, but manufacturing is not as popular as other aggregates the roadmaps of individual divisions. It industries. We therefore work with the state government Commitment from includes, for example, research into new parts washing to provide training so that people in the community may system technologies for reducing the environmental develop an interest in manufacturing and acquire skills. burden of products, as well as activities carried out We also offer internships to university students as a way the President jointly with suppliers to improve production efficiency, of providing actual job experience. By also pushing and sets down specific action targets in regard to each ahead with technological development, we can make of the social, environmental and economic aspects of improvements allowing us to do away with business. manufacturing processes that demand advanced skills, Our relationships with stakeholders such as our which would be useful in getting around the shortage of Hot Topics customers, suppliers, local communities and human resources. employees are vital for achieving sustainable business Supply chain management is another area we need activities. For that reason, we seek communication with to direct energy into. A major qualityor stakeholders in a wide range of settings. environment-related issue occurring within the supply Such activities are carried out across the company chain would likely have a negative impact on our own Minebea Products as cross-functional efforts with the Sustainability profit and so we need to strengthen management. We Committee playing a central role. Starting out as the hope to strengthen the technical side of supply chain in Society EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) Committee, management through measures such as hiring new promoting environmental, health and safety initiatives, engineers. the Sustainability Committee took shape as EHS Committee personnel from legal, sales and human To Keep Developing into the Future resources divisions—which are crucial divisions for the Special Feature sustainability effort—were brought in to strengthen the NHBB’s Vision of Sustainability and Values of organization. Besides keeping tabs on progress made Sustainability indicate our approach to ensuring against the Sustainability Roadmap, the Sustainability business continuity over the long term. They show that Committee holds training courses to build awareness we will continue to deliver value to customers and, by about sustainability and also prepares plans and visions making a profit, continue to give back to employees and in readiness for the next challenge. people in the community. As a Minebea Group company, NHBB will nurture a company culture and Management Report promote sustainability through strategic measures Overcoming the Challenges Ahead looking ahead 15 to 20 years into the future to bring us NHBB is now faced with two major challenges in closer to realizing this vision. By doing so, we hope to promoting sustainability. The first is securing technically carry on being a corporation that touches all qualified employees, and the other is strengthening stakeholders. supply chain management. Both are essential for Social Report NHBB’s Sustainability Vision A Culture which Fosters Long Term Economic, Social, and Environmental Viability l NHBB’s Sustainability Values gi lo ip no sh ca Pr od uc ch er tO Te ead ffe NHBB recognizes the broad risk profile we face, and the necessity of managing risk with equal L rin g regard to people, place and profit. NHBB seeks to improve our competitive advantage by striving to be an employer and supplier Environmental of choice. ven g Dri Sustainability C NHBB seeks innovative solutions, and leverages resources by encouraging inter-disciplinary Res ustom Report pon e thinking and problem-solving. etin sive r Mark an nes f it Pl o et Pr s NHBB seeks to eliminate waste and maximize the efficiency of resource utilization in its • P e o ple • manufacturing and business practices. Continuous Improvement NHBB’s products and manufacturing practices contribute to the sustainable development of Culture the global environment and humanity. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 14 Special Feature 2 Nurturing a Culture in Pursuit of Sustainability — Initiatives by New Hampshire Ball Bearings, Inc. (United States) — Sustainability initiatives could be called “activities for exceeding the expectations of various stakeholders.” Placing importance on ties with customers and other stakeholders, including suppliers, local communities and employees, NHBB advances activities that allow the company to keep developing together with those stakeholders. Here we introduce some of our sustainability initiatives. Many suppliers are small companies with 10 or fewer Customers employees and as such are unable to respond Meeting Quality, Delivery and Environmental adequately to environmental challenges and regulations. Expectations NHBB supports efforts by suppliers by dispatching To ensure business continuity into the future, we have to facilities teams dedicated to energy and resource listen to customers who use our products and meet their savings to suppliers’ production facilities where they expectations. To learn what customers’ expectations are, carry out surveys and analyses of energy usage and NHBB conducts customer satisfaction surveys targeting waste generation and give advice for making the main customers of each business unit. We ask improvements. In one case, a supplier was discarding a questions on around 40 topics, which include large amount of metal scrap as waste until NHBB service-related areas such as legal matters and referred the company to a recycler. The supplier now formalities in addition to product costs, value and earns revenue from what used to be waste because of delivery. Findings are then shared with plants so that this joint recycling effort. Enormous benefits have also improvements can be made. been achieved in terms of reduced energy usage and Customers’ strongest requests concern product costs and recycling of resources. quality and delivery dates. From aerospace customers, in particular, we also receive requests concerning fuel efficiency improvements, noise reduction and other Employees aspects related to the environment due to their need to Raising Employee Awareness and Nurturing a respond to strict environmental regulations. NHBB Sustainability Culture makes an effort to stay in close touch with customers as In order to achieve greater sustainability, it is important we seek to develop products that meet their that we raise employee awareness and transform our requirements. organization to establish a culture based on sustainability. By incorporating elements of sustainability into all activities and implementing them, employee Suppliers mentality will change and so will our corporate culture. It Making Environmental Improvements Together is more effective to make employees aware about with Suppliers sustainability by changing their day-to-day actions than To achieve sustainability, NHBB has to promote by sitting them down and showing them some slides. sustainability throughout the supply chain. We therefore NHBB has made an open door policy part of its meet with suppliers to exchange information on culture as a way to facilitate communication with initiatives relating to quality and the environment and employees. Under a principle of open and frank provide assistance for improvements to suppliers’ communication, employees can talk to their boss at any production activities. time and are free to ask questions in meetings held regularly to share information on managerial matters. Local Communities Developing Together with the Community Because we believe that NHBB cannot develop without development of the local community, we place great importance on our relationship with the region. That relationship is diverse. Our support for a local solar car contest is an example of the opportunities we create in order to deepen interaction with people working and living nearby. NHBB also has a volunteer program in Meeting with suppliers 15 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 place to support employee participation in the activities and plants. NHBB does this in line with its Sustainability of non-profit organizations and we provide financial Roadmap through a wide range of environmental assistance to NPOs in which employees take part as activities. To save energy, NHBB has introduced volunteers. reflective coatings and high-efficiency cooling systems, and has set a target of reducing CO2 emissions 5% by Commitment from Contributing to the Development of 2015 (based on 2010 levels). To save resources, the Local Human Resources company has stepped up recycling of cutting fluid and the President It is sufficient to say that manufacturing sustains plastics as well as improvements to cleaning systems. economic development in New Hampshire—the location NHBB applies the experience acquired through of NHBB’s Peterborough and Laconia plants—as around these activities by playing an active role in environmental one third of the state’s top 100 companies in terms of policy formulation for New Hampshire. In 2009, we were sales are manufacturers. However, few young people part of a task force responsible for developing the state’s Hot Topics today have an interest in manufacturing and highly Climate Action Plan. The Climate Action Plan is still used skilled engineers are on the decline, making it hard to as a roadmap for the state’s environmental activities. secure talented human resources. NHBB has responded by implementing a wide range Introduction of “re:cool” of programs to assist development of engineers in the Coolant Recycling System region. They include an internship program offering NHBB uses a system called “re:cool” to make effective university students in fields such as mechanical use of coolant and metal emitted during the bearing Minebea Products engineering four months’ work experience at one of our grinding process. Coolant reuse was previously plants. The experience gives the students greater complicated by fine metal swarf in the used fluid. Using in Society confidence about their future and a number of interns “re:cool,” coolant and swarf are separated and briquettes have opted to come and work for NHBB after graduation. are created to enable recycling of the metal. The system NHBB also has a major involvement in the operation also enables completely closed recycling of coolant, of a technical training institute in the region. Besides which is reverted to its pre-use state through processes reviewing and transforming its existing six-month such as centrifugal separation and filtration. As a result, Special Feature curriculum into a four-year program, NHBB supplies NHBB has managed to reduce annual disposal of machines and systems for use in practical training. coolant by around 5,700 liters and increase the volume of These efforts have led to more trainees enrolling. Some metal sales. This success has prompted us to students who complete their training and go on to recommend the system to suppliers. university will one day end up working as engineers for NHBB. These efforts to develop human resources are valuable for both the community and NHBB as the needs Management Report of each are filled. Social Report A scene from the recycling process Efforts to Conserve Water Resources Students receiving practical training at technical training institute In California water resources are scarce and reducing Environmental water usage is a major issue. NHBB has taken action to reduce the amount of water used in the product cleaning Report Environment process by switching cleaning agents. Annual water Reducing the Environmental Impact of Plants usage has been halved as a result. Now we are planning In order to meet rigid environmental standards put in to reduce water usage further by switching to place by customers and local environmental regulations, environmentally friendly solvents for other processes we need to reduce the environmental impact of products that use water. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 16 Management Report CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results Results for FY2012 and Goals for FY2013 and the Medium Term FY2012 Goals FY2012 Results Continue to promote PDCA management for CSR activities CSR Promoted PDCA management of CSR using medium-term and annual targets CSR Management Disseminated president’s message upon publication of CSR Report Continue to promote internal awareness activities for CSR 2012, introduced CSR activities in internal company magazine, and CSR held seminar for CSR coordinators Management Appointed executive-rank compliance officers at each site and assigned one staff Continue to bolster compliance system for domestic and member in charge of compliance and multiple sub-staff members in charge of compliance overseas sites Compliance at each site as support organizations; created compliance management rules Corporate Governance Reinforce overseas training Compliance Held compliance training as part of Thai rank-based training program Compliance Risk Management Formulate BCP for domestic and overseas sites and begin their operation GA Formulated BCP for major Japanese and overseas sites and began operation Promoted strengthening of Japanese disaster prevention structures, Continue to strengthen disaster mitigation system at domestic plants GA including at new Tokyo Head Office Strengthen risk management system for Thai floods GA Formulated BCP for Thai floods and began BCM operation; built floodwater embankments Revise the Quality Management Manual and clarify the Revised Quality Management Manual and codified risk assessment at implementation of risk assessment as the design and product product and manufacturing stages manufacturing stages to bolster product safety Quality Relationships Create framework to promote acquisition of international Quality In conjunction with revision of Quality Management Manual, required Management System (QMS) certification covering design and acquisition of quality management system international standards for with Customers manufacturing in order to strengthen Quality Assurance System Quality design in addition to manufacturing Acquire STP-Plus certification in Singapore and prepare Acquired Singapore STP-Plus certification; suspended preparations to for certification in South Korea and the EU Logistics acquire certification in South Korea and EU after further consideration Continue to strengthen human rights education Provided anti-harassment education during rank-based training and Human Resources Development overseas assignment training Strengthen development and utilization of personnel Established overseas study program; promoted overseas recruiting Relationships suited for global development Human Resources Development activities Society with Employees Continue to promote initiatives relating to work-life Promoted understanding and usage of work-life balance-related balance Personnel systems; promoted measures to reduce overtime Meet legally required employment percentages for the Rate of employees with disabilities was 1.71% (as of June 2012) handicapped and support for their employment Personnel Relationships with Hold dialogues with local communities at domestic Held dialogue in Miyota-machi, Kitasaku-gun, Nagano Prefecture, the Local Communities locations to better understand local needs CSR Headquarters location, to better understand the local community needs and Global Society Hold stakeholder dialogues with suppliers Procurement Held dialogue with six suppliers Relationships with Promote CSR procurement by adding CSR requirements to Basic Added CSR statement to Basic Procurement Policies, published CSR Suppliers Purchasing Policy, publishing CSR Procurement Guidelines, creating Procurement Guidelines, created CSR Procurement Self-assessment CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist, etc. Procurement Checklist Continue to promote active information disclosure relating to Promoted disclosure of Medium-term Business Plan through general Relationships with progress and implementation of Medium-term Business Plan IR shareholders’ meeting, semiannual business report, website information, etc. Shareholders Continue to promote active communication with domestic Held four briefings on financial results and conference calls for institutional investors and and international investors IR securities analysts and one tour to visit investors in the U.S., Europe, and Asia Acquire ISO 14001 certification (Suzhou Plant, Daiichi Acquired ISO 14001 certification at Suzhou Plant and Daiichi Seimitsu Seimitsu Sangyo Co., Ltd. headquarters) and prepare to acquire certification at other sites (Minebea Tokyo Sangyo Co., Ltd. headquarters; completed audits for certification at Head Office and Cambodia Plant) Environment Cambodia Plant Revise environmental policy Environment Revised environmental policy Reduce CO 2 emissions per basic unit of output by 2% Reduced CO 2 emissions by 20,724 tons, or 15% per basic unit of compared with FY2010 Environment output compared with FY2010 Environment Reduce Minebea Group plants’ total landfill waste to Landfill waste from worldwide Minebea Group plants totaled 4,330 tons under 4,000 tons/year Environment Begin operation of new chemical substance application Started operation of new chemical substance application database database Environment As a result of study of selection criteria for Minebea Green Products, Establish selection criteria for Minebea Green Products concluded that more investigation is required based on product group Environment characteristics Establish systems and overall scheme to enable regular Established systems and structures to for timely reporting of CO 2 reporting of CO 2 emissions of overall Group logistics emissions from total Group logistics operations Logistics Improve packaging to raise logistics efficiency and Designed packaging to enable efficient loading for some models of hybrid reduce CO 2 emissions Logistics stepping motors, PM stepping motors, and power brushless motors 17 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 accordingly. Furthermore, to ensure that CSR activities CSR Promotion Activity Goals and Results are promoted in a planned fashion, the Group has The Minebea Group believes it is important to manage established medium-term goals to be achieved by CSR activities appropriately using the Plan-DoFY2015. Check-Action (PDCA) cycle and sets CSR goals Commitment from Evaluation FY2013 Goals Medium-term Goals (target year of FY2015) the President •Review status of CSR activities at overseas sites CSR •Promote CSR management across the Group, including overseas sites CSR •Review status of activities based on ISO 26000 CSR •Enhance PDCA management to meet global standards CSR •Promote internal CSR awareness initiatives, including at overseas sites CSR •Promote CSR awareness activities across the Group, including overseas sites CSR •Strengthen compliance activities at Japanese and overseas sites Compliance •Establish a global compliance system Compliance Hot Topics •Promote overseas training and awareness activities to prepare for •Formulate a BCP for the entire Minebea Group and instill it through establishment of global compliance system Compliance training GA •Promote BCM at Japanese and overseas sites GA •Create framework to compile results on risk assessments of major products Quality •Create product safety assessment structure for product life cycle •Create framework to clarify product safety laws, regulations, internal Minebea Products stages Quality rules, and compliance for major products Quality •Promote bar-coding for all products Logistics •Unify manufacturing label and bar code systems for all products in Society Logistics •Continue to strengthen human rights education Human Resources Development •Strengthen the development of human resources in order to support the •Strengthen development and utilization of personnel suited for global active expansion and development of global business development Human Resources Development Human Resources Development Special Feature •Continue to promote initiatives relating to work-life balance Personnel •Proactively incorporate demands of society and promote measures to •Meet legally required employment percentages for the handicapped and support employee motivation Personnel support their employment Personnel •Review engagement with local communities and status of social •Hold dialogues with communities through sites in and outside Japan to expand contribution activities at all global sites CSR social contribution activities based on understanding of their needs CSR •Promote CSR procurement among domestic suppliers using CSR •Send CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist to major domestic Procurement Self-assessment Checklist Procurement suppliers and collect responses Procurement Management Report •Expand CSR procurement to overseas suppliers Procurement •Continue to promote active information disclosure relating to progress •Continue to actively disclose information and promote communication and implementation of business plan IR among a wider group of shareholders and investors to deepen their •Continue to promote active communication with domestic and international investors IR understanding of Minebea IR •Prepare for acquisition of ISO 14001 certification for Minebea Tokyo Social Report Head Office Environment •Reduce CO 2 emissions per basic unit of output by 3% compared with FY2010 Environment •Limit volume of waste ultimately disposed of as landfill by Minebea Group •Reduce CO 2 emissions per basic unit of output by 5% compared with worldwide to 4,300 tons per year Environment FY2010 Environment •Prepare for Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Environment •Greatly reduce landfill waste Environment •Study selection criteria for Minebea Green Products based on •Expand improvements to packaging Logistics consideration of product group characteristics Environment Environmental •Expand use of efficient packaging to all models of hybrid stepping motors, PM stepping motors, and power brushless motors, as well as to Report fan motors and other products Logistics CSR CSR Promotion Office Compliance Compliance Office GA General Affairs Department Quality Group Quality Management Department Logistics Logistics Department Human Resources Development Human Resources Development Department Personnel Personnel Department Procurement Procurement Department IR Investors Relations Office Environment Group Environment Management Department Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 18 Management Report Minebea Group CSR universal principles advocated by the United Nations to Basic Approach promote protection of human rights, elimination of unfair The Minebea Group believes that enterprises have a labor practices, protection of the environment, and mission to contribute to the sustainable development of anti-corruption. the global environment and of humanity, not only through strict adherence to laws and regulations, but Minebea Group Stakeholders also through fair and proper management of our business in accordance with business ethics. To Our major stakeholders are defined as employees, achieve this mission, we have established the “Five customers, shareholders, local communities, and Principles” as our basic management policy, and on the global society, which are affirmed in the “Five basis of this policy, formulated the Minebea Group Principles,” as well as suppliers and the environment Basic CSR Policy and the Minebea Group’s CSR that supports our society. In carrying out CSR activities, Implementation Principles to guide our CSR activities. the Group believes that it is essential to maintain Additionally, in January 2012 we announced our communication with each stakeholder group and meet participation in the UN Global Compact, a set of their expectations. The Five Principles Minebea Group Basic CSR Policy Be a company where our employees are proud to work As a manufacturer of precision products supporting society, the Minebea Group is Earn and preserve the trust of our valued customers working toward stable supply and making Respond to our shareholders’ expectations reliable products with low energy consumption widely available, to Work in harmony with the local community contribute to the sustainable development of the global environment and of Promote and contribute to global society humanity. The Minebea Group’s CSR Implementation Principles 1 The Five Principles and our Code 2 Continuous improvement and 3 Dialogue with stakeholders of Conduct raising of awareness In promoting CSR activities, the Minebea We will put forth goals to be achieved, based Constructive dialogue with stakeholders Group will appropriately manage the on understanding the Minebea Group’s (employees, customers, shareholders, local organization in accordance with the “Five social responsibilities and the key problems communities, global society, suppliers, and Principles,” and adhere to its Code of that need to be addressed, and continue to the environment) allows us to meet Conduct. improve our CSR activities through expectations and respond to requests, and implementation and continual review. We will we will improve transparency and also strive to raise awareness of CSR among accountability in our corporate activities. all employees through CSR activities. Minebea Group Stakeholders Supporting the UN Global Compact Customers Shareholders Employees Local communities and global society Suppliers Environment 19 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Management Report Compliance Website listed • Initiatives in import and information: export management Basic Approach Compliance Education The Minebea Group believes that compliance is an To help employees understand compliance, the Commitment from essential part of promoting CSR. Accordingly, we have Minebea Group conducts compliance education as part established the Minebea Group Code of Conduct and of its training programs for employees at each level. In the President Minebea Group Officer and Employee Compliance FY2012, 180 employees received training, comprised Guidelines, and on the basis of these guidelines, we of new employee training and training for new strive to achieve fair, appropriate and highly transparent managers and assistant managers. In FY2012, as part management. of efforts to enhance overseas training programs, we Hot Topics In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange conducted rank-based compliance training in Thailand Commission adopted a disclosure rule mandated by which was attended by 40 expatriate managers and U.S. financial reform legislation requiring companies to other mid-level employees. The training covered local disclose the use of conflict minerals. In response, we laws, culture, and business customs differing from added a Minebea Group policy on conflict minerals to those in Japan, emphasizing the key points employees our Minebea Group Code of Conduct in FY2012. should keep in mind. Additionally, external instructors provided Minebea Products Please visit the Minebea Group website for detailed information compliance training for 30 executive officers, including regarding the Minebea Group Code of Conduct and Minebea Group Officer and Employee Compliance Guidelines. the president, in response to the growing calls for in Society improved compliance management amid a recent http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/company/aboutus/ spate of corporate scandals. conduct/declaration/index.html Internal Reporting System Compliance Promotion Structure The Minebea Group has established both internal and Special Feature external consultation centers in order to prevent The President and Chief Executive Officer of the violations of the Minebea Group Code of Conduct or Minebea Group has overall compliance responsibility, laws. Employees can contact the centers in the event supported directly by the Compliance Committee. This they are unsure about whether their own conduct or committee is responsible for applying the Code of decision violates the code, or when an employee Conduct, and for decision-making regarding discovers conduct that might be in violation of the code. emergency measures in the event of significant We investigate the accuracy of all reports to the centers Management Report violations of the code. The Compliance Office acts as and take appropriate action in response. the administrative body for the Compliance Committee, creating various policies for the promotion of Future Compliance Promotion compliance. In FY2012, we revised the committee structure to facilitate faster decision-making. The Minebea Group believes that employee awareness Compliance Committee meetings are now held twice and knowledge of compliance should be deepened to annually instead of once, and compliance officers have establish a corporate culture in which each employee been appointed at each site to bolster management. maintains an awareness of compliance in conducting Social Report business activities. In the future, the compliance Compliance Framework officers will spearhead our efforts to strengthen the compliance promotion structure of the entire Group, Chief Compliance Officer including overseas sites, by enhancing collaborative Representative Director, President and programs between countries. Chief Executive Officer In addition, we will continue striving to prevent Compliance Committee violations of the law by thoroughly implementing antitrust training programs as well as awareness Environmental Chairman (Officer in charge of Compliance) Committee members Report programs on insider trading regulations. Administrative Office Compliance Office 14 global sites • Compliance Officer • Staff in charge of Compliance • Sub-Staff in charge of Compliance Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 20 Management Report Risk Management employees and subcontracted employees. Basic Approach Going forward, our training will help employees to Because our response to risk could profoundly affect enhance their awareness of information security the Minebea Group’s business fundamentals, we violations and share information on such matters as the believe that risk management is vital to the kinds of things that can lead to security violations. management of the company. We established the • Initiatives to Protect Personal Information Minebea Group Basic Rules for Risk Management Personal information retained by the Minebea Group is which define preventive measures we should have in managed in accordance with our Personal Information place, our response in crisis situations, and the type of Protection Policy. The purposes for which this system the group should put in place. information is utilized have also been clearly defined, and we strictly adhere to the parameters for scope of Risk Management System information use. The President and Chief Executive Officer of the BCP Initiatives Minebea Group has final responsibility for risk management, with major decisions regarding risk In the event of a major disaster, influenza outbreak, act management being made by the Risk Management of terrorism or other emergency, we believe that our Committee. As a precautionary measure, Minebea social responsibility includes confirming the safety of attempts to predict and classify tangible risks in our employees and their families, as well as ensuring advance, and remains vigilant against such risks. In the that, as a manufacturer of products with world-leading unlikely event of an emergency, the severity of the market shares, we can continually supply our situation is assigned a level of one to three, and after customers and minimize the impact to our business. For consultation by the Risk Management Committee, that very reason, in FY2012 we formulated and began management headquarters and local countermeasures implementation of business continuity plans (BCP) for offices are established, to respond rapidly and major business sites in and outside Japan. effectively to the situation. Further, Minebea has The BCP analyze risk scenarios for each site and organized a system under which—depending on the plans are set based on the level of the risks. Specific nature of the risk being managed—a supervisory measures include the creation of emergency manuals, division may be appointed to handle a situation, for the anti-seismic reinforcement of plant structures, which it will draft and implement responses. stockpiling of food and water, establishment of self-defense fire brigades, emergency drills, and Information Security introduction of safety confirmation systems. At our Thai sites, which serve as the primary • Information Security Structure manufacturing centers for the Group, we use the PDCA The Minebea Group believes that protecting information cycle for business continuity management (BCM) in assets is essential for building a relationship of trust. order to enhance the effectiveness of BCP and instill We have therefore established the Minebea and planning into organizations. For example, as part of the Minebea Group Basic Policy for Protection of lessons learned from the 2011 Thai floods, we have Confidential Information (Information Security Basic constructed embankments around our sites which can Policy), which we thoroughly implement. withstand water levels three to four times the size of the We have also established an Information Security previous floods. In this way, we are continually Committee headed by a managing executive officer, enhancing our structures. Going forward, we plan to composed of Information Security Task Forces that improve BCP exercises at other sites in and outside implement measures in each country. Japan in order to instill BCM into our organizations. • Information Security Training To improve employee awareness of information security, the Minebea Group conducts information security training. Information security briefings are held annually, and tutorials are conducted by the Information Security Task Force in addition to training for new and experienced employees when they enter the company. In FY2012, a total of 10,287 employees attended information security briefings, including temporary Embankments constructed around Bang Pa-in Plant, Thailand 21 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Social Report Relationships with Customers on ways to improve their quality management systems, Basic Approach quality assurance and research, and responding to In accordance with the Minebea Quality Policy, the major quality issues. In April 2013, we established the Commitment from Minebea Group aims to fully satisfy customers in terms Group Quality Management Department as a of quality, cost, supply capacity, and speed, working replacement for the Quality Management Support the President diligently to enhance its reputation as the most reliable Office to bolster the quality management structure and component manufacturer. further improve our quality. As part of this effort, we place great emphasis on risk assessment at the product and process design stages, Quality Improvement Measures Hot Topics enabling us to provide our customers with products of consistently high quality. • Promoting Quality Management System Certification The Minebea Group promotes the acquisition of certification for quality management systems (QMS) in Quality Management each business unit. In FY2012, the DC Brush Motor • Quality Management Framework Division acquired QMS (ISO9001) certification at the We have created a Quality Management Manual Cambodia Plant, which began production in FY2011. Minebea Products covering the entire Minebea Group as part of our • Responding to the Quality Control Examination measures to ensure the safety of our products and The Minebea Group believes that improving the quality in Society services and prevent accidents. The chief quality control and quality enhancement ability of individual management system officer is the President & CEO, employees ultimately leads to improving the quality of who is supported by the Quality Management the Minebea Group. Since September 2008, we have Committee, an advisory body which assists in been encouraging employees to sit for the quality monitoring the performance of each manufacturing control examination (QC examination) conducted by the headquarters. Japanese Standards Association (JSA) and Union of Special Feature In FY2012, we revised the Quality Management Japanese Scientists and Engineers (JUSE). In addition Manual by adding new guidelines for improving product to covering employees’ course fees, we distribute safety and bolstering the quality management structure. textbooks and provide preparatory seminars to improve The Quality Management Support Office acts as the their knowledge of quality management. There were 82 administrative organization for the Quality Management employees who sat for the examination in FY2012, 73 Committee. The office’s responsibilities include of whom passed. A total of 377 Minebea Group providing guidance to business units and headquarters employees have passed the examination so far. Management Report Quality Management Framework Board of Directors Board of Auditors Senior Executive Officer Council President & Chief Executive Officer Social Report Vice President Executive Officer Quality Management Committee Group Quality Management Department (administrative office) Support Division, Divisions Machined Component Electronic Device & Component Manufacturing Headquarters Manufacturing Headquarters Environmental Electronic Device Division HDD Motor Division Information Motor Division Precision Motor, Industrial Machinery Global Motor Division & Special Device Division Report Ball Bearing Lighting Device Spindle Motor Stepping Motor Precision Motor Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Hansen Business Unit Rod End/ Brushless Motor Industrial Machinery Fastener Business Unit EMS Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit EMT Business Unit Mechanical Assembly Measuring Components DC Motor Special Device Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Business Unit Moatech Business Unit NHBB/ Fan Motor myonic Business Unit Business Unit Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 22 Relationships with Customers • Quality Management Team in Thailand related information to our customers as requested. Also In Thailand, the Minebea Group has organized a in response to customer requests, we provide Quality Management Team (QMT) comprised of information about chemical substances incorporated in representatives from the local business units. The team our products, based on information obtained from strives towards continual quality improvement by suppliers. supporting the improvement of the quality systems and For speakers, keyboards and some other finished specific quality problems of multiple divisions in products, user manuals include safety-related Thailand. QMT spends two-to-three months engaged information. with a single manufacturing division pursuing collaborative improvement activities with the division’s Communication with Customers own quality team. The QMT also leads training and brainstorming • Customer Satisfaction Surveys sessions on quality approaches and practical Within the Minebea Group, individual business units application in order to raise employee motivation conduct their own customer satisfaction surveys. This towards continual improvement. research spans a comprehensive range of evaluation criteria, including sales support, response to product related problems, and product prices. Findings based on these data are fed back to the sales and development division of the corresponding business units. If customers should evaluate any criterion below a specific satisfaction level, we assess and implement improvements across all divisions. QMT in action Responding to • Acquiring AEO Certification Quality-related Issues The Minebea Group is strengthening and improving logistics management in order to perform trade and In the event that there is a major quality issue logistics properly and efficiently. As part of this effort, in concerning Minebea Group products or services, we November 2012 we received AEO system (STP-Plus: refer to our Quality Management Manual and take Secure Trade Partnership-Plus) certification from necessary measures in response. Singapore Customs. Our FY2012 goals also included In FY2012, we held briefings for all business units in preparations for AEO certification in South Korea and conjunction with the revision of the Quality EU. After further study, certification preparation was Management Manual. The briefings explained detailed suspended in these regions. rules on internal Group procedures issued in FY2011 • Unified Manufacturing Labels and Bar Codes for dealing with major quality issues as well as recall Among our logistics management activities, we are guidelines for keyboards and other products sold unifying manufacturing labels and bar codes throughout directly to consumers. The 43 participants to the the Group to prevent mistaken product shipments and briefings are taking responsibility for raising awareness raise the productivity of verification processes. For of the briefing contents among colleagues in their bearings products, our global sales companies are business units. required to use bar coding systems at warehouses to check product models and specifications when Future Issues and Goals products are shipped into and out of the warehouses. For other types of products as well, we are making Moving forward, we plan to bolster efforts to improve preparations to unify the manufacturing labels and bar quality under the new promotion structure. Specifically, codes. we plan to create frameworks to compile and analyze the results of risk assessments conducted for each of Disclosure of our major products, while formulating new product safety guidelines. Product-related Information In the area of logistics, we will make progress Most products from the Minebea Group are ultimately unifying the manufacturing labels and bar codes for all integrated into finished products that pass into of our products. consumers’ hands. For this reason, we provide safety 23 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Social Report Relationships with Suppliers Website listed • Response to Act against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, information: Etc. to Subcontractors • Communication with suppliers satisfies the Minebea Group Green Procurement Basic Approach Standard, and agrees to abide by the Minebea Group The Minebea Group’s business is supported by Code of Conduct. Where necessary, we conduct Commitment from relationships with numerous suppliers. The Minebea inspections of the supplier’s production facilities. In Group has adopted Basic Procurement Policies on FY2012, we certified a total of 55 suppliers in this the President which healthy partnerships are built. In order to promote manner. CSR throughout our supply chain, we have distributed the Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines to Green Procurement our suppliers and are striving to facilitate their Hot Topics understanding and cooperation. In July 2004, we established the Minebea Group Green Procurement Standard in response to international Please see our website for detailed information on our Basic laws and directives, to satisfy our customers, and to Procurement Policy and Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. reduce the use of substances having an environmental impact. Under these guidelines, we require our http://www.minebea.co.jp/english/procurements/ suppliers to provide products (raw materials, parts, index.html components, and packaging materials) that are free of Minebea Products hazardous substances, and also to submit safety certifications, analysis reports, and other similar in Society CSR Procurement documentation. In FY2012, 1,520 suppliers to the overall Minebea Group were cooperating with our Considering the global scope of the Minebea Group’s Green Procurement policies. business activities, we believe it is important to promote CSR throughout our supply chain. In March 2012, we Response to Conflict Minerals from took steps to establish a framework for CSR Democratic Republic of the Congo Special Feature procurement with the formulation of the Minebea Group CSR Procurement Guidelines, which is based on the In August 2012, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Minebea Group Code of Conduct. In April 2012, we Commission adopted a disclosure rule mandated by advanced this initiative by holding a supplier dialogue to U.S. financial reform legislation requiring companies to gather supplier comments on our CSR approach. In disclose the use of conflict minerals. We responded by order to instill our approach to CSR widely throughout formulating a Minebea Group policy on conflict the supply chain and turn policy into action, we have minerals in October 2012 and adding a section on our Management Report sent the guidelines to 1,538 suppliers and requested response to conflict minerals to the Minebea Group their understanding and cooperation. In December CSR Procurement Guidelines. Our suppliers have been 2012, we added a section on our response to conflict asked to cooperate with the revised guidelines. minerals to the guidelines and requested cooperation Additionally, we continue to respond to research from our suppliers. requests from customers by providing responses using In FY2013, we created the Minebea Group CSR our research database. Procurement Self-assessment Checklist to gather information on the progress in suppliers’ promotion Social Report Future Issues and Goals efforts. We plan to start distributing the checklist to suppliers in July 2013 and requesting their responses. We are striving to establish a CSR procurement framework in order to promote CSR activities throughout the supply chain. Specifically, we will collect Supplier Selection Policy responses to our Minebea Group CSR Procurement Whenever the Minebea Group initiates a relationship Self-assessment Checklist sent to domestic suppliers with a new supplier, we ask the supplier to confirm its and analyze the progress in our initiative. We are also agreement with our approach to materials procurement planning to distribute and collect the Minebea Group Environmental Report and to proceed in accordance with our New Supplier CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist from Certification Standards to ensure strict compliance with overseas suppliers in the future. our Basic Procurement Policies. In particular, we assess suppliers on the basis of ten attributes, including whether or not the company in question will be able to conduct business in a stable, continuous manner, Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 24 Social Report Relationships with Employees development of our personnel. Basic Approach ● Brother-Sister System Since its founding, the Minebea Group has recognized A Brother-Sister System was introduced for employees that employees are its most valuable resource, and one of Minebea Group’s domestic sales division in FY2011. of our “Five Principles” is that the company should Under this system, a young employee takes on the role become a place where its employees are proud to work. of mentor for a new employee and provides guidance The Minebea Group is committed to maintaining and and training over a period of six months. Brothers and improving workplaces where each of our employees sisters acting as mentors take part in seminars prior to can work safely and in good health, and fully exercise their assignments to better understand the program and his or her abilities. create six-month mentoring plans. In addition to teaching business skills, the program Minebea Group Workforce (people) (as of March 2013) supports relationship building so new employees can Employees Japanese staff on Total freely consult their mentors concerning issues overseas Male Female Total assignment unrelated to work as well. This helps raise new Japan 2,846 578 3,424 0 3,424 employees’ motivation levels and supports their North independence in accordance with the training program America 1,243 815 2,058 26 2,084 plan. In FY2012, 10 new employees took part in this Europe 714 374 1,088 26 1,114 system. Asia 10,669 35,627 46,296 409 46,705 Total 15,472 37,394 52,866 461 53,327 Using the Brother-Sister System I had a lot of anxieties after Number of Employees Retiring/Resigning from receiving my initial work Domestic Group Companies (FY2012) assignment and taking up my position. My anxieties Retirement/Resignation Turnover rate Voluntary resignation gradually disappeared, though, 121 people 72 people 3.5% thanks to having a mentor close to my own age who carefully answered my Tatsuya Hidaka questions and explained things Matsumoto Sales Office Human Resources Development I didn’t know. One of the West Kanto Branch Domestic Sales Department lessons that left a strong impression was that salespeople have to find a sales style The Minebea Group strives to develop human that fits their own character. I think about this lesson from my resources with a passion for manufacturing, a global mentor even today as I conduct sales activities. mindset, and the ability to think for oneself and work My mentor also took me out for drinks on occasion and I independently with enthusiasm. We utilize rank-based was able to discuss problems outside of work with him. This group training, specialized skill acquisition and helped me take a more positive attitude towards work. I feel that getting better at my work and doing well in enhancement training, and on-the-job (OJT) training to various situations is one way of giving back to the brother nurture this type of employee. In May 2012, we who helped nurture me. I plan to work diligently in the future, established a specialized organization, the Human including doing the best I can to guide my own juniors. Resources Development Department, dedicated to the Principal Domestic Training Programs by Rank Program Participants Aim of Training New Employee • Learn the proper manners expected of working members of society, attitudes toward work, and how to carry out work duties. New employees Training • Understand the company’s Management Policy and Code of Conduct, and company rules, systems, and organization. Junior Employee Employees in their • Learn goal setting and ensure ongoing personal development. Training second year of employment • Learn fundamentals for improving performance and the basics and importance of communication. Intermediate Level In principle, employees in • Confirm employees’ basic thinking and work progress while creating a self-development plan for the future. Employee 1 Training their fifth year of employment • Understand the role expected of them at their work site and learn to be self-reliant in their environment. Intermediate Level In principle, employees in their • Confirm the meaning of work and their own position in the company. Employee 2 Training tenth year of employment • Reaffirm own role in the company and create a self-development plan for the future. New Assistant New assistant • Understand the role expected of assistant managers as supervisors. Manager Training manager-level employees • From their perspective as work site leaders, develop the ability to solve the problems of their work site by engaging others. New Manager • Confirm the role of a manager in bringing about management innovation. Training New manager-level employees • Learn how to energize organizations, motivate subordinates, and create trusted relationships. *In addition to the above programs, Japanese stationed overseas are given manager training and the two types of intermediate-level employee training once every two years. 25 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 ● Global Human Resources Development Workforce Diversity To promote its global human resources, the Minebea Commitment from Group is committed to broadening the playing field for As an organization that conducts global business employees. activities, the Minebea Group believes it is important to the President Our personnel guidelines stipulate five-year terms strengthen human resource capabilities through for overseas assignments as a way to provide as many workforce diversity. We are striving to create work employees as possible with opportunities to work in the environments where all employees can maximize their global arena. talents without regard to gender, age, nationality, or To nurture our global staff, we also provide manager disability. Hot Topics training opportunities for Japanese assigned to ● Promoting a Women-Friendly Workplace overseas subsidiaries based on the Japanese training More than 37,000 female employees are working for program, as well as opportunities for local overseas the Minebea Group worldwide, accounting for about staff to train for management positions under their 70% of our total workforce. For this reason, we will subsidiaries’ programs. continue to actively work toward the promotion of female employees to management positions, and strive Experiencing an Overseas Assignment to create a workplace where they can continue to Minebea Products After serving as an export-import demonstrate their abilities and play an active role. We coordinator at the Zhuhai plant in have set specific targets of raising the ratio of female China, I am now in my second year in Society employees in manager or higher positions to 3% of all working in a similar role at Minebea Electronic Devices such positions (0.6% in 2012) and the ratio of females in (Suzhou) Ltd. assistant manager or equivalent positions to 8% of all At first, I found it difficult to such positions (2.9% in 2012) by 2017. comprehend the specialized trade lingo and local trading systems, Noriko Fukushima In March 2012, we held career advancement training which I hadn’t experienced in Logistics Department for female employees working at the Tokyo Head Special Feature Minebea Electronic Devices (Suzhou) Ltd. Japan, as they were explained in Office, which was attended by 24 employees. The main the local language. I also took time getting accustomed to the way in which trading systems change depending on the region in China. purposes of the training were to convey the company’s After getting my feet wet in my new position, I realized how expectations to female employees, facilitate networking important it is to choose the best way and act quickly based on a among female employees, and raise the level of prompt and accurate understanding of the situation in a country with different culture and laws. In export-import operations, it is motivation. Participants discussed ways of improving difficult to arrange efficient shipments unless you have an their work sites and created improvement understanding of the laws and circumstances on both the export implementation programs in groups which were later Management Report side and import side. Under this situation, I have tried hard to work presented to their superiors. together with local staff to grasp the entire logistics route, collect various information, and maintain close communication with related parties. Participating in Career Advancement Training I plan to continue gathering information on fast-changing circumstances in various regions, and not just China, in order to I’m currently doing sales-related achieve highly efficient export-import operations in collaboration work at the Hachioji Sales Office. with the local staff. Most of my work involves close collaboration with other departments, therefore good Social Report communication is critical. Fair and Balanced Evaluation At the career advancement training program, we discussed the Kaori Saga At the Minebea Group, impartiality and objectivity are persistent issue of communicating Hachioji Sales Office with local staff at overseas offices. West Kanto Branch our prime concerns in evaluating the abilities and Domestic Sales Department We then proposed the introduction performance of our employees. Compensation and of a company support system for raising the English language abilities benefits reflect the results of these evaluations so as to of employees. With the cooperation of our superiors and related create a workplace where workers can feel that they are departments, we were given the opportunity to choose an English Environmental performing valuable work and where ambitious study program and receive trial lessons. Learning that there is a system to accept input from work sites and employees are encouraged to perform to their Report study new proposals deepened my trust in the company. Additionally, maximum potential. We will continue implementing after the training, I found it possible to actively discuss with others personnel policies based on rewarding effort and around me problems that previously I dealt with on my own. achievement and permitting a flexible response to It was also a great experience to network with women from various future changes in the workplace environment and other departments of the company. I will value these new relationships to widen my perspective network. employment structure. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 26 Relationships with Employees ● Hiring Global Human Resources assignments. Additionally, during rank-based training, The Minebea Group has set a goal to develop and we include educational programs to prevent utilize employees who can support global business harassment based on the Minebea Group Officer and expansion. As one initiative, the Group is actively hiring Employee Compliance Guidelines. Moreover, we are foreign exchange students studying at Japanese working to prevent human rights abuses by providing a universities. Among the 69 new hires joining the consultation center and an internal reporting system. company in April 2013, three were non-Japanese. In October 2012, the Minebea Group also Initiatives for Creating Environments participated in the Boston Career Forum in the U.S. to Conducive to Working recruit Japanese studying abroad. We plan to continue participating in this event in coming years. ● Support for Diversity in Work Patterns ● Initiatives Regarding Employees with Disabilities We believe that the Minebea Group’s attention to the The Minebea Group actively hires persons with work-life balance of its employees will be rewarding disabilities. As of June 2012, the percentage of them and lead to a sense of fulfillment. To this end, we employees with disabilities was 1.71%. We plan to have a flexible system that enables employees to take bolster our efforts to raise employment of persons with time off for childbirth, childrearing, caring for family disabilities to the legally mandated rate (2.0%). members, and other important events in their private Our initiatives also consider improvement in the lives. We have also established the Overseas Vacation workplace environment by ensuring that all employees, for Veteran Employees Program, which gives no matter whether or not they have a disability, are employees who have worked for Minebea for over 30 motivated to work by having people with specialized years an opportunity to rest and recuperate. skills acting in leadership roles. We will continue to improve the workplace Ratio of Employees with Disabilities in environment so our employees may work with peace of the Minebea Group Workforce mind. (Unit: %) 1.91 2.0 1.74 1.71 Using the Child Care Leave System 1.5 1.27 1.11 I utilized the child care leave 1.0 system to take one-year’s child 0.5 care leave from June 2011, and 0.0 then my husband, who also works 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) for Minebea, utilized the system to take two-months’ leave. *Employment rate is for Minebea Co., Ltd. only. Both my husband and I are unable to receive regular child care support from our parents Miki Noro ● Initiatives Regarding Reemployment of because our hometowns are far Reliability Engineering Department Engineering Support Division Seasoned Employees away. It was very helpful to have The retirement age for Minebea Group employees in my husband’s support with child care during the busy period directly after I returned to my job. I was also very grateful to my Japan is 62. So that highly skilled and motivated colleagues for gladly accepting my decision to use the system. employees may continue working longer, and to enable Now, since returning to my job, I use my work to relieve stress from them to pass on their skills and expertise to younger child-rearing and use my family time to relieve stress from my job. Both my work and family time are really important to me. employees. In response to the implementation of the Though men are now encouraged to participate in child care, it Act of Stabilization of Employment of Elderly Persons, is still hard for men to make the decision to obtain leave unless in principle we re-employ all employees who have a there is an urgent reason, and male employees’ superiors are still at a loss on how to deal with such situations. I feel, however, that desire to continue working after mandatory retirement. the experience of handling both household chores and child care In FY2012, we rehired 38 employees in Japan. translates into good multi-tasking training and can be used to raise work efficiency. As for myself, I feel that I have become more efficient in getting both my work and household chores completed Respect for Human Rights since the birth of my child. In order to balance child care and housework with my career for In light of the importance of corporate compliance years to come, it will be necessary to shorten overtime by (corporate ethics and legal compliance), the Minebea efficiently completing my work and share child care and household chores fairly between my husband and me. I believe this will be Group prohibits unfair discrimination due to race, age, good not just for my family, but have a positive effect on the gender, nationality and religion. For employees company’s performance. Considering the benefits, I would like to assigned to overseas sites in regions with different see the child care leave system enhanced and promoted further so that more people can take part in the rearing of their children. cultures, we provide sensitivity training prior to their 27 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Principal Special Leave Benefits for Employees the lead in identifying the cause and handling the issue in Japan and the Number of Users appropriately and ensure that information about such Commitment from (FY2012) incidents is shared with other production sites in each Benefit Description Total users country to prevent similar incidents in the future. the President Child care leave Paid leave or shorter working hours 86 persons for employees caring for children ● Conducting Regular Patrols at Production Facilities Paid leave or shorter working hours Safety patrols are conducted monthly at every group Family care leave for employees with family members 2 persons requiring care plant, including the Karuizawa Plant. These patrols Overseas vacation Trip to Thailand, China (Shanghai), or monitor progress against the previous month’s findings, for veteran Singapore for employees with 30 24 persons employees years of service, and their families identify further areas needing improvement, and Hot Topics ensure that areas near production equipment are neat ● Labor Relations and tidy, that potentially dangerous tools are stored As recited in the Minebea Group Code of Conduct, the properly, and that safety glasses and earplugs are Minebea Group recognizes freedom of association and used. endeavors to build harmonious labor relations by holding regular labor-management meetings and taking other measures to actively communicate with labor Minebea Products unions and employee representatives on issues such as the work environment and working conditions. Health and Occupational in Society Safety Management The Minebea Group firmly believes that a safe, healthy workplace is key to improving product and service Special Feature Patrol at the Hamamatsu Plant quality, consistency of manufacturing operations, and employee morale. ● Promoting Health Management Each of our plants has a Health and Safety The Minebea Group strives to maintain and improve the Committee comprised of numerous working groups health of its employees in accordance with with responsibility for workplace safety, health issues, health-related laws in each country and the and other such concerns. These committees meet circumstances of each work site. We provide regularly to review working group progress toward employees with regular health checkups, health Management Report individual targets. In addition, the Minebea Group’s consultations, and send notices to employees to curb principal plants in its mass production bases of overtime work hours. At the Karuizawa Plant, an Thailand, China, and Singapore have obtained OHSAS industrial physician makes rounds on a regular basis. 18001 certification. In regard to mental health care, which has drawn In the event of a fire, workplace injury, traffic social interest in recent years, we have established a accident, or other similar incident, safety managers take consultation structure led by industrial physicians and counselors and also provide mental health seminars. Workplace Injuries and Other Accidents in In FY2012, we strengthened our structure further Social Report the Minebea Group with the establishment of a health management office (Unit: incidents) at the Tokyo Head Office (Mita). 100 80 66 69 68 Future Issues and Goals 60 47 55 Moving forward, we will continue to take measures to 40 nurture globally minded employees, pass down know-how to the next generation of employees, and Environmental 20 implement personnel measures in support of our Report 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) employees in order to ensure our employees are highly motivated in their work and the company can *Regarding figures for FY2011 and previous years, the data collection standards at overseas sites differed. Beginning with the current report, we have created consistent continually grow into the future. data collection standards and recalculated the figures for previous years as shown above. We sincerely apologize for any inconvenience caused to our readers. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 28 Social Report Relationships with Local Communities and Global Society was set up in the school building, offering an Basic Approach information board, books and instructional materials to As an enterprise operating on a global scale, the raise awareness of environmental issues. Minebea Group believes in the importance of building sound partnerships with local communities through good communication. To establish firm roots in those communities, we carry out social contribution activities meeting local needs based upon our “Five Principles.” Contributing to Global Society ● Initiatives in Europe Children at a Minebea-supported school Support for Children with Disabilities Our German sales subsidiary made a donation of 2,500 ● Initiatives in Cambodia euros to the Björn Schulz Foundation, which provides Support to Develop Engineers support to children with incurable and terminal illnesses The Cambodia Plant is providing support to educational and their families. institutions with the aim of nurturing human resources The donation to the foundation is helping to support skilled in manufacturing. From May to July 2012, the a hospital outside Rosenheim, Germany. Specifically, plant provided practical training on small motors at two the donation is being used as operational funds to care specialized technical schools. for incurably ill children living with their families. The plant also donated equipment to measure motor ● Initiatives in China rotation and circuit boards needed to provide Support for Social Welfare by Employees specialized technical education. These donations will At the Zhuhai Plant, employee volunteers participate in assist the establishment of environments to support a program to deliver donated goods to the elderly in continual practical training. senior citizen homes and children in welfare facilities. The volunteers visit the facilities to deliver traditional Chinese cakes and other food supplies to the elderly and children, as well as stationery and other needed goods. The volunteers also spend time talking and enjoying recreation with the facility residents to deepen their friendships. A training program in session In addition, plant employees take part in Taking Part in Training Programs blood donation drives I participated in an educational and other social support project in Cambodia as contribution activities Employee volunteers who visited an interpreter. I took part a little to support the welfare facilities more than a month after joining enhancement of their local community. the company, so I found it very ● Initiatives in Thailand difficult due to my lack of Support for Education knowledge of motors and other products. At the same time, In Bora Minebea Group subsidiaries in Thailand are working to however, I learned a lot through Engineering Section 2, Engineering Department improve the educational environment for Thai children DC Motor Business Unit the process of teaching Information Motor Division through employee-led school support activities in areas students. The students were around our plants. These activities are aimed at very excited about the training, as they have few hands-on nurturing human resources who will support the future opportunities with actual products. Watching them enthusiastically assemble motors, I was inspired by their of Thailand. thirst for technical knowledge. In FY2012, a Thai subsidiary donated a new school I felt tremendous satisfaction helping promote technology building in Tak Province. At a donation ceremony in in my home country of Cambodia as a Minebea employee, December 2012, children were presented with gifts and I hope to utilize this experience in my future work from employees. An environment and energy section endeavors. 29 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 ● Community Contributions from Karuizawa Plant Contributing to Local Communities The Karuizawa Plant holds discussions with members Commitment from ● Career Education Support for Junior High School of the local community and promotes a variety of Students community development activities. the President In November 2012, 36 students from Fujisawa Regular Discussions with the Community municipal Takinosawa Junior High School took part in a After holding a dialogue with the community in 2012, tour of the Fujisawa Plant. The tour was part of the the Karuizawa Plant instituted semiannual discussion school’s career training program designed around the meetings to afford opportunities for communication theme of learning the significance and importance of with community members. work through discussions with workers. The ultimate The first discussion meeting was held in May 2013. Hot Topics aim of the program is to motivate young students to find During a frank exchange of views, participants a purpose in life and help them succeed on their own as discussed cooperation between the plant and working members of society. community in times of disaster and other emergencies During the tour, the students learned about the as well as the plant’s procurement from the local processes for manufacturing aircraft fasteners and how community. manufacturing benefits society. By watching employees Support for NPO Asama Highland Sports Club at work in the plant, the students also gained valuable As part of its amateur Minebea Products insight into the significance and challenges of work. sports promotion, the Karuizawa Plant supports curling through donations to in Society the Asama Highland Sports Club, an incorporated nonprofit organization. The monetary donations assist A curling tournament the club in holding curling competitions and support Special Feature junior and wheelchair teams. Community Education Support Students learning about the plant In January 2013, Minebea employees served as guest instructors at the municipal Miyota Junior High School Arranging a Plant Tour in Miyota, Nagano Prefecture. The lessons for 166 The students who took part in the first-year students were part of our efforts to nurture tour of our plant appeared very and support the children who represent the next impressed to learn that Minebea’s generation. Management Report products were used in planes During the lessons, flying around the world. Though it employees used their work can be difficult to enlighten the experience to convey the public about parts manufacturing, we were able to highlight that our Yuichiro Fushimi skills needed of adult plant is doing work which supports Personnel and General Affairs Section members of society and the the very foundation of society. Fujisawa Plant types of things they believe We taught the students that manufacturing activity is directly students should learn Company employees acting as tied to social contributions in that it has significance as labor which during their school years. guest instructors Social Report is directly connected to society. In this way, students learned about the importance of work to society itself. Future Issues and Goals ● Donations to Local Community Facilities Minebea provides support to various types of By continuing to make active contributions to local community facilities located around its plants. In communities in and outside Japan, the Minebea Group September 2012, for example, we donated a will strive to be an organization which deepens its multipurpose toilet to Baji Park in Gunma Prefecture. community roots and expands sustainably with local Located nearby our Matsuida Plant, Baji Park offers communities. Environmental Report horseback riding activities to the public. In conjunction with the new construction project at the Matsuida Plant, the horses in the park have been temporarily relocated. In conjunction with the move, we are helping upgrade the park’s facilities with the donation of a multi-purpose toilet which people with disabilities can also easily use. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 30 Social Report Relationships with Shareholders Shareholder Breakdown (as of March 31, 2013) Timely Disclosure/Disclosure Policy Individual investors, In addition to disclosing information required by governments, etc applicable laws and regulations in terms of timing and 22.9% level of detail, Minebea has also established its own disclosure policy to ensure a proactive and fair approach in this regard. Shareholder Financial Japanese Breakdown institutions corporations Communication with Shareholders 49.7% 9.4% Non-Japanese investors ● General Meeting of Shareholders 15.8% Minebea’s Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders is Securities companies 2.2% held annually in June. In addition, we provide shareholders with semiannual reports to keep them informed of the state of the company’s business and our IR Website management policies. ● Communication with Institutional Investors In 2012, Minebea’s IR website won the “Internet IR Minebea holds investor meetings and conference calls Excellence Award 2012” and the “Internet IR Special on financial results for institutional investors and Award 2012” from Daiwa Investor Relations Co., Ltd., as securities analysts. This information is also published well as the “Gomez IR Site Overall Ranking 2013 Gold on our website in Japanese and English, Award” from Morningstar’s Gomez Consulting Division. simultaneously or as soon as possible. In addition, Nikko Investor Relations recognized our We spend approximately one week per year in each website with its Top Website Award in the “FY2012 region visiting investors in North America, Europe, and Comprehensiveness Rankings for All Listed Asia. Companies.” We also participate in investor seminars sponsored by securities companies, while holding numerous private meetings as part of active efforts to disclose financial and non-financial information. Shareholder Returns Starting with the appointment of the current president and chief executive officer in FY2009, Minebea has worked toward two goals: maximizing earnings per share and enhancing corporate value, and solidifying the corporate foundation for our centennial. In FY2012, despite the impact of a global economic slowdown, we achieved an increase in net sales due to the absence of various negative factors in FY2011, including the major Future Issues and Goals impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake, Thai flooding, and the soaring rare earth prices, along with Through enhanced IR activities, we will work to expand the yen depreciation. As a result, we paid ¥7 per share our communication with shareholders and to promote dividends in total. greater understanding of the Minebea Group among all In addition, in November 2008, February 2010, and types of investors. May to June 2011, we repurchased our shares to enable us to pursue flexible capital policies in response to the changing business environment. 31 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Environmental Report Environmental Management Website listed Minebea Group Environmental Policy information Environmental communication, etc. Basic Approach Commitment from The Minebea Group has established an environmental management system based on the Minebea Group the President Environmental Policy, and all Group companies are striving to contribute to the protection of the earth’s environment and the sustainable development of human kind. As examples of specific initiatives in this regard, we Hot Topics adopt highly energy-efficient equipment and processes, Audit at the Cambodia plant while reducing emissions of CO2 and other greenhouse gases. We are also strengthening initiatives to minimize waste materials and wastewater from our plants in order Environmental Education to effectively utilize raw materials and water resources. We also make contributions to the environment through ● Basic Approach and FY2012 Initiatives our products, including highly efficient motors, lighting, The Minebea Group provides training on environmental Minebea Products and energy conversion devices, and through the management basics to all new employees and development of control technologies, sensors and new midcareer hires in order to raise the environmental in Society materials central to energy management in products. consciousness of each employee. In addition, all Group employees receive general environmental education Environmental Management System which explains environmental goals, targets and action plans based on the Minebea Group Environmental ● Environmental Management Structure Policy and each site’s ISO 14001 certification. In order to carry out the Minebea Group Environmental In addition to these programs, we provide training for Special Feature Policy, the Minebea Group has established an ISO 14001 internal auditors, waste management environmental management structure headed by the education, and drills which simulate natural disasters Board of Directors and the President and Chief and other types of emergencies. Executive Officer. We have also put in place an Environment Management Committee, a promotion Environmental Accounting organization composed mostly of executive officers, and a Group Environmental Protection Committee, ● Minebea’s Environmental Accounting Management Report which leads the day-to-day execution of policy. This The Minebea Group conducts environmental structure enables rapid response to environmental accounting to confirm its costs for environmental policy. Each work site also has a Plant General protection activities and the effect of its investments. Manager of Environmental Management and a The Japanese Ministry of the Environment’s Manager of Environmental Management who promote Environmental Accounting Guidelines 2005 is used as specific environmental conservation measures at their a reference. The Minebea Group’s environmental work sites. conservation costs totaled ¥4,813 million in FY2012, a ● Environmental Audits 22% increase over FY2011. Social Report The Minebea Group is striving to acquire ISO 14001 certification at each of its major global sites. To maintain Environmental Protection Costs, FY2008 – FY2012 certification, we also conduct annual external audits by (Unit: 100 million yen) Cost Investment third-party organizations and internal audits by internal 50 auditors. In FY2012, Minebea Electronic Devices (Suzhou) Ltd., Minebea (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. and the 40 Daiichi Seimitsu Sangyo Co., Ltd. headquarters newly Environmental 30 acquired certification. Additionally, we began 34 34 42 34 preparations to acquire ISO 14001 certification for the Report 20 29 Tokyo Head Office in conjunction with the office’s relocation. 10 7 1 6 5 6 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 32 Environmental Management product—as well as such products as machined Initiatives to Protect Biodiversity components, rotary components, and electronic ● Basic Approach devices. When environmental impact is viewed in terms In FY2012, the Minebea Group revised its Environmental of the ratio of total production by region to sales, Asia Policy and added “contribution to the international (excluding Japan) is estimated to account for community” as a new initiative. As part of the initiative, approximately 80% of the Minebea Group’s consumption we recognize that our business activities may have an and output. effect on biodiversity and ecosystems, and we will work In FY2011, flooding in Thailand, our largest to conserve nature. As a first step, recognizing the manufacturing base, caused major damage to our local importance of understanding the impact of our business plants and led to the extended suspension or reduction activities, we are conducting research on how the of manufacturing activities. In FY2012, though Minebea Group’s business relates to biodiversity. restoration work at damaged plants was nearly completed and output returned to normal levels, we managed to strengthen our measures for reducing Minebea’s Environmental Impact environmental impact at the sites and achieved a The Minebea Group has plants and sales offices in 18 particularly large reduction in CO2 emissions. countries around the world, manufacturing and selling a The Group’s environmental impact for FY2012 is range of products including bearings—our main summarized below. Input and Output (FY2012 Actual) Product Development & INPUT Manufacturing OUTPUT Raw Materials and Components Waste Recycled and reused 51,492 tons Steel 72,320 tons Reused or recycled internally 3,064 tons Landfill waste 4,330 tons Resin 5,400 tons Discharged externally 59,883 tons Energy Wastewater volumes 784,000 m3 Wastewater Total energy 8,689 TJ COD 74 tons Product Development & Manufacturing Electricity 847,058 MWh Reused or recycled internally 841,000 m3 BOD 23 tons LPG 397 tons Discharged externally SS 21 tons Natural gas 2,510,000 m3 n-hexane extracts 3 tons City gas 743,000 m 3 Oil 2,181,000 liters CO22 484,288 tons (34,184 tons) Water NOx3 1,426 tons (10.9 tons) Atmospheric emissions SOx4 1,541 tons (0.9 tons) Water supply 2,407,000 m 3 Particulates 5 105 tons (0.3 tons) Industrial water 91,000 m3 Note: Includes NOx, SOx, and particulates from electric power generation. Groundwater 619,000 m3 Figures in parentheses represent directly discharged amount. Rainwater 402,000 m3 Spring water 27,000 m3 Chemical PRTR substance emissions 19.59 tons River water 440,000 m 3 substances PRTR substance transfer volume 1.88 tons Chemical Substances PRTR substances handling volume1 34.48 tons Product CO2 59,644 tons Industrial oil 5,500,000 liters shipping Note: From worldwide land, sea, and air transport Solvents/ cleaning agents 2,000,000 liters 1. PRTR chemicals: Substances included in the PRTR law (The Chemical Substance Control Law /Domestic Japanese Law), for which companies must register and report volumes released and transferred. The figures shown are those reported to authorities. 2. CO 2: Carbon dioxide 3. NOx: Nitrogen oxides 4. SOx: Sulfur oxides 5. Particulates: Microscopic solid matter contained in exhaust gas generated through combustion, heating, or chemical reaction 33 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Environmental Report Initiatives for Preventing Global Warming Website listed Initiatives at offices, Initiatives for information: logistics and transport, etc. Basic Approach Initiatives at Offices Commitment from The Minebea Group recognizes that the international ● ISO 50001 Employee Training in Thailand issue of global warming, along with the related issues of In Thailand, the largest manufacturing base for the the President soaring energy prices and abnormal climatic Group, we are implementing energy management conditions, pose a significant threat to the sustainability measures based on the ISO 50001 international of its business activities. standard with the aim of managing and continually In response, each office and plant in the Minebea improving our energy consumption. In FY2012, we Group is proactively promoting energy efficiency provided training on these measures to employees who Hot Topics initiatives in order to combat global warming after are spearheading the efforts. having completed formulating the main measures for their sites. Additionally, our Energy Conservation Training Program Contents Promotion Committee, which is made up of • ISO 50001 Fundamentals and Requirements representatives of all our business units, promotes the (April 2012; 80 participants) sharing of knowledge and technologies accumulated • ISO 50001 Internal Auditor Development from past activities along with case studies on (May 2012; 61 participants) Minebea Products exemplary energy-efficient initiatives. The sharing of this wisdom among the Group’s business units is • Energy Efficiency Awareness by Outside Energy Experts in Society bolstering the entire Group’s approach to global (June 2012; 51 participants) warming prevention. Results of FY2012 Initiatives The Minebea Group’s emissions of CO2 in FY2012 Special Feature totaled 484,288 tons, 4% less than in FY2011. In terms of basic units of production, CO2 emissions declined 15% over FY2011 to 1.71 tons per million yen of production. The cause of this decrease was the large improvement in productivity compared with levels prior to the Thai floods. In FY2012, the Group also made headway in Management Report determining the CO2 emissions from Group logistics ISO 50001 training in Thailand activities. As a result, we are able to determine the amount of CO2 emissions generated from overseas sites’ land, sea, and air logistics operations, as we have Future Issues and Goals done for domestic sites. Moving forward, we will continuously take measures to improve the accuracy of The Minebea Group will continue to advance its data collection. measures to prevent global warming. As a medium-term goal, by FY2015 we plan to reduce CO2 Social Report CO2 Emissions (Total and Per Basic Unit) emissions per basic unit of production by 5% compared (Unit: tons) (Unit: tons/million yen) with FY2010, or 1% annually. 600,000 5.00 Czech In terms of long-terms goals for 2030 and 2050, we 500,000 508,081 505,012 484,288 4.50 Cambodia will monitor the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate 4.00 Slovakia 429,672 423,099 Change (IPCC) and policies in countries around the 3.50 U.S. 400,000 3.00 Germany world in formulating our initiatives. U.K. Environmental 300,000 2.50 2.01 1.71 1.68 1.85 1.89 Malaysia 2.00 200,000 Singapore Report 1.50 China 1.00 100,000 Thailand 0.50 Japan 0 0.00 per basic unit 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 (FY) *Emissions generated by product shipment are not included. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 34 Environmental Report Initiatives for Effective Use of Resources Website listed Business site initiatives, Effective information: use of rain and river water, etc. At our mass production plants in Thailand and China, Basic Approach we are recycling water inside the plants to the greatest The Minebea Group recognizes that there are limits to extent possible and prevent external emissions through the availability of resources used in its products, which our “Plant Wastewater Zero System.” Water emissions include metals, plastics, and other raw materials, along from Group plants in FY2012 totaled 784,000 m3, a with oil, natural gas, and other energy sources. decline of 132,000 m3 compared with FY2011. Additionally, with regard to rare earth elements indispensable to the manufacture of electronics, since Initiatives at Business Sites the number of countries producing and exporting the materials is limited, they are more susceptible to export ● Recycling Mobile Phones (Thailand) restrictions. From March 2012, Minebea Group subsidiaries in We believe that the effective use of resources is Thailand collaborated with Nokia to launch the “Weee critical to the continuation of our business activities, and Can Do Project” to collect and recycle discarded mobile to that end we are taking various management phones and accessories. The project aimed at measures. collecting a large number of discarded mobile phones and accessories within Minebea’s plants in exchange Results of FY2012 Initiatives for commemorative goods and presents from Nokia awarded by a lottery draw. At the Bang Pa-in and Lop In FY2012, principal raw materials used by Minebea Buri plants, the project was promoted through collection Group included approximately 72,320 tons of steel and boxes at security gates, the cafeteria, stores and other 5,400 tons of resin, with the total amount of materials areas, along with campaign stickers on employee used roughly on par with the previous fiscal year. buses. The amount of landfill waste generated by the The mobile phones and accessories collected were Group’s operations in FY2012 totaled 4,330 tons. recycled by a Nokia subcontractor after removal of toxic Though the FY2011 amount of landfill waste previously materials. The number of mobile phones and reported in the FY2011 report was 4,061 tons, as a accessories collected is as follows. result of an error in data collection methods, the actual • Bang Pa-in Plant (campaign period: March 13, 2012–September 13, 2012) amount was 4,697 tons. We apologize for the error. As Mobile phones: 2,169 units; Accessories: 1,424 items a result, the amount of landfill waste in FY2012 declined • Lop Buri Plant (campaign period: November 1, 2012–March 29, 2013) by 367 tons compared to the previous year. Mobile phones: 1,106 units; Accessories: 1,379 items Waste Processed (FY2012 Actual) Future Issues and Goals 1. Reused or recycled internally 3,064 For FY2013, we have set a target of limiting the amount of landfill waste to 4,300 tons following recalculation of 2. Transported outside the company as waste 59,883 previous results. Currently, we are researching the 3. Reused or recycled types of landfill waste we generate and conducting 51,492 externally market analysis in an effort to further lower waste 4. Disposed of as landfill amounts in the future. 4,330 0 10,000 20,000 30,000 40,000 50,000 60,000 (unit: tons) Japan Thailand China Singapore Malaysia Cambodia U.K. Germany U.S. Slovakia Czech Minebea Group 3. Reused or recycled External externally Waste generation 2. Transported outside Incinerator 4. Disposed of as Incinerated waste the company as waste ash landfill 1. Reused or recycled internally Waste disposed of directly as landfill 35 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Environmental Report Initiatives for Reducing Impacts on the Environment Website listed Business site initiatives, Management information: of PRTR substances, etc. ● Investigating Landfill Waste Sites (Japan, Basic Approach Thailand, China, etc.) Commitment from Plant effluents and emissions can be a source of water, At each plant and office, there are types of waste which air, and soil pollution that poses a threat to local are difficult to reuse or recycle within the site. In these the President communities. At the Minebea Group, we believe that cases, the waste is disposed of through third-party harmony with local communities is indispensible to our waste disposal companies. business activities, and as such, we are striving to The Minebea Group selects reliable waste disposal reduce our impact on the environment. companies, and conducts regular inspections of their disposal sites to confirm the status of waste disposal Hot Topics Results of FY2012 Initiatives and management. We will continue to cooperate with waste disposal companies to ensure that their waste In order to ensure compliance with the environmental disposal processes do not generate soil, water, or air laws and regulations of each country and community, pollution. the Minebea Group has established environmental standards surpassing its legal requirements and undertakes daily compliance monitoring. In FY2012, Minebea Products there were no incidents which violated either the legal requirements or the Group’s own standards. The Group in Society also monitors the impact of its plants on the surrounding communities by conducting environmental patrols at all of its plants to ensure there are no leakages, foul odors, noise, or vibration caused by the plants. In FY2012, we established and began operation of a new database to efficiently manage chemical Special Feature substances and the amount of substances used Inspection of waste disposal company throughout the Group. ● Operation of Plant Wastewater Zero System Plant Initiatives (Thailand, China) Minebea Group plants that use large amounts of water ● Plant Wastewater Purification during processing are taking measures to reduce Prior to releasing wastewater into rivers, Minebea wastewater emissions. Though water is discharged Management Report Group plants use their own processing equipment to from plants only after being purified to standards purify wastewater to within fixed environmental mandated by environmental regulations in each country standards. These plants adhere to environmental laws and region, the wastewater may still have an impact on of the countries and localities in which they operate, and the local environment. In Thailand and China, where independently monitor such wastewater discharges, water use by the Group is high, plants have introduced including regular testing for such metrics as pH1, COD2, the “Plant Wastewater Zero System” designed to BOD3, SS4, and the oil content of n-hexane extracts5. reduce wastewater emissions to zero. In FY2012, no anomalous monitored values were Under this system, water that previously was purified Social Report reported by any plant. In addition, no complaints and discharged is purified to a higher level and the relating to these metrics were received. entire supply reused within the plant to eliminate external emissions. The “Plant Wastewater Zero System” has been introduced at the Bang Pa-in and 1. pH: A scale indicating whether substances are acidic or alkaline. pH7 is neutral. pH values below 7 indicate increasing acidity, while values above 7 indicate increasing alkalinity. Ayutthaya plants in Thailand along with the Shanghai 2. COD (chemical oxygen demand): The amount of oxygen consumed to oxidize organic and Xicen plants in China. substances (pollution) in water. COD measurement takes less time than BOD measurement, but is less reliable. COD is generally used as a metric in wastewater Environmental management for sea, lake, and marsh waters. 3. BOD (biological oxygen demand): The amount of oxygen required for bacteria to Future Issues and Goals Report consume and decompose organic matter (pollution) in water. Higher values indicate greater degrees of pollution. Measurement takes several days. BOD is generally used to observe effluent water in rivers. The Minebea Group continues to conduct business 4. SS (suspended solids): The volume of substances suspended in water. The higher the number, the greater the degree of water pollution. operations in compliance with environmental laws in 5. n-hexane extracts: Substances extracted from oils and detergents that are difficult to Japan and around the world, and is proceeding with volatilize in water using a substance called n-hexane as solvent. In this report they signify mineral oils. cleanup work in areas where it has caused environmental contamination in the past. Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 36 Environmental Report Product-related Initiatives for the Environment Website listed Management of environment-affecting information: substances incorporated in products The switch to rare earth-free magnets will help to Basic Approach stabilize raw materials procurement, lower costs, and The majority of products manufactured by the Minebea stabilize product supply. The resource-efficient design Group, such as bearings and motors, are components approach enabled in products sold by our customers, and are not us to halve the immediately visible. But precisely because our number of magnets components are incorporated into such a wide variety compared which of products, the Minebea Group believes it is important previous products, to offer products that are safe and free from harmful while reducing the substances that might damage the environment, while amount of copper contributing to the overall product life cycle by being wire by 25% energy-and resource-efficient as well as long-lasting. compared with our previous products. High-torque 42mm hybrid stepping motor Minebea Green Products ● Development of High-performance VR Resolver ● What are Minebea Green Products? for EV Drive Motors From the development and design stages, the products The Minebea Group has developed and begun that the Minebea Group manufacturers and sells are delivering a high-performance VR resolver for electric environmentally conscious products. This means that vehicle (EV) drive motors. As a core part of the drive they satisfy various countries’ environmental laws and motor, the VR resolver is an angle sensor critical to customers’ environmental requirements as well as accurately controlling motor rotation. The resolver has a undergo voluntary product chemical substance major impact on the electric power consumption rate evaluations and product assessments. and drive performance of electric vehicles (EV) and The Minebea Group carries out investigations to hybrid electric vehicles (HEV). certify Minebea Green Products as products with During the development process, we ran simulations particularly superior environmental performance and leveraging various magnetic field analysis technologies characteristics in terms of their energy efficiency, and made continual design improvements, resulting in contribution to the prevention of global warming, the successful development of a high-performance VR resource efficiency, and contribution to a resolver featuring recycling-oriented society. an ideal winding specification for Minebea Green Products raising drive motor performance and Minebea Green Products a rotor stator Criteria for Minebea Green Products are configuration. currently being formulated. Environmentally conscious VR resolver products Commercialization Minebea’s Environmentally Conscious Product Design Future Issues and Goals 1 Green procurement 2 Chemical substances in product evaluation The Minebea Group will continue to accurately grasp 3 Environmentally harmonized product development and design the needs of society to make contributions to the Product development 4 Compliance with environmental laws development of products which are safe, and design 5 Response to customer requirements, etc. energy-efficient, and resource efficient. ● Product Example: High-torque Hybrid Stepping Motor with Rare Earth-free Magnet In FY2012, the Minebea Group developed a high-torque hybrid stepping motor with a powerful magnet delivering high magnetic force which is free of rare earth minerals, such as neodymium and dysprosium, and also features a resource-efficient design. 37 Minebea Group CSR Report 2013 Third-party Opinion Comments on the Minebea CSR Report begun research through the introduction of a CSR Procurement Self-awareness Checklist. In terms of business continuity, the report highlights the start of BCP at major sites and the use of BCM to ensure improvements in BCP effectiveness. This approach to reporting is very effective in showing how the company is steadily developing its initiatives and providing a consistent message to the public. The report highlights a diverse range of other initiatives, such as the establishment of scholarships for orphans of the Great East Japan Earthquake. It should be mentioned that these activities’ consistency with and relation to the company’s CSR philosophy are properly referenced Keisuke Takegahara throughout. The report is also easier to read, as information Director, Environmental Initiatives & Corporate is clearly divided between the report and the website. Social Responsibility – Support Department Overall, this report represents a high-level communication Development Bank of Japan Inc. tool. Minebea’s CSR Report has evolved into a complete Minebea’s CSR Report 2013 is structured similarly to past communications tool for widely promoting its CSR initiatives. reports, and in his message, the president makes a Now, the company should turn its attention to weighting its commitment to further advancing the company’s CSR activities from various standpoints. Looking at the new management concept of “manufacturing with sincerity.” This trends in international disclosure frameworks, including message conveys the Minebea Group’s dynamic CSR integrated reporting and the fourth edition of the GRI management and its dedication to meeting the changing Guidelines, it is not long before companies will be asked to needs of society through the pursuit of innovative clarify the materiality* of their activities by explaining how the manufacturing, as exemplified by the enhanced product activities provide social value. For Minebea, I believe the development structure created with the new Tokyo Research start of this effort will be the selection criteria for its Minebea and Development Center. Green Products and visualization of environmental I was impressed by this year’s feature articles, which performance. illuminated the Group’s CSR management activities in a Moving forward, I expect Minebea to continue promoting different light than past years’. Particularly impressive was its own brand of communication as it pursues its quest of this year’s feature on dialogues with local communities becoming a new kind a manufacturing company. around the Group’s plants, as it reflected the sincerity with which the company engages many different stakeholder *Materiality: Initiatives the company believes are important after groups. These activities suggest the company will deepen its consideration of the expectations of all stakeholders and the economic, social, and environmental impact of the initiatives. commitment to taking a unified approach with communities in executing CSR management. The feature on U.S. subsidiary NHBB revealed how Minebea integrates CSR Keisuke Takegahara After graduation from Hitotsubashi University Faculty of Law, Mr. Takegahara activities with business activities as well the Group’s strength joined the Japan Development Bank (now the Development Bank of Japan, of infusing sustainability into its company culture as it Inc.). He assumed his present post following stints in the bank’s Research expands globally. Department and Policy Planning Department and its Representative Office in In terms of continuity, this year’s report shows the Frankfurt. Mr. Takegahara is also a member of several councils, including the Japanese Ministry of the Environment's Environment Industry Market Size development of many of the topics introduced last year. Last Research Committee and the Environment Growth Engine Study Council, year, for instance, a key topic was promoting CSR in the along with the Cabinet Office’s Future City Promotion Board and the Future supply chain, and this year, Minebea explains how it has City Assessment and Research Committee. On Receiving a Third-party Opinion include the start of research through the CSR Procurement Self-assessment Checklist and BCP promotion. This positive feedback will encourage us to further enhance our initiatives into the future. Masayuki Imanaka Mr. Takegahara has also pointed out the need for Managing Executive Officer weighting our CSR activities. In light of this, we will Officer in charge of Finance & Compliance Promotion Division determine the key issues through discussions with our stakeholders and set up priorities to ensure progress on our Mr. Takegahara has been providing us with valuable activities. Although this will take some time to achieve, we feedback on our CSR Report since our first report was will consider Mr. Takegahara’s comments sincerely and published in FY2010. This year, we are grateful to once make weighting an important issue going forward. again receive his valuable insight. Moreover, we were unable to achieve some of our CSR Our CSR Report 2013 includes two feature articles goals for FY2012. We consider these important issues to be explaining our relationship with local communities that resolved in FY2013 and will continue to take a support the Minebea Group. Mr. Takegahara has forward-looking approach in improving our CSR activities commended our disclosure of these activities along with into the future. our reporting on the progress of our CSR activities, which Printed on paper made with wood from MIX forest thinning. “Morino Chonai-kai” Paper from responsible sources (Forest Neighborhood Association) supports sound forest management. The Minebea Group supports efforts by Japan’s Forestry Tokyo Head Office Agency to reduce CO 2 emissions through the use of domestic forestry products. This report was produced 3-9-6 Mita, Minato-ku, Tokyo 108-8330, Japan using paper made from Japanese wood products. Active use of such products helps promote the maintenance of TEL: +81-3-6758-6711 Japan’s forests and contributes to raising the amount of FAX: +81-3-6758-6700 CO 2 that these forests can absorb. URL: http://www.minebea.co.jp/ Copyright 2013 Minebea Co., Ltd. Printed in Japan October 2013
