Services for professional procurement. Be better informed, make better decisions. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress, 4 June 2013 www.achilles.com Achilles signed up to the UN Global Compact in 2005, and remains committed to supporting and promoting the ten principles, and we will continue to work to embed them within our business by incorporating them as “business as usual” within our everyday practices. As we continue to develop our service offerings we are conscious of the role that we can also play in helping our customers to adopt the principles within their own practices. Achilles provides supplier information services for sustainable procurement, working to identify, assess and monitor suppliers on behalf of some 800 major organisations worldwide. We build and support buyer-supplier communities in an increasing number of industry sectors helping to create opportunities and reduce risk in the supply chain. Whether it be recent horsemeat scandals, labour standards and worker safety issues, or supply disruptions because of natural disasters, recent events continue to highlight the importance of responsible and informed supply chain interactions in the global economy. We believe that successful management of these and other global sustainability issues will continue to challenge businesses worldwide unless they can fully identify and understand their supply chains through accurate and validated supplier information. We believe that business will need to meet these challenges if it is to fulfill its responsibilities and obligations to, and to meet the growing expectations of, the wider society in which it operates. By enabling our buyer customers to understand their key suppliers and their supply chains more fully, we help them to build strategies for managing their supply chain impacts responsibly, based on a solid foundation of reliable and validated supplier information. In 2011 we embarked upon a series of significant structural changes across our entire organisation, beginning a transformational process across all of our business. We are therefore pleased to renew Achilles’ commitment to actively supporting and engaging with the UN Global Compact and the local UK Network, starting with this, our latest Communication on Progress. Adrian Chamberlain CEO, Achilles Group Ltd 2 The supplier information management community for the UK Utilities industry. Human Rights Labour Standards Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association of internationally proclaimed human rights; and and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory abuses. labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Achilles has an established Employee Handbook, which is Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of an internal employee resource containing all relevant internal employment and occupation. employment policies and guidance to the Achilles core competencies. This includes continued commitments to ensure Achilles recognises the right to freedom of association and collective human rights are upheld and that Achilles staff do not become bargaining, and seeks to work constructively with trades unions complicit in human rights abuses. The Handbook has been rolled wherever they represent our employees. We ensure that we comply out across all our business units. with all local legislation regarding this principle in the regions in which we operate. We are also conscious of the opportunity we have to enable our customers to monitor issues relating to human rights throughout Achilles intends to provide a positive working environment which their supply chains and engage in responsible procurement encourages equal opportunity, diversity and personal growth and practices. The majority of the services that we offer now have makes a firm commitment to support the elimination of forced sections on human rights as a standard and it is in this way that we and compulsory labour. All our employees work on freely entered are able to support the 800+ buying organisations in nine industrial contracts of employment which they are at liberty to terminate at sectors and 77,000 supplier customers registered on our systems will. Our internal policies prohibit the use of any forced or bonded to monitor human rights through their supply chains. labour within our organisation. Where possible we seek to ensure any contracts with our subcontractors do the same. 1895 Number of our supplier customers on whom we have conducted audited CSR reports, including Human Rights information, for buying organisations through our supplier information communities. This represents a 69% increase over the previous 12 months. 6980: Number of our supplier customers on whom we have conducted audited health & safety reports for buying organisations through our supplier information communities. This represents a 20% increase over the previous 12 months. 3 Achilles continues to support the effective abolition of child labour Environment and ensures that we do not employ child workers. Employees are required to provide verification of age in the recruitment process Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach across all our operating business units. to environmental challenges; Achilles is fully committed to the sixth principle as we are a global Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental organisation operating in twenty-two countries with employees from responsibility; and a diverse and wide range of nationalities. We have a number of policies which support this principle, including those covering equal Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of opportunities and recruitment and selection, and we ensure that we environmentally friendly technologies are compliant with local legislation in each of the regions in which we operate. Furthermore our written Equal Opportunities policy Achilles is committed to continuing its approach to environmental within the Employee Handbook specifies that all employees will be issues, and we continue to measure our own GHG emissions treated fairly and that we will ensure equal terms with respect to through the Certified Emissions Measurement and Reduction conditions of work, salary and remuneration. Achilles has a detailed Scheme (CEMARS) in respect of our UK operations. Achilles has recruitment and selection policy which makes qualification, skill and achieved independent certification under this programme, and we experience the basis for recruitment and commits to training and continue to monitor our activities to ensure we continue to reduce advancement of staff at all levels without discrimination. our relative carbon footprint when measured against the size of our growing organisation. Over the course of the past three years 63% – percentage of our management team who we have reduced our rolling average emissions against our base have undergone training in the last 12 months on measurement wtaken in 2008. our recruitment and selection processes, including our commitment to prevent discrimination in the Relative emissions rolling average workplace. 62.0000 60.0000 We have implemented a regular survey across all our employees to 58.0000 Tonnes CO2e/£M collect their feedback on various Human Resources related issues 56.0000 54.0000 across the company, and will report further on progress in specific 52.0000 areas on this once there is a more established series of data from 50.0000 which to benchmark. 48.0000 78% – percentage of our staff who have engaged 46.0000 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 actively in providing feedback to our in-house 3% Target Actual reduction survey across the company. 4 In support of this our offices also have in place a number of Anti-Corruption initiatives to reduce energy consumption and waste, and to increase recycling opportunities. In our UK offices, we have Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of maintained the level of waste produced by our offices at 136,000 corruption, including extortion and bribery. litres for mixed recycling and 114,000 litres for landfill waste, despite an 8% increase in staff numbers working from the relevant We have launched and will continue to monitor and update our offices. Any computer hardware or equipment which is no longer Anti-Bribery Policy across all our group, and we operate a “zero required is disposed of through an external certified IT equipment tolerance” policy to bribery and corruption – this policy has been disposal company, and where appropriate (and once any sensitive reviewed and endorsed by our group board of Directors. In addition information has been securely removed or deleted) is donated for to specific confirmations from all our senior management teams, we use in educational programmes in developing countries. require all our high risk contractors to confirm their understanding and compliance with the Achilles Anti-Bribery Policy. In addition, we believe our largest impact in supporting a precautionary approach to environmental issues and encouraging Achilles operates a formal policy on gifts and hospitality, with any greater environmental responsibility is perhaps through the gifts received over the value of £50 to be recorded in a Register propagation of the information within our supply chain communities. for Gifts and Hospitality. Any breach of this policy is treated as a disciplinary offence. Gifts received over this amount are donated 6280: Number of our supplier customers on whom to company raffles, and profits from the tickets sold are given to we have conducted audited environmental reports charity. We are acutely aware of complying with our customers for buying organisations through our supplier policies when conducting our own hospitality and giving gifts. information communities. This represents a 14% increase over the previous 12 months. 5 Achilles Group Limited 30 Park Gate, Milton Park, Abingdon, Oxon OX14 4SH UK | T: +44 (0)1235 838140 | F: +44 (0)1235 821093 | E: enquiries@achilles.com | www.achilles.com 01 – 05/2013
