Report 2012 Performance at a glance Statement of income Dividend and earnings per share Cash flows Ratios Revenue Adjusted earnings per share Net debt Moving average ROI in € millions in € in € millions in % 2011 2012 14,604 15,390 +5% 2011 2012 3.10 3.26 +5% 2011 2012 1,895 2,298 +21% 2011 2012 10.5 10.0 -0.5 EBITDA Dividend per share = Operating working capital Return on sales (before impairment) in € millions in € % of revenue % of revenue 2011 2012 1,834 1,901 +4% 2011 2012 1.45 1.45 2011 2012 13.2 11.2 -2.0 2011 2012 7.8 5.6 -2.2 EBITDA margin Net income attributable Net cash from operating activities Research and development expenses % of revenue to shareholders in € millions in € millions in € millions 2011 2012 12.6 12.4 -0.2 2011 2012 477 (2,169) 2011 2012 396 737 +86% 2011 2012 349 387 +11% EBIT = Earnings per share from Capital expenditures Research and development major in € millions continuing operations in € in € millions projects % of R&D expenses 2011 2012 1,271 1,276 2011 2012 2.29 (7.30) 2011 2012 658 826 +26% 2011 2012 49 50 +1.0 EBIT and EBITDA Shareholders’ equity and EBITDA Operating cash flows Group equity and net debt in € millions per common share in € in € millions in € millions EBIT Shareholders’ equity per common share Net capital expenditure Group equity EBITDA EBITDA per common share Operating cash flows Net debt 60 10 8.60 7.81 7.95 737 48 8 2,009 519 1,834 1,901 36 6 396 38.47 39.25 9,743 1,419 9,509 1,271 1,276 24 4 28.84 7,357 (492) 12 2 (658) (826) 1,895 2,298 936 0 0 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Sustainability Specialty Chemicals Performance Coatings Decorative Paints Eco-premium solutions = Revenue Revenue Revenue % of revenue in € millions in € millions in € millions 2011 2012 22 22 0 2011 2012 5,335 5,543 +4% 2011 2012 5,170 5,702 +10% 2011 2012 4,201 4,297 +2% Employee engagement EBITDA EBITDA EBITDA Gallup GrandMean (out of 5) in € millions in € millions in € millions 2011 2012 3.74 3.80 +2% 2011 2012 906 889 -2% 2011 2012 611 769 +26% 2011 2012 479 425 -11% Key value chains carbon EBITDA margin EBITDA margin EBITDA margin footprint assessment (over three-year period) % of revenue % of revenue % of revenue 2011 2012 330 366 +11% 2011 2012 17.0 16.0 -1.0 2011 2012 11.8 13.5 +1.7 2011 2012 11.4 9.9 -1.5 Total reportrable rate of injuries Total reportable rate of injuries Total reportable rate of injuries Total reportable rate of injuries per million hours per million hours per million hours per million hours 2011 2012 3.1 2.4 -23% 2011 2012 2.8 1.8 -36% 2011 2012 2.8 2.6 -7% 2011 2012 3.5 2.7 -23% Revenue breakdown in % Revenue breakdown in % Revenue breakdown in % E E A C Total reportable rate of injuries D A per million hours D B A C 3.7 3.6 B 3.1 2.4 B C 2009 2010 2011 2012 A Functional Chemicals 35 A Marine and Protective Coatings 28 A Europe 62 B Industrial Chemicals 21 B Automotive and Aerospace Coatings 18 B Latin America 14 Eco-premium solutions C Pulp and Performance Chemicals 20 C Industrial Coatings 23 C Asia Pacific 24 % of revenue D Surface Chemistry 19 D Powder Coatings 17 E Chemicals Pakistan 5 E Wood Finishes and Adhesives 14 21 22 22 18 Total revenue high growth Total revenue high growth Total revenue high growth markets vs mature markets vs mature markets vs mature 2009 2010 2011 2012 > 35% 100% > 45% 100% > 45% 100% AkzoNobel Our geo-mix (revenue) and employees (by region) at a glance in 2012 Geo-mix revenue by destination Employees by region North America Mature Europe Asia Pacific 38% 15% 26% Revenue (in € billions) 21,800 15,100 €15.4 5,100 Revenue by Business Area A Specialty Chemicals 36% B Performance Coatings 37% C A C Decorative Paints 27% B Employees 50,600 Latin America Emerging Europe Other countries Employees by Business Area D A Specialty Chemicals 21% A B Performance Coatings 42% C Decorative Paints 34% C 11% 8% D Other 3% 2% B 4,600 2,600 1,400 During 2012, there were various changes to the company’s portfolio and its leadership. The economic climate remained volatile and markets worldwide offered limited opportunity for growth. But we made good progress and benefited from improvements in several key areas, while never losing focus on our customers. More information can be found in this Report 2012, which takes an in-depth look at our performance and activities during the year. A few historical highlights ICI was created by the merger of Hoarding advertising: the planned four companies, each with its own construction of the new Sikkens plant distinctive logo. The wavy lines in the in Sassenheim, the Netherlands, Nobel Industries logo were borrowed shortly before World War II broke out for the new ICI logo Lacquer manufacturer Sikkens Nederlandse Kunstzijdefabriek (Enka) is ICI is founded via the Lakfabrieken founded in Groningen, founded in Arnhem, the Netherlands Aquitania Agreement the Netherlands 1646 1792 1826 1911 1923 1926 1969 Organon is founded in Oss, Algemeene Kunstzijde Unie Silk manufacturer Courtaulds the Netherlands, and commences (AKU) merges with Koninklijke Bofors forge founded in Sweden founded in Essex, England insulin production Zout Organon to form Akzo Rolling gunpowder at Bofors Samuel Courtauld III (1793 –1881), at the time when Alfred the founder of Courtaulds and a Packaging insulin Nobel turned the factory into titan among Victorian entrepreneurs the most important arms manufacturer in Sweden International Paint, with its ICI’s Dulux Paint entered renowned red propeller logo, the retail market in 1953 Alfred Nobel (photo: 1885) is the world leader in high performance marine coatings KemaNobel merges with the company Akzo Nobel acquires Courtaulds. Akzo Nobel sells its human and Announced the divestment Bofors to form Nobel Industries Best known brand: International animal healthcare businesses to of the North American Schering-Plough Decorative Paints business 1984 1994 1998 2000 2007 2008 2012 Akzo Nobel’s Fibers group Akzo Nobel acquires Akzo and Nobel Industries is divested and becomes the ICI and changes its merge to form Akzo Nobel independent company Acordis name to AkzoNobel Akzo’s first corporate Launching of the new AkzoNobel. headquarters in Arnhem, AkzoNobel’s new brand was the Netherlands, in the unveiled at a gala event held in early 1970s Amsterdam, the Netherlands Case studies Throughout our Report 2012 you will find various case studies highlighting just part of our contribution to the world around us. 15 A more sustainable future 18 Where your ideas go far 28 Extreme protection 41 Playing as a team 44 Hot property 52 Superior strength and performance 62 Breathe easy 72 Restoring former glories 162 Standing the test of time 168 The fastest spray gun... 177 Creating more with less 4 Contents Strategy 7 Financial statements 107 Index 202 Chairman’s statement 8 Consolidated statement of income 108 Glossary 203 Our ambitions and strategy 10 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 109 Financial calendar 205 Risk management 22 Consolidated balance sheet 109 Disclaimer Inside back cover Consolidated statement of cash flows 110 Our leadership 31 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 111 Our Board of Management and Executive Committee 32 Segment information 112 Report of the Board of Management 34 Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 Statement of the Board of Management 40 Company financial statements 153 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 42 Other information 158 Our Supervisory Board 43 Report of the Supervisory Board 45 Sustainability statements 161 2020 Sustainability strategy 163 Business performance 51 Consolidated Sustainability statements 164 AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals 53 Safety 171 AkzoNobel Performance Coatings 63 Employees 178 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints 73 Value chain 183 Environment 188 Governance and compliance 81 Independent assurance report 193 Corporate governance statement 82 Remuneration report 90 Summaries 195 Compliance and integrity management 98 Financial summary 196 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 102 Sustainability performance summary 200 5 Strategy This section provides an overview of our strategic priorities, and gives details of the ambitions to which we aspire. You will also find the Chairman’s statement and learn about how we manage operational risks. Chairman’s statement 8 Our ambitions and strategy 10 Risk management 22 Chairman’s statement Going into 2012, we knew it was implementation of several actions and by introducing additional measures in 2013. We will continue to strengthen from within, ness. We made good progress with our innovation agenda, highlighted by the launch of Dissolvine StimWell (a stimulation going to be a challenging year. striving for operational and functional excellence while building technology for the oil and gas industry with low environmental Economies were slowing down, lasting and profitable relationships with customers all over the world. This disciplined, customer-focused approach is fundaimpact) and the introduction of click&go, an ingenious, eco-efficient paint packaging system designed for use on sprayguns the eurozone was full of uncertainty mental to our continued success and forms a cornerstone of the in vehicle refinish bodyshops. Both new products are prime and raw material prices were new strategy we have adopted (see later in this section), which is based on end-user segmentation and is designed to further examples of how we have fully embedded sustainability into all our activities and processes, a fact which was recognized putting a strain on margins in all improve on our leadership positions in paints, coatings and by our first place ranking in the Chemicals supersector on the our markets. specialty chemicals. Dow Jones Sustainability Index. Recognition such as this is obviously welcome, but we will continue striving to make further It was a year which called for many tough decisions, one of the improvements and step up our efforts in areas such as safety. As the year progressed, conditions remained unfavorable and most significant being the divestment of our North American operating in such a testing environment proved extremely Decorative Paints activities to PPG Industries, Inc. The business On a personal note, it was certainly an interesting year. Having challenging. However, despite the constant headwinds, we has been significantly improved, but it was clear that further succeeded Hans Wijers as CEO in April, there was a lot of work combined the resilience of our portfolio with careful but strinstrengthening of our position would require substantial investto do in terms of fine-tuning my vision for the company and gent management to realize topline growth of 5 percent and an ment. Given the depressed economic climate, we decided to developing the new strategy. Having to take a temporary leave EBITDA improvement of 4 percent. focus our Decorative Paints investment and priorities on key of absence was unexpected, but the Executive Committee and markets in Europe, and on building our strong existing posiSupervisory Board did an excellent job in keeping the company As expected, we saw a continued decline in consumer confitions in high growth regions. Another major decision followed a moving forward and we are all fully energized and excited about dence and in housing markets worldwide, which had a negaprudent review (excluding restructuring benefits) of the balance what lies ahead. There are still key issues to address – we have tive impact on many of our businesses. We were faced with an sheet, which took into account lower expected market growth to improve our cash management and increase our profitabiadditional slowdown in high growth regions, with markets that rates. This resulted in a non-cash impairment charge against lity – while the economic climate is likely to remain challenging had previously been more resistant to the economic crisis also the Decorative Paints business’ assets, primarily in Europe. for some time. But we are confident that our new strategy will being affected. The new market reality called for a more focused enable us to take full advantage of our market leadership posibusiness approach, so we implemented various improvements Our major investments during the year were mainly concentions and our global scale and we remain in a strong position to to supplement the ongoing restructuring which has been taking trated on expanding capacity and boosting production capabiachieve our strategic ambitions. place. This positively impacted our results, with Performance lity, particularly in high growth regions. For example, Industrial Coatings achieving good growth and improving profitabiChemicals and Functional Chemicals both announced expanOn behalf of the Executive Committee, I would like to thank lity, while Specialty Chemicals had a solid year and Decorative sion projects in China, while Pulp and Performance Chemicals our shareholders, and all our colleagues around the world for Paints remained essentially flat. In terms of share price developis building a new Chemical Island in Brazil and Wood Finishes their hard work and valued contribution during 2012. Together ment, we achieved a 33.2 percent increase by year-end, outperand Adhesives opened a new site in Vietnam. This ability to we have much to look forward to as we strive to make our forming the Bloomberg Chemicals Index by 5.3 percent. grow organically was crucial given the depressed economic company even stronger and continue to focus on delivering for climate, which offered little encouragement for pursuing acquiour customers. Our decision-making throughout 2012 was very much influenced sitions. However, should the right opportunities come along, we by the performance improvement program we introduced the are in a strong position to make the appropriate investments in previous year. We set ourselves the ambition of delivering €200 line with our strategic growth ambitions. million EBITDA in 2012 and the good news is that we are ahead of target, delivering €250 million by the end of the year. In addiOperational matters and the state of the global economy Ton Büchner tion, we brought forward our ambition of delivering €500 million clearly occupied much of our time, but we were not distracted CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management EBITDA in 2014 by one year. We aim to achieve this by earlier from remaining committed to other vital areas of our busiand the Executive Committee 8 Chairman’s statement | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | Chairman’s statement 9 Our ambitions and strategy As a starting point for defining our strategic agenda, We sell products and services into four main end-user we initiated a company-wide analysis of the outlook segments – Buildings and Infrastructure, Transportation, Consumer Goods and Industrial. A brief profile of each of these for the end-user segments that we serve. This is segments, including their sub-segments, is provided over the something that we will continue to do on a regular following pages. The outlook for these end-user segments going forward varies, but in general the economic outlook has basis in order to assess the outlook for our businesses. become more negative over the past couple of years. ParticuSpecifically, we will be incorporating end-user segment lar areas of concern are Western Europe from a geographic perspective and the Buildings and Infrastructure segment analysis into our strategy, budgeting and operational from an end-user perspective. While we continue to expect growth in high growth markets, going forward, growth rates are review processes going forward. expected to be limited to single digit figures. AkzoNobel revenue by segment in % Vision: D A Buildings and Infrastructure 45 Leading B Transportation 15 A market positions C Consumer Goods 15 D Industrial 25 delivering C leading B performance End-user segmentation Actions Processes Strategic focus areas 10 Our ambitions and strategy | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Buildings and Infrastructure The global Buildings and Infrastructure end-user segment Trends New non-residential construction1 uses a wide variety of products to build, decorate, protect, The Buildings and Infrastructure end-user segment has expe$ billion, output maintain and renovate building interiors and exteriors. Various rienced a significant contraction since 2006, with limited EUR & US BRIC Forecast products are also used for the construction and maintenance recovery since then. Due to continued restrictions in the 3,000 of infrastructure, such as airports, bridges and roads. The mortgage market and low levels of consumer confidence, the segment can be divided into three specific sub-segments: sector remains depressed, impacting all three sub-segments 2,500 – New build projects; Maintenance, renovation and repair; and 2,000 New build projects Building products and components. The outlook in mature 1,500 • Residential geographies remains neutral at best, while in some areas of • Commercial Western Europe, the expectation is that there will be further 1,000 • Infrastructure declines, even off the existing low base. The outlook for high 500 growth regions is more positive due to population and wealth 0 Maintenance, renovation and repair growth, but the growth rates going forward are expected to 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • Residential be lower than historical growth rates. Government stimulus • Commercial packages for infrastructure development are also in place in Residential construction 2 • Infrastructure many regions. Housing completions million units EUR & US BRIC Forecast Building products and components Future sustainability developments 15.0 • Windows Even in a difficult market environment, there are pockets of • Doors demand due to the requirement for increased sustainability 12.5 • Joinery and lower energy costs in the Buildings and Infrastructure 10.0 • Flooring segment. Changes in demand due to changes in energy 7.5 • Roofing and siding requirements in residential, commercial and infrastructure 5.0 • Structural components buildings are expected to be considerable. For example, according to the World Business Council for Sustainable 2.5 Percentage of AkzoNobel revenue Development’s (WBCSD) Vision 2050 report, the expectation 0 • 45 percent is that by 2050, 70 percent of the world’s population will live 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 in urban areas and 95 percent of new building stock will use Examples of AkzoNobel products sold into this zero net energy. The proportion of buildings heated by fossil Total market maintenance and repair 3 end-user segment fuels will also fall below 6 percent. $ billion, output • Decorative paints used in interiors and exteriors EUR & US BRIC Forecast • Protective coatings used to coat and fire protect metals Implications for strategy and actions 2,000 in larger buildings and infrastructure To address this difficult end-user segment environment, • Coil coatings used in roofing and siding products AkzoNobel will need to manage product lines and improve 1,500 • Powder coatings used in extrusions margins in all geographies, while remaining focused on deliver• Wood finishes and adhesives used for flooring and joinery ing better value for customers. Innovation will play a vital role 1,000 • Chlor-alkali products used in many plastic components in terms of improving our sustainability profile and establishing • Redispersible powders and cellulosic derivatives used in triggers that prompt the use of our products. We will need to 500 building adhesives and coatings continue to restructure in mature geographies, while in high growth areas we must continue to ensure strong positions 0 and appropriate business models. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sources: (1/3) IHS / Construction IC (2) Euromonitor International. Transportation The Transportation segment covers parts manufacture, assemTrends Vehicle (car) miles driven1 bly and maintenance of cars, trucks, ships, airplanes, trains and The Transportation segment is expected to continue growing, Billion car kilometers all other products that facilitate movement. Our specialty chemiwith a geographic shift of demand and manufacturing to high China US Western EU cals are key parts of the process that make components and growth regions. Increased use of lighter, alternative materials 3,000 coatings play an important functional role in terms of protecting is also forecast. Within the sub-segments, in Automotive OEM 2,500 the underlying vehicle, but are also vital for aesthetics. We recogand parts and assembly, the dip experienced during the global 2,000 nize the following three sub-segments in Transportation: recession was marked. However, the recovery has been quite robust, with continued strong growth in high growth regions and 1,500 Automotive OEM, parts and assembly moderate growth elsewhere. The Automotive repair sub-segment 1,000 • Interior and exterior components and systems is expected to continue being more stable and geographically 500 for cars and trucks, including: broad, but with much lower growth. Vehicle car miles driven are 0 • Bumpers increasing, but both accident rates and repair rates per accident • Instrument panels are falling due to extra safety features, while many motorists are 2008 2009 2010 2011 • Wheels delaying small repairs due to the difficult economy. The Marine • Assembly of cars, light vehicles and commercial vehicles and air transport sub-segment has seen a major drop in shipFreight rates2 building and reduced maintenance spend as shipping rates ClarkSea Index $ earnings/day Automotive repair decline, with some evidence of increased use of more basic 50,000 • Aftermarket refurbishment and modification materials for repair. Airplane passenger miles continue to rise, of cars and trucks keeping demand for maintenance more stable. 40,000 • Repair of damage to cars and trucks Future sustainability developments 30,000 Marine and air transport Sustainability-related concerns and, in particular, the need for 20,000 • Ship and yacht new build reduced energy use in Transportation are important issues in • Ship and yacht maintenance, repair and refurbishment terms of customer/consumer demand going forward. Accord10,000 • Airplane new build ing to the WBCSD’s Vision 2050 report, universal access to low 0 • Airplane maintenance, repair and refurbishment carbon transport is expected by 2050. An 80 percent reduction 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 in energy use by light duty vehicles is also forecast, along with Percentage of AkzoNobel revenue a 50 percent drop in shipping/freight transportation. This will • 15 percent create challenges and opportunities for suppliers to this endMotor vehicles and parts production3 user segment. $ billion, value added Examples of AkzoNobel products sold into this segment 1,000 • Specialty coatings used for interior (e.g. instrument panels) Implications for strategy and actions and exterior (e.g. bumpers) automotive plastics In response to the trends in this segment, we will continue to 800 • Powder coatings for automotive components, such as focus on launching innovative products to improve function600 wheels and engines ality, sustainability and margins, and deliver better value for • Chlorine, organic peroxides and metal alkyls used customers. A particular focus area will be ensuring we have 400 in the production of automotive plastics the right products as customers shift to new, lighter materials. 200 • Automotive refinish coatings For high growth areas in particular, we need to ensure we have • Marine and yacht coatings for new build and maintenance products with appropriate cost-to-serve/value trade-offs. We 0 • Aerospace coatings for new build and maintenance must also leverage our global scale to improve efficiency and 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 effectiveness, and continue restructuring in lower margin Sources: (1) IRF / Euromonitor International (2) Clarkson Research segments and geographies with limited growth potential. Services Limited (3) Oxford Economics. Consumer Goods The Consumer Goods segment covers products such as Trends Consumer electronics production1 consumer electronics, furniture, domestic appliances, food and In Consumer Goods, we see continued growth and a geo$ billion, value added beverage, personal care and cleaning products. Our specialty graphic shift to Asia in terms of demand, production and Forecast chemicals are either vital to the process that makes compodesign. The growth outlook is fairly positive, due mainly to rising 200 nents (e.g. for making plastics used in consumer electronics), wealth levels in high growth regions. During the recession, there or they are key functional ingredients (e.g. chelates in dishwas a substantial drop in mature geographies for the Consu150 washing). As with the Transportation end-user segment, our mer durables sub-segment and so far the recovery has been coatings have an important aesthetic and design role (such as muted, notably in furniture. The Consumer packaged goods 100 powder coatings on appliances), but are also used for protecsub-segment is more stable and global in nature, but has a tion, such as packaging coatings used inside cans to protect lower growth rate. In both sub-segments, there are changes 50 the can from the contents and the contents from the can. We in demand patterns. For example, in mature markets, there is 0 recognize two sub-segments in Consumer Goods: evidence of the “vanishing middle”, with consumers choosing either higher value premium products or basic alternatives. In 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Consumer durables high growth areas, as wealth increases, many new consumers • Consumer electronics are coming into the market, but often with demand for products Domestic application production2 • Domestic appliances that are more affordable than those sold into the basic market $ billion, value added • Wood furniture in mature geographies. Forecast • Metal furniture 200 • Toys, recreational and sports equipment Future sustainability developments The WBCSD’s Vision 2050 report foresees major changes in 150 Consumer packaged goods this end-user segment, due to increased pressure from resource • Packaged (particularly canned) food and beverage scarcity. By 2050, it is forecast that people will only use five tons 100 • Personal care products such as hair care and body care of non-renewable materials each, down from 85 tons per person 50 • Industrial cleaning being used in the United States today. Products will be expected • Household cleaning to be longer lasting and recycling of durables and packaging for 0 • Micronutrients non-durables will be fully integrated into business models. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 • Pharmaceutical Implications for strategy and actions Percentage of AkzoNobel revenue Given the trends in this end-user segment, we need to have Food and beverage production 3 • 15 percent appropriate capabilities in high growth areas. This applies to $ billion, value added manufacturing, distribution and technical support, but also to Forecast Examples of AkzoNobel products sold into this segment design and key account management, as the need for managing 2,000 • Wood finishes, wood adhesives and powder coatings multi-level relationships becomes greater. For example, manaused for the manufacture of furniture ging requirements and relationships with original equipment 1,500 • Specialty finishes and powder coatings used for manufacturers and contract manufacturers will be increasingly appliances and consumer electronics important. Delivering better value for customers through inno1,000 • Silica used in consumer electronics vation remains fundamental in Consumer Goods. So we must 500 • Packaging coatings used in the manufacture of cans closely follow trends and be prepared for changes in consumer for food, beer and beverage needs, as well as seeking opportunities to differentiate through 0 • Natural and synthetic surfactants and polymers used in the color, design and/or customer process improvement. We must also continue to restructure in mature regions as manufacturing 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 manufacture of soap, detergents and personal care products • Chelates/ethylene amines in dishwashing and detergents relocates and consumer demand patterns change. Sources: (1/2/3) Oxford Economics. Industrial The Industrial end-user segment covers production activities as • Organic peroxides, metal alkyls and polymer additives Chemical production1 varied as oil and gas, metals and mining, electricity and utilities, used in the production of plastics $ billion, value added agricultural, chemical manufacturing and pulp and paper manu• Bleaching chemicals, caustic soda and chelates used in Forecast facturing. Our specialty chemicals perform a variety of roles in pulp production 800 this segment. We supply products such as chlorine and caustic • Retention chemicals used in paper production soda that are a key building block for producing chemicals. • Protective coatings used for oil and gas up and downstream, 600 Various products also support the production process, but are as well as energy and water and wastewater installations not included in the final production process outcome, such as • Powder coatings used on pipes 400 bleaching chemicals for manufacturing pulp and organic peroxides for plastics production. In addition, many specialty Trends 200 chemicals are included in formulations and play a vital functional Many markets within this end-user segment are fairly cycli0 role in the final product, such as surface chemicals used in oil cal, with substantial swings in demand. However, some are and gas and agricultural applications. We also sell liquid protecsubject to different cycles (agricultural), while others are lower 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 tive and powder coatings which play some aesthetic role, but growth and not as cyclical (pulp and paper). During the last primarily provide functionality such as fire and corrosion protecrecession, the impact of the economic cycle was more limited Energy and utilities construction2 tion. We recognize two sub-segments in the Industrial segment: than expected, based largely on robust high growth country $ billion, output demand. In particular, the oil and gas market was quite strong Forecast Natural resource and energy industries on the basis of high oil prices. We continue to expect buoyant 800 • Oil and gas extraction demand in energy and utilities as high growth regions build infra• Metals and mining structure and mature markets replace existing infrastructure, in 600 • Energy and electricity generation many cases with more sustainable solutions. We also expect • Water and wastewater treatment reasonable demand in other markets covered by this end-user 400 • Agriculture segment, especially outside the mature European region as 200 industrial confidence appears to be growing in the United States Process industries and in all high growth markets. 0 • Bulk chemicals 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 • Specialty chemicals Future sustainability developments • Pulp production The WBCSD’s Vision 2050 report foresees major changes in • Paper manufacturing the Industrial end-user segment. As well as a four to ten-fold Purchasing mangers’ index3 improvement in the eco-efficiency of resources and materials, China (HSBC) Eurozone (HSBC) US (ISM) Percentage of AkzoNobel revenue it is expected that closed loop processes will make landfills 60 • 25 percent obsolete and cooperation across sectors will become the norm. 55 Examples of AkzoNobel products sold into this segment Implications for strategy and actions • Chlorine, caustic soda, ethylene amines and celluloseTo ensure we are well-positioned, we need to manage product 50 based, sulfur-based and silica products used as a building lines and improve margins in all geographies, while remaining block or a process facilitator in many industrial applications focused on delivering better value for customers. Innovation will 45 • Chelates and surfactants used in oilfield applications play a vital role in terms of improving our sustainability profile and • Synthetic/natural polymers used in wastewater treatment establishing triggers that prompt the use of our products. We 40 • Surfactants, ethylene amines, sulfur products and chelates need to continue restructuring in mature geographies, while in Oct 09 Oct 10 Oct 11 Oct 12 used for agricultural applications high growth areas, we must continue to ensure strong positions Sources: (1) Oxford Economics (2) Business Monitor International and appropriate business models. (3) Markit Economics, Institute of Supply Mangement. A more sustainable future Radically improving your eco-footprint while significantly increasing production capacity would be considered a major challenge in any industry. But that’s exactly what we took on when we announced the investment of €140 million to convert our chlorine plant in Frankfurt, Germany, to the latest, state-of-the-art membrane electrolysis technology. The new facility will increase current capacity by around 50 percent while reducing our ecological footprint by nearly a third. For example, electricity consumption per ton of product will be improved by almost 30 percent and brine cleaning waste will also be cut by roughly the same amount. Meanwhile, adopting the new membrane technology means mercury usage will no longer be necessary. Work is already underway switching over to new, single element, electrolysis cells, which will replace the existing amalgam cells – technology which is now 40 years old. Construction activity began in late 2012 and represented an important milestone on our path towards a more sustainable future. Due to come on stream in the fourth quarter of 2013, the new and improved plant will help to reinforce our Industrial Chemicals business’ leadership position in Europe’s caustic lye and chloromethanes markets. By increasing chlorine capacity to an expected 250 kilotons per year, we will also be able to meet robust demand and continue to support the growth of our customers. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | DRAFT 3 15 Our ambitions Our strategic ambitions are as follows: AkzoNobel’s vision is to have: Leading market positions delivering leading performance. Our ambitions and agenda reflect our view that in order to be a true leader, we must achieve Achieve return on sales (operating income/revenue) leadership in both financial and non-financial aspects of our business. Given the modest outlook for end-user segment of 9.0 percent by 2015 growth, our financial ambitions and strategic agenda are strongly focused on operating income, cash generation and return on capital. This is based on the principle that, even Achieve return on investment (operating income/ if our revenue growth opportunities are more modest going average 12 months invested capital) of 14.0 percent forward than they were historically, we still need to generate higher returns to be a true leader. by 2015 From a non-financial perspective, we will focus on safety, carbon footprint, resource efficiency and eco-premium soluMaintain net debt/EBITDA lower than 2.0 by 2015 tions. Going forward, we will focus more on innovative solutions that lead to higher levels of resource efficiency in our downstream value chain (i.e. with our customers and consumers). Increase revenue from downstream eco-premium solutions to 20 percent of our revenues by 2020 Reduce our carbon emissions through the value chain (excluding Scope 4) by 25 to 30 percent per ton by 2020 (2012 base) Improve resource efficiency across the full value chain 16 Our ambitions and strategy | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Strategic focus areas Processes In order to achieve our ambitions, we have established a clear set of Diverse and inclusive talent development We are standardizing a number of processes in the company strategic focus areas throughout the company. The active participation of a strong and motivated workforce to benefit from our scale. We have defined a specific set of core which reflects the diversity of the end-user segments we serve processes that will help to build on the strengths of AkzoNobel Care for the customer is required if we are to deliver on our vision and ambitions. We company-wide. These are: The starting point for everything we do must be understandmust therefore continue to build our programs and processes ing and serving our end-user segments in a profitable way. in order to achieve substantially higher levels of employee Behavior-based and process safety This requires segmentation which is focused on customer and engagement and diversity at various levels in the company. We have had, and will continue to have, one approach to safety consumer needs, and product and process innovation that We will do this through company-wide talent management. across the entire company, regardless of market sector or geoaddresses those needs. We will continuously review leading graphy. This includes personal safety – which we refer to as indicators in our segments so that we can be proactive. In behavior-based safety – and safety in our production activiaddition, we need to make sure that we have a supply chain ties, which we refer to as process safety. Within the innovation which allows us to deliver on-time and right-first-time service. process, we will also be addressing product and process safety To ensure that this is beneficial for customers, consumers and opportunities. AkzoNobel, we must also optimize our cost-to-serve levels. In 2012, we took a number of important steps with regard to Reduction of product and process complexity behaving safely. Specifically: We need to reduce complexity wherever possible. This incorporates reducing product and stock keeping unit (SKU) complex• TakeCare program ity, but it also means reducing unnecessary process complexity. • Life-Saving Rules • Substance management Cash and return on investment (ROI) Although we are a very large paints, coatings and specialty Going forward, rather than inventing new processes or framechemicals supplier, we aspire to improve significantly when works, our focus will be on disciplined and rigorous implemenit comes to cash generation and return on investment. We tation of existing initiatives. strive to make balanced decisions to improve our businesses structurally and continuously. Operational Control Cycle To ensure that we are dependable and focused on cash Embedded safety and sustainability and return on investment, we need to have a coherent and Safety will always be first on our agenda. Regarding sustaindisciplined operational management process. This process ability, we continuously improve, as evidenced by our continmust take a forward-looking view. It starts with our end-user ued strong performance in the Dow Jones Sustainability segment view and drives our planning, our actions and our Index. We will enhance our focus on improved resource efficontinuous follow-up at various levels of the company. ciency in the downstream value chain (i.e. with customers, consumers and in end-of-life) to build on our existing resource efficiency activities in our own scope and with our suppliers. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | Our ambitions and strategy 17 Where your ideas go far Attracting promising new talent and retaining employees with high potential are key to the success of any company with aspirations to be the best. With our sights firmly set on becoming the world’s leading paints, coatings and specialty chemicals company, we attach huge strategic importance to the attraction and retention of talent and the continued development of our employees. We are already recognized as being a highly collaborative organization that offers an accessible working environment, where sustainability and entrepreneurial spirit are key. But in order to better position ourselves as an employer of choice and differentiate ourselves from the competition, we have to do even more. So we have developed an Employee Value Proposition, or EVP. Essentially, it’s an articulation of what we stand for as an employer and outlines what employees can expect from us in terms of their role, development, work environment and reward. To help bring it to life, we’ve embodied our EVP in a concept called Where your ideas go far. It will enable us to better communicate the deal between prospective and current employees and help ensure that we have in place the talents we need to achieve our ambitions. Our EVP also gives us a clear and consistent approach to recruitment and talent development around the world. It sends a strong message that we are looking for people who can see what is happening in the world around them – whether that’s climate change or the increasingly rapid pace of urbanization – and who can use those insights to develop ideas of what tomorrow should look like. How we should live, how we should travel, what type of buildings we should live and work in. In short, our EVP makes it explicit we’re looking for people who have the energy and determination to create the future with our customers and take AkzoNobel and the world forward, one step, every day. Actions Continuous improvement Procurement These strategic focus areas and core processes will result As is the case with the Operational Control Cycle, a rigorous To leverage our scale, harness innovation and combine the in a set of key actions that lead us to our goal of leadership in continuous improvement process is required. This applies capabilities of our suppliers with our own, we need to take coatings and specialty chemicals. not only in our factories, but also in other areas of our an AkzoNobel approach to procurement. Sustainability is also operations, such as office activities and distribution. In our becoming an increasingly important topic in our own discusDeliver dependably continuous improvement process, we incorporate the followsions with suppliers. We have been harmonizing and standardWe must deliver on our promises whether they are to the ing important concepts: izing processes such as strategic sourcing, key supplier and financial market, to customers, to suppliers, or to one another. account management and operational procurement (including • Continuous improvement starts with the customer purchase-to-pay, or P2P) processes. Standardization of these Grow organically • We must understand, standardize and improve processes processes will accelerate going forward. We need to build on our strong market sector and geographic that deliver customer value, seeking excellence by positions. The starting point for this is capitalizing on the significant reducing variation (often referred to as Six Sigma activities) Talent management investments that we have made over the last few years, including: and waste (often referred to as “Lean”). By waste, In order to deliver diverse and inclusive talent development, we we mean all forms of waste, including over-processing, must have one talent management process across the whole • The creation of additional production capacity in high time, skills and capabilities, in addition to process defects, of AkzoNobel, which engages and motivates a high quality, growth regions, such as investments in China (at our over-production, wasted transport and inventory diverse workforce. This talent management process includes: Ningbo multi-site; for new production capability for • We need to continuously learn using a structured Decorative Paints; and to add capacity for Automotive plan-do-study-act (PDSA) approach, based on data • Planning for talent needs based on diversity and inclusion and Aerospace Coatings in Changzhou), and in Brazil and facts goals and utilizing disciplined workforce planning (Chemical Islands for bleaching chemicals) • Attracting, acquiring and on-boarding based on a clear • Improvements in capability in mature geographies Innovation employee value proposition (see case study opposite) such as our investment in North East England to build Effective and efficient innovation processes are fundamental if • Assessing performance and potential through a world class, hi-tech manufacturing facility and the we are to care for the customer, in that good processes deliver performance dialogs, development planning, development de-bottlenecking of our existing manufacturing sites in products with better functionality, improved eco-efficiency centers and talent reviews Örnsköldsvik and Sundsvall, Sweden and/or lower costs for customer and/or consumer benefit. • Development and retention via cross-BU/functional This includes processes that enable delivery of opportumoves, challenging assignments, mentoring, coaching, We will need to be more selective in our investments going nity identification, concept generation, solution development, learning (e.g. the AkzoNobel Academy) forward given the uncertainties in the market and our focus commercialization and continuous improvement in response • Deployment of personnel based on solid succession on cash and return on investment. Therefore, we are already to customer and market needs. The focus will not only be in planning and rich internal talent pools making difficult choices about where to invest. A good example the area of new product development, but also on simplifyis the divestment of our North American Decorative Paints busiing existing product portfolios and innovation in manufacturing ness. In 2012, we decided to prioritize our resources and focus and distribution processes. on those areas where our end-user segment analysis indicates there will be better growth potential. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | Our ambitions and strategy 19 Innovate A good example of successful simplification is in our Powder our scale as part of our transition from large to leading. Innovation is vital for organic growth and embedded sustainCoatings business in Europe. Following the acquisition of For example, we are standardizing product branding proability. Good examples of the kind of product innovation that the Rohm & Haas powder business, we had a very complex cesses within Decorative Paints at Business Area level, fit this profile are: product range, with considerable duplication. By creating a while at Specialty Chemicals Business Area level, we will be much smaller, but better formulated range, we have been standardizing process engineering and enterprise resource • Emulsion paints which are diluted at the point of use. able to capture the benefits of scale internally, while offering planning (ERP) processes. Other processes will be standardThis provides a sustainability benefit of reduced energy customers the best quality products, often with shorter lead ized and continuously improved at business unit or market use in transportation times and greater availability. sector level. • Dissolvine StimWell biodegradable well stimulation technology for the oil and gas industry, derived Product line simplification isn’t the only way to take advantage Continuously improve from renewable resources (see case study in the of our global scale. Process simplification can also provide We aim to have robust and consistent processes for perforOur leadership section) significant advantages. In our Procurement and Finance funcmance improvement, which will be rolled out to the organi• Dulux Guardian interior wall paint, which has been tions, for example, we are simplifying our back office proceszation through operational excellence training as part of the launched in India with a well-being proposition: ses, allowing us to carry out these tasks more efficiently and AkzoNobel Academy. Instead of project-based improvelow-VOC, low-odor and anti-bacterial improve productivity with no impact on customer service levels. ments, we aim to generate these improvements continuously, based on our process and innovation strength. Innovation is also vital for simplicity and focus on cash and return Standardize on investment. We need to take an innovative approach to Once we have defined a process, we must standardize it. Summary process improvement to cut costs and enhance effectiveness. Core processes are being defined at the highest level of the AkzoNobel now has a clear set of strategic focus areas, a organization that we can use to leverage our scale. As indicatdefined set of core processes and a set of key actions that For example, we have reorganized our Marine and Protective ed earlier, we are ensuring core processes at the AkzoNobel drive our goal of: Leading market positions delivering leading Coatings business along market sector lines and now operate level for safety, operational control, continuous improvement, performance. We will deliver dependably and focus on organic three distinct, streamlined activities – Marine, Protective and talent management, procurement and innovation. growth, process strength and continuous improvement. We Yacht coatings. They are supported by global organizations have sustainability at our core and drive relationships across in research, development and innovation (RD&I) and supply The use of standardized processes for improved efficiency and the value chain to incorporate innovation which reduces our chain. This will ensure that we take a global approach to innoeffectiveness is a key element of our performance improvement own ecological footprint and the footprint of other stakeholdvation and complexity reduction. program, which was originally designed to generate an addiers. We will inspire our employees to perform better every day tional €500 million EBITDA by 2014. We exceeded the program’s and together we will move the company forward. Simplify target for 2012 by delivering €250 million of improvements By simplifying our product ranges and processes we can (the original ambition for 2012 was €200 million). By acceldeliver care for our customers while ensuring that we maxierating the program and by introducing additional measures, mize our cash and return on investment. Complexity reducwe aim to deliver our program benefits a year early, in 2013. tion is therefore crucial if we are to capture the benefits created by our considerable global scale. Some processes will also be standardized at other levels of the organization to capture the advantages created by 20 Our ambitions and strategy | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Vision: Leading market positions delivering leading performance End-user segmentation Actions Buildings and Infrastructure Transportation Processes Deliver dependably Consumer Goods Grow organically Industrial Strategic Behavior-based and  Innovate focus areas process safety Simplify Operational Control Cycle Care for the customer Standardize Continuous improvement Reduction of product and Continuously improve process complexity Innovation Cash and return Procurement on investment Talent management Embedded safety and sustainability Diverse and inclusive talent development AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | Our ambitions and strategy 21 Risk management Doing business inherently involves taking risks, and by taking measured risks we strive to be a sustainable company. Risk management is an essential element of our corporate governance and strategy development. 22 Risk management | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2012 We foster a high awareness of business risks and internal • Operational: With respect to operational risks, we functional experts. In addition, in selected areas with low risk control, geared to safeguarding our risk appetite and providcontinuously strive to minimize these risks. Our risk tolerance, dedicated risk assessments were performed to safeing transparency in our operations. The Executive Commitappetite is very limited. We are executing programs guard our risk appetite. All major risks were responded to by tee is responsible for managing the risks associated with our geared towards improving our operational and functional the unit that identified them. The outcome of all risk assessactivities and, hence, for the establishment and adequate funcexcellence. Our risk appetite is governed by our ambition ments was reported to the next higher management level as tioning of appropriate risk management and control systems to strive for top quartile safety performance, top quartile part of our Business Planning & Review cycle. Risk profiles and (see Statement of the Board of Management in the Our leaderperformance in diversity and talent development, top trends were shared by managers across the company. In the ship section). quartile eco-efficiency improvement rates and a top three bottom-up consolidation process, the risks were taken to the position in the Chemicals supersector of the Dow Jones next management level, where they were re-assessed, either AkzoNobel risk management framework Sustainability Index. because of the materiality of the risk exposure and/or because Through our risk management framework, we seek to provide of the accumulated effect. reasonable assurance that our business objectives can be • Financial: With respect to financial risks, we have a achieved and our obligations to customers, shareholders, prudent financing strategy and a strict cash management The major risk factors for our company, identified through risk employees and society can be met. Our risk management policy and are committed to maintaining strong investment consolidation and the subsequent risk assessment by the framework is in line with the Enterprise Risk Management – grade credit ratings. Our financial risk management and Executive Committee, are presented in the following pages. An Integrated Framework of COSO and the Dutch Corporate risk appetite for several financial risks are explained in more unexpected event in 2012 was the absence of our CEO due Governance Code. The Executive Committee reviews our detail in Note 22 in the Financial statements section. to illness and the consequential delay of the strategic update. risk management and control systems and our major busiFurthermore, we were faced with continued deterioration of ness risks, which are subsequently reviewed by the Super• Compliance: We do not permit our employees to take any market conditions, especially in Europe. visory Board. compliance risk and have a zero tolerance policy in relation to breaches of our Code of Conduct. See the Corporate Major risk factors Risk appetite governance section for more details. Under the explicit understanding that this is not an exhaustive Clarity on risk appetite and boundaries that determine the list, the major risk factors that may prevent full achievement of freedom of action or choice in terms of risk taking and risk Risk management in 2012 our strategic ambitions are listed in detail in this section. There acceptance is provided to all managers. Risk boundaries Enterprise Risk Management is a bottom-up process which may be current risks that the company has not fully assessed, are set by our strategy, our Company Statement, Code of provides full coverage of the organization and ensures that or that are currently identified as not having a significant impact Conduct, company values, authority schedules, policies and we focus on what we consider to be the areas of major risk on the business, but which could at a later stage develop a corporate directives. Our risk appetite differs by objective area exposure. Therefore, scoping of our 2012 risk management material impact. The company’s risk management systems and type of risk: activities was performed by the Executive Committee, business endeavor to ensure the timely discovery of such incidents. unit Managing Directors and Corporate Directors, in associa• Strategic: In pursuing our strategic ambitions, we are tion with the risk management function. Besides the focus on An overview of our major risk factors follows. The five risks that prepared to take considerable risk related to achieve coverage of our organization, emphasis is put on organizational we currently assess as the most significant for the forthcoming our growth, innovation and sustainability objectives. changes, key strategic projects and high growth regions. five years are indicated. Returns on investment in the development of innovative products and sustainable solutions are never certain. Yet During 2012, we held more than 100 facilitated Enterprise considerable funds and efforts are spent on research, Risk Management workshops. More than 4,000 risk scenadevelopment and innovation, even in less certain rios were identified and prioritized by management teams and economic circumstances. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | Risk management 23 We have identified major risk factors that may prevent full achievement of our strategic ambitions. These are explained in more detail over the following pages, with the top five risks highlighted. Major risk factors assessed by AkzoNobel Internal External Strategic Strategic • Identification of major transforming technologies • Worsening of economic conditions • Implementation of strategic agenda • International operations • Ensuring stakeholder support Operational • Attraction and retention of talent Operational • Management of change • Sourcing of raw materials • Production process risks • Energy pricing and emission trading rights • Product liability • Environmental liabilities Financial Financial • Cash flow • Contribution to pension funds • Decline of asset values • Fluctuations in exchange rates Compliance Compliance • Complying with laws and regulations 24 Risk management | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Internal Strategic Internal Operational – Top five risk Internal Operational Identification of major Attraction and retention Production process risks transforming technologies of talent Risks in production processes can adversely affect our results. These risks concern areas such as personal health and safety, process safety, product Our success depends on the sustainable growth of our business through Our ambitious growth plans may not be achieved if we fail to attract safety and operational eco-efficiency. Unlikely scenarios can involve research, development and innovation. If we are not able to identify major and retain the right people. major incidents with a high impact for our organization, causing business transforming technologies in a timely manner, this may lead to the loss of continuity risks and reputational damage. our leadership positions and adversely affect our business and results. Risk corrective actions Growing our business calls for the need to grow our people. Risk corrective actions Risk corrective actions Therefore, AkzoNobel puts emphasis not only on attracting and We held a company-wide Safety Day in 2012 focused on launching our The risk of missing relevant technology developments is mitigated in four retaining employees, but also on motivating them and developing their TakeCare and Life-Saving Rules programs. The TakeCare program is the ways. Firstly, we adequately support research and development with a capabilities. As part of this drive, we are stepping up our actions to umbrella for all existing and future safety initiatives at business and central spend level of between 2 and 3 percent of revenue (2012: 2.5 percent strengthen our corporate identity and to build a functionally excellent level, introducing one safety mission and identity. The Life-Saving Rules or €374 million), with 50 percent spent on major projects and technology One HR organization focused on best-in-class talent management. program introduces a “golden principle” and eight basic safety rules that developments. Secondly, our key projects have detailed technology roadOur ultimate goal is to be recognized internally and externally as the will be mandatory as of April 2013, for all AkzoNobel employees and all our maps which assess the most appropriate routes. Thirdly, we are actively employer of choice. To achieve this, we have a number of priority contractors. We continue with our business continuity planning and have developing our open (external) innovation capability to identify and utilize the focus areas including professionalizing recruitment, improving our appropriate risk transfer arrangements in place (for example insurance). most promising technology platforms. These technology platforms are used talent management processes and harmonizing key HR administration To achieve our operational eco-efficiency (OEE) ambitions, we have initiated as an integral part of VISTA projects, where we define technology and market processes to provide efficient service and free up time for the improvement activities based on our 2010 review of waste management, opportunities. Finally, we have created two Science Advisory Boards (SABs) business partnering that is crucial to helping us attract, develop and water consumption, volatile organic compounds (VOCs) and energy. We to advise and guide the RD&I Corporate Director and the RD&I Leadership retain superior people. In addition, as part of the overall performance are actively engaging in stimulating continuous improvement on OEE and Team on diverse aspects of external research and the benchmarking of improvement program, we have set up the AkzoNobel Academy. This initiating process and technology changes which will deliver step change our own R&D capabilities. Specifically, the Boards are helping us to identify, is specifically focused on building capability across the company and, improvements. To help realize our safety ambitions, we have defined assess and evaluate scientific and technological opportunities for sustainable in particular, at providing a higher level of general leadership, project clear KPIs and increased management attention on people safety, as well innovation. Where appropriate, they also suggest centers and individual and change management skills, as well as creating a consistent as implementing enhanced process safety (such as asset integrity) and experts the company might consider developing relationships with to approach to specific functional capabilities. occupational health standards and improving the HSE audit process. advance identified opportunities. Internal Strategic Internal Operational – Top five risk External Strategic – Top five risk Implementation of Management of change International operations strategic agenda We undertake various restructuring, investment and performance We are a global business with operations in more than 80 countries. improvement projects that require significant change management Therefore, we are exposed to a variety of risks, many of them beyond A failure to properly and fully implement our strategic agenda could and project management expertise. Failure to manage these change our control. Unfavorable political, social or economic developments adversely affect our company and its businesses. Our ability to grasp future projects appropriately, or to implement such projects, may lead to and developments in laws, regulations and standards could adversely opportunities might be hampered by the speed of the implementation of inability to achieve our strategic ambitions. affect our business and results of operations. Our aspirations to fuel core processes and performance improvement programs. growth in high growth markets will further expose us to these risks. Risk corrective actions Risk corrective actions Risk management is an integral part of project management excellence. Risk corrective actions The appropriateness of our strategic agenda, our performance against this Senior management is involved in all critical projects that are prioritized We spread our activities geographically and serve many sectors to agenda and our governance structure is continuously monitored by the and supervised by the Executive Committee to ensure an aligned and benefit from opportunities and reduce the risk of instability. Political, Executive Committee and the Supervisory Board. Risks are minimized as integrated vision and thrust from the top for the company’s change economic and legislative conditions are carefully monitored. The we operate in attractive industries, have global leading positions and have agenda. Major initiatives, such as the performance improvement program Executive Committee decides on all significant investments and the strong executive leadership in place. In August 2012, we implemented a and business restructuring projects, are under the direct supervision countries and industry segments in which AkzoNobel conducts its new monthly Operational Control Cycle designed to manage our business of dedicated Executive Committee members. Furthermore, we have business. We have also set up a dedicated Middle East organization in a more operational way, with particular emphasis on a forward-looking included project management and change management curricula in responsible for all AkzoNobel business in the countries belonging to outlook. A modification to the executive remuneration system will be made our AkzoNobel Academy. the region. to ensure executives are fully focused on the company’s overall priorities. Furthermore, our long-term executive remuneration is partly linked to our ranking in the Chemicals supersector of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (SAM assessment). (See Remuneration report chapter in the Governance and compliance section). AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | Risk management 25 External Strategic – Top five risk External Strategic External Operational Worsening of economic conditions Ensuring stakeholder support Energy pricing and emission One of the principal uncertainties continues to be the development of Failure to maintain the support of our stakeholders for our strategy and trading rights the global economy. The global economic conditions remain fragile its execution could adversely affect our company and its businesses. and it is difficult to predict customer demand and raw material costs. Our Specialty Chemicals business operates two energy-intensive Construction and housing markets are expected to remain soft in mature Risk corrective actions businesses, Pulp and Performance Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals. markets and our Decorative Paints business in particular has been We endeavor to define and implement a clear strategy and continuously The latter conducts its business primarily in Europe. A non-level playing affected by the market downturn. The likelihood of a European sovereign seek dialog with stakeholders. As an organization, we are committed field for energy on a global level (e.g. shale gas, national policies, subsidies) crisis may have decreased but the chronic fiscal imbalances may further to helping our customers make their business a success, enhancing and emission trading rights can affect the competitive position of these adversely impact the global, regional or national economies in markets relationships with our suppliers, providing competitive returns to our businesses and the competitive position of our customers. where we operate. Failure to adapt adequately and in time can be investors by paying a stable to rising dividend, creating an attractive harmful to our business and results. working environment for our people and conducting all our activities Risk corrective actions in the most socially responsible manner. Across the organization we We will continue to analyze and review our competitive positions and we Risk corrective actions encourage our employees to participate in one of many ongoing are proactively managing energy usage and costs. We operate several The Executive Committee has defined a comprehensive performance Community Programs, thereby supporting local societies. cogeneration units which enable us to make efficient use of combined heat improvement program to deliver €500 million EBITDA, based on and power. We are implementing our Carbon Policy, working on energy functional and operational excellence. Around 40 percent of the efficiency programs and investing in energy from waste and biomass. anticipated benefits will come from programs to decrease complexity Carbon management plans are closely monitored and strategically and to optimize the supply chain, and a further 50 percent from margin managed. We have policies for energy contracts and have long-term management, research and development initiatives and business purchase contracts in place (see Note 22 in the Financial statements). restructuring programs. These benefits will accrue across our Business Areas. We continue to apply various scenarios for planning and budgeting to be best prepared for further changes in economic conditions. External Operational External Operational Sourcing of raw materials Product liability We use significant amounts of various raw materials in manufacturing Breakdown of total raw material spend in % Product liability claims could adversely affect our company’s business our products. Prices for some key raw materials can be volatile and are and results of operations. Unlikely long-term implications with a high affected by economic conditions. The table to the right shows our relative A Chemicals & intermediates* 26 impact for our organization could follow from usage of new technologies spend on these key raw materials, excluding energy. We are, to some I and compounds. extent, able to pass on higher input prices to our customers, but this is, to B Resins 18 H a large extent, dependent on market conditions. We may also be impacted C Additives 12 G A Risk corrective actions by inability to access sufficient raw materials, business interruption or D Titanium dioxide 10 Currently, we are involved in a number of product liability cases. However, F product discontinuation at some of our key suppliers. Inability to access we believe that any unexpected costs and liabilities will not have a material E Solvents 9 sufficient raw materials, increases in cost and expenses for raw materials adverse effect on our consolidated financial position. Product stewardship and energy, and changes in product mix may adversely affect future results F Coatings specialties 8 E has been incorporated into the company’s HSE and operational and growth. G Packaging 8 B eco-efficiency agenda. Product stewardship is also integrated into product D slate decisions in the operational excellence program. We have a central H Pigments 4 Risk corrective actions C policy to optimize insurance coverage which relates to specific insurance Our strengthened global sourcing strategy enables us to bundle I Other raw materials** 5 programs covering product liability. We have established an initiative to the purchasing power, both in product related and non-product related assess all priority substances used by AkzoNobel throughout their lifecycle requirements. We use our purchasing power and our long-term * Chemicals and intermediates include by 2015. relationships with suppliers to acquire raw materials and safeguard their caustic soda, acetic acid, tallow, ethylene, ethylene oxide, sulfur, constant delivery in a sustainable manner, to secure volumes and to amines etc. cooperate on innovation and sustainability. We have made an inventory of ** Other raw materials include cardolits, single and sole sourced raw materials and are actively pursuing plans to hylar etc. improve this situation. We continuously monitor the markets in which we operate for developments and opportunities and adapt our purchasing strategy accordingly. 26 Risk management | Strategy | AkzoNobel Report 2012 External Operational External Financial – Top five risk External Financial Environmental liabilities Cash flow Contributions to pension funds We use, and have used in the past, hazardous materials and biological The potential for further deterioration of economic conditions may Economic, regulatory and political developments may increase our defined compounds in several product development programs and manufacturing have an impact on the free cash flow generation of our businesses. benefit pension liabilities and/or reduce the value of assets held to fund processes, including waste thereof. We have been, and can be, exposed Furthermore, we are potentially exposed to funding of pension those obligations, causing higher post-retirement charges and pension to risks of accidental contamination or past practices that give rise to schemes. This may lead to insufficient free cash flow generation to premiums payable. We are at risk from potential shortfalls in the funding of current liabilities. We could be exposed to events of non-compliance with support funding for the implementation of our strategic agenda. defined benefit pension schemes. environmental laws, regulatory enforcement, property damage, possible personal injury and any resulting claims for damage. Regulations and Risk corrective actions Risk corrective actions standards are becoming increasingly stringent. Our balance sheet and debt profile are strong. We continue to We practice pro-active pension risk management. Our pension policy deliver on our comprehensive performance improvement program is to offer defined contribution schemes to new employees and, where Risk corrective actions to achieve €500 million EBITDA and we will engage in restructuring appropriate, to existing employees. Our largest defined benefit schemes We are committed to conducting all our activities in the safest and most of underperforming parts of our portfolio if deemed strategically have been closed to new entrants since 2001 for ICI, and 2004 for responsible manner. We have a specialist group managing these issues. appropriate. We have a prudent financing strategy and a strict cash AkzoNobel. We measure and monitor our pension risks frequently and Contingency plans and assignment arrangements are in place to mitigate management policy, which are managed by our centralized treasury adopt investment strategies designed to reduce financial risks. In 2012, the known risks and regular reviews are conducted to monitor progress function (see Note 22 in the Financial statements). Courtaulds Pension Scheme in the UK entered into an insurance contract and assess financial and reputational exposure. Our policy is to accrue with Swiss Re which covers the longevity risks of almost 17,000 current and charge against earnings environmental clean-up costs, damages pensioners and their dependants. We are committed to further de-risking or indemnifications when it is probable that a liability has materialized over time. Pension activities are overseen by the Board Committee Pensions and an amount can be estimated (see Note 19 in the Financial (see Note 14 and Note 20 in the Financial statements section). statements section). External Financial External Financial External Compliance Decline of asset values Fluctuations in exchange rates Complying with laws Impairments and book losses could adversely affect our financial results. Exchange rate fluctuations can have a harmful impact on our financial and regulations In view of the current financial market conditions, asset value decline offers results. We have operations in more than 80 countries and report in euros. both opportunities and threats to our company. We are particularly sensitive to the relation between the euro and US dollar, We may be held responsible for any liabilities arising out of non-compliance pound sterling, Swedish krona and Latin American and Asian currencies. with laws and regulations. For example, we are involved in court proceedings Risk corrective actions and civil litigation resulting from (alleged) involvement in anti-competitive In Q3 of 2012, we reported a non-cash impairment charge related to Risk corrective actions behavior in the past (see Note 19 in the Financial statements section). Decorative Paints intangible assets (€1.9 billion in Europe, €0.4 billion in We have centralized treasury and a hedging policy is in place for certain North America and €0.2 billion in Latin America), reflecting deteriorating currency exchange rate risks (see Note 22 in the Financial statements). Risk corrective actions market conditions in these regions. The Executive Committee continuously At a more operational level, risks are reduced by the prevalence of localWe are monitoring and adapting to significant and rapid changes in monitors acquisition and divestment opportunities and the management for-local production, which is the norm in many of our businesses. the legal systems, regulatory controls, customs and practices in the of assets held for sale. We do impairment tests for intangibles with countries in which we operate. These affect a wide range of areas. indefinite lives (goodwill, some brands) every year and whenever an We are dedicated to minimizing such risks with special emphasis on the impairment trigger exists. For tangibles and other fixed assets, we do application of our Code of Conduct. We operate under a comprehensive impairment tests whenever an impairment trigger exists (see Note 1 competition law compliance program including training, monitoring and in the Financial statements). assessment. We advertise the use of our company-wide complaints procedure called SpeakUp!, which enables all our employees to report irregularities in relation to our Code of Conduct (see the Governance and compliance section). AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Strategy | Risk management 27 1,000°C Extreme protection How do you protect against fire in one of the most high risk working environments? You turn to Chartek, a name which has become synonymous with providing ultimate fire protection in both the offshore and onshore oil and Hydrocarbon fires are fuelled by oil and gas gas industries for more than 35 years. and have a very rapid heat rise to 1,000°C within five minutes Supplied by our Marine and Protective Coatings business, the Chartek range of intumescent epoxy passive fire protection products – which expand and insulate when exposed to high heat – is actually based on technology which was first used during the Apollo missions and NASA’s space shuttle program. Today, Chartek is specified all over the world by the oil refining, gas processing, petrochemical and chemical industries, where it is primarily used to protect installations against hydrocarbon pool and jet fires, although it also offers excellent corrosion resistance in some of the world’s harshest environments. Customers mainly use Chartek on structural steelwork, but it can also be applied to other materials, including aluminum and plastic. As well as helping to maintain structural integrity during a blaze, Chartek also slows the spread of fire, giving people more time to escape to safety. The most common installations to feature the technology include offshore platforms, refineries, petrochemical plants, LNG terminals, LPG storage facilities and FPSOs. Demand for Chartek increased substantially during 2012, driven partly by increasingly stringent fire protection regulations worldwide. In fact, forecasters expect general global demand for fire protection to increase significantly over the next five years. With this in mind, the company recently opened a dedicated €7.1 million testing laboratory for fire protection 22°C coatings at its Felling site in the UK. As well as significantly improving our ability to develop and bring new fire protection products to market, it will also help to strengthen the company’s position as the leading supplier of fire protection coatings and products worldwide. Chartek insulates and helps to maintain structural integrity during a blaze 6x Chartek expands to six times the applied thickness on exposure to heat Application thickness 1–4mm Our leadership In this section we introduce our Board of Management and Executive Committee, as well as our Supervisory Board. We also present the Report of the Board of Management and the Report of the Supervisory Board, which provide detailed overviews of their activities during 2012. Our Board of Management and Executive Committee 32 Report of the Board of Management 34 Statement of the Board of Management 40 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 42 Our Supervisory Board 43 Report of the Supervisory Board 45 Our Board of Management and Executive Committee 3 5 1 7 8 6 2 4 Ton Büchner (6) a fellow of the Association of Corporate Treasurers and included more than 25 years at Unilever, where his final addition, from 2003 to 2007, he held professorships CEO and Chairman of the Board of Management holds the MCT Advanced Diploma. position was as Business Group President Asia Foods. in company law at the Universities of Groningen and and the Executive Committee Tilburg in the Netherlands. Outside AkzoNobel, he is a (1965, Dutch) Leif Darner1 (3) In September 2007, he was appointed CEO of Vedior, member of various Legal Professional Associations in Member of the Board of Management and a global company in HRM services. After a successful both the Netherlands and abroad. Prior to joining AkzoNobel, Ton Büchner was the the Executive Committee responsible for merger with Randstad, he joined AkzoNobel in 2008 President and CEO of Sulzer Corporation, a position he Performance Coatings as Managing Director of Decorative Paints. He is a Werner Fuhrmann (5) held since 2007. (1952, Swedish) Supervisory Board member at TNT Express N.V. and Member of the Executive Committee responsible Friesland Campina N.V. for Specialty Chemicals and Supply Chain Büchner is an engineer by training, having earned his After graduating from Gothenburg University, Leif (1953, German) Master of Science in Civil Engineering at Delft University Darner held several management positions before Graeme Armstrong4 (7) of Technology in the Netherlands. He also has a Masters being appointed General Manager of Powder Coatings Member of the Executive Committee responsible After graduating from university, Werner Fuhrmann of Business Administration from IMD in Lausanne and Scandinavia at Courtaulds in 1985. for Research, Development & Innovation held various positions in the field of finance, including attended the Stanford Executive Program in Palo Alto, (1962, British) Controller of AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals. He was California, in the US. In 1993, he was appointed Chief Executive of Coatings later appointed General Manager of Chelates and Northern Europe. Then in 1997 he served as WorldGraeme Armstrong joined AkzoNobel in 2008 following Sulphur Products in 2000. He then became Managing His early career was spent in the oil and gas construction wide Director of Yacht Paint and Protective Coatings. the acquisition of ICI, where he led the company’s Director of Industrial Chemicals in 2005, a position he industry, including positions at Allseas Engineering in In 1998, Courtaulds became part of AkzoNobel and Research, Development & Innovation function. Prior to held until he took on his current role in 2011. Europe and AkerKvaerner in South East Asia, before Darner was appointed Business Unit Manager of joining ICI, he spent 19 years in the detergents industry joining Sulzer in 1994. Büchner worked in a range of AkzoNobel Marine and Protective Coatings, a post he working for Unilever and JohnsonDiversey. He also He is Chairman of the Dutch Chemicals Industry Sulzer operations, including a period in China, until his held from 1999 until 2004, when he was appointed to served as Regional President for JohnsonDiversey in Association (VNCI) and Board Member of the European appointment to the Executive Committee in 2001. the Board of Management of AkzoNobel as the member EMEA. He is a Chartered Chemist, a Fellow of the Royal Chemicals Association (Cefic). responsible for Chemicals, a position he held until Society of Chemistry and a member of their Science Keith Nichols (8) April 2008. Policy Board, Chairman of Chemistry Innovation plc, Marjan Oudeman3 (4) Chief Financial Officer Chairman of the Chemistry Innovation Knowledge Member of the Executive Committee responsible Member of the Board of Management He is a Board member of the Swedish Chamber of Transfer Network, and a former non-executive director for HR and Organizational Development and the Executive Committee Commerce in the Netherlands and CEPE (European of the UK government Technology Strategy Board. (1958, Dutch) (1960, British) Council of Paint and Printing Ink producers. Sven Dumoulin (2) Marjan Oudeman joined AkzoNobel in October 2010 Keith Nichols joined AkzoNobel in December 2005 Tex Gunning2 (1) Member of the Executive Committee from Corus Group, where she was a member of the from Corus Group, where he held the position of Group Member of the Board of Management and and AkzoNobel General Counsel Executive Committee, as well as being Divisional Treasurer. Prior to joining Corus in 2004, he held a the Executive Committee responsible for (1970, Dutch) Director of Strip Products and a Board member of Corus number of senior finance positions within TNT N.V. Decorative Paints Nederland B.V. and Corus UK Ltd. Prior to joining Corus (1950, Dutch) Sven Dumoulin joined AkzoNobel as General Counsel in in 2000, she held various roles at Hoogovens Group, Nichols played a key senior role in the sale of Organon 2010 and is responsible for legal, compliance, intellectual including that of Managing Director. Among others, BioSciences to Schering Plough and in the structuring, Tex Gunning holds a degree in economics from the property and legacy management. Previously he worked she is also is a non-executive director of Nederlandse financing and completion of the acquisition of ICI. He is Erasmus University Rotterdam. His business career has as a lawyer and then Group Secretary for Unilever. In Spoorwegen, ABN Amro Group and Statoil. 1  s of January 1, 2013, Conrad Keijzer joined the Executive Committee and will assume Leif Darner’s responsibilities for Performance A 3 U  ntil June 2013. Coatings following the 2013 AGM. 4 As of April 1, 2013, Graeme Armstrong will assume the role of Surface Chemistry Managing Director. 2 As of the 2013 AGM, Ruud Jousten will join the Executive Committe and assume Tex Gunning’s responsibilities for Decorative Paints. 32 Our Board of Management and Executive Committee | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Report 2011 | Strategy | Page title 33 Report of the Board of Management Revenue up 5 percent driven by favorable currencies Financial highlights and pricing, offset by lower volumes Continuing operations EBITDA 4 percent higher at €1,901 million In € millions 2011 2012 ∆% (2011: €1,834 million) Revenue 14,604 15,390 5 EBITDA1 1,834 1,901 4 Performance improvement program 2012 target has EBITDA margin (in %) 12.6 12.4 been exceeded EBIT1 1,271 1,276 – EBIT margin (in %) 8.7 8.3 Net loss from continuing operations €1,733 million ROI1 (in %) 10.5 10.0 (2011: €536 million income), due to the Q3 impairment Operating income 1,145 (1,244) charge of €2,106 million Operating income before 1,145 862 (25) impairment Net cash from operating activities up 86 percent Net income from continuing 536 (1,733) to €737 million operations Net income from discontinued (59) (436) operations Adjusted EPS €3.26 (2011: €3.10) Net income total operations 477 (2,169) Earnings per share from continuing 2.29 (7.30) Total dividend for 2012 proposed at €1.45 operations (in €) (2011: €1.45) Earnings per share from total 2.04 (9.14) operations (in €) Decorative Paints North America reported in discontinued Adjusted earnings per share (in €) 3.10 3.26 operations; Chemicals Pakistan divestment completed Capital expenditures 658 826 26 in 2012 Net cash from operating activities 396 737 86 Invested capital 12,613 11,030 The economic environment remains challenging, Net debt 1,895 2,298 especially in Europe Number of employees 52,020 50,610 1 Excluding incidentals. 34 Report of the Board of Management | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Financial highlights Revenue development in % versus 2011 Revenue for the year was up 5 percent driven by favorable Acquisitions/ currencies and pricing, offset by lower volumes. EBITDA Volume Price/mix divestments Exchange rates Total for the year was 4 percent higher at €1,901 million (2011: Decorative Paints (2) 2 – 2 2 €1,834 million). The performance improvement program exceedPerformance Coatings (1) 5 2 4 10 ed intermediate targets. As a consequence of the impairment Specialty Chemicals (1) 1 1 3 4 charge of €2,106 million, operating income was €1,244 million Total (2) 3 1 3 5 negative; excluding the impairment charge, this was €862 million positive (2011: €1,145 million). Discontinued operations Revenue in € millions Revenue development in % versus 2011 In December 2012, we announced the divestment of Decorative Paints North America to PPG Industries, Inc. As a conseDecorative Paints Increase Performance Coatings Decrease quence, the results of this business are reported in discontinued Specialty Chemicals operations in the statements of income and cash flows and are 6 no longer included in the other explanations and details in this +3% +5% report. The financial results of this business were as follows: 4 4,201 4,297 3,933 2 +1% Discontinued operations 5,170 5,702 4,786 In € millions 2011 2012 0 +3% 4,943 5,335 5,543 Revenue 1,094 1,190 -2 -2% EBITDA (69) 19 2010 2011 2012 Volume Price Acquisitions/ Exchange Total Performance improvement program savings – 26 divestments rates Incidentals (7) (17) Impairment charge – (372) €26 million contributed by Decorative Paints North America). The cost of the program for 2012 equaled €292 million, recorWorkforce at year-end 5,220 4,670 The program conceptually consists of three building blocks: ded under incidentals, including costs for the additional restrucNumber of employees who left following the – 360 operational professionalization, functional excellence and turing measures in Decorative Paints and excluding €17 million performance improvement program business unit specific adaptations. Operational professionalfor Decorative Paints North America. Since the announcement ization addresses issues such as product complexity reducof the program, around 2,100 people have left the company, of Performance improvement program tion, procurement, manufacturing and distribution excelwhich approximately 360 in Decorative Paints North America. The performance improvement program announced in lence, and margin management. Business unit adaptations October 2011 is making good progress and has exceeded and operational professionalization have contributed around its intermediate goal for 2012. Since the announcement of 95 percent of the 2012 benefits, while functional excellence is the program, benefits amount to €250 million (excluding primarily an important enabler. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | Report of the Board of Management 35 Revenue Performance Coatings • We incurred a loss of €36 million from recycling the Decorative Paints In Performance Coatings, overall margins improved due to a cumulative translation differences in equity to the Revenue in Decorative Paints for 2012 increased 2 percent, combination of margin management activities and ongoing statement of income due to the completed divestment mainly due to positive price/mix and favorable currencies. Asian cost control. The major restructuring activities were underof Chemicals Pakistan revenue is growing due to strong volume development in China. taken in mature markets. Margin management and operational However, market conditions remain challenging in Europe and efficiency improvements resulted in EBITDA of €769 million, Latin America. 26 percent higher than the previous year. Incidentals included in operating income In € millions 2011 2012 Performance Coatings Specialty Chemicals Restructuring costs (129) (324) In Performance Coatings, revenue increased 10 percent comIn Specialty Chemicals, we recorded a robust performance on Impairment – (2,106) pared with the previous year. The strongest growth came from the back of margin management, cost control measures and Results related to major legal, antitrust and (9) (36) Industrial Coatings and Marine and Protective Coatings. Volume strong market and technology leadership positions. environmental cases declined, with differences between individual businesses. Results on acquisitions and divestments 10 (45) EBITDA AkzoNobel 2010 – 2012 in € millions Other incidental results 2 (9) Specialty Chemicals Decorative Paints Total (126) (2,520) Specialty Chemicals made a good start to 2012, but demand Performance Coatings started to weaken in the second half of the year, particularly Specialty Chemicals in Europe and in general in construction-related products. Demand was also more volatile. EBIT in “other” 593 425 Corporate costs were higher due to increased information man479 Acquisitions and divestments 796 agement and integrated supply chain costs as a consequence 647 611 In early 2012, we boosted our Speciality Chemicals portof functional excellence initiatives and one-off costs. folio with the acquisition of Boxing Oleochemicals – the 939 906 889 leading supplier of nitrile amines and derivatives in China Costs for research and development in 2013 are expected to and throughout Asia. The Schramm/SSCP acquisition be in line with 2012, with 50 percent aimed at breakthrough accounted for the acquisition effect in Performance Coatinnovations. 2010 2011 2012 ings as these activities were consolidated from Q4 2011. On December 28, 2012, we completed the divestment of EBIT in “other” Chemicals Pakistan, which was subsequently deconsolidated. Incidental items included in operating income • We incurred higher restructuring costs mainly in mature In € millions 2011 2012 Raw materials markets, as we implemented the performance improvement Corporate costs (98) (113) On average, raw material costs were stable compared with the program. Restructuring activities are ongoing across Pensions (14) (4) previous year, with the upward pressure on oil prices offsetting the businesses, and we stepped up restructuring in the Insurances 1 (6) softer TiO2 prices. European businesses in Decorative Paints. Besides the Other (65) (71) costs of the performance improvement program of EBIT in “other” (176) (194) EBITDA €292 million, we had a number of writedowns for an Decorative Paints amount of €32 million, bringing the total amount of In Decorative Paints, EBITDA for the year was 11 percent restructuring costs to €324 million. The impairment amount lower at €425 million, reflecting weaker demand from our in Q3 was adjusted to exclude Decorative Paints North European markets. The euro crisis and the general slowdown America, which is reported as a discontinued operation in global markets continued to affect our business. Restruc• We increased a provision for an environmental case turing activities continued across Europe. in Sweden 36 Report of the Board of Management | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Net financing expenses Shareholders’ equity • Increased capital expenditures, which continued on Net financing charges for the year decreased by €69 million, Shareholders’ equity as at year-end 2012 decreased to previously announced projects, such as the two pulp from €336 million to €267 million. Significant variances were: €6.9 billion, mainly due to the net effect of the net loss of mills in Brazil, the start of the new Decorative Paints plant €2,169 million and dividend payments of €214 million. in the UK and activities in China. We will prioritize our • Financing expenses on net debt decreased by €63 million investments going forward given the uncertainties in the to €239 million (2011: €302 million) following the buy-back Final dividend proposal market and our focus on cash and return on investment. of bonds in December 2011, which had a one-off impact Our dividend policy is to pay a stable to rising dividend. We We therefore expect our 2013 capital expenditures to be in 2011 of €67 million will propose a 2012 final dividend of €1.12 per share, which below 2012 • Interest on provisions decreased by €17 million to would make a total 2012 dividend of €1.45 (2011: €1.45) • A decrease of operating working capital of €0.2 billion €29 million (2011: €46 million) due to higher discount rates per share. There will be a stock dividend option with cash mainly due to improvements in capital management. • Financing expenses related to pensions increased by dividend as default. Expressed as a percentage of revenue, operating working €8 million to €65 million (2011: €57 million) due to a lower capital was 11.2 percent (year-end 2011: 13.2 percent) expected return on assets Dividend in € • Other items decreased by €5 million to €7 million (2011: €12 million), mainly explained by lower interest Condensed consolidated balance sheet on discounted long-term receivables (€3 million) 1.40 1.45 1.45 In € millions 2011 2012 Intangible assets 7,392 4,454 Property, plant and equipment 3,705 3,739 Net financing expenses Other financial non-current assets 2,198 2,763 In € millions 2011 2012 2010 2011 2012 Total non-current assets 13,295 10,956 Financing income 57 59 Inventories 1,924 1,545 Financing expenses (302) (239) Earnings per share total operations in € Trade and other receivables 2,937 2,698 Net interest on net debt (245) (180) Cash and cash equivalents 1,635 1,752 2.04 Financing expenses related to pensions (57) (65) 3.23 Other current assets 98 91 Interest on provisions (46) (29) Assets held for sale – 921 Other items 12 7 Total current assets 6,594 7,007 Net other financing expenses (91) (87) Total assets 19,889 17,963 (9.14) Net financing expenses (336) (267) Shareholders’ equity 9,212 6,892 2010 2011 2012 Non-controlling interests 531 465 Group equity 9,743 7,357 Tax Invested capital Provisions and deferred tax liabilities 2,284 2,159 Excluding the non-tax-deductible goodwill impairment charge Invested capital at year-end 2012 totaled €11.0 billion, Long-term borrowings 3,035 3,388 of €2,106 million, the year-to-date tax rate was 30 percent €1.6 billion lower than at year-end 2011. Invested capital Total non-current liabilities 5,319 5,547 (2011: 27 percent). The tax rate was negatively impacted was impacted by the net effect of: Short-term borrowings 494 662 by several adjustments to previous years and by other nonTrade and other payables 3,369 3,242 taxable items. The loss carryforward recognized in the balance • A decrease of €2.1 billion due to a non-cash impairment Other short-term liabilities 964 845 sheet and its usage in the coming years has a decreasing charge for Decorative Paints assets Liabilities held for sale – 310 impact on the cash tax rate in coming years. • An increase of €0.6 billion of long-term receivables related Total current liabilities 4,827 5,059 to increases in pension funds in an asset position Total equity and liabilities 19,889 17,963 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | Report of the Board of Management 37 Pensions • In 2013 we will see the impact of restructuring in the mature Condensed consolidated cash flow statement The funded status of the pension plans at year-end 2012 markets. In the context of our performance improvement In € millions 2011 2012 was estimated to be a deficit of €1.1 billion (year-end 2011: program, restructuring has started in Decorative Paints Cash and cash equivalents 2,683 1,335 €0.5 billion). The movement compared with year-end 2011 is in Europe opening balance primarily due to: Profit/(loss) for the period from 600 (1,670) Net debt and cash flows continuing operations • Top-up payments of €355 million into certain UK Operating activities in 2012 resulted in a cash inflow of Amortization, depreciation and impairments 577 2,795 and US defined benefit pension plans €737 m ­ illion (2011: €396 ­million). The change is mainly due to Changes in working capital (331) 251 • A payment from a contingent asset structure of a net effect of higher cash inflow from working capital, partly Changes in provisions (484) (688) €239 million into the UK ICI Pension Fund offset by higher payments related to provisions (mainly in Other changes 34 49 • Plan asset returns ahead of expectation relation to pensions). Net cash from operating activities 396 737 Capital expenditures (658) (826) Offset by: Net debt increased in 2012 to €2,298 million (2011: Acquisitions and divestments (156) 122 • Lower discount rates significantly increasing €1,895 million) as higher cash flows from operating activiOther changes 2 (22) the pension obligation ties were more than offset by higher capital expenditures. In Net cash from investing activities (812) (726) 2013, we expect to receive the proceeds from the divestment Changes from borrowings (470) 570 The amended IAS 19 on pensions has become effective as of of Decorative Paints North America, which will reduce our Dividends (362) (256) January 1, 2013. Implementation of this amendment will result net debt. Other changes 7 (43) in including the pension deficit in other comprehensive income Net cash from financing activities (825) 271 in shareholders’ equity as of 2013. The impact is disclosed in Note 14 of our 2012 Financial statements. Net cash used from (1,241) 282 continuing operations Cash flows from discontinued operations (96) (53) Workforce Net change in cash and cash (1,337) 229 At year-end 2012, we employed 50,610 staff in continuequivalents of total operations ing operations (year-end 2011: 52,020 employees). The net Effect of exchange rate changes on (11) (6) decrease was due to: cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents at 1,335 1,558 • A decrease of 1,450 employees due to ongoing restructuring year-end • A net decrease of 540 employees due to acquisitions and divestments, mainly from the Boxing Oleochemicals acquisition (620 employees) and the divestment of Chemicals Pakistan (1,100 employees) • An increase of 580 employees mainly due to new hires in high growth markets 38 Report of the Board of Management | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Progress on past medium-term ambitions Top quartile safety performance Top quartile performance in diversity, employee In 2010, AkzoNobel stated its medium-term ambitions, which (Good progress) engagement and talent development have now been modified. In order to give a final update on • Significant progress in total reportable injury rate towards (Some progress) progress, we are providing an overview of our achievements our target of <2.0 by 2015 • Some improvement in the ViewPoint employee relative to those ambitions. In the future, we will provide • Implemented our new Life-Saving Rules as part of a global engagement score, both in terms of absolute score and updates relating to our new targets, as detailed in the TakeCare behavioral safety program percentile rating, but more effort is required and planned Strategy section. • Enhanced the stringency of our behavior-based safety • We made good progress with the AkzoNobel Academy, program – more than 75 percent of our manufacturing which was established in 2011 to build functional and €20 billion in revenue sites are already consistent with the higher standards operational excellence capabilities across the company • 2012 revenue of €15.4 billion (excluding Decorative Paints • Refocused the process safety aspect of our HSE • Made some progress towards our diversity goals – North America) self-assessment program in order to make improvements 15 percent of our executive positions are now held by • Strong growth in Decorative Paints Asia, Marine and at high hazard sites women and 13 percent by individuals from high growth Protective Coatings and due to acquisitions in Industrial markets (up from 8 percent and 10 percent respectively Coatings and Surface Chemistry Top quartile eco-efficiency improvement rate on 2008) • Much of our growth resulted from pricing actions and currency (Some progress) • Launched an AkzoNobel-wide employee value proposition • Volumes are an issue, particularly in Europe • Use of our operational eco-efficiency metric (focusing on supporting the creation of centers of excellence for energy, water, waste and VOCs) led to meaningful recruitment and on-boarding processes Reduction in OWC of 0.5 p.a., towards a 12 percent target progress in these areas against the 2009 baseline • OWC improved to 11.2 percent • Revenue generated from eco-premium products remained Top three position in sustainability • Inventory levels remain a key issue and are a focus area at 22 percent and was spread more broadly throughout (Achieving our ambition) in terms of Integrated Supply Chain performance the full value chain • Achieved Chemicals supersector leadership position in the improvement actions • Work on cradle-to-gate carbon footprint improvement Dow Jones Sustainability Index and, for the first time since is beginning to demonstrate improvements against 2007, also reached the number one position in all three Growth in absolute EBITDA, in a 13–15 percent the 2009 baseline dimensions (economic, environmental, social) margin range • Considerable investment of time and resources in • Particular areas of strength were innovation management, • Absolute EBITDA growth of €67 million vs. 2011 developing the company’s new sustainability strategy for risk and crisis management, climate strategy, labor • EBITDA margin below the 13–15 percent range 2020, taking us beyond the basics to focus on resource practice indicators and human capital development efficiency throughout the entire value chain • Strong improvement in operational eco-efficiency Stable to rising dividend • Room for further improvement in talent attraction and • It is proposed that the 2012 total dividend be kept retention, social reporting, customer relationship stable at €1.45 per share management and supply chain management • Shareholders are offered an option to obtain a stock dividend AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | Report of the Board of Management 39 Statement of the Board of Management The Board of Management’s statement on the financial All these processes and procedures are aimed at a reasonOutlook statements, the management report and internal controls able level of assurance that we have identified and managed In the short term, we expect the economic environment will the significant risks of our company and that we meet our remain challenging and there to be no fundamental changes in We have prepared the AkzoNobel Report 2012 and the underoperational and financial objectives in compliance with applithe trends that we have seen recently in our businesses. We will takings included in the consolidation taken as a whole in accorcable laws and regulations. The individual components of the continue to focus on performance improvements and operadance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), above set of internal controls are in line with the COSO Entertional efficiencies in order to benefit from our strong portfolio of as adopted by the EU and additional Dutch disclosure requireprise Risk Management Framework. With respect to support businesses with many leading market positions and exposure ments for annual reports. to, and monitoring of, compliance with laws and regulations to growth markets. including our Code of Conduct, a Compliance Committee has To the best of our knowledge: been established. Internal Audit provides assurance to the Amsterdam, February 19, 2013 Board of Management whether our internal risk management The Board of Management • The financial statements in this AkzoNobel Report 2012 and control systems, as designed and represented by manageTon Büchner give a true and fair view of our assets and liabilities, our ment, are adequate and effective. Keith Nichols financial position at December 31, 2012, and the result of Leif Darner our consolidated operations for the financial year 2012 While we routinely work towards continuous improvement of Tex Gunning • The management report in this AkzoNobel Report 2012 our processes and procedures regarding financial reporting, the includes a fair review of the development and performance Board of Management is of the opinion that, as regards financial of the businesses and the position of AkzoNobel and the reporting risks, the internal risk management and control systems: undertakings included in the consolidation taken as a whole, and describes the principal risks and uncertainties • Provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial that we face reporting in this Report 2012 does not contain any errors of material importance The Board of Management is responsible for the establishment • Have worked properly during the year 2012 and adequate functioning of internal controls in our company. Consequently, the Board of Management has implemented a For a detailed description of the risk management system broad range of processes and procedures designed to provide with regard to the strategic, operational and compliance risks control by the Board of Management over the company’s operaand the principal risks identified, reference is made to the Risk tions. These processes and procedures include measures management chapter in the Strategy section, as well as the regarding the general control environment, such as a Code Compliance and integrity management chapter of the Governof Conduct including business principles and a corporate ance and compliance section. We have discussed the above complaints procedure (SpeakUp!), corporate directives and opinion and conclusions with the Audit Committee, the Superauthority schedules, as well as specific measures, such as a visory Board and the external auditor. risk management system, a system of controls and a system of letters of representation by responsible management at various levels within our company. 40 Statement of the Board of Management | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Playing as a team Establishing a competitive edge is a vital part of doing business in today’s global marketplace. As a company with operations all over the world, we are able to gain a strategic advantage by maximizing both our scale and the strength of our portfolio in order to offer customers unique services and solutions, wherever they are. A typical example is the work currently being carried out by our high value infrastructure team in Brazil. With Brazil set to become the center of the sporting world over the next few years, we’ve been busy working with various contractors and construction companies who are building stadiums and refurbishing buildings and venues in preparation for the forthcoming high profile events. Representatives from many of our coatings businesses have joined forces to create one team in Brazil, where they approach these customers as a full provider of technology solutions and market-leading products. So no matter what type of coating a project requires, customers can come to AkzoNobel for all their needs, rather than having to look around and work with a number of different suppliers. It’s more efficient and cost effective for the customer and enables us to underline the benefits of our One AkzoNobel approach. The team in Brazil has enjoyed considerable success to date, securing contracts to supply products for various high profile projects, including the iconic Maracanã Stadium in Rio de Janeiro, the Brasilia Stadium in Brasilia, Arena Pernambuco in Recife, Beira Rio and Grêmio Arena, both in Porto Alegre, and the Arena Corinthians in São Paulo. This is just the beginning and there is much more to come in the following years. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | DRAFT 3 41 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement 2012 was a testing year for AkzoNobel, highlighted by a In addition, the Supervisory Board is delighted that Werner mentioned additional sustainable performance improvements, further deterioration of the economic environment and Fuhrmann, already the Executive Committee member responthe delivery of our medium-term profitability ambitions in a chalour CEO’s leave of absence, but the company remained sible for Integrated Supply Chain, was appointed Executive lenging market environment will be enhanced. strong and reported solid operational results. Committee member responsible for Specialty Chemicals. His knowledge and skills will be of great benefit to the company in I am also proud that AkzoNobel has cemented its position as a The impact of the economic slowdown was unavoidable, but years to come. global sustainability leader after being ranked first in the Chemidespite the unfavorable conditions, our business portfolio cals supersector on the prestigious Dow Jones Sustainability remained resilient. Many of the company’s activities performed Several measures were taken by Ton and the Executive CommitIndex, the sixth consecutive year we have been ranked in the well, maintaining high margins and market share, with the tee to deliver sustainable performance improvements. Due to top three. negative effect of the slowdown primarily being felt in our more deteriorating market conditions, the company had to writeconsumer-facing businesses. Following a significant improvedown the value of its Decorative Paints assets and an additional On the following pages, we will further introduce the Superment in the performance of our Decorative Paints business restructuring within Deco Europe was initiated. To ensure that visory Board and present the Supervisory Board report for in North America, and with the full support of the Supervisory the Board of Management, together with the other members of 2012, which provides a detailed overview of our activities during Board, the company made a strategic choice to focus its the Executive Committee, remains fully focused on the compathe reporting year. Our corporate governance, remuneration Decorative Paints business on key markets in Europe and its ny’s overall priorities – carefully managing costs and cash and policy and compliance and integrity management are covered strong positions in high growth regions. Therefore, we agreed looking for ways to make AkzoNobel more opera-tionally and in the Governance and compliance section. I hope it will give to sell our Decorative Paints North America activities to PPG functionally excellent – the Supervisory Board will propose at you a good understanding of the framework under which the Industries, Inc. the 2013 AGM that more flexibility is introduced into the remucompany operates. neration policy. This will allow a decision to be taken each year, CEO Ton Büchner’s leave of absence in mid-September was, within a set of defined indicators, on the financial metrics and On behalf of my fellow members of the Supervisory Board, I of course, unexpected. He made an excellent start before their weighting in order to define short-term incentives, similar would like to thank the CEO, Board of Management, the other being confronted with fatigue. Although difficult, we took to what already applies to the company’s executives. Further members of the Executive Committee and all employees for the right joint decision in agreeing to his temporary leave of details on this proposal are outlined in the Remuneration report. their dedication and hard work for the company in 2012. Finally, absence. Fortunately, we have been able to welcome him back Finally, a new Operational Control Cycle, with particular emphaI would like to thank my fellow Supervisory Board members for in good health and excellent spirit to lead the company forward sis on the forward outlook for our business, was introduced their commitment and support during the year. I believe that and return to business. In Ton’s absence, the knowledge and during 2012, which over the last couple of months has truly the Supervisory Board is a strong and united team with a wide experience of the Executive Committee, with the support of my become the heartbeat of the company. range of experience and expertise that will continue to serve the fellow Supervisory Board member, Antony Burgmans, proved company well. invaluable as they took care of the day-to-day running of the Our ongoing performance improvement program also conticompany. nues to do well. Focused on three main building blocks – operational professionalization, functional standardization and Before September, Ton initiated several leadership changes, business unit specific adaptations – the program delivered which have now been implemented in close cooperation with €250 million EBITDA by the end of the year, exceeding our origithe Supervisory Board. The Supervisory Board is confident nal ambition of €200 million. that the new Executive Committee members, Conrad Keijzer and Ruud Joosten, will bring valuable expertise along with their I am confident that by leveraging our scale via operational and Karel Vuursteen strong track records and extensive management experience. functional excellence at lower costs, together with the aboveChairman of the Supervisory Board 42 Supervisory Board Chairman’s statement | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Our Supervisory Board Karel Vuursteen Uwe-Ernst Bufe Sari Baldauf Dolf van den Brink Peggy Bruzelius (1941, Dutch) Chairman (1944, German) Deputy Chairman (1955, Finnish) (1948, Dutch) (1949, Swedish) Initial appointment 2002 Initial appointment 2003 Initial appointment 2012 Initial appointment 2004 Initial appointment 2007 Current term of office 2010–2014 Current term of office 2011–2015 Current term of office 2012–2016 Current term of office 2012–2016 Current term of office 2011–2015 Former CEO of Heineken; Deputy Former CEO of Degussa AG; member of Former member of the Group Executive Former member of the Managing Board Former CEO of ABB Financial Services; Chairman and member of the Board the Supervisory Board of Umicore SA. Board of Nokia Oyj; non-executive director of ABN AMRO Bank; Chairman of the former Executive Vice-President of of Directors of Heineken Holding N.V.; and Chairman of the Executive Committee Supervisory Boards of Elsevier Reed Finance SEB; non-executive director of Axfood Chairman of the Supervisory Board of F-Secure Oyj; Chairman of the Board B.V., Nederlandse Waterschapsbank N.V. AB, Husqvarna AB, Syngenta AG and of TOMTOM N.V.; member of the of Fortum Oyj; non-executive director at and Center Parcs Europe N.V.; Supervisory Diageo plc; Chairman of Lancelot Asset Shareholders’ Committee of Henkel KGaA. Daimler AG and Deutsche Telekom. Director of Legal & General Nederland N.V., Management AB. KBC Bank and De Heus Nederland B.V. • Chairman of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Remuneration Committee • Member of the Remuneration Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Chairman of the Audit Committee • Member of the Audit Committee Antony Burgmans Sir Peter Ellwood Louis Hughes Ben Verwaayen (1947, Dutch) (1943, British) (1949, American) (1952, Dutch) Initial appointment 2006 Initial appointment 2008 Initial appointment 2006 Initial appointment 2012 Current term of office 2010–2014 Current term of office 2012–2016 Current term of office 2010–2014 Current term of office 2012–2016 Former Chairman and CEO of Unilever N.V. Former Chairman of ICI plc; former Group Former President and COO of Lockheed CEO Alcatel-Lucent; former non-executive and plc.; non-executive director of BP plc.; Chief Executive of Lloyds TSB Group. Martin; former Executive Vice-President of director of UPS; former Chief Executive/ member of the Supervisory Boards of SHV General Motors; Chairman and CEO of In Chairman of the Board’s Operating • Member of the Audit Committee Holdings N.V., Jumbo Group Holding B.V. ZeroSystems LLC; member of the Boards of Committee BT group; former Vice-Chairman and AEGON N.V.; Chairman of the Directors of ABB Group and Alcatel-Lucent Management Board Lucent Technologies; Supervisory Boards of TNT Express N.V. SA; executive advisor of Wind Point Partners. former President and Managing Director of and Intergamma B.V. KPN’s subsidiary PTT Telecom. • Member of the Audit Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee • Member of the Remuneration Committee • Chairman of the Remuneration Committee • Member of the Nomination Committee AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | Our Supervisory Board 43 85 million Hot property The planet’s depleting natural resources are an increasing The world uses 85 million cause for concern, with demand for fossil fuels only likely barrels of oil a day to intensify. In the face of growing demand and declining production from existing wells, producers of oil and gas are facing a number of challenges. The question is, can anything be done to help? AkzoNobel is a major supplier to various sectors of the oil and gas industry and our Functional Chemicals business recently developed breakthrough technology in the field of well stimulation, a process which has actually been around for more than 100 years. It involves using chemicals to open up micro-fractures in the rock (that have become clogged with minerals and sediments) and this allows more oil and gas to flow through. Conventional technologies currently use highly corrosive chemicals that can damage the well installation and surrounding rock formations. With oil and gas wells getting, deeper, hotter and closer to urban centers, they also no longer meet the requirements of regulatory bodies. So we’ve developed Dissolvine StimWell, a bio-based, non-hazardous stimulation solution which combines all the advantages of existing technologies while avoiding their disadvantages. Based on one of the company’s new generation molecules, the product has been widely acknowledged for its readily biodegradable nature, its low corrosion potential and its excellent environmental profile. It can also be used in places that are hard to get to, such as wells that are hotter and deeper than average and for which no stimulation options are currently available. “There is nothing on the market that comes close to it,” says Professor Hisham Nasr-El-Din from Texas A&M University, a world renowned authority on oilfield stimulation. “It’s the best chemical to use in the industry, especially at expensive well installations and with 400ºF materials that are now becoming the norm. And it’s StimWell opens up microfractures environmentally-friendly.” Also crucial to AkzoNobel is the in a safe and environmentallyfact that it underlines what can be achieved if you work friendly way closely with customers and understand their needs. Dissolvine StimWell performs at temperatures up to 400OF Report of the Supervisory Board Main 2012 activities Financial statements and profit allocation The financial statements of Akzo Nobel N.V. for the financial year 2012 were audited by KPMG Accountants N.V. The CEO and senior executive succession Board of Management has submitted the financial statements, together with the report of the Board of Management, the report and management letter of the external auditor, to the CEO leave of absence Supervisory Board. The financial statements, the report and management letter of Supervisory Board member succession the external auditor were discussed extensively with the auditors by the Audit Committee, in the presence of the Chairman of the Board of Management (CEO) and the Chief Financial Officer Remuneration Board of Management (CFO), and by the full Supervisory Board with the full Board of Management. Based on these discussions, the Supervisory Board is of the opinion that the 2012 financial statements of Performance improvement program Akzo Nobel N.V. meet all requirements for correctness and transparency, and that they form a good basis to account for the supervision provided. The financial statements of this annual Strategic discussions at company, Business Area, report can be found in the Financial statements section. The Audit Committee monitors the follow-up by management of the business unit, functional and country level recommendations reported by the external auditor. The Supervisory Board recommends that the Annual General Decorative Paints impairment and North Meeting of shareholders (AGM) adopts the financial statements American divestment as presented in this Report 2012 and, as proposed by the Board of Management, approve the allocation of €347 million for the payment of dividend. This is consistent with our aim to provide a Enterprise risk management stable to rising dividend which is in line with sustainable earnings. The proposed total dividend for 2012 on each of the common shares outstanding is €1.45 and it is proposed that this amount, Sustainability less the interim dividend of €0.33 – which was paid in November 2012 – be made payable on May 29, 2013. The dividend will, at the shareholder’s discretion, be paid either in cash or in shares. HR strategy including talent review In addition, we request that the AGM discharge the members of the Board of Management of their responsibility for the conduct of business in 2012 and the members of the Supervisory Board for their supervision in 2012. Board visit to the Nordics Financial statements and dividend AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | Report of the Supervisory Board 45 Supervisory Board activities HR presented an update on its strategy, including a talent on the progress made, discussions were held about embedOne of the main activities of the Supervisory Board in 2012 was review. Developing a healthy talent pipeline with strong ding the results achieved and the quality of implementation. handling the CEO’s absence. Ton Büchner succeeded Hans succession planning has been one of the key priorities of the The results of these meetings were reported back to, and Wijers as CEO after his appointment to the Board of ManageSupervisory Board. The aim is to have talent pipelines with discussed with, the full Supervisory Board. ment by the AGM on April 23, 2012. He suffered from fatigue in two or three immediate successors to key positions. This will early September 2012, which resulted in a temporary leave of be achieved by managing the careers of our key talents in The outcome of the enterprise risk management session held absence. The Supervisory Board subsequently appointed CFO a more proactive manner and linking succession planning to by the Executive Committee was presented to the SuperKeith Nichols to be the first point of contact and coordinator for career planning, with clearly aligned learning and developvisory Board and risk corrective actions were identified to the Executive Committee. While the activities and direct reports ment opportunities, mentoring and coaching facilities, as well address the top ten risks. Further details are included in the of the CEO were divided on a temporary basis between several as career development possibilities. The Board of ManageRisk management chapter and the Strategy section. functional Executive Committee members, Mr. Nichols took on ment has kept the Supervisory Board regularly informed of the governance processes and further preparatory work on the intended organizational changes, appointments of senior Other topics discussed and reviewed by the Supervisory company’s strategy update, in addition to his CFO responmanagers and major contracts. Board included: sibilities. The Supervisory Board further decided to appoint Antony Burgmans from among its members to advise and In September 2012, the Supervisory Board, Board of Manage• Reports from the Supervisory Board committees support Mr. Nichols and the other Executive Committee ment and Executive Committee visited some of the company’s • Reports from the CEO members during this period. Mr. Burgmans made himself availbusinesses in the Nordics. This included meetings with local • Reports from the CFO on financial results, investor able for consultation and coaching of the Executive Committee management, customers and other stakeholders, as well as feedback and share price development members several times per month and reported back on a a visit to the Functional Chemicals and Surface Chemistry site • Financial statements and dividends regular basis to the other members of the Supervisory Board. in Stenungsund. The trip provided an excellent opportunity for • Operational planning (including budget) and the annual He also held several analyst and investor calls to discuss the the Supervisory Board to liaise and engage with local managefinancing and investment plan situation and, together with Karel Vuursteen, kept in regular ment and for a comprehensive review of the businesses in • Acquisition and divestiture update contact with Mr. Büchner to monitor the progress of his recovery. the Nordics. • Business Area updates. Messrs. Darner, Gunning and Fuhrmann provided regular updates to inform the The Supervisory Board devoted considerable time to discussThe company’s performance improvement program focuses Supervisory Board on safety, competitive behavior, ing the company’s strategy and reviewing strategic options on achieving operational and functional excellence at lower projects and YTD financials with the CEO, which was finalized upon Mr. Büchner’s return. costs and is fundamental to the delivery of our 2015 targets in • Governance of the company Business Area, business unit and functional strategies were a challenging market environment. The program was closely • Negative growth scenarios and underperforming presented to the Supervisory Board following the strategic monitored by three Supervisory Board members, who held businesses. The performance of the company was review sessions at company level with the Executive Commitsix meetings with the CEO or CFO, the program director and impacted by the economic crisis. The Supervisory Board tee. In 2012, BU strategy presentations on Industrial Coatings, the Corporate Controller. During these meetings, the prodiscussed how AkzoNobel addresses underperforming Pulp and Performance Chemicals and Industrial Chemicals gress of the program was reviewed and discussed in detail, businesses and negative volume growth scenarios were given. The Supervisory Board also discussed corporate while representatives from the various work streams were • Diversity and inclusion social responsibility issues relevant to the company. also invited to attend on several occasions to provide detailed • The company-shareholder relationship overviews of their areas of responsibility. In addition to reports • Approval of major investments, acquisitions and divestments 46 Report of the Supervisory Board | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 The Supervisory Board held 13 meetings during 2012. Six auditor and is closely monitoring the international discussions • Operating working capital management. In several meetings were plenary sessions with the full Board of Manageon auditor independence, the substance of which does not meetings, the Audit Committee discussed OWC to ment present, six meetings were held without the full Board give rise to concerns regarding our existing policy of, and guididentify improvement actions of Management present, of which two were attended by the ance on, auditor independence. Both processes have been • Compliance with primary and secondary legislation CEO. One meeting was held via conference call. An overview concluded and the Audit Committee has recommended to (internal framework, monitoring and processes and of the Supervisory Board and attendance of its committees is the Supervisory Board not to propose a change in the external compliance reports) set out later in this chapter. The Chairman of the Supervisory auditor’s appointment for 2013. In 2011, the Audit Committee • Litigation and claims Board prepared the meetings with the Corporate Secretary and already decided to reconsider undertaking an external auditor • Impact of new IFRS rules discussed matters, such as the agendas, with the CEO. Addiselection process (full tender) towards the end of 2013, for • Insight accounting issues/Accounting issue tracker tional (informal) meetings and calls were held with Supervisory submission and decision at the AGM in 2014. • Information Management strategy Board members to discuss the CEO’s leave of absence and • Treasury strategy have contact with Mr. Nichols and the other Executive CommitThe Audit Committee also discussed topics including: • Bonds issuance tee members. • Centralization and standardization of treasury activities • Financial statements Audit Committee • Dividend directions The Audit Committee held eight meetings during 2012. Before each announcement of the company’s quarterly results, • External auditor’s report and management letter the Audit Committee reviewed the figures and consulted on the • External auditor’s approach to auditing the company, Remuneration Committee reports and press releases to be published. Supervisory Board engagement letter, fees, risk assessment and audit plan The Remuneration Committee reviewed the performance of members were invited to participate in this part of the Audit • Hard close (as part of making the year-end process more the members of the Board of Management and the Executive Committee meeting. efficient, in order to highlight important issues for the Committee. Recommendations were made on the remuneration financial statements 2012 and to give timely attention to and personal targets for members of the Board of Management The Audit Committee also reflected on the deteriorating market important issues, AkzoNobel performs a hard close as per and the other members of the Executive Committee. Propoconditions in Europe and the US, the value of our DecoOctober 31. Aligned with this, the external auditor also sals for the remuneration of Messrs. Fuhrmann, Keijzer and rative Paints assets, and advised the Supervisory Board on the performs certain procedures in respect of the financial Joosten were reviewed and discussed with the CEO. The impairment. After several discussions, the Supervisory Board outcomes as at October 31, 2012) committee also reviewed the remuneration package of the approved the company’s announcement of a non-cash impair• Operational plan (including budget) members of the Supervisory Board. ment charge against the Decorative Paints business’ assets, • Internal control procedures and report primarily in Europe. • InControl assurance statement The Remuneration Committee prepared a proposal to the • HSE&S audits summary of findings Supervisory Board on an adjustment to the current remuIssues discussed in Audit Committee meetings were reported • Risk management neration policy for the Board of Management and Executive back to the full Supervisory Board in subsequent meetings of • Internal audit reports and planning Committee to ensure that both remain fully focused on the this Board. The Audit Committee has performed the annual • Tax strategy company’s overall priorities – functional excellence, increasreview of the adequacy of the Audit Committee charter. The • The quality of internal and external audit ing return on investment, increasing our operating income Audit Committee also evaluated the services of the external • Internal audit strategy and improving our cash position. To ensure continued alignAkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | Report of the Supervisory Board 47 ment between incentive metrics and the company’s objecThe Nomination Committee identified Ms. Baldauf to succeed appointed as the Executive Committee member responsible tives, greater flexibility is required in order to be able to respond Baroness Bottomley as a member of the Supervisory Board for Specialty Chemicals as per October 1, 2012, a role he adequately to the economic challenges the company is facing. and made a proposal to expand the Supervisory Board to nine initially took over on an ad interim basis after the 2012 AGM members. Mr. Verwaayen was identified to fulfill the additional (in addition to his Integrated Supply Chain responsibilities in The Supervisory Board approved this recommendation and position. Ms. Baldauf and Mr. Verwaayen were appointed at the Executive Committee). Conrad Keijzer joined the Executive will propose to the 2013 AGM to introduce in the remunerathe 2012 AGM. At the same meeting, Mr. Van den Brink and Committee on January 1, 2013, and will succeed Mr. Darner tion policy a flexibility (within a set of defined indicators) for Sir Peter Ellwood were reappointed for a third and second as the member responsible for Performance Coatings followthe Supervisory Board to decide each year on the financial term of four years respectively. Subject to their appointment as ing the 2013 AGM. Ruud Joosten will also join the Executive metrics and their weighing to define short-term incentives. members of the Supervisory Board, the Nomination Committee Committte and, following the 2013 AGM, will take over from Further details on this are outlined in the Remuneration report prepared a proposal for Ms. Baldauf and Mr. Verwaayen to join Mr. Gunning as the Executive Committee member responsible chapter in the Governance and compliance section. Informathe Remuneration Committee and the Nomination Commitfor Decorative Paints. tion on the remuneration of the Board of Management and tee. Ms. Baldauf brings a different mix of international business Supervisory Board can be found in Note 21 of the Financial experiences gained in Asia. Mr. Verwaayen adds substantial Supervisory Board attendance record statements section. business and functional excellence experience gained in the The Supervisory Board is confident that the table on the followUS, UK, France and the Netherlands. Their expertise is a good ing page shows that all Supervisory Board members made The Remuneration Committee held four meetings in 2012. addition to these committees. Sir Peter Ellwood was proposed adequate time available to give sufficient attention to the to join the Audit Committee. In addition to his nomination and company. Nomination Committee remuneration expertise, Sir Peter, as former Group Chief ExeThe Nomination Committee made several recommendations to cutive of Lloyds TSB Group, has the appropriate financial Board evaluation the Supervisory Board during 2012. These included proposing knowledge for the Audit Committee. The Supervisory Board carried out a performance evaluation the appointment of Ton Büchner as a member of the Board of itself, its individual members, its Remuneration Committee of Management at the AGM on April 23, and his subsequent The Nomination Committee held two meetings in 2012. and Nomination Committee, the Chairman and the chairmen appointment as CEO following AGM approval. The commitTogether with the CEO, the Committee devoted considerof these committees. The process consisted of Supervisory tee also recommended the reappointment of Mr. Nichols for a able time to senior executive succession planning. From the Board members completing confidential questionnaires. The second term of four years, and the reappointment of Mr. Darner start of his appointment as CEO, Ton Büchner has discussed Audit Committee carried out a performance evaluation of for a term of two years. The Supervisory Board supported and and reviewed with the Nomination Committee the Executive itself and invited the other participants of the meetings to also approved these recommendations and the AGM subsequently Committee member positions responsible for the company’s complete the confidential questionnaire. made these (re)appointments on April 23, 2012. Business Areas. After a thorough selection process, recommendations were made by the Nomination Committee – followUnlike the process in 2011, the evaluation was conducted The Nomination Committee also made a proposal to limit the ing proposals by the CEO – for the succession of Mr. Frohn, Mr. without the assistance of an external facilitator. It is the Supernumber of Board of Management positions from five to four Darner and Mr. Gunning. Important selection criteria included visory Board’s intention to use an external facilitator in the following the departure of Mr. Frohn as a Board of Management a balanced knowledge of the markets in which the company evaluation process every third year. member at the 2012 AGM. operates, a proven track record, global business experience and team spirit. The following appointments were subsequently In separate meetings without the Board of Management, the approved by the Supervisory Board. Werner Fuhrmann was full Supervisory Board and the Audit Committee discussed 48 Report of the Supervisory Board | Our leadership | AkzoNobel Report 2012 the results of the evaluation questionnaires. These discusSupervisory Board attendance record sions were recorded and the conclusions and actions were Supervisory Audit Remuneration Nomination discussed and confirmed at the next meeting of the SuperBoard Committee Committee Committee visory Board and the Audit Committee. The evaluation of the Karel Vuursteen 10/13 – 3/4 2/2 Chairman was discussed by the full Supervisory Board in the Sari Baldauf* 8/10 – 3/3 1/1 Chairman’s absence. Items addressed were overall performance Virginia Bottomley* 2/2 – 1/1 1/1 and composition of the Supervisory Board, the Audit CommiDolf van den Brink 13/13 8/8 – – ttee and the other committees, strategic issues and key areas for Peggy Bruzelius 11/13 7/8 – 2/2 2013. Other points discussed were the nature and impact of the Uwe-Ernst Bufe 13/13 – – – discussions, strategy oversight, risk management and internal Antony Burgmans 13/13 – 4/4 2/2 control, succession planning and other such matters. Overall it Sir Peter Ellwood* 13/13 6/6 1/1 1/1 was concluded that the Supervisory Board and its committees, Louis Hughes 12/13 7/8 – – including the Audit Committee, continued to operate effectively. Ben Verwaayen* 9/10 – 2/3 1/1 The Supervisory Board was positive about the progress made in a number of important areas, such as succession planning * Where a Supervisory Board member stood down from the Supervisory Board or a committee during the year, or was appointed during and training. Improvement areas are diversity and knowledge of the year, only meetings before standing down or after the date of appointment are taken into account. high growth markets. Gratitude The Supervisory Board in particular wishes to thank Messrs. Darner and Gunning for their contribution to AkzoNobel during their time with the company. All members of the Supervisory Board also extend their gratitude to the Board of Management and the other members of the Executive Committee, as well as all employees around the world, for their dedication and hard work for the company in 2012. Amsterdam, February 19, 2013 The Supervisory Board AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Our leadership | Report of the Supervisory Board 49 Business performance The following section gives a detailed summary of how each of our Business Areas performed during 2012. Information on market characteristics, key brands and revenue comparisons is also provided. AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals 53 AkzoNobel Performance Coatings 63 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints 73 Superior strength and performance It might look fairly straightforward, but the average sheet of paper goes through a whole series of weird and wonderful production processes before it’s ready to use. So manufacturers are understandably keen to ensure that everything runs as efficiently – and cost effectively – as possible. Being more sustainable is also high on their agenda. Which is why our Pulp and Performance Chemicals business has developed EcoFill, a system for enhancing paper strength and filler content which makes it possible for customers to improve the sustainability of their operations without having to compromise on production efficiency. Using filler means that papermakers can use less wood fiber, which is expensive. Filler is also easier to dry than fiber, so less energy is needed when drying the paper. With paper manufacture now taking place on a massive scale (the biggest machine in the world in China produces 1.5 million tons a year) the benefits can be substantial. Launched in 2012, EcoFill is a patented system which combines engineered cellulose additive (ECA) dry strength chemistry with clever application technology to deliver significant cost-saving benefits and improve the sustainability of customer operations. Available in a two component system, it enhances strength and makes it possible to increase filler content by five to ten percentage points without sacrificing runnability. Best used in conjunction with the company’s Compozil retention system, our breakthrough EcoFill technology has been quickly accepted by the industry, with the world’s biggest paper machine among its first customers. AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals “The resilience of our competitively-priced energy and feedstocks. The North anti-caking technology and strengthen its global leadership American chemical industry is benefiting from large-scale use positions in electrolyses salt and MCA in Europe. We divested portfolio enabled us to of shale gas. Gas prices there are only a fraction of what they our Pakistan-based activities to better align the Specialty increase revenues and are in Europe, so businesses there have a clear advantage when it comes to energy pricing and access to competitively Chemicals portfolio with our global strategy. post solid results” priced petrochemical raw materials such as ethylene. We were particularly proud to receive the Dutch Responsible Care Award and the European Responsible Care Award Werner Fuhrmann Executive Committee member responsible for Specialty Chemicals Looking briefly at our activities, Surface Chemistry achieved a during 2012. The former was presented by the Dutch Chemirecord year, building on its leadership positions and clearly cal Industry (VNCI) and the latter by the European Chemical benefiting from the acquisition of Boxing Oleochemicals. In Industry Council (Cefic). Both awards were given in recogniaddition, we announced a series of investments to further tion of new DME-based DeMythe LDD technology, which is It was another good year for our Specialty Chemicals business, strengthen the business’ presence in China. Pulp and Perhelping to revolutionize the leather and protein industries. It despite a less than favorable macro-economic environment. formance Chemicals also recorded a record year, despite was developed by our Industrial Chemicals business along Following a good first quarter, conditions weakened as the year some weakness in demand. The business has streamlined its with a Spanish partner. Also notable was the achievement progressed, particularly in areas such as construction, while portfolio to focus on key strategic markets and is well of our best ever safety records, underlining our focus on lower economic activity in the upstream petrochemical sector positioned to maintain its growth momentum, with the continuous improvement in all areas. and a slowdown in China’s manufacturing industry also Chemical Island concept proving to be particularly successful. impacted our performance. However, the resilience of our portfolio – combined with effective cost leadership and our It was a more challenging year for Functional Chemicals, strong market and technology positions – enabled us to increase mainly due to softer demand and an imbalance in supply/ revenues and post solid results, helped by a weaker euro. demand in certain markets. But the business continued to launch innovative products – notably groundbreaking oil/gas Although trading conditions weren’t quite as severe as in well stimulation technology Dissolvine StimWell – and further recent years, 2012 still presented a number of notable chaldeveloped its activities in Ningbo, China, where additional lenges. The construction industry continued to struggle, strategic investments were made during the year. Industrial which hit sales at our Functional Chemicals business, while Chemicals again proved resilient and was less affected by the the economic slowdown in Europe also took its toll in terms of downturn in Europe due to its strong positioning in the downvolume. Another ongoing issue in Europe is the lack of stream value chain. It continued to commercialize its mTA AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals 53 Specialty chemicals market overview End-user segment and market sector analysis role when it comes to demand. So, for example, we continue growth for this end-user segment for AkzoNobel is likely to be The global chemicals market is roughly €3 trillion in size and, to expect strong growth in pulp production in Brazil, which average, rather than above average. within that, the specialty chemicals market represents around will lead to above average growth for our bleaching chemi€500 billion (of which paints and coatings accounts for €75 cals market sector, which is well positioned in this market. Buildings and Infrastructure billion). AkzoNobel competes in reasonably selective niches On the other hand, chemicals growth in mature Europe is The smallest segment for our Specialty Chemicals Business within this very large and diverse market. The outlook for our expected to be limited, and because our chlorine and caustic Area, our revenues in the Buildings and Infrastructure endbusiness, therefore, is best described by evaluating the endsoda market sectors are entirely Northern European, we are user segment are all in the Building products and components user segments that we serve. expecting market growth below global average growth rates. sub-segment. The outlook for this sub-segment is below average, taken as a whole. However, industries within the Industrial Consumer Goods sub-segment that are less residentially oriented, and/or have The majority of our Specialty Chemicals revenue comes In general, the higher growing industries within the Cona strong maintenance component, are performing better. Our from the Industrial end-user segment. Many of the different sumer Goods end-user segment are in the Consumer durarevenues in this sub-segment come from products such as industries incorporated in this broad sector can be somewhat bles sub-segment, which is small in terms of revenues from chlorine used in the manufacturer of plastics for windows, cyclical. However, the cycle for agricultural, for example, is our Specialty Chemicals Business Area. However, for market doors and pipes, as well as redispersible powders and cellulinked to the weather and not to economic cycles. There are sectors such as organic peroxides, metal alkyls, polymer losic derivatives used in building adhesives and coatings. also industries that are less cyclical, such as pulp and paper. additives and silica sols used in polymers for the manufacMarket growth for all of these market sectors is expected Furthermore, during the recent recession, the downturn was ture of consumer electronics, toys and recreation equipment, to be below average, particularly as our chlorine business is less than would have been expected as domestic demand in above average market growth is expected. heavily European, where growth rates are lower, and redishigh growth countries continued to lead to robust industrial persible powders have a strong new build orientation. growth. Taking each of the sub-segments in turn: There are also some faster growth industries within the Consumer packaged goods end-user sub-segment, such as The vision for the Specialty Chemicals Business Area is to be Natural resource and energy industries personal care. As a result, the surfactants and specialty polythe leading specialty chemicals company in selected market This sub-segment encompasses a wide range of markets, mers market sectors for these industries are also expecting sectors and a reliable cash generator for AkzoNobel. To including oil and gas, metals and mining, energy and electricabove average growth. Historically, these industries – along with achieve this, we will need to continue to ensure that we have ity generation, water and wastewater and agriculture. In the food and beverage – have experienced lower growth, but are strong processes and capabilities in terms of: recent past, oil and gas growth was buoyant as a result of more stable. Recent trends are very positive and we therefore high oil prices. Going forward, we expect this to moderate expect average or above average growth for relevant market • Management of integrated value chains somewhat, but the outlook for energy and utilities in general sectors such as surfactants, chelates and ethylene amines. • Continuous technological advancement remains strong and we are seeing higher levels of growth in • Engineering and project management agriculture. Thus the outlook for the market sectors that serve Transportation • Process safety this sub-segment is strong, assuming that our position in the Our revenues from the Transportation segment are roughly • Product and margin management market sector is global. For example, we expect good growth equivalent to our revenues from the Consumer Goods end• Managing capital intensive businesses and investments in market sectors such as surfactants, chelates, ethylene user segment. With the exception of marine transportaamines and sulfur products. tion, most of the industries in this end-user segment are Strategic direction performing well and the global outlook is particularly strong We have four main strategic priorities. These are: Process industries for the Automotive OEM, parts and assembly end-user subThis sub-segment covers chemicals and pulp and paper segment, which is the only relevant sub-segment for our 1. Although the emphasis for AkzoNobel in general, and for manufacture. Growth in this sub-segment going forward is Specialty Chemicals Business Area. In this sub-segment, we the Specialty Chemicals Business Area in particular, is on expected to be somewhat below average globally as chemisell chlorine, organic peroxides and metal alkyls used in the focusing on cash and return on investment, we will concals growth is expected to be average and pulp and paper production of automotive plastics. Our Chlorine business is tinue to invest in people and technology. This is vital for the growth is lower than this. However, geography plays a key very European, though, so on average the relevant market long-term health of our business. 54 AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 2. We will be even more selective in where and how we grow Key raw materials Market leadership positions the business, with a strong emphasis on market sectors • Acetic acid • Salt and geographic regions with better end-user segment • Polymers Functional Chemicals • Energy outlook. We have done this in the past. For example, • Sulfur • Ammonia and ethylene 1st Chelates and micronutrients recent capital expansions have been almost exclusively in Ethylene amines Brazil for bleaching Chemical Islands, and at our Ningbo Organic peroxides site in China. Our most recent acquisition was of Boxing Price drivers Salt specialties (North Western Europe) Oleochemicals, which has made a major contribution to • Energy, oil and other raw materials Sulfur products our Surface Chemistry position in Asia. We will continue to 2nd Organometallic specialties select for these kinds of investments going forward. Building and paints performance additives 3. We will strengthen our focus on functional and operational excellence. This incorporates continuing to work on Industrial Chemicals building capabilities in product and margin management, 1st Chlorine merchant (Europe) complexity reduction, efficiency improvements in factories, Monochloroacetic acid (MCA) operating working capital reduction and ERP rationalization Salt (chemical transformation Europe) across the full Business Area. Chloromethanes merchant (Europe) 2nd Caustic lye merchant (Europe) 4. Given all the changes in the external environment, such as shale gas and other chemical feedstock potential game changers, we will be stress-testing our strategies against Pulp and Performance Chemicals the changing competitive landscape to ensure that we are 1st Bleaching chemicals well placed for the future. Silica retention additives Expandable microspheres Key actions going forward Colloidal silica dispersions • Further integrate and grow the acquired Boxing Surface Chemistry Oleochemicals activities • Benefit from capacity expansions in China, 1st Industrial applications Brazil and Germany Agricultural applications • Generate growth from new products 3rd Home and personal care • Further rationalize and consolidate ERP systems AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals 55 Key developments 2012 • Completed the acquisition of Boxing Oleochemicals, China Key figures in € millions Employees by region at year-end • Announced €45 million investment in a new dicumyl 2011 2012 2011 2012 peroxide (DCP) plant at our Ningbo multi-site in China Revenue 5,335 5,543 North America 1,800 1,800 • Demerger and divestment of Chemicals Pakistan EBITDA 906 889 Latin America 900 1,000 • Opened bleaching Chemical Island in Brazil and announced EBITDA margin (in %) 17.0 16.0 Mature Europe 5,800 5,500 €80 million investment in the construction of a Chemical EBIT 625 583 Emerging Europe – 100 Island to supply the Suzano Maranhão pulp mill • Began work at our Taixing site in China to increase annual EBIT margin (in %) 11.7 10.5 Asia Pacific 3,000 2,300 production capacity for MCA to 100,000 MT Operating income 622 500 Total 11,500 10,700 • Broke ground on our €140 million investment to modernize Moving average ROI (in %) 17.8 15.6 and expand manufacturing at our Frankfurt site and switch our chlorine production from mercury to the latest membrane electrolysis technology Revenue breakdown by business unit Eco-premium solutions • Completed de-bottlenecking at the Stockvik site in in % % of revenue Sweden, giving us 30 percent more production capacity for our Expancel expandable microspheres • Signed an agreement with Mexichem Resinas Vinilicas, E 24 25 22 S.A. de C.V. to supply our pioneering Continuous Initiator D A Dosing (CiD) technology to three of their plants 2010 2011 2012 C B Key value chains with carbon footprint assessment Geo-mix revenue by destination A Functional Chemicals 35 B Industrial Chemicals 21 164 C Pulp and Performance Chemicals 20 147 118 D Surface Chemistry 19 E Chemicals Pakistan 5 2010 2011 2012 21% 40% 4% 22% North America Emerging Europe Asia Pacific Mature Europe Total reportable rate of injuries per million hours 3% Rest of the world 3.5 10% 2.8 2.8 Latin America 1.8 2009 2010 2011 2012 56 AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Functional Chemicals “Recent investments mean Revenue in € millions we are well positioned 1,917 1,963 to benefit from the next 1,813 economic upturn” 2010 2011 2012 Jan Svärd Managing Director Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Overview also signed an agreement with Mexichem Resinas Vinilicas, C It was a mixed year, with many of our product lines either on S.A. de C.V., one of the world’s largest PVC manufacturers, A a par or performing better than 2011. Raw material prices to supply our pioneering Continuous Initiator Dosing (CiD) were stable, but margins came under pressure when volumes technology. It was our first CiD license outside Europe and started to weaken towards the end of the year. involves three Mexichem plants, two in Mexico and one in Colombia. The technology was developed to help PVC manuB Analysis facturers improve reactor output, product quality and operaOur results benefited from an upturn in the North American tional safety. We also invested in our pharma salt activities in chemical industry, which enjoyed something of a revival, with Denmark, which supplies high purity products and has trebled A EMEA 42 sales to the polymer market being particularly good. Asia turnover in the last three years. B Americas 30 continued to grow, but not as fast as expected, partly because C Asia Pacific 28 of weaker demand for exports to Europe. The fact that the US Developments became more competitive also impacted the market in Asia. In China, we successfully started up a new organic peroxide In terms of business performance, many of our activities had plant at our Ningbo site, while the ongoing project at the same Main products a reasonably good year. Chelates and Micronutrients were facility to add capacity for our Bermocoll cellulose derivatives • Cellulosic additives • Ethylene amines strong in Asia, while Performance Additives improved on 2011, is scheduled for completion in mid-2013. We are also invest• Chelates • Salt specialties due mainly to the launch of several new cellulose-based proding €45 million in a new dicumyl peroxide (DCP) plant, which • Additives for the • Sulfur derivatives ucts. The one exception was Ethylene Amines, which continwill be operational in 2014. These investments are part of a mortar industry • Polymer chemicals ued to find the going tough. The sluggish macro-economic strategic plan to develop a strong cluster in Ningbo which will market made it difficult to place new capacity into the market, play a key role in our growth ambitions. Elsewhere, we made but recent investments mean we are well positioned to benefit a number of changes to our organizational set-up, which Key end-user markets from the next economic upturn, particularly in high growth involved realigning our High Polymers and XTP (Cross-link• Detergents • Building materials markets. In order to optimize our supply chain for ethylene ing Peroxides, Thermoset Chemicals and Polymer Additives) • Personal care • Paint amines, we realigned our operations, which involved disconactivities in order to create a more robust and simpler model. • Crop protection • Pharmaceutical • Micronutrients • Food tinuing a long-term toll manufacturing agreement in Germany. As a result, we formed two new sub-businesses – Organic Peroxides and Organometallic Specialties – which will enable Highlights us to achieve operational excellence and cost efficiencies, Key brands The success of our growing range of biodegradable chelates while retaining the focus on customers. This was in addition to Ferrazone® caught the eye, in particular the launch of Dissolvine Stimthe ongoing initiatives (such as Lean Six Sigma) being impleThis Iron Works. Well, a unique technology for the oil and gas industry which mented as part of the company’s performance improvement stimulates wells and makes them more productive. It has program, which will enable us to operate our production facilihuge potential to revolutionize the industry and we have ties at lower cost. already secured a number of high profile customers. We Rexene® AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals 57 AkzoNobel Industrial Chemicals “Continued investments in our Revenue in € millions leadership positions have 1,165 1,188 ensured that we are well 1,070 positioned going into 2013” 2010 2011 2012 Knut Schwalenberg Managing Director Geo-mix revenue by destination in % B C Overview Germany, where we are investing €140 million to modernize Despite a slowdown in our markets, we achieved solid results and expand manufacturing and switch our chlorine production in the range of our record year 2011. Continued investments from mercury to the very latest membrane electrolysis techin our leadership positions, combined with ongoing costnology. One highlight we were particularly proud of was the saving and efficiency measures, have ensured that we are well fact that we received both the Dutch Responsible Care Award positioned going into 2013. and the European Responsible Care Award. The former was A presented by the Dutch Chemical Industry (VNCI) and the Analysis latter by the European Chemical Industry Council (Cefic). Both Our Chlor-Alkali business had its best ever year, mainly due to awards recognized the DME-based DeMythe LDD technoA EMEA 91 our strong chlorine portfolio and a favorable price situation for logy we developed with Spanish partner GRIT which is B Americas 5 caustic. We were all but sold out for much of 2012, well ahead helping to revolutionize the leather and protein industries. We C Asia Pacific 4 of the European chlorine industry from a utilization perspecalso secured our first license for the technology, which is used tive. MCA also posted an excellent year as we harvested the to remove water and grease from animal skins and makes the benefits of recent expansions and cost-saving programs. We process far more sustainable and less harmful to health than Main products are now the clear market leader in the US and China and in more conventional methods. Europe we are a co-leader. Our Salt activities had to cope with • Salt • Monochloroacetic acid • Energy (MCA) two issues that influenced the business’ performance. First of Developments • Chlorine • Chloromethanes all we had no real winter – which impacted sales of road salt The first licensing contract for our mTA technology for the salt • Caustic lye – and secondly a broken canal lock near our Dutch Hengelo and chlorine industries in China was signed and we gained site caused major shipment problems and resulted in lost approval to store strategic oil reserves in our salt caverns. We volumes. Both effects were compensated by excellent busialready store gas and nitrogen and are investigating the possiKey markets ness to the chemical industry, which posted a record volume. bility of using the caverns to store energy as compressed air • Chemical • Food Our Energy activities faced several challenges and as a result to cope with fluctuation of wind energy. In addition, we have • Detergent • Pulp and paper we had to mothball our large Delesto 2 cogeneration unit at ongoing initiatives targeted at significantly increasing steam • Construction • Plastic industries Delfzijl in the Netherlands. We are now investigating several production from renewables (for example through waste alternatives for generating steam. incineration) and are looking into ways we can improve the eco-profile of our suppliers and raw materials. Key brand Highlights We began work at our Taixing site in China ahead of a major expansion which will further increase its annual production capacity for MCA to 100,000 MT. Once complete, the Taixing facility will become the biggest MCA plant in the world. A groundbreaking ceremony was also held at Frankfurt in 58 AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Pulp and Performance Chemicals “All three main businesses Revenue in € millions made an important 1,116 1,153 contribution to the overall 1,044 performance improvement” 2010 2011 2012 Ruud Joosten Managing Director Geo-mix revenue by destination in % C Overview profitability and give current and future customers full value The momentum we have been building up over the last few from our position as a world leader in our industries. Many A years continued as we achieved another record performance. customers, however, still remember us by the Eka Chemicals EBITDA improved significantly, driven mainly by strong margin name, so we will continue to use the Eka name as a product management, which helped to mitigate the impact of the brand for the pulp and paper industry. Another major highlight economic slowdown. was the €80 million investment in the construction of a new B Chemical Island facility in Brazil which will supply the Suzano Analysis Maranhão pulp mill. The project should be completed by the Having refocused our strategy to concentrate on activities end of 2013. The Suzano investment came just a year after A EMEA 37 with global leadership positions, all three of our main busiwe announced plans to build a €90 million Chemical Island in B Americas 47 nesses made an important contribution to the overall perforTrês Lagoas, also in Brazil, which was ready to start producC Asia Pacific 16 mance improvement. Bleaching Chemicals had a strong tion in early 2013. Meanwhile in Europe, we took steps to year in Latin America, but also did well in Europe and North right-size the organization in order to better align with prevailAmerica, while Specialty Products (with our Expancel microing market conditions. Main products spheres) outperformed its record year in 2011. It was more of a mixed picture for Silica and Paper Chemicals, primarily Developments • Bleaching chemicals • Paper chemicals due to the weak economic conditions in North America and The €32 million investment in our Stockvik site in Sweden • Separation products Europe. Raw material prices were not as volatile as the prewas completed by the end of the year, giving us 30 percent • Expandable microspheres vious year, and although 2012 began well in terms of volumes, more production capacity for our Expancel expandable • Colloidal silica dispersions for various applications they progressively came under more pressure, particularly microspheres. Our biggest innovation was EcoFill, a product in the paper chemicals sector. However, we were able to which has advanced from a concept stage and has now been Key markets manage our margins very effectively and consolidated our launched into the market. It enables paper makers to make a positions in our key markets. stronger paper with less fiber and higher filler levels, allowing • Pulp and paper industry • Pharmaceuticals industry for drying times that result in less energy consumption during • Colloidal silica dispersions for industrial use Highlights the production process, resulting in cost and environmental We introduced our new strategy in April in order to globalize benefits. Progress was also made in the area of safety, which our business operations and further strengthen our market received a lot of attention. Key brands positions. This included divesting some non-core activities and optimizing the production footprint, as well as changing the name of the business to Pulp and Performance Chemicals, which better reflects our focus on three core technologies with Compozil global leadership positions. We are now better placed to build on the market strength of these activities, further increase AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals 59 AkzoNobel Surface Chemistry “Our record results were Revenue in € millions driven by the optimization 1,085 of our product portfolio, 847 945 margin management and tight control on costs” 2010 2011 2012 Bob Margevich Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Managing Director C Overview ties, including a significant manufacturing base in Shandong A We achieved record results for the third year in a row, driven Province. This acquisition will allow us to help local customers mainly by the optimization of our product portfolio, margin enhance and differentiate their products. Another key highlight management and sales into relatively strong markets. The was our safety performance. All 13 of our plants performed integration of the Boxing Oleochemicals business, acquired well and we ended the year favorably below corporate ambiin 2012, helped grow our business and improved the geogrations in terms of total reportable rate of injuries. B phic diversity of our sales. Volumes remained more or less flat, raw material price increases were not as severe as in 2011 Developments A EMEA 31 and we were able to keep tight control on costs, all of which Our Rediset LQ liquid asphalt warm-mix additive was used B Americas 53 contributed to our overall financial performance. to pave five new taxiways at Chicago’s O’Hare International Airport. The taxiways are an integral part of the O’Hare C Asia Pacific 16 Analysis Modernization Program, one of the largest infrastructure rehaNorth America was our strongest and steadiest market, while bilitation and construction projects in the US, at one of the Main products Europe held up well given the economic turmoil. In Latin America world’s largest and busiest airports. We also worked together • Surfactants • Bio-polymers and Asia, underlying conditions were not as vibrant as in recent with AkzoNobel Marine and Protective Coatings to develop • Synthetic polymers years, although there remained many opportunities for our techa new advanced antifouling product for ships. There were nologies. From a business perspective, we achieved strong sales some interesting developments in the US and Asia with the Key markets in agrochemicals, oilfield chemicals, mining and asphalt, while sustainable chemistry we acquired from Integrated Botanical our home and personal care activities were less robust. Asphalt Technologies in 2011. One particularly notable product launch • Agrochemicals • Coating additives • Asphalt • Lubes and fuels benefited from the US Congress passing a new highway funding was Armovis EHS, a readily biodegradable, high tempera• Home and personal care • Water treatment bill, which sustained current levels of funding for the construction ture surfactant for the oilfield market which can be used in a • Oilfield chemicals • Mining and repair of highways, bridges and other transportation projects diverse range of applications, including acidizing, fracturing across the US. Mining started out slow, but picked up and delivand completion brine systems. Key product lines ered a good year, while oil and gas moderated somewhat after • Armeen • Ethomeen growing for most of 2012. Essentially, all our market segments • Arquad • Naviance were either stable or improved on 2011. • Armovis • Alcoguard • Berol • Witconate • Adsee Highlights In Europe, we reorganized our management team and streamlined the business, which had a positive impact on our perforKey brands mance. We also integrated the Personal Care business into our regional sub-business units globally. Early in the year, we focused on integrating the Boxing Oleochemicals activi60 AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Chemicals Pakistan “The sale of ICI Pakistan to Revenue in € millions Yunus Brother Group concluded 330 on December 28, 2012” 305 287 Waqar A Malik Chief Executive ICI Pakistan 2010 2011 2012 Main products • Polyester fiber • Soda ash • Life sciences Overview Highlights • Chemicals The business environment remained tough in 2012, with the AkzoNobel, in accordance with its declared strategy through escalating energy crisis in Pakistan impacting both margins ICI Omicron B.V., sold its entire holding of 75.81 percent in and downstream demand. However, we were able to increase ICI Pakistan Limited to Yunus Brother Group on December revenue on the back of effective price management, new 28, 2012. In line with the same strategy, the Paints business Key brands product launches and opportunities in the Life Sciences and of ICI Pakistan Limited was demerged into a separate listed Chemicals businesses. entity (Akzo Nobel Pakistan Limited), effective July 2011. The Pakistan Paints business is now managed through our Middle Analysis East organization. Operating results were severely affected by the rising cost of alternative energy needed to maintain optimum producDevelopments tion levels. The additional cost incurred to replace the use of The business won the coveted Best Sustainability Report natural gas amounted to €3.4 million. However, our ongoing WWF-ACCA award, as well as receiving a number of addicoal-fired boilers project – which will offer a cheaper alternational honors for financial and sustainability reporting. Our tive to high cost energy – is progressing well and is on track employee engagement score was also one of the best in the for completion in 2013. We also incurred a one-off expense company. In August, a safety incident at our Polyester site of €3.1million on the demerger of the Paints business and the in Sheikhupura unfortunately resulted in a fatality. A detailed divestment of ICI Pakistan. investigation was immediately carried out and new HSE management controls are being drawn up. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Specialty Chemicals 61 Breathe easy We usually think of air pollution as an outdoor problem, but according to various experts, indoor air pollution is one of the biggest threats to human health. In fact, some claim that the degradation of indoor air quality by harmful chemicals and other materials can be up to ten times worse than outdoor air pollution. You might wonder how a company like AkzoNobel can make a difference and contribute to improving well-being in indoor spaces. Well, the answer lies in our continued push to lead the way in top quality, sustainable products. Our Wood Finishes and Adhesives business recently launched two new formaldehyde-free coatings for use on interior wood applications, which give solvent borne performance while remaining environmentally responsible. Marketed under the Chemcraft brand and known as Airguard, the products (a catalyzed lacquer and a conversion varnish) can be applied to a wide variety of surfaces, including office and household furniture and kitchen cabinets. Airguard also includes a line of both water and solvent borne products that meet the stringent testing standards of GREENGUARD Indoor Air Quality Certification. They can also be used to comply with LEED, IAQ and BIFMA indoor air standards for formaldehyde. Ready to use for indoor environments without sacrificing performance, using Airguard means that you can breathe easier knowing these products contribute to the creation of cleaner interiors. AkzoNobel Performance Coatings “While it has been a strong improvement program. This disciplined approach ensured the coatings activities operated by Korean company SSCP. that all our key financials improved, including EBITDA, operatThe deal gave us an important global leadership position in year, we remain focused on ing working capital and return on investment. the consumer electronics industry and this was reflected in continuous improvement” the first full year of results for the integrated business. Wood Looking at the businesses themselves, Marine and Protective Finishes and Adhesives also bounced back after a difficult Leif Darner Coatings had an excellent year, led by a strong sales increase few years. Market conditions have been particularly unfavorMember of the Board of Management and the Executive at Protective Coatings. The main driver for this was the able, but the business has undergone a period of restructurCommittee member responsible for Performance Coatings increasing global activity in the oil and gas industry, to which ing and the benefits of that started to pay off with a marked we are a major supplier. Our Chartek range of fire protection improvement in results. Powder Coatings was another busiOur Performance Coatings portfolio delivered record results coatings in particular benefited significantly. This momentum ness to achieve a solid performance, led by stronger focused in 2012, even though we were operating under economiis being supported by an ongoing investment program to management and continued improvement in operational cally challenging circumstances. It wasn’t a year of large upgrade our research facilities so that we can continue develexcellence. volume increases, so most of the momentum for the improveoping innovative products that are more sustainable, while ment across all key ratios was driven by careful operational increasing our competitive advantage. The Marine business, We have also been very successful in better coordinating our management and our ability to capture the limited growth on the other hand, suffered from a major slowdown in new “One AkzoNobel” commercial offer to end-user customer key opportunities that arose. builds, although this was entirely expected and we were fully accounts, particularly in the construction industry. We are prepared in terms of reducing resources to reflect the develbuilding resources and now have a dedicated team who idenAlso significant was the fact that the balanced spread of our opment of the market. It was a similar story in the vehicle tify major projects that can benefit from our global scale and portfolio means we are not over-dependent on any particular refinish sector, where reduced volumes – especially in Europe complete product offering. segment or sector. Our activities span various cycles across – put pressure on our Automotive and Aerospace Coatings all geographies. So when the economy becomes volatile, as business. But again, stringent value engineering, along with Markets are still uncertain, however, and while it has been a it has been for some time, we are able to adjust and respond. stronger activity in high growth markets, ensured that the strong year, we remain fully focused on continuous improveFrom an operational perspective, we worked diligently to make business was able to make progress. ment and increasing profitability so that we can grow our busiour businesses more efficient and competitive, which meant nesses in line with our strategic agenda. we had to focus hard on cost control and keep a close eye on Industrial Coatings performed very well in 2012, boosted by margin management, in line with the company’s performance the previous year’s acquisition of Schramm Holding AG and AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Performance Coatings 63 Performance coatings market overview End-user segment and market sector outlook remain average in this market sector, as the vehicle car park a very positive outlook, while others (such as furniture) have The Performance Coatings market represents around 55 increases while repair rates decrease. much lower growth expectations. As a result of these differpercent of the €75 billion global paints and coatings market. ing underlying segment growth patterns, we expect above It is growing and profitable. However, growth rates and levels Marine and air transport average growth in the powder coatings and specialty finishes of cyclicality and profitability differ somewhat across end-user This sub-segment can be highly cyclical as shipping rates market sectors and lower growth (average at best) in the wood segments and sub-segments. and air travel tend to reduce dramatically during economic finishes market sector. downturns. However, given the long lead times involved in Transportation shipbuilding and aircraft construction, downturns in new Consumer packaged goods Transportation is the largest end-user segment for our Perforconstruction often occur quite late in the cycle and some This is a slower growing, but less cyclical, sub-segment. We mance Coatings Business Area. For all end-user segments, balance in demand is created by the existence of both new sell packaging coatings into this sub-segment and expect apart from marine, the outlook is positive in the short to build and maintenance markets. Currently, very low shipping growth in this market sector to be somewhat below the medium term, due to strong automotive demand, recovery rates are putting pressure on demand for marine coatings, average for the performance coatings market. from the recession and continued high demand levels in high even for maintenance. We sell both marine and aerospace growth markets. Going forward, growth rates are not expected coatings into this end-user sub-segment and expect little or Buildings and Infrastructure to reach the levels experienced prior to the economic downno growth in the marine coatings market sector, while in aeroMany parts of this end-user segment have been badly affectturn. However, in this end-user segment, growth rates for space, we anticipate average to above average growth. ed by the recent recession. The expectation is that the undercoatings can outstrip overall demand where products provide lying issues will continue to exist in the short to medium term, sustainable or other performance benefits. For example, there Consumer Goods particularly in mature regions in Europe. However, growth is strong demand for coatings solutions that reduce energy use The Consumer Goods end-user segment is only slightly rates are increasing in the United States and will remain high and/or help to enhance production efficiency for our customsmaller than Transportation for our Performance Coatings in high growth regions. ers. It is also possible to differentiate products in terms of funcBusiness Area. The outlook is relatively positive, as we see tionality for high-end customers, leading to higher margins. some demand growth in mature markets and reasonably high Building products and components demand growth in high growth markets, driven by increases The vast majority of our revenues in the Buildings and InfraTaking each of the three sub-segments in Transportation in turn: in wealth and population. Growth rates vary, however, with structure end-user segment come from this sub-segment. In higher growth in consumer electronics and domestic appliterms of outlook, we expect continued growth in high growth Automotive OEM, parts and assembly ances and lower growth in furniture and food and beverage. geographies, but not at pre-recession levels. In more mature This sub-segment is fairly cyclical and has been recovering In addition, as is the case in Transportation, our expectation regions, a very moderate return to growth is expected, created well from the substantial market downturn. The large (roughly is that growth rates will be lower in the short to medium term by maintenance rather than new build demand, and oriented €7 billion) automotive OEM coatings market sector serves this than they were prior to the recession. towards non-residential building components. For example, end-user sub-segment. AkzoNobel’s participation is limited, we are expecting some mature market growth in areas such however, as we do not sell liquid automotive body coatings for There are two sub-segments in Consumer Goods – as doors and windows, which are maintenance-oriented and original equipment manufacture. Our involvement is focused Consumer durables and Consumer packaged goods. used in a broad range of building applications. We also expect on commercial vehicle OEM coatings, powder coatings and reasonable growth rates in coil and powder coatings from high specialty finishes, generally for plastic automotive compoConsumer durables growth geographies due to the non-residential profile of these nents. We expect these sectors to experience above average Consumer durables can be relatively cyclical, but the outlook market sectors. Growth rates for the more residentially-orientgrowth due to underlying end-user segment growth. for growth is generally positive, with some growth in mature ed wood finishes and adhesives market sector will be lower. regions and higher growth rates elsewhere. Growth levels can Automotive repair be tempered by the switch in product mix – in both mature New build projects and Maintenance, renovation This is a more stable and less cyclical sub-segment, but has and high growth countries, the highest growth levels tend to and repair lower growth rates. We sell automotive refinishes into this be in lower end segments. Growth rates also vary, with some In the other two sub-segments of New build projects and sub-segment and our expectation is that growth rates will consumer durables (such as consumer electronics) enjoying Maintenance, renovation and repair, the general outlook is for 64 AkzoNobel Performance Coatings | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 low levels of growth as housing markets continue to expeabove areas, we have four main strategic priorities. These Key raw materials rience considerable issues, particularly in mature Europe. strategic priorities are: However, our Performance Coatings revenues in these two • Resins • Pigments end-user sub-segments generally come from large building 1. Given the breadth of opportunities for this Business Area, • Titanium dioxide • Solvents projects and infrastructure (e.g. bridges, stadia, airports), we plan to grow organically in all market sectors and counrather than housing. Typically, investments in infrastructure tries/regions. This is likely to mean different things for differcontinue, and even accelerate, during economic downturns ent market sectors. Price drivers as governments use these kinds of projects as an economic stimulus. Furthermore, many high value infrastructure proj2. To ensure that our end-user segment focus provides true • Oil/energy prices ects are over multiple years and are difficult to bring to a halt benefits on a market sector level, we will need to pursue a • Construction demand during a recession. Demand is, therefore, generally expected cross-business approach for key segments and accounts. • Metals, base chemical prices to remain strong for protective coatings, which are sold into This means that we will need to work across Powder Coatthese two sub-segments for non-residential applications. ings and Specialty Finishes, for example, to provide the best solution for our customers in the domestic appliance Market leadership positions Industrial and consumer electronics areas of the Consumer Goods Many parts of this end-user segment can be quite cyclical. end-user segment. Marine and Protective Coatings However, domestic high growth market demand means that, 1st Marine coatings on a global basis, the downturn had less of an impact than 3. W  e must continue to focus our RD&I agenda on improving Protective coatings might be expected due to the recent recession. Oil, gas, energy functionality and sustainability. In practice, this will mean Yacht coatings and utilities were particularly strong and growth is expected to focusing and prioritizing innovations that reduce the use continue at above GDP levels going forward in all geographies. of materials of concern, that increase the renewability of Automotive and Aerospace Coatings We serve this end-user segment through protective coatings our raw materials and that help our customers to use less 2nd Aerospace coatings and some powder coatings, both of which are strongly orientenergy, improve their carbon footprint, increase safety and 3rd Vehicle refinish ed towards the higher growth applications. As a result, we are health and wellness, increase their market share and/or 4th Automotive plastic coatings expecting above average market sector growth in this segment. improve their process efficiency. Industrial Coatings Strategic direction 4. We will continuously improve operational excellence across 1st Coil and extrusion coatings Our vision for Performance Coatings specifically is to be the all functions and businesses. This includes everything from leading business-to-business coatings company. To us, leadcapabilities in terms of pricing and formulation manageSpecialty plastics coatings ership in business-to-business coatings means that we must ment (which are key components of product and margin 2nd Packaging coatings have strong processes and capabilities in terms of: management), to manufacturing and distribution network optimization, integrated business planning and purchasePowder Coatings • Industrial key account management to-pay processes. 1st Powder coatings • Technical support and service • Design, color and color matching Key actions going forward Wood Finishes and Adhesives • Continuous innovation in terms of functionality 1st Industrial wood finishes and efficiency in use • Complete manufacturing expansion for automotive 2nd Industrial wood adhesives • Sustainable and safe product and service solutions refinish in China • Product and margin management • Complete Schramm/SSCP integration • Launch various new projects To capture market opportunities while ensuring that we • Continue product line rationalization continue to have strong processes and capabilities in the • Continue ERP consolidation AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Performance Coatings 65 Key developments 2012 • Expanded our technology partnership with McLaren Key figures in € millions Employees by region at year-end Automotive to include road cars 2011 2012 2011 2012 • Schramm/SSCP acquisition integration on track Revenue 5,170 5,702 North America 3,100 3,100 • Opened a new manufacturing facility in Vietnam EBITDA 611 769 Latin America 1,800 1,700 • Realigned the Business Area to four business units EBITDA margin (in %) 11.8 13.5 Mature Europe 7,000 6,700 (from five) • Secured multiple stadium contracts for London Olympics EBIT 495 638 Emerging Europe 1,100 1,100 and future events in Brazil EBIT margin (in %) 9.6 11.2 Asia Pacific 8,500 8,100 • Reorganized European activities in several businesses Operating income 458 542 Other countries 500 600 • Began supplying products for Shell’s Prelude floating Moving average ROI (in %) 22.0 25.6 Total 22,000 21,300 liquefied natural gas facility off the north west coast of Western Australia • Introduced GreenCoat, a coil coating topcoat made with Revenue breakdown by business unit Eco-premium solutions a bio-based solvent which is a derivative of rapeseed oil in % % of revenue 16 15 E 14 A 2010 2011 2012 D Key value chains with carbon B C footprint assessment 93 74 Geo-mix revenue by destination A Marine and Protective Coatings 28 60 B Automotive and Aerospace Coatings 18 C Industrial Coatings 23 2010 2011 2012 D Powder Coatings 17 E Wood Finishes and Adhesives 14 20% Total reportable rate of injuries 11% 30% per million hours 27% North America Emerging Europe Asia Pacific Mature Europe 3.3 3.3 2.8 2.6 4% Rest of the world 2009 2010 2011 2012 8% Latin America 66 AkzoNobel Performance Coatings | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Marine and Protective Coatings “We are more focused on the Revenue in € millions global needs of our customers” 1,577 Rob Molenaar 1,345 1,398 Managing Director 2010 2011 2012 Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Overview Surface Chemistry. Teams of scientists worked together on A We had an outstanding year, helped by the fact that we orgadeveloping patented technologies for a revolutionary new nized the business into three distinct global market segments antifouling, which is close to being launched. We are by far C (Marine, Protective Coatings and Yacht). By aligning ourselves the world leader in developing and supplying fouling control in this way, we are more focused on the global needs of our technology and this will be a further addition to what is already customers and better equipped to anticipate the different the broadest portfolio available on the market. On an organiB dynamics so that we can accelerate in sectors where we zational level, we confirmed the three HQs of our global busisee opportunities. The reorganization resulted in a significant ness operations as the UK for Protective Coatings, Houston reduction in operating expenses. in Texas for Yacht and Singapore for Marine. A EMEA 28 B Americas 26 Analysis Developments C Asia Pacific 46 Most of the growth we achieved was generated by our ProtecWe began supplying products for Shell’s Prelude floating tive Coatings activities. The oil and gas sector was particularly liquefied natural gas facility off the north west coast of Western strong throughout the year, due to the high level of investment Australia, which will be the world’s largest floating LNG Main products being made by the major players all over the world. There platform. Other major landmarks coated with our products was also significant demand for our Chartek fire protection included the Shanghai Tower – which will be the tallest building • Marine coatings • Yacht coatings coatings. Our Marine business had to cope with very difficult in China when completed – as well as various venues used at • Protective coatings market conditions brought about by a dramatic decline in ship the 2012 Olympic Games. During the year we also made good new builds, but that was offset by growth in other sectors. progress in terms of safety, beating the corporate ambition In Yacht, the economic recession impacted our volumes. As a level for total reportable rate of injuries. This was particularly Key markets result of our new global organization, we were able to generpleasing given the attention we have paid to raising awareness • Ship building, maintenance and repair ate efficiencies in manufacturing, RD&I and procurement, and improving our all-round HSE performance. • Oil and gas facilities which in turn helped us to take a significant step forward. • High value infrastructure (airports, stadia, bridges) • Power generation installations Highlights • Mining and minerals • Pleasure craft The performance of our Chartek range of fire protection coatings was particularly impressive as it built up considerable momentum in the marketplace. Specifically formulated to Key brands protect structural steel elements from hydrocarbon fire exposure, it is used extensively in the oil and gas industry and for high value infrastructure projects. In fact, demand has been so great that we are expanding production. Also notable was a cross-business cooperation we had with AkzoNobel AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Performance Coatings 67 AkzoNobel Automotive and Aerospace Coatings “We successfully kept a tight control Revenue in € millions on costs while effectively managing our raw material spend” 994 1,030 1,051 Jim Rees Managing Director 2010 2011 2012 Geo-mix revenue by destination in % C Overview system is made up of a special frame which holds disposable It was a very challenging year, in Europe especially, but we paint pouches. Ready in seconds, it allows for perfect mixing achieved growth in many of our key countries and in all market ratios, reduces waste and can be fitted directly onto a sprayA segments. We focused on running a tight, efficient business in gun. We also continued to invest in our ongoing efforts to order to withstand the economic headwinds and we successdigitize color. Our IT experts and color researchers have been B fully kept a tight control on costs while effectively managing working together to ensure that we continue to deliver perfect our raw material spend through value engineering. matches for our customers while doing away with traditional tools such as color fans. We now use sophisticated techAnalysis nology to digitally measure color with a system which provides A EMEA 46 The European automotive aftermarket was heavily impacted all the relevant technical data, as well as the mixing formula. B Americas 34 by the weak economy, with the drop in miles driven and acciAnother important highlight was the expansion of our techC Asia Pacific 20 dent and repair rates putting pressure on volumes at our vehicle nology partnership with McLaren Automotive to include road refinish business. We didn’t lose market share, if anything we cars. It builds on the success of our existing corporate partMain products gained slightly, but there was a major slowdown, particularly nership as the official supplier of innovative paint solutions to in Eastern and Mediterranean Europe. Nevertheless, we did the Vodafone McLaren Mercedes Formula 1TM team. •P  rimers, basecoats, topcoats and clearcoats for vehicle refinishes achieve growth – albeit off a smaller base – in Turkey and • Automotive plastic coatings Russia, as well as the Middle East and Africa. Growth also Developments • Customer service technology continued across Asia, although somewhat slower than in Our stickerfix quick repair solution continued to do well and • Aerospace coatings recent years, while North America was a little sluggish. Having we launched a pilot internet shop for the consumer market in turned in a very good 2011, our Automotive Specialty Plastics the Netherlands which has proved to be very successful. We Key markets business put in another strong performance, notably in North expect to roll out more shops in the US and Asia Pacific in • Collision repairers and commercial vehicle refinishers America, where it had its best ever year in terms of growth. 2013. In China, we broke ground on our new plant in Chang• Bus, truck, specialty vehicle OEMs We effectively leveraged the business’ global footprint to take zhou, which is expected to start production in early 2014. In • Automobile insurer networks advantage of a big uplift in unit builds. Aerospace, meanwhile, addition, we received bodyshop approvals from several car • Fleet owners and operators continued to gain momentum and achieved another record manufacturers, including Peugeot in Brazil and Nissan in India, • Automotive OEM aftermarkets year by growing ahead of the market on some strong leading while our Aerospace business launched a new Aerofine range • Aircraft industry indicators in the OEM new build sector and with many of our of interior cabin coatings. We are also preparing to launch a key airline and general aviation customers. best-in-class global ERP system across the business, which Key brands will make things more efficient for us and for our customers. Highlights We maintained focus on improving our product and services offer and the introduction of our click&go technology was a significant development for our bodyshop customers. The 68 AkzoNobel Performance Coatings | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Industrial Coatings “The high growth markets now Revenue in € millions account for more than 50 percent of our business’ overall revenue” 882 1,049 1,283 Conrad Keijzer Managing Director 2010 2011 2012 Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Overview for the Chinese mid-market. Expansions also took place at C We once again achieved record earnings, driven by continued our Ansan and Jinyoung sites in Korea, where we develop revenue growth, margin improvements and cost control. Most and manufacture innovative products for the country’s rapidly A of our revenue growth came from Asia, boosted by last year’s growing electronics industry. We also invested in our Thane acquisition of Schramm Holding AG and the coatings activifacility in India to establish local manufacturing for packagties of Korean company SSCP. ing coatings, with a specific focus on coatings for food, caps B and closures and the general line market in India. Safety also Analysis remained a priority during the year, while more than 140 operaThis was the first full reporting year with the acquired tional eco-efficiency improvement projects are in progress A EMEA 46 Schramm and SSCP activities and the combined business across our sites. B Americas 24 outperformed its revenue targets, strengthened by the conC Asia Pacific 30 tinued success of the Korean electronics industry. We are now Developments supplying coatings for Samsung’s Galaxy series of smartWe gained approvals from the major can makers and key phones and have become global market leader in supplying brand owners for our next generation packaging coatings Main products products for mobile phones and tablet devices. Our Specialty technology. We also developed new inks for two-piece metal Finishes business therefore had a strong year in Asia, as did cans that have a unique capability to consistently match very •B  eer, beverage and food can coatings • Coatings for caps, closures and general Packaging Coatings with our market-leading retortable coatbright colors. This was the latest innovation to stem from the line cans ings, while our Coil Coatings activities performed particuintegration of the Lindgens Metal Decorating Coatings and • Coil and extrusion coatings larly well in high growth markets such as Russia, Turkey and Inks business, which we acquired in 2010. Another exciting • Specialty plastics coatings India. The high growth markets now account for more than new product is GreenCoat, a coil coating topcoat made with 50 percent of our business’ overall revenue. North America a bio-based solvent which is a derivative of rapeseed oil. The Key markets held up reasonably well during the year, but Europe was product was developed through a partnership with SSAB somewhat slower, due mainly to a sluggish automotive sector and the Federation of Swedish Farmers and several success• Beer, beverage and food cans • Consumer electronics such as and less activity in the construction industry. We kept a tight ful commercial trials have already taken place. One notable cell phones and laptops control on costs and stepped up our efforts to introduce product launch which took place in 2012 was for our Evcote • Construction industry manufacturing efficiencies at sites around the world. range of grease and moisture barrier coatings. It is used on packaging such as paper cups, French fry cartons and freezer Highlights bags and, because the technology is based on recycled PET, Key brands Several investments were made during the year as we looked it means the packaging can be recycled or composted. to make further progress with our strategic growth ambitions. The product was introduced on fast food packaging at the We expanded our resin capacity in Songjiang, China, with London Olympics. two new reactor lines and strengthened our research capability at the site’s RD&I center. This will enable us to better meet local market needs as we develop specific technology AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Performance Coatings 69 AkzoNobel Powder Coatings “We grew the business in Asia Revenue in € millions more than 10 percent compared 940 997 with the previous year” 804 AB Ghosh Managing Director 2010 2011 2012 Geo-mix revenue by destination in % Overview at the end of 2013. In Italy, we streamlined our operations C It was a good year in terms of revenue and profit generation, by switching production from Cernobbio to the more modern despite overall volumes being down. Conditions in Europe facilities in Como, where capacity will be increased and we will A were challenging and raw material prices continued to have achieve cost and resource efficiency benefits. We also plan to an impact, but a sharper focus on our target market segments expand the R&D facility there and create a European Powder ensured that we almost reached the revenue landmark of one Technology Center. Another highlight was the opening of a B billion euros. powder coating line at Tata’s new factory in Dharwad, India. The plant has already produced more than 1,000 powder Analysis coated vehicles. We now have two powder coating lines at A EMEA 50 We grew the business in Asia – more than 10 percent Tata plants for coating their Ace, Ace Zip and Iris vehicles. In B Americas 21 compared with the previous year – and gained market share. addition, we opened the first dedicated Cromadex center in C Asia Pacific 29 We also achieved double digit growth rates in Turkey, Russia, Ireland, which will serve industrial coatings customers in the Egypt and India, while volumes and revenue increased in region, while in China we signed an agreement with XingFa – the US. Europe, as expected, was somewhat weaker than one of the country’s top five aluminum extrusion companies Main products 2011 (notably in the appliance and furniture markets), but – to supply their factories in Chengdu, Yichun and Sangshui. • Powder coatings overall we grew in line with the global market. The biggest growth in segment terms came in automotive components, Developments due mainly to the general uptake in the industry, notably in Having launched our approach to the market for coatings for Key markets China and the US. Europe was also doing well until the second agricultural, construction and earthmoving equipment (ACE) half of the year, when it started to struggle. Architectural was during the last 12 months, 2012 saw us pick up several major •A  CE (agriculture, • Functional construction and earth• Furniture another solid segment with good growth, while our functional approvals, including four for Caterpillar in Europe and our moving equipment) • General industrial sales were strong, especially interior pipe coatings. It was a first with Japanese construction and mining equipment giant • Architectural • General trade coaters slower year in the appliance sector, partly because we made Komatsu. We now have a dedicated global product range for • Automotive • IT strategic moves to focus more on customers where we can the entire agricultural, construction and earthmoving equip• Domestic appliance add value. This was also the first full year that we were able ment sector, which is a huge market and is steadily moving Key brands to reap the synergies from the 2010 acquisition of the powder towards powder for cost and sustainability reasons. Our coatbusiness of Rohm & Haas, which has significantly contributed ings were also used on the athletes’ village and several stadia to us almost doubling our revenue in the last three years. at the London Olympics, as well as on the Shard, the tallest building in Western Europe, which was inaugurated in London Highlights in July. We also launched Interpon D2000 Brilliance, a superIn order to support our growth strategy we bought out our joint durable, bright sparkling metallic powder coating for architecventures in South Africa and Dubai. We also authorized the ture, and Interpon HT, a range of heat resistance products for construction of a new factory in Dubai, which should be ready use on items such as barbecues and stoves. 70 AkzoNobel Performance Coatings | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Wood Finishes and Adhesives “The business environment Revenue in € millions remained tough, but it was a better year from a financial 776 781 825 performance perspective” 2010 2011 2012 John Wolff Managing Director Geo-mix revenue by destination in % C Overview Asia. We also invested in our site in Dongguan, China, where It was another very challenging year, with little promise for a new lab for product and styling development was commisA improvement from a flat global market. But by focusing hard sioned. These investments are very much in line with our straon costs and responding to the difficult trading conditions, we tegic plan to align our business for growth in key high growth were able to protect our market share and improve our overall markets. They also emphasize our commitment to become B business results. strategic partners to our large OEM customers, such as the big furniture manufacturers in China and Vietnam. Supplying Analysis smaller custom workshops is also fundamental to our strategy After two very challenging years, the business environand we are working hard to increase our industrial distribution A EMEA 44 ment remained tough, but it was a better year from a financhannels around the world to better service these customers B Americas 43 cial performance perspective. We were encouraged by the and grow our share in this segment. Another key developC Asia Pacific 13 slow but steady improvement in US housing starts during ment took place in Europe, where we integrated our adhethe course of the year, which is one of the key drivers of our sives and coatings activities under one management team to business. Underlying demand increased and the trend line better drive performance and realign the business to what we Main products in North America finally started moving in the right direction. anticipate will be the new norm once Europe settles down. Asia was essentially flat, but we were able to right-size the • Wood coatings • Wood adhesives and board resins business to improve financial performance and allow us to Developments more directly focus on our growth agenda. Volumes declined One of the real growth areas we have identified is in flat line in Europe, partly because several large customers reduced (or flat pack) furniture. These are products the consumer Key markets manufacturing activities in line with reduced demand from a purchases in a box and assembles themselves. We continue • Furniture sluggish economy. There was some volume growth, notably to invest in technology and styling developments focused • Cabinets in Russia and Turkey, but Europe remained a very uncertain on creating new products for this market. Consumers are • Flooring market. Despite these unfavorable conditions, we effectively increasingly demanding more sustainable end products, • Windows responded to the challenges we faced by managing our which in turn dictates our product offering. This includes coat• Doors ings and adhesives with lower VOC, reduced CO2 emissions • Building products costs, strengthening our product mix and capturing synergies across the business to improve our results. and reduced use of hazardous materials. The market has responded favorably to a new line of sustainable products we Key brands Highlights launched in North America as part of our Chemcraft brand. We officially opened our new Vietnam site in June. The Airguard includes both GREENGUARD certified and formplant, in Amata near Ho Chi Minh City, includes a new color aldehyde-free finishes which provide sustainable alternatives studio, which will serve the export and domestic markets for for office furniture and kitchen cabinets. A number of new wood furniture, flooring and cabinetry and provide a base for eco-premium adhesives were also introduced, which helped support to our customers in other countries in South East our customers achieve their sustainability objectives. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Performance Coatings 71 Restoring former glories When a world famous museum housing priceless works Sikkens reproduced more of art undergoes a major restoration, it goes without than 60 of the authentic saying that every single nuance of every last detail colors from 1885 has to be perfect. Such is the case at Amsterdam’s Rijskmuseum in the Netherlands, home to prized paintings including Rembrandt’s stunning The Nightwatch. Designed by architect Pierrre Cuypers, the original building opened in 1885, but after more than a century of intensive use, it required a radical makeover. Work on a ten-year program of improvements began in 2004, with the new-look museum fully opening its doors again in April 2013. During that time, extensive remodeling and restoration has taken place, all designed to faithfully restore the building and make it fit for modern-day demands. Head architects for the €375 million renovation were Antonio Cruz and Antonio Ortiz. Together with designer Jean-Michel Wilmotte (famous for the interior of Musée du Louvre), they worked with Dutch conservation studio SRAL to compose a palette of colors that closely matched those originally selected by Cuypers. They also selected a new palette of colors for all the other walls and ceilings. To create all of these, they turned to AkzoNobel’s Sikkens brand, which is backed by more than two centuries of experience and expertise. After analyzing samples of the original paintwork, color matching experts at Sikkens reproduced more than 60 of the authentic 1885 colors, along with eight brand new colors, and the main building’s wall and ceiling decorations have now been returned to their former glory. AkzoNobel, through its Sikkens brand, also became the official supplier of all paint and decorative products used for the Rijksmuseum renovation, with more than 8,000 8,000 liters having been used throughout the building, both inside and out. liters 8,000 liters of paint have been used throughout the building, both inside and out AkzoNobel Decorative Paints “We continued to right-size, activities for some time. The final phase of a major organizaprogress. An exciting innovation roadmap has also been tional change took place during the year when we restrucdeveloped for every region and our commitment to investing in reduce complexity and simplify tured our operations in Europe to create four customer-facing our people, brands and capabilities remains as strong as ever. our global operations” units, which are supported by global functions. This will help us to focus on building our brands, increase market penetraWe realize that market conditions are likely to remain chalTex Gunning tion and enable us to better use our scale to become more lenging, particularly in Europe, but we are strengthening our Member of the Board of Management and the Executive competitive and cost effective. relative market share positions and have developed an effecCommittee member responsible for Decorative Paints tive organizational model which will allow us to make full use It was also the year when we decided that the time was right of our scale while continuing to inspire consumers to live more Although 2012 was a year in which we faced challenges to divest our North American activities. We’ve been improvcolorful lives. in markets across the world, our Decorative Paints busiing the business for several years in order to create the right ness continued to make excellent progress on its journey to value and put in place the right brands and customers. becoming a global business with a global mission, strategy, But given the market realities we face, we made a strategic organization, brands, systems and processes. decision to focus AkzoNobel’s Decorative Paints business on key markets in Europe and the strong positions we have in Conditions were particularly tough in Europe, but other high growth regions. I’m pleased that we were able to find the regions also experienced declining markets brought about by right buyer in PPG Industries, Inc., who are well placed to take ongoing economic instability. Latin America, for example, had the North American business forward. to deal with weakening currencies and high inflation, while there was also a downturn in Vietnam, reflecting the more It was a major geographical portfolio choice which will help general slowdown across much of Asia. China continued to to shape our business as we continued to right-size, reduce do well, however, as did India, and we remain confident that complexity and simplify our global operations through various we will continue to benefit from our strategic investments in ongoing programs and initiatives. All of these projects moved high growth markets. forward during 2012, despite markets not being in our favor. Our brand mission in particular gathered momentum through The mature markets are likely to remain challenging, which the global Let’s Colour campaign, while the global brand idenis why we have been paying close attention to our European tity roll-out and product portfolio rationalization made good AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Decorative Paints 73 Decorative paints market overview End-user segment and market sector analysis some geographic regions have yet to recover. We are seeing Strategic direction The decorative paints market is roughly 45 percent of the signs of a recovery in North America, but given the divestThe vision for our Decorative Paints Business Area is to be €75 billion global paints and coatings market. Decorative ment of our North American Decorative Paints business to the leading decorative paints company globally by inspiring Paints differs from our other Business Areas in that all revePPG Industries, Inc., we are expecting modest growth in this consumers and customers around the world to transform dull nues come from just one end-user segment – Buildings and sub-segment. This modest recovery is reflected in the outlook grey spaces into colorful environments, lifting people’s spirits Infrastructure. All revenues also come from only two of the for our Business Area, as is the buoyant forecast for this suband satisfying their need for constant renewal. three sub-segments – New build projects, and Maintenance, segment in high growth markets. In these regions, growth renovation and repair. reflects both the underlying general economic outlook and Achieving this will require us to have strong processes and an emerging cultural shift towards maintenance and renovacapabilities in terms of: Buildings and Infrastructure tion. It is also worth noting that, for Decorative Paints, while All three sub-segments of the Buildings and Infrastructure residential markets have been badly affected by the reces• Branding end-user segment were negatively affected by the recent sion, the impact on commmercial and infrastructure markets • Distribution, wholesale retail management economic slump. This was due not only to normal economic has been somewhat different. Commercial markets expe• Understanding and serving professional painters cycles, but also resulted from the global boom within the rienced a negative impact, but often late in the cycle, as this • Consumer inspiration Buildings and Infrastructure sector prior to the recession. market takes longer to adjust than the residential sector. The • Quality management, including product portfolio The crisis prompted both a normal cyclical downturn and a Infrastructure market (for example, airports, stadia, railway management massive global correction in property and property-related stations) is often somewhat counter-cyclical, as governments markets. For our Decorative Paints Business Area, the Maininvest to support economic development. The outlook for We have five strategic priorities for the Decorative Paints Busitenance, renovation and repair sub-segment is more importhese markets also assumes modest growth going forward. ness Area. These are: tant than the New build projects sub-segment. This is positive news in terms of the relevant market growth for our business, New build projects 1. W  e will continue to restructure and grow market share in as the recovery in New build projects has been even weaker Although the vast majority of our revenues in Decorative Europe. Since the ICI acquistion in 2008, we have extenthan in Maintenance, renovation and repair. Taking each of the Paints come from the Maintenance, renovation and repair sively restructured our Decorative Paints business in sub-segments in turn: sub-segment, this sub-segment represents a significant Europe, both to capture synergies and to adjust our busiproportion of the Business Area. This is important because ness model to reflect difficult market conditions. Given the Maintenance, renovation and repair the New build projects end-user sub-segment has been badly very modest growth outlook, we must continue to restrucFor the important residential component of this sub-segment, affected by the recent recession. Some question whether a ture, but also need to ensure that we build our market the market is strongly correlated to house moves, as full recovery is underway, particularly in the residential comshare for the future. people often renovate both before and after moving home. ponent of the sub-segment, with analysts forecasting House moves are, in turn, related to house sales, which are flat growth at best, evidenced by projections for residen2. W  e will continue to grow our market share in the high connected to factors such as mortgage availability and general tial housing units completion. The outlook for non-resigrowth markets of China, India, South East Asia and Latin consumer confidence. Due to the recent recession, issues dential sections of this market is better, but only in high America. We have been building aggressively in all aspects involving the housing market have been considerable and growth markets. of our business, from manufacturing, to distribution, to 74 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 sales force, to advertising and promotion and our market Key raw materials Market leadership positions share is increasing as a result. We will accelerate this drive Decorative Paints Europe going forward. • Binders/resins • Titanium dioxide 1st Continental Europe 3. To support our continued transformation from multi-local to • Packaging materials Northern and Eastern Europe global – allowing us to benefit from our global scale – we UK, Ireland and South Africa will continue to build people, brands and competencies. We Price drivers Decorative Paints Latin America made a substantial step forward with the global roll-out of our Let’s Colour flourish, but there is still more to do. • Energy, oil and raw material prices 2nd Latin America • Steel prices 4. In line with the company’s sustainability strategy, we will Decorative Paints Asia continue to reduce resource intensity across the full deco1st South East Asia and Pacific rative paints value chain, incorporating suppliers, our own 2nd China and North Asia operations, customers, consumers and end-of-life. It is 3rd India and South Asia essential that we take a broad view in decorative paints, where resource intensity challenges/opportunities lie mostly outside our own operations. 5. As part of the multi-local to global transformation, we need to build a collaborative, interdependent culture within the Business Area. We have made great strides in this respect, based on our leadership journey approach. Key actions going forward • Manufacturing capacity expansion in China and India • Expand market presence in emerging Europe and the Middle East • Complete the divestment of the North American business • Launch new products for high growth markets • Deliver on European realignment of the organization AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Decorative Paints 75 Key developments 2012 • Announced the divestment of the North American Key figures in € millions Employees by region at year-end business to PPG Industries, Inc. 2011 2012 2011 2012 • Launched the Dulux Let’s Colour flourish brand globally, Revenue 4,201 4,297 Latin America 1,800 1,800 along with a worldwide campaign to inspire customers EBITDA 479 425 Mature Europe 8,600 8,400 • Expanded our stores network in China and India EBITDA margin (in %) 11.4 9.9 Emerging Europe 1,500 1,400 • Realigned and resturctured our European business • In Latin America, the Tudo de Cor Para Você program EBIT 327 249 Asia Pacific 4,200 4,500 (All the Colors For You) continued to be successful EBIT margin (in %) 7.8 5.8 Other countries 1,000 900 • Modernized our retail Dulux Decorator Centers in India Operating income 235 (2,012) Total 17,100 17,000 Moving average ROI (in %) 5.9 4.8 Revenue breakdown by business unit Eco-premium solutions in % % of revenue 26 27 26 C 2010 2011 2012 A B Key value chains with carbon footprint assessment Geo-mix revenue by destination A Decorative Paints Europe 61 108 109 109 B Decorative Paints Latin America 14 C Decorative Paints Asia 25 2010 2011 2012 8% Total reportable rate of injuries 49% 25% Emerging Europe per million hours Asia Pacific Mature Europe 4.9 4.0 3.5 2.7 4% Rest of the world 2009 2010 2011 2012 14% Latin America 76 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints Europe From left to right: Revenue in € millions Jan Piet van Kesteren Regional Director Eastern Europe and Africa 2,585 2,658 2,640 Kees Ekelmans Regional Director Western Europe 2010 2011 2012 Peter van Campen Regional Director Southern Europe Key brands Guy Williams Regional Director Northern Europe Overview Leisure concept. This aims to develop and communicate a Overall, 2012 was another challenging year for the business specific proposition for property owners and maintenance in the EMEA region. The slowdown in markets we identified in managers. We also launched Dulux Trade Pyroshield Durable the fourth quarter of the previous year materialized as expectEggshell, which reduces the spread of flame along interior ed. Volumes were under pressure across Europe, mainly due walls, allowing occupants more time to escape in case of fire. to low consumer confidence and austerity measures starting to impact. Costs in general were well controlled, supported by Developments the company’s performance improvement program. In order to further improve our customer focus, we have set up four customer-facing units, as well as a European supply Analysis chain organization which will drive efficiency, operational Despite declining volumes in most mature markets, our reveexcellence and increase our focus on health, safety and the nues in those sectors were mostly flat or slightly up on the environment. A lot of activity associated with the company’s back of pricing activities and targeted market share gains. We performance improvement program also took place throughexperienced substantial raw material and packaging inflation, out the year and they brought about some significant benefits. offset by price initiatives during the year. Key growth markets A project targeting working capital reduction was particularly such as Russia and South Africa showed accelerated growth, successful, leading to significant improvement in stock level although sales in Turkey were impacted by a significant slowmanagement, as well as an eventual reduction in external down and de-stocking by wholesalers. The UK and Tunisia warehousing costs. We also initiated several other projects, contributed positively to our results, but sales in southern which included streamlining production and our marketEurope were hit particularly hard, due to very poor economic ing organization. Among many efficiency improvements, we conditions and the euro crisis. There was also a trend of introduced a reduction in batch cycle time at the Gebze plant down-trading evident in the markets. in Turkey and increased productivity and waste reduction at Mégrine in Tunisia. In addition, we’ve been busy making our Highlights operations more sustainable and cost efficient. For example, We were focused on building our brands throughout the in Italy, our Castelletto site needed a new roof so we took region during the year. A notable highlight was the launch the opportunity to install 200 kilowatts of solar cells. It’s the of the consumer flourish brand in various countries across first site within the whole company to be using solar cells on Europe and Africa, which supported our efforts to build a such a large scale and they now supply 15 percent of the global, powerful identity with brands such as Dulux, Levis, plant’s total annual energy consumption. Meanwhile, in the Bruguer, Flexa and Marshall. This included successful Let’s Netherlands, we built a new 13,000 m2 logistics center which Colour projects in Belgium, the Netherlands, Poland and complies with strict environmental standards. Ireland. Our professional brands also achieved a number of successes, such as the launch of the Sikkens Hotel and AkzoNobel Report 2011 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Decorative Paints 77 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints Americas From left to right: Revenue* in € millions Bob Taylor Managing Director North America 590 603 512 Jaap Kuiper Managing Director 2010 2011 2012 Latin America *Excludes North American revenues Key brands Overview Highlights Challenging market conditions throughout the Americas We announced the divestment of our North American busiaffected our overall financial performance during the year. ness to PPG Industries, Inc., in order to allow the company But by implementing new growth programs, aggressive cost to focus on key markets in Europe and high growth regions. management and introducing various improvement initiatives In Latin America, the Tudo de Cor Para Você program (All we were able to partly mitigate the adverse impact as we the Colors For You), continued its success. The initiative, prepared the business for renewed growth. In North America, part of our Let’s Colour campaign, involves painting deprived the effort resulted in sales and profit increases for the year. neighborhoods. More than 1,000 events run by customers in Brazil have now taken place. This is helping to boost sales of Analysis our Coral brand, as well as building brand equity. Coral also The economy grew less than projected in Latin America, in launched a new product concept called 3 in 1 which has contrast to 2011, when the area was more resistant to the multiple benefits for the consumer. In addition, an entire favela slowdown. Argentina was hit particularly hard while Brazil of 1,500 dwellings (Santa Marta in Rio de Janeiro), is being was more or less flat, with the paint market throughout the painted with Coral products by members of the community region remaining sluggish at best. The strong US dollar also who have been given special training. In Canada, we opened had a negative effect. In North America, we combined our a new R&D center in Longueuil and a state-of-the-art distribuactivities in the US and Canada into one business. After a tion center in Toronto, while the Sico brand marked its 75th difficult first quarter, our performance in the US grew stronger anniversary and Glidden celebrated 55 years in Puerto Rico. as the year progressed, largely due to intensive efforts to structurally improve the business. This included complexity Developments reduction programs and a keen focus on margin manageWe received a number of awards during the year, including ment. In Canada, where we hold the number one position, the coveted Walmart sustainability award, Supplier of the Year we achieved market share growth and strengthened our from The Home Depot, Canada, and five important “best brand portfolio. New growth opportunities were also identibuy” designations for Glidden. It was a relatively busy year fied, as well as excellent potential to benefit from cost synerfor product launches, notably CIL Premium and CIL DUO in gies. During the year, we began implementing a standard ERP Canada, the Flood brand’s OneCoat waterproofing finish and system at sites throughout the Americas, a major program Glidden DUO Paint + Primer. We also introduced the Glidden which had an associated cost impact. Meanwhile, the continon the go mobile app for smartphones, which means selectued rationalization of our manufacturing footprint included ing the perfect color and paint is now just a tap away. In closing our Rio de Janeiro warehouse, a manufacturing facility Latin America, former tennis star Gustavo Kuerten helped to in Pontiac, Michigan, and preparing the sale of our Raposo promote the Coral brand’s premium Decora range in Brazil. Tavares site in São Paulo. We used life-size displays of him in over 700 stores and sold 15 percent more of the product in these outlets. 78 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints | Business performance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel Decorative Paints Asia From left to right: Revenue in € millions Jeremy Rowe Managing Director South East Asia 951 1,048 841 and Pacific Amit Jain 2010 2011 2012 Managing Director India and South Asia Lin Liangqi Key brands Managing Director China and North Asia Overview motivate Chinese consumers to redecorate. In line with this, Our Asian business experienced mixed fortunes as market we doubled the size of our Easy Paint Service business, conditions fluctuated between the regions. China posted which provides reliable and trained painters to consumers. record profits despite difficult market conditions, while India and All AkzoNobel’s offices in Shanghai were consolidated into South Asia also had a strong year, but the situation was more one, eco-certified building, housing up to 700 employees. challenging in South East Asia and Pacific (SEAP). Overall, We also established a regional HQ in Singapore, bringing we made good progress, with the company’s performance together a number of AkzoNobel businesses under one roof. improvement program helping to generate significant savings. The eco-certified building consolidates our RD&I expertise and provides a base for our new global exterior walls experAnalysis tise group. In India, we modernized our retail Dulux DecoTo combat the slower economic growth in China, we tightrator Centers and grew well ahead of the competition. We ened our cost control and made a number of strategic investalso entered the fast-growing interior regions by expanding ments in several areas, including the redecoration market our distribution footprint. Our latest loyalty program for conand our mass market product range. This helped to give us tractors – Dulux Colour Guru – leverages mobile technology some momentum as we achieved significant market share platforms to build a community of Dulux ambassadors. growth and improved overall profitability. In India and South Asia, the business continued to outpace the market, despite Developments subdued trading conditions, particularly in the highly competiIn China, we further strengthened our well-being portfolio tive professional segment. Sri Lanka continued to do well with with the launch of a full non-additive product range. We also a market share of more than 40 percent. This performance in activated our Let’s Colour campaign to bring color to disadIndia and South Asia was led by multiple initiatives, including vantaged communities. Our India and South Asia business a 30 percent capacity expansion, productivity improvements won an award for Best Talent Management Organization 2012 and innovative product launches. Strong profitability was at the World HRD Congress. This was welcome recognialso achieved in SEAP, despite challenging market condition and a testimony to the investments being made to tions, especially in Vietnam, where a prolonged economic grow the capability and skills of our employees. Good progand construction downturn continued. However, Thailand ress was also made to reduce waste generation, while the bounced back after last year’s floods, while our mass market business’ overall CO2 emissions fell 7 percent. Dulux was Dulux offerings continued to grow strongly across the region. recognized as the most preferred paint brand by Franchise India, while notable product launches in SEAP included Highlights the next generation of our market-leading Weathershield In China, we opened a number of new stores and strengthexteriors offering in Indonesia and Vietnam, and our Inspire ened our e-commerce to help increase coverage in the mass interior paints for the mass market across the region. In distribution channel. We also grew our project channel busiSingapore, Dulux was awarded Superbrand status as the ness by more than 30 percent and launched a campaign to leading decorative paints brand. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Business performance | AkzoNobel Decorative Paints 79 Governance and compliance In this section, we outline our corporate governance structure and explain the remuneration of our Board of Management. Information about compliance and integrity management and AkzoNobel on the capital markets is also included. Corporate governance statement 82 Remuneration report 90 Compliance and integrity management 98 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 102 Corporate governance statement Shareholders Supervisory Board Board of Management Executive Committee Major external regulations Functional and Operational Review Operational Review Operational Review • Dutch Civil Code Board Committee Sustainability Country Review Meeting Decorative Meeting Performance Meeting Speciality • Dutch Act on financial supervision and Pensions Council Meetings Paints Coatings Chemicals other applicable securities laws Compliance • NYSE Euronext Amsterdam Committee listing rules Business Area Business Area Business Area Functions • Dutch Corporate Governance Code Responsible Responsible Responsible Decorative Paints Performance Coatings Speciality Chemicals Internal Control Countries Committee Major internal regulations Disclosure Business units Business units Business units Committee • Articles of Association • Code of Conduct • Share Dealing Code • Rules of Procedure for the Supervisory Board • Rules of Procedure for the Board of Management and the Executive Committee • Corporate directives and policies • Authority schedules 82 Corporate governance statement | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 AkzoNobel aspires to high standards of corporate governance. The Supervisory Board confirms that throughout the year, the able for its performance to a separate and independent SuperOver the last decade, we have sought to consistently enhance company has complied with the Code. The Code contains visory Board. The Board of Management is also answerable to and improve our corporate governance standards and frameprinciples and best practices for Dutch companies with listed the shareholders of the company at the AGM. The Executive work, emphasizing transparency, in accordance with applicable shares. Deviations from the Code – currently the company deviCommittee members who are not also a member of the Board laws and regulations. The company’s management and superates from the Code’s provisions III.3.5 and IV.1.1 – are explained of Management report to the Chief Executive Officer (CEO). vision structure is organized in a so-called two-tier system, in accordance with the Code’s “apply or explain” principle. With comprising a Board of Management, solely composed of execthe exception of those aspects of our governance structure The CEO leads the Executive Committee in its overall manageutive directors, and a Supervisory Board, solely composed of which can only be amended with the approval of the AGM, the ment of the company to achieve its performance goals and non-executive directors. The Supervisory Board supervises the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board may make objectives. He is the main point of liaison with the Supervisory Board of Management and ensures that external experience adjustments to the way the Code is applied as described Board. The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) is specifically responsiand knowledge are embedded in the company’s conduct. The below, if this is considered to be in the interests of the company. ble for the company’s financial affairs and information two Boards are independent of each other and are accountable If adjustments are made, they will be published and reported in management. to the Annual General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) for the the annual report for the relevant year. performance of their functions. The company has organized its activities into three Business Board of Management and Executive Committee Areas: Decorative Paints, Performance Coatings and Specialty Akzo Nobel N.V. is a public limited liability company (Naamloze General Chemicals. Each Business Area is represented by a responsiVennootschap) established under the laws of the Netherlands. The Board of Management is entrusted with the management ble member of the Executive Committee. To manage our busiIts common shares are listed on NYSE Euronext Amsterdam. of the company. As of January 1, 2011, the Board of Manageness in a more operational way, in 2012 we introduced a new AkzoNobel has a sponsored level 1 ADR program and ADRs ment operates in the context of an Executive Committee. The Operational Control Cycle. For each Business Area, there is an can be traded on the international OTCQX platform in the US. Executive Committee comprises the members of the Board of Operational Review Meeting which provides a forum for a more Management, business leaders and leaders with functional in-depth operational discussion on subjects relevant to the Our corporate governance framework is based on the requireexpertise, allowing both the functions and the Business Areas Business Area. In addition, a Functional and Country Review ments of the Dutch Civil Code, the Dutch Corporate Goverto be represented at the highest level in the company. The funcMeeting has been introduced to review upcoming proposals nance Code adopted in 2003 and amended in 2008 (the Code), tions currently represented in the Executive Committee are HR and progress on the respective functional agendas. applicable securities laws, the company’s Articles of Association and Organizational Development, Research, Development and and the rules and regulations applicable to companies listed on Innovation, Legal, and Supply Chain/Sourcing (including The Managing Directors of our business units, the Country Directhe NYSE Euronext Amsterdam stock exchange, complementSustainability and Health, Safety, Environment and Security). tors and the Corporate Functional Directors in charge of the differed by several internal procedures, such as the Code of Conduct ent functions, report to individual Executive Committee members and the Share Dealing Code. These procedures include a risk In performing its duties, the Executive Committee is guided by with specific responsibility for their activities and performance. management and control system, as well as a system of assurthe interests of the company and its affiliated enterprises, taking ance of compliance with laws and regulations, including a into consideration the relevant interests of the company’s The Board Committee Pensions, chaired by the CFO, oversees complaints procedure. To safeguard consistency and coherstakeholders. Among other responsibilities, the members of the the general pension policies (to be) implemented in the various ence for the total organization, the Executive Committee has Executive Committee define the strategic direction, establish pension plans of the company. established corporate directives which provide a set of mandathe policies and manage the company’s day-to-day operations. tory internal rules and regulations that must be adhered to. The company has a Sustainability Council, which advises the The members of the Board of Management remain jointly and Executive Committee on strategy developments, monitors the The company’s Articles of Association were most recently individually accountable for all decisions made by the Executive integration of sustainability into management processes and amended and adopted at the 2012 AGM, inter alia to comply Committee. All Executive Committee decisions require a oversees the company’s sustainability targets and overall with changes in Dutch legislation (the Securities Giro Act (Wet majority of the members of the Board of Management. The sustainability performance. The council is chaired by the CEO giraal effectenverkeer) and the Act on Management and SuperBoard of Management can decide to reserve decisions for the and includes Executive Committee members, business unit vision (Wet bestuur en toezicht)). Board of Management.The Board of Management is accountManaging Directors and Directors of Strategy, Sustainability/ AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Corporate governance statement 83 Health Safety Environment and Security, Sourcing and CommuRules of Procedure for the Board of Management and As the company subscribes to the Code’s principles in general, nications. Progress regarding sustainability objectives, developthe Executive Committee members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management, target setting and implementation is reviewed quarterly The tasks and responsibilities, as well as internal procedural ment are, in normal circumstances, appointed on the basis of a by the Executive Committee and semi-annually by the Supervimatters for the Executive Committee, are addressed in the Rules non-binding nomination by the Supervisory Board. sory Board, and is verified annually by the external auditor. Our of Procedure for the Board of Management and Executive sustainability framework is further explained in the Sustainability Committee. These rules have been reviewed and approved by the The Board of the Foundation Akzo Nobel has confirmed its statements section. Supervisory Board and are available on our corporate website. intention to use its binding nomination rights only in cases and circumstances it considers exceptional, such as in the event of The company has a Compliance Committee to support the Representative authority, including the signing of documents, is a (threatened) hostile takeover. (Reference is made to the Executive Committee with its responsibility in assuring and vested in at least two members of the Board of Management description of anti-takeover provisions and control, see managing compliance, and reporting to the Supervisory Board. jointly. The Board of Management has appointed corporate page 89. In normal circumstances, resolutions to appoint a The Compliance Committee systematically identifies material agents, including members of the Executive Committee who member of the Supervisory Board or Board of Management will compliance risks, assists in assurance of compliance with laws, are not also members of the Board of Management. The list of therefore require a simple majority of the votes cast by shareregulations and ethical standards, monitors compliance and authorized signatories is publicly available. holders. Shareholders that meet the requirements laid down in reports findings and recommendations to the Executive the Articles of Association are also entitled to nominate SuperCommittee. The Compliance Committee consists of the Appointment visory Board or Board of Management members for appointGeneral Counsel (chair), Corporate Secretary and Corporate Board of Management members are appointed to, and ment. According to the Articles of Association, such appointDirectors of Internal Audit, Corporate Control, Compliance and removed from, office by the AGM. The other members of the ments will require a two-thirds majority, representing at least 50 Human Resources. Our compliance and integrity management Executive Committee are appointed by the CEO subject to the percent of the outstanding share capital. system is explained in more detail in the Compliance and integapproval of the Supervisory Board. rity management chapter. Although a deviation from provision IV.1.1 of the Code, the Members of the Board of Management are appointed for fourSupervisory Board and the Board of Management are of the Authority schedule year terms (or less), with the possibility of reappointment at the opinion that these provisions will enhance the continuity of the To reflect the Operational Control Cycle, the internal authority expiry of each term. This is in line with the Code. company’s management and policies. schedule was amended in 2012. The authority of the Supervisory Board, Executive Committee, Operational Review MeetThe Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has the right to make Board of Management appointments 2012: ings, Business Area responsibles and the Board Committee binding nominations for the appointment of members of the Pensions is laid down in the revised internal authority schedule, Board of Management and the Supervisory Board. The priority • Mr. Nichols was reappointed as a member of the in accordance with the Articles of Association of the company. shares are held by the Foundation Akzo Nobel. The Board of the Board of Management for a four-year term Foundation Akzo Nobel consists of members of the Supervisory • Mr. Darner was reappointed as a member of the Board who are not members of the Audit Committee. In deviation Board of Management for a two-year term of the Code (provision IV.1.1), the Articles of Association state that the AGM cannot cancel the binding nature of a nomination by the holders of priority shares for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board or the Board of Management. 84 Corporate governance statement | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Mr. Wijers and Mr. Frohn stepped down as members of the of Management must be selected, the Supervisory Board will report and the Financial statements (see Note 21). The Board of Management effective April 23, 2012, and May 1, duly consider the relevant diversity standards and requirements contracts of the members of the Board of Management do not 2012, respectively. As per the latter date, the Board of Managefor an internationally operating listed company. contain change of control provisions and are compliant with the ment consists of four members. As from the 2013 AGM, when Code. The main elements of the contracts of Board of ManageMr. Darner and Mr. Gunning will step down, the Board of Conflict of interest ment members are available on our corporate website. Management will consist of two members. The handling of (potential) conflicts of interest between the company and members of the Board of Management is Supervisory Board As of January 1, 2011, members of the Executive Committee governed by the Articles of Association and by the Rules of General are not allowed to hold more than one supervisory board Procedure for the Board of Management and Executive CommitThe Supervisory Board’s overall responsibility is to supervise membership or non-executive directorship in another listed tee. A member of the Board of Management and the other the policies adopted by the Board of Management and the company. This is more stringent than the Code (provision II.1.8) members of the Executive Committee shall not participate in the Executive Committee and oversee the general conduct of the and the Act on Management and Supervision, which allows discussions and decision-making on a subject or transaction in business of the company. This specifically includes supervision members of a board of management two such supervisory relation to which he has a conflict of interest with the company. of the achievement of the company’s operational and financial board memberships or non-executive directorships. The Decisions to enter into transactions under which Board of objectives, the corporate strategy designed to achieve the exception to this rule is that in the 18 months prior to their retireManagement and other Executive Committee members have objectives, the design and effectiveness of the internal risk ment, Executive Committee members are allowed to hold more conflicts of interest that are of material significance to the management and control systems, the main financial paramethan one such supervisory board membership or non-execucompany, and to the relevant Board of Management or Executers, compliance with applicable laws and regulations and risk tive directorship in order to allow them to prepare for retirement, tive Committee member, require the approval of the Supervisory factors. The Supervisory Board also provides the Board of provided that this does not interfere with the performance of Board. Any such decisions involving members of the Board of Management and Executive Committee with advice. In fulfilling their tasks as members of the Executive Committee. FurtherManagement will be recorded in the annual report for the relevant their duties, members of the Supervisory Board are guided by more, an exception can be made for an executive joining the year, with reference to the conflict of interests and a declaration the interests of the company and its affiliated enterprise, taking Executive Committee. However, a maximum of two supervisory that the relevant best practice provisions of the Code have been into consideration the relevant interests of the company’s board memberships or non-executive directorships will apply. complied with. In 2012, no transactions were reported under stakeholders. Major investments, acquisitions and functional Acceptance of external supervisory board memberships or which a member of the Board of Management had a conflict of initiatives are subject to Supervisory Board approval. non-executive directorships in other listed companies by interest that was of material significance to the company. members of the Executive Committee is subject to approval of Composition the Supervisory Board, which authority has been delegated to Remuneration The Supervisory Board endorses the principle that the compothe Chairman of the Supervisory Board. With respect to the In line with the remuneration policy adopted by the AGM, the sition of the Supervisory Board is such that the Supervisory members of the Board of Management, it is noted that Mr. remuneration of the members of the Board of Management is Board members are able to act critically and independently Gunning is a member of the supervisory boards of Royal determined by the Supervisory Board on the advice of its of one another and of the Board of Management and the Friesland Campina N.V. and TNT Express N.V. In 2012, the Remuneration Committee. The Supervisory Board also decides Executive Committee. Each Supervisory Board member is Board of Management was not composed of at least on the remuneration of the other members of the Executive capable of assessing the broad outline of the overall strategy of 30 percent female members as set out in the Act on ManageCommittee on the proposal of the CEO. The composition of the the company and its businesses and carrying out its duties ment and Supervision that came into force on January 1, 2013. remuneration of Board of Management members, and the properly. The Supervisory Board – which currently consists of In the event that candidates for new appointments to the Board remuneration policy itself, are described in the Remuneration nine members – is constituted in a balanced manner to reflect AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Corporate governance statement 85 the nature and variety of the company’s businesses, their interManagement. He additionally chairs the AGM. The Chairman of However, the Supervisory Board would like to state that future national spread and the desirability to have available expertise the Supervisory Board is Mr. Vuursteen. (re)appointments will be in accordance with the provisions of the in fields such as finance, economic, societal and legal aspects Act on Management and Supervision that limits the number of of international business, government and public administraThe Supervisory Board is assisted by the Corporate Secretary. All supervisory board positions that supervisory directors may hold. tion. Consequently, the current members have a diverse and members have access to the advice and services of the CorpoThe Supervisory Board will also seek to avoid a situation in appropriate mix of knowledge and experience of the markets in rate Secretary, who is responsible for ensuring that procedures which reappointments occur simultaneously, while further taking which AkzoNobel operates, as well as insights from different are followed and that the Supervisory Board acts in accordance into account the Supervisory Board’s succession planning. markets and non-operational areas. A list of current Superwith its statutory obligations under the Articles of Association. visory Board members, including their biographies, is given in the Induction and training Our Supervisory Board chapter, in the Our leadership section. Resolutions of the Supervisory Board must be adopted by Following appointment to the Supervisory Board, members absolute majority of the votes cast. The Chairman, or in his receive a comprehensive induction tailored to their individual A further aim of the Supervisory Board – which its members absence the Deputy Chairman, shall cast the deciding vote in needs. This includes a documentation package containing relebelieve is currently being met – is that at least one-third of the the event of a tie. vant information on the company and its corporate governance members should meet the diversity criteria of gender (female) and compliance systems, as well as meetings with senior and/or nationality (outside of the European Union). This is in Appointment management. This enables them to build up an understanding of compliance with provision III.3.1 of the Code, which ensures Members of the Supervisory Board are nominated, appointed AkzoNobel’s businesses and strategy, and the key risks and that its composition better reflects both society at large and the and dismissed in accordance with procedures which are the issues the company faces. Throughout the year, regular updates markets in which the company operates. The Supervisory same as those previously outlined for the members of the on legal matters, corporate governance, accounting, investor Board understands that the current gender balance does not Board of Management. As a general rule, based on a rotation relations and compliance are provided to the Super-visory Board. meet the requisite minimum of 30 percent female representaschedule (available on our corporate website), a Supervisory tion, as set out in the Act on Management and Supervision. Board member’s tenure is four years. In principle, members are Independence of the Supervisory Board However, when nominating and selecting new candidates for eligible for re-election twice, each time for a period not exceedEach member of the Supervisory Board meets the indepenthe Supervisory Board in the future, these requirements will be ing four years. However, in deviation from the Code (provision dence requirements as stated in the Code provisions III.2.1 and taken into account. III.3.5), a member can be nominated for re-election more often III.2.2 and has completed an annual independence questionif, in specific circumstances, including but not limited to reasons naire addressing the relevant requirements for independence. Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Board of succession planning, this is considered to be in the compaThe Supervisory Board is governed by its Rules of Procedure, ny’s interest. Conflict of interest which are available on the company’s corporate website. The The Articles of Association and the Rules of Procedure include Rules of Procedure include the profile and the Charters of the Board appointments 2012 (all for four-year terms): detailed provisions on how to deal with conflicts of interest and Committees and sets out the tasks and responsibilities of the potential conflicts of interest between members of the SuperviSupervisory Board. • Mr. Van den Brink was reappointed as a member sory Board and the company. A member of the Supervisory of the Supervisory Board Board shall not participate in the discussions and decisionThe Chairman of the Supervisory Board determines the • Sir Peter Ellwood was reappointed as a member making on a subject or transaction in relation to which he/she agenda, chairs the meetings of the Supervisory Board, moniof the Supervisory Board has a conflict of interest with the company. Decisions to enter tors the proper functioning of the Supervisory Board and its • Ms. Baldauf was appointed as a member of the into transactions under which Supervisory Board members committees, arranges for the adequate provision of information Supervisory Board have conflicts of interest that are of material significance to the to its members and acts on behalf of the Supervisory • Mr. Verwaayen was appointed as a member of company, and to the relevant Supervisory Board member, Board as the main contact for the Board of Management and the Supervisory Board require the approval of the Supervisory Board. Any such deciExecutive Committee. He also initiates the evaluation of the sions will be recorded in the annual report for the relevant year, functioning of the Supervisory Board and its committees, its In 2013, no appointments or re-appointments to the Superviwith reference to the conflict of interests and a declaration that individual members, and the functioning of the Board of sory Board are currently scheduled to be proposed to the AGM. the relevant best practice provisions of the Code have been 86 Corporate governance statement | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 complied with. In 2012, no transactions were reported under Counsel reports to the Audit Committee on compliance related Baroness Bottomley stepped down as a Supervisory Board which a member had a conflict of interest which was of material matters at every regular meeting of the committee. The chairmember of the company, and as a member of the Nomination significance to the company. man of the Audit Committee initiates the evaluation of the funcand Remuneration Committees, after the 2012 AGM. Sir Peter tioning of the Audit Committee and its individual members, Ellwood stepped down as a member of the Nomination and Remuneration without the Board of Management being present. Remuneration Committees on May 1, 2012. Ms. Baldauf and Supervisory Board members receive a fixed annual remuneraMr. Verwaayen replaced them. tion and attendance fee, which is determined by the AGM. More Nomination Committee information on the remuneration of the members of the SuperviThe Nomination Committee focuses on drawing up selection Further information on the work of the committees is set out in sory Board can be found in Note 21 to the Financial statements. criteria and appointment procedures for Supervisory Board and the Report of the Supervisory Board, while details of the remuBoard of Management members. The committee assesses the neration of all Supervisory Board members are set out in Note Committees size and composition of both Boards, evaluates the functioning 21 of the Financial statements. The Supervisory Board has established three committees: the of the individual members, makes proposals for appointments Audit Committee, the Nomination Committee and the Remuand reappointments and supervises the Board of Management Auditors neration Committee. Each committee has a charter describing on the selection of senior management. The committee also The external auditor is appointed by the AGM on proposal of its role and responsibilities and the manner in which it dischargconsiders nominations of Executive Committee members who the Supervisory Board. The appointment is for an indefinite es its duties and reports to the full Supervisory Board. These are not also a member of the Board of Management. When period of time and is reviewed every four years by the Audit charters are included in the Supervisory Board Rules of Proceselecting candidates for appointment to the Supervisory Board, Committee. The same committee advises the Supervisory dure, published on the company’s corporate website. The account is taken of the need for a balanced representation of Board, which communicates the results of this assessment to committees report on their deliberations and findings to the full knowledge of the markets in which the company operates and the AGM. During 2012, besides the annual internal quality Supervisory Board. The committee members’ attendances in the need for insight from different markets and non-operational review on services provided by the external auditor, the Audit 2012 are shown in the Report of the Supervisory Board. areas. Higher female and diversity representation are also Committee has kept itself abreast of international discussions actively being pursued. The Nomination Committee consists of on auditor independence. As a result, the Audit Committee has Audit Committee four members and is chaired by Mr. Vuursteen. Ms. Baldauf, Mr. recommended to the Supervisory Board not to propose a The Audit Committee assists the Supervisory Board in overseeVerwaayen and Mr. Burgmans are the other members of the change in the external auditor’s appointment for 2013. The ing the quality and integrity of the accounting, auditing, reporting Nomination Committee. Audit Committee and the Board of Management annually and risk management practices of the company, as well as the report their dealings with the external auditor to the Supervisory company’s compliance with legal and regulatory requirements, Remuneration Committee Board and discuss the auditor’s independence. The lead the qualifications, performance and independence of the exterThe Remuneration Committee is responsible for making proposauditor in charge of the AkzoNobel account is changed every nal auditor and the performance of the internal audit function. als to the Supervisory Board on the remuneration policy for the seven years. KPMG’s current lead partner, Mr. Weusten, has The chairman of the Audit Committee is Mr. Van den Brink. The Board of Management, for overseeing the remuneration of its held this position since July 2007. The lead auditor is present at Audit Committee consists of three other members – individual members and the remaining members of the Executhe AGM and may be questioned with regard to his statement Mr. Hughes, Mrs. Bruzelius and Sir Peter Ellwood – all of whom tive Committee and for overseeing the remuneration schemes on the fairness of the financial statements. The external auditor have accounting and financial management expertise. Sir Peter for AkzoNobel executives involving the company’s shares. The attends all meetings of the Audit Committee, as well as the Ellwood became a member of the Audit Committee on May 1, committee conducts the periodic review of the performance of meeting of the Supervisory Board at which the financial state2012. As a rule, the CEO, CFO, Corporate Director Control, the members of the Board of Management and the Executive ments are approved. He receives the financial information and Corporate Director Internal Audit and the lead partner of the Committee. The committee also reviews the remuneration underlying reports of the quarterly figures and is given the external auditor, KPMG, attend all regular meetings. After every package of the members of the Supervisory Board and prepares opportunity to comment and respond to this information. Audit Committee meeting, members hold a separate meeting proposals for adjustments if necessary. The Remuneration with only the internal auditor present, and a separate meeting Committee consists of four members and is chaired by Mr. with only the external auditor present. Other members of Burgmans. Ms. Baldauf, Mr. Verwaayen and Mr. Vuursteen are management attend as and when requested. The General the other members of the committee. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Corporate governance statement 87 Non-audit services Synergies are created between the internal control and Share classes and major shareholders One area of particular focus in corporate governance is the compliance function, where the company-wide internal control AkzoNobel has three classes of shares: common shares, independence of the auditors. The Audit Committee has been self-assessment tool is strengthened by a company-wide cumulative preferred shares and priority shares. Common delegated direct responsibility for the compensation and monicompliance monitoring tool to discuss and monitor progress shares are traded on the Euronext Amsterdam stock toring of the auditors and the services they provide to the with respect to compliance-related issues. More detail on the exchange. Common shares are also traded over-the-counter company. The auditors are prohibited from providing the so-called non-financial letter of representation process is availon OTCQX (organized by Pink Sheets) in the US in the form of company with certain non-audit services. Examples of nonable in the Compliance and integrity management chapter. American Depositary Receipts (each American Depositary permitted services are actuarial services and book-keeping Receiptrepresenting one-third of a common share). On services. In order to anchor this in our procedures, the SuperviReference is made to the Statement of the Board of ManageDecember 31, 2012, a total of 239,047,452 common shares sory Board adopted the AkzoNobel Auditors Independence ment in the Our leadership section for the statements in respect and 48 priority shares had been issued. Policy and the related AkzoNobel Audit Committee Pre-approvof the internal risk management and control systems. al Procedure on Audit, Audit-Related and Non-Audit Services. By December 31, 2012, MFS Investment Management held All these documents and policies are available on the compaCode of Conduct and complaints procedure more than 5 percent of the company’s share capital. ny’s corporate website. AkzoNobel has established a comprehensive Code of Conduct and complaints procedure, pursuant to which employees have The priority shares are held by the Foundation Akzo Nobel. The Risk management and internal control the possibility of reporting alleged irregularities within the Foundation’s Board consists of members of AkzoNobel’s Internal control and risk management systems are in place. company. More information can be found in the Compliance Supervisory Board who are not members of the Audit CommitOur risk management system is explained in more detail in the and integrity management chapter. tee. The Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has the nominaStrategy section. tion rights for the appointments of members of the Board of Share Dealing Code Management and of the Supervisory Board, as well as the right We have strict procedures for internal and disclosure controls Members of the Board of Management, the Executive Committo approve amendments to the Articles of Association of and auditor independence. The Disclosure Committee monitee and the Supervisory Board are subject to the AkzoNobel the company. tors the procedures established by the company and advises Share Dealing Code, which limits their opportunities to trade in the Executive Committee to ensure adequate and timely discloAkzoNobel securities. In accordance with Dutch law and reguNo cumulative preferred shares have been issued to date. It sure of material financial and non-financial information. lations, transactions in AkzoNobel shares carried out by Board has been communicated that the cumulative preferred shares of Management, Executive Committee and Supervisory Board merely have a financing function, which means that if An Internal Control committee is responsible for maintaining the members are, as and when required, notified to the Dutch necessary, and possible, they will be issued at or near to the company’s internal control framework. The company-wide Authority for the Financial Markets. prevailing quoted price for common shares. internal control self-assessment process was improved in 2012 and the outcome was presented to the Audit Committee. An The Board of Management, Executive Committee and SuperviThe Annual General Meeting of shareholders held on April 23, area of continued focus in 2012 has been the control standards sory Board members require authorization from the General 2012, authorized the Board of Management for a period of 18 for our key IT systems and to make more use of automated Counsel prior to carrying out any transactions in respect of months after that date – subject to approval from the Supervicontrols in these systems. AkzoNobel securities, even in a so-called open period. sory Board – to issue shares in the capital of the company up 88 Corporate governance statement | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 to a maximum of 10 percent of the issued share capital (or 20 ment. Holders of common shares in aggregate representing at include situations where, in the opinion of the Board of the percent in case of a merger or acquisition) and to restrict or least 1 percent of the total issued capital may submit proposals Foundation, the continuity of the company’s management and exclude the pre-emption rights for existing shareholders for the agenda of the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. policies is at stake. This may be the case if a public bid for the for those shares. At the same meeting, the Board of ManageThese proposals must be adequately substantiated and must common shares of the company has been announced, or has ment was given a mandate to acquire up to a maximum of be submitted in writing, or electronically, to the company’s head been made, or the justified expectation exists that such a bid 10 percent of the issued share capital of the company. office in Amsterdam at least 60 calendar days in advance of the will be made without any agreement having been reached in meeting. The minutes of the Annual General Meeting of sharerelation to such a bid with the company. Annual General Meeting of shareholders (AGM) holders (in Dutch) are made available on the company’s website Presently, General Meetings of shareholders are held at least within three months of the meeting date. The same shall apply if one shareholder, or more shareholders once a year. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders is The Annual General Meeting of shareholders approves or adopts, acting in a concerted way, hold a substantial percentage of the convened by public notice. The agenda, the notes to the as the case may be, among other matters: issued common shares of the company without making an agenda and the procedure for attendance – including the offer, or if, in the opinion of the Board of the Foundation Akzo record date and the procedure for granting a proxy to a third • The financial statements Nobel, the exercise of the voting rights by one shareholder or party – are published in advance and posted on the company’s • Dividends (not interim dividends) more shareholders, acting in a concerted way, is materially in website. The company uses the Shareholders’ Communication • The election of members of the Board of Management conflict with the interests of the company. In such cases, the Channel to distribute the agenda and to allow shareholders and the Supervisory Board Supervisory Board and the Board of Management, in accorwho hold their shares through an associated bank participation • Material changes to the remuneration policy of the Board dance with their statutory responsibility, will evaluate all availin the proxy voting at the meeting. of Management able options with a view to serving the best interests of the • Other important matters such as major acquisitions company, its shareholders and other stakeholders. The Board Holding shares in the company on the record date determines or the sale of a substantial part of the company of the Foundation Akzo Nobel has reserved the right to make the right to exercise voting rights and other rights relating to the • The issuance of new shares use of its binding nomination rights for the appointment of Annual General Meeting of shareholders, notwithstanding the members of the Supervisory Board and of the Board of subsequent sale of shares thereafter. The notes to the agenda Anti-takeover provisions and control Management in such circumstances. contain all relevant information with respect to the proposed According to provision IV.3.11 of the Code, the company is resolutions. All resolutions are made on the basis of the “one required to provide an overview of its actual or potential antiIn the event of a hostile takeover bid or other action which the share, one vote” principle. All resolutions are adopted by absotakeover measures, and to indicate in what circumstances it is Board of Management and Supervisory Board consider to be lute majority, unless the law or the company’s Articles of Assoexpected that they may be used. The priority shares may be adverse to the company’s interests, the two Boards reserve the ciation stipulate otherwise. considered to constitute a form of anti-takeover measure. In right to use all available powers (including the right to invoke a relation to the right of the Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares response time in accordance with provisions IV.4.4 and II.1.9 of The Annual General Meeting of shareholders reviews the annual to make binding nominations for appointments to the Board of the Code), while taking into account the relevant interests of the report and decides on adoption of the financial statements and Management and the Supervisory Board, the Foundation Akzo company and its affiliate enterprise and stakeholders. the dividend proposal, as well as on the discharge of the Nobel has confirmed that it intends to make use of such rights members of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Managein exceptional circumstances only. These circumstances AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Corporate governance statement 89 Remuneration report This report describes our The remuneration and the individual contracts of the members of the Board of Management are determined by The total remuneration package of the members of the Board of Management consists of: remuneration policy and the the Supervisory Board within the framework of the remuneraremuneration paid to members tion policy. The remuneration policy was first adopted by the Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM) in 2005 and • Base salary • Performance-related short-term incentive (STI), of the Board of Management has been amended several times thereafter, most recently with shareholding requirement related share in 2012. in 2011. The performance share plan described below was approved by the AGM in 2004, when AkzoNobel was still matching opportunity • Performance-related long-term incentive (LTI) listed at Nasdaq, under the then prevailing rules of Nasdaq. It in the form of shares has been amended two times thereafter, in accordance with • Pensions and similar retirement provisions article 2:135 of the Dutch Civil Code, most recently in 2010. • Other benefits The share matching plan described below was approved by the AGM in 2011. Our remuneration policy, including all strucThe various elements of the remuneration package are tures and policies related to the remuneration and employset out in more detail below. ment contracts of the Board of Management, is in line with the Dutch Corporate Governance Code (the Code). Base salary The base salary is determined by the Supervisory Board. In order to enhance the visibility of the elements that constitute the remuneration policy and the way in which the policy Short-term incentive (annual bonus) has been applied during the reporting year, the Supervisory The target STI is 100 percent of the base salary for the CEO Board has decided to make a clearer distinction between the and 65 percent of the base salary for the other members. two. The first part of this report describes the remuneration The threshold for pay-out is the achievement of 80 percent policy as it has been adopted over time, while the second of the targeted financial performance criteria. The pay-out is part describes the implementation of the policy in 2012 and maximized at 150 percent of the base salary for the CEO and proposals for 2013. at 100 percent of the base salary for the other members. The STI is linked to the company’s EVA and EBITDA and the indiRemuneration policy vidual and qualitative targets of the members of the Board of Our remuneration policy has the objective of providing remuManagement. More specifically, 35 percent of the short-term neration in a form which will attract, retain and motivate incentive opportunity is linked to EVA, 35 percent is linked to members of the Board of Management as top managers of a EBITDA and the remaining 30 percent is linked to individual major international company, while protecting and promoting and qualitative targets, including non-financial targets. The the company’s objectives. The aim is to provide remuneration specific targets are determined by the Supervisory Board. at the median level of the external market. 90 Remuneration report | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Long-term incentive Board members who have not yet achieved their minimum Pursuant to the rules of the performance share plan and proviThe LTI consists of performance-related shares. Under the shareholding are required to invest one-third of the short-term sion II.2.10 of the Code, the Supervisory Board has the power performance share plan, shares are conditionally granted to the incentive they receive (net after tax and other deductions) in to adjust the outcomes of the STI or the LTI vesting schedules members of the Board of Management. Vesting of these shares AkzoNobel shares. As further encouragement to build up the if, given the circumstances, this would reflect a fairer measure is conditional on the achievement of performance targets during minimum holding requirement, Board members who invest up of performance, provided that targets, in the opinion of the a three-year period. Achievement of the performance targets is to a second third of their short-term incentive in shares will have Supervisory Board, are not more easy or difficult to be satisfied. determined by the Supervisory Board in the first quarter of the such shares matched by the company, one on one, after three year following the three-year performance period. The number of years from the date of purchase of the shares, on the condition Loans vested shares is adjusted for dividends paid over the three-year that the Board member still holds these shares and showed a The company does not grant any personal loans to its Board performance period. The retention period for the shares expires sustained performance during the three-year period, as determembers. five years after the conditional grant. mined by the Supervisory Board. Implementation of the remuneration policy in 2012 Because sustainability is considered key to our long-term future, Board members who continue to invest their short-term incenThe Supervisory Board ensures that the remuneration policy 50 percent of the conditional share grant is linked to AkzoNobel’s tives in whole, or in part, in shares after the minimum holding is aligned with the objectives of the company also in its implerelative sustainability performance. For the 2011 grant and onrequirement has been reached, will have the opportunity to have mentation. Both the policy itself, and the checks and balances wards, the sustainability performance is measured as AkzoNobel’s such shares matched subject to the same conditions, except that are applied in its execution, are designed to avoid incidents average score in the SAM ranking during the three-year perforthat such shares will be matched with one share to every two where members of the Board of Management – and senior mance period. The remaining 50 percent of the conditional grant shares thus acquired and that no shares will be matched to the executives for whom similar incentive plans apply – act in their of shares is linked to AkzoNobel’s relative Total Shareholder Return extent that shares were purchased with more than two-thirds of own interest, take risks that are not in line with our strategy and (TSR) performance compared with the companies in a defined the Board member’s net annual short-term incentive. risk appetite, or where remuneration levels cannot be justified peer group. This peer group and the vesting scheme are deterin any given circumstance. mined by the Supervisory Board. In each case, the maximum at Pension and similar retirement provisions vesting is 150 percent of the relevant part of the conditional grant. Members of the Board of Management receive a contribution To ensure that remuneration is linked to performance, a signifitowards pension and similar retirement benefits, as determined cant proportion of the remuneration package is variable and Shareholding requirements and share matching by the Supervisory Board. dependent on the short and long-term performance of the indiAs of 2012, the CEO and other members of the Board of Managevidual Board member and the company. Performance targets ment are required to build up, over a five-year period from the date Other benefits must be realistic and sufficiently stretching and – particularly in of appointment, and then hold, at least three times respectively Other benefits – such as a company car and allowances – are respect of the variable remuneration components – the Superone time their gross base salary in AkzoNobel shares for the duradetermined by the Supervisory Board. visory Board ensures that the relationship between the chosen tion of their tenure as member of the Board of Management. performance criteria and the strategic objectives applied, as Claw back and value adjustment well as the relationship between remuneration and perforThe CEO and other Board members are expected, for these The Supervisory Board may claw back variable pay compomance, are properly reviewed and accounted for, both ex-ante purposes, to use both their long-term incentive and their shortnents paid to members of the Board of Management in the and ex-post. term incentive in the manner set out below. event that such variable pay components were based on financial information which is shown within a certain period of time to be materially incorrect. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Remuneration report 91 In accordance with the requirements of the Code, the a summarizing overview of the remuneration of the current the Board of Management. EVA and EBITDA are based on the Remuneration Committee, before setting the targets to be members of the Board of Management. Reference is made to company’s financial results in constant currencies. In 2012, proposed for adoption by the Supervisory Board, has carried Note 21 of the Financial statements for more details. the minimum threshold for payout regarding the EVA target out scenario analyses of the possible financial outcomes was not met, whereas for EBITDA the performance outcome of meeting target levels, as well as maximum performance Base salary was above the threshold and payout came out at 60 percent levels, and how they may affect the level and structure of the The base salaries of members of the Board of Management of target. Upon its ex-post review of the relationship between remuneration of the members of the Board of Management. increased by 1.8 percent in 2012. the chosen performance criteria and the strategic objectives As stated in the remuneration policy, we aim to maintain applied, and of the relationship between remuneration and overall remuneration levels that are at the median level of the Short-term incentive (annual bonus) performance, the Supervisory Board, given the importance of external market. For benchmarking purposes, a peer group The objectives of the short-term incentive in 2012 were to the link between the variable remuneration and the company’s has been defined by the Supervisory Board. Following a reward economic value creation (EVA) and EBITDA growth performance improvement program and strategic ambitions, review in 2012, two companies (Wolters Kluwer, Reed Elsefor our shareholders and other stakeholders, to measure decided not to make any adjustment on the financial metrics. vier) were removed from the peer group and four companies individual and collective performance and to encourage proThe Supervisory Board has reviewed the overall short-term (Arkema, Henkel, Lafarge and Reckitt Benckiser) were added. gress in the achievement of long-term strategic objectives. performance of Mr. Büchner considering his absence for a The review focused on the size of the group, as well as on the On the outcome of the three short-term incentive elements three-month period. Based on this review, it was decided to geographical and industry fit. The peer group now consists of (EVA, EBITDA and personal targets), the Supervisory Board reduce the bonus by 25 percent. Considering that the CFO, the following companies: applies a reasonableness test, in which the actual ambition Mr. Nichols, also assumed responsibilities of the CEO during level of the performance targets is assessed critically in light his absence, the Supervisory Board decided to adjust the • Clariant • Arkema of the assumptions made at the beginning of the year. It also outcome of his personal objectives upward. • Royal DSM • Henkel includes an assessment of the progress made with the strate• Heineken • Royal Ahold gic objectives under prevailing market conditions. Long-term incentives • Royal KPN • Reckitt Benckiser The objectives of our long-term incentive plan are to encourage • Royal Philips • Lafarge EVA is calculated by deducting from net operating profit long-term sustainable economic and shareholder value creation • Solvay • Randstad after taxes (NOPAT) a capital charge representing the cost – both absolute and relative to our competitors – and to align of capital calculated on the basis of an average return that the interests of the Board of Management with those of shareThe Remuneration Committee consults professional indepeninvestors expect. The target EVA and EBITDA are determined holders and to ensure retention of the members of the Board dent remuneration experts to ensure an appropriate compariannually by the Supervisory Board. Qualitative targets are set of Management. Performance-related shares are considered to son. It further reviews the impact on pay differentials within in the context of the medium-term objectives of the company. provide a strong alignment with shareholders’ interests. the company, which is taken into account by the Supervisory AkzoNobel will not disclose all the targets as these are considBoard when the overall remuneration is determined. When ered commercially sensitive information. However, the targets Stock option plan other benefits are granted, the Supervisory Board ensures for 2012 included goals set with respect to delivering on the Stock options were conditionally granted for the last time in that these are in line with market norms. performance improvement program. 2007 and vested for the last time in 2010. As the total option term is seven years, the last stock options that vested under For communication purposes, the table “Compensation overThe EVA of the sum of the business units is used as the basis the stock option plan can be exercised until 2014. view members of the Board of Management 2012” presents for calculating the EVA element of the short-term incentive for 92 Remuneration report | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Compensation overview members of the Board of Management 2012 Leif Darner Ton Büchner1 Keith Nichols Board member Tex Gunning Hans Wijers2 Rob Frohn3 Chief Executive Chief Financial Performance Board member Chief Executive Board member Officer Officer Coatings Decorative Paints Officer Specialty Chemicals in € 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 Base salary 534,700 602,000 602,000 602,000 267,700 200,700 Short-term incentive 170,900 224,500 200,100 200,100 267,700 130,400 Share awards4 399,500 880,400 1,248,600 951,300 1,661,900 1,245,500 Post-employment benefits – 109,100 229,500 236,700 213,100 73,100 Other post-employment 128,900 78,000 – – – – benefits Other emoluments6 5,700 110,300 6,000 6,000 2,000 2,800 Other compensation7 – 72,100 683,500 578,600 – – Termination benefits8 – – 796,300 – 1,130,600 602,000 Total remuneration 1,239,700 2,076,400 3,766,000 2,574,700 3,543,000 2,254,500 1  s per April 23, 2012. A 2 Until April 23, 2012. 3 Until May 1, 2012. 4 Costs relating to share awards (Performance Share Plan and Share Matching Plan) are non-cash and relate to the expenses following IFRS2. 5 Other post-employment benefits refer to payments intended for building up retirement benefits other than those included in Post-employment benefits. 6 Other emoluments refers to social security cost. For Mr. Nichols, this refers to the employer’s contribution in the UK. 7 Other compensation refers to compensation for living expenses and home leave allowances. For Mr. Darner this refers to the regular expatriate support benefits for 2012, as well as the gross cost for repatriation support in 2013 following his retirement. 8 Termination benefits for Mr. Darner refers to costs incurred in 2012 which will be paid in 2013. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Remuneration Report 93 The exercise price of the stock options is the NYSE Euronext AkzoNobel ranked first in 2012 and second in 2010 and Vesting scheme for the conditional grants Amsterdam opening price on the first day after the Annual 2011 in the relevant SAM and DJSI indices. As a result, Vesting (as % of half of General Meeting of shareholders that the AkzoNobel share AkzoNobel’s sustainability performance over the period 2010 Rank conditional grant) is quoted ex-dividend in the year in which the options were through 2012 resulted in a vesting of 133 percent for this part 1 150% conditionally granted. of the long-term incentive. 2 135% 3 120% Performance share plan The remaining 50 percent is linked to AkzoNobel’s relative 4 100% As stated in the remuneration policy, vesting of 50 percent of Total Shareholder Return (TSR) performance compared with 5 75% the shares conditionally granted under the performance share the companies in a defined peer group. 6 50% plan is linked to AkzoNobel’s relative sustainability perfor7 25% mance by taking AkzoNobel’s average score in the relevant Independent external specialists conduct an analysis to 8 – 11 0% Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) for conditional grants calculate the number of shares that will vest according to the made up to 2011, and the SAM ranking for conditional grants TSR ranking. In order to adjust for changes in exchange rates, made as of 2011, during the three-year performance period. all local currencies are converted into euros. The relative TSR AkzoNobel’s TSR performance over the period 2010 through SAM is an organization that annually assesses around 2,000 performance is compared with a peer group as determined by 2012 resulted in an 11th position within the ranking of the peer of the world’s largest companies covering the major indices the Supervisory Board. group companies. This ranking did not result in any vesting of and determines their respective sustainability scores. shares for the TSR part of the share plan. The peer group currently consists of the following companies: For all conditional grants, the vesting schedule has been Based on AkzoNobel’s combined sustainability and TSR perfordetermined by the Supervisory Board as follows: • Arkema • Valspar Corporation mance, the final vesting percentage of the 2010 conditional grant • Solvay • RPM Industrial after including the dividend yield at December 31, 2012, which • DuPont • Nippon Paint was determined to be 10.42 percent, equaled 73.61 percent. Average position in DJSI/SAM1 during performance period • Kemira OYJ • Sherwin-Williams This resulted in the following definitive awards of shares under Vesting (as % of half of • Kansai Paint • PPG Industries the 2010 plan: 17,962 for the former CEO and 13,471 shares conditional grant) for the other members of the Board of Management. Upon its 1 150% This peer group is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure that the ex-post review of the relationship between the chosen perfor2 125% companies in the group remain appropriate peers. Occasionmance criteria and the strategic objectives applied, and of 3 100% ally, changes need to be made, particularly if one of the compathe relationship between remuneration and performance, the 4–6 75% nies in the peer group is taken over. The Supervisory Board will Supervisory Board, given the importance of the link between 7 – 10 50% see to it that, to the extent reasonably possible, a replacement the variable remuneration and the company’s strategic ambi11 – 15 25% has no impact on the company’s relative TSR ranking. tions, decided not to make any correction in respect of the Below 15 0% definitive grant. The following vesting scheme has been applied as of 2009 for 1  or the 2011 grant and onwards, the sustainability performance is measured as F the conditional grants: The number of performance-related shares conditionally AkzoNobel’s average score in the Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) ranking. For the 2010 grant the average ranking of the company in the relevant Dow Jones granted under the 2012 plan amounted to 31,900 for the CEO Sustainability Index (DJSI) remains the sustainability performance measure. 94 Remuneration report | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 and 23,900 for the other members of the Board of ManageClaw back and value adjustment Pension contributions ment. The former CEO and former member of the Board of In 2012 there was no cause for a claw back or value adjustThe contributions for the members of the Board of ManageManagement that left the company during 2012 received ment by the Supervisory Board. ment are defined as a percentage of income as determined pro-rata awards under the plan. by the Supervisory Board. Currently they are based on age. Shareholding requirements and share matching In principle, the premiums are paid over the base salary in In accordance with provision II.2.13d of the Code, the schedReference is made to the table under Note 21 of the Financial the current year (which may include base salary payments to ule at the end of this remuneration report sets out for 2007 statements for the number of shares that were held at yearBoard members who step down or have agreed to step down onwards (i) the number of at target shares conditionally end 2012 and 2011 by the members of the Board of Manageprior to their regular retirement age for effective succession granted; (ii) the number of shares which have vested; (iii) the ment. In the table below, an overview is given of the shares planning as described under “Employment agreements”) and number of shares held by members of the Board of Manageacquired by the relevant members of the Board of Managethe short-term incentive of the previous year. The premiums ment at the end of the lock up period; (iv) the face value at the ment in 2012 that would, subject to the conditions of the will therefore vary depending on the performance during the conditional share grant, at vesting and at the end of the lock share matching plan, qualify for matching by the company: previous year and the age of the Board member. External up period respectively. reference data can be used in determining market competitive levels of pension arrangements. In accordance with the company’s Articles of Association, Qualifying shares the Code and the rules of the performance share plan, the Qualifying shares acquired The pension entitlements at pension age depend on the preminumber of shares to be conditionally granted to members Board members in 2012 ums received and the investment results during the period. of the Board of Management is determined by the SuperviTon Büchner – Depending on whether the pension entitlements qualify as a sory Board, within the limits of the remuneration policy and Keith Nichols – pension under the Dutch Pension Act, they are reported as the maximum number of shares as adopted and approved, Tex Gunning 1,002 “post-employment benefits” (pension) or “other post-employrespectively, by the AGM. The Supervisory Board has decided Leif Darner – ment benefits” (similar post-employment benefits). that where, in the event of a takeover, the payout under the performance share plan is between 100 percent and 150 Leaving arrangements and other special remuneration percent, the Supervisory Board will, taking into account the Shares obtained by members of the Board of Management paid during 2012 performance of the company prior to the takeover bid, at under the performance share plan are taken into account for In 2012, Mr. Wijers and Mr. Frohn stepped down from the its discretion decide whether the projected outcome is fair share ownership purposes (but not for matching purposes) Board of Management. As announced in anticipation of the and may decide to adjust the vesting upwards or downas soon as they have become unconditional. This includes AGM in 2012, each received compensation equal to one wards within the bandwidth mentioned. This does not affect vested shares that are to be retained during the blocking year’s base salary. In addition, because Mr. Wijers’ retirement the discretion the Supervisory Board has to correct the period of two years after vesting. was advanced, he was entitled to, and received, the regular variable remuneration of the Board of Management upwards pension contribution in respect of the one year’s base salary. or downwards in exceptional circumstances. It is noted that At the time of his appointment to CEO, Mr. Büchner owned a takeover would not influence the SAM or DJSI sustainability 10,810 shares in Akzo Nobel N.V. which are subject to a Employment agreements ranking of the company and therefore the Supervisory Board matching feature in line with the contractual arrangements as Agreements for members of the Board of Management are will in such event primarily take into account the company’s discussed during the 2012 AGM. concluded for a period not exceeding four years in accordance TSR performance. with the Code. After the initial term, re-appointments may take AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Remuneration report 95 place for consecutive periods of up to four years each. The While the Supervisory Board recognizes that each of these this amendment by the AGM in 2013, the Supervisory Board notice period by the Board member is subject to a term of elements of the company’s objectives is important, it is also has set the financial metrics to be applied in the STI for 2013 three months; notice by the company shall be subject to a recognized that circumstances change, and may do so as follows: six-month term. rapidly. To ensure continued alignment between incentive metrics and the company’s strategy, greater flexibility with • 20 percent of STI opportunity will be linked to a target Members of the Board of Management normally retire in the respect to the short-term incentives for the Board of Managefor ROI year that they reach the age of 62. The employment agreement is required in order to be able to respond adequately to • 20 percent of STI opportunity will be linked to a target ments allow the Supervisory Board to request a Board the challenges the company is facing. In addition, the Superfor operating income member to resign between the age of 60 and the regular visory Board prefers to use a limited number of easily quantifi• 30 percent of STI opportunity will be linked to a target retirement age for effective succession planning within the able and identifiable metrics that meet the financial priorities for operating cash flow Board. In such an exceptional situation, the Board member of the company and is of the opinion that EVA is no longer concerned will be entitled to the “fixed” remuneration compoa metric on which to measure the performance of the Board The remaining 30 percent of the STI opportunity will, as nent until the date of retirement. of Management. The following changes to the remuneration before, be used for personal objectives. policy will therefore be proposed for adoption by the AGM Reference is made to Note 21 in the Financial statements in 2013: Secondly, in connection with the recent strategy update, the section for an overview of the payments made to former Supervisory Board is currently finalizing a review of the longBoard members in 2012. Firstly, the Supervisory Board, having regard to inter alia the term incentive plan, with a particular focus on the performance existing financial situation of the company and the external metrics to be applied going forward. This review may result in During 2013, Mr. Darner will retire from the company. Details markets it operates in, will decide annually on two to three a proposal to the AGM in April 2013. During that meeting, the concerning his retirement were concluded in 2012 and accrufinancial metrics and determine their relative weighting from AGM will also be requested to approve a continuation of the als have been made accordingly; reference is made to Note the following six financial metrics: current performance share plan. 21 in the Financial statements section, as well as the table “Compensation overview members of the Board of Manage• EBITDA ment 2012” in this chapter. • EBIT • Operating income A conditional special award was made to Mr. Gunning in • Net income (to shareholders) 2008 as part of the remuneration package in connection with • Operating cash flow his appointment as member of the Board of Management in • Return on investment 2009, to a maximum of one annual base salary (averaged over the performance period). This special award was subject These metrics are used and/or defined in the company’s to performance conditions in connection with the integration annual report (subject to minor adjustments if required in order of the ICI acquisition. The Supervisory Board has reviewed to provide a better indicator of management’s performance). these conditions and also considered the performance of Mr. Gunning under extraordinary circumstances in connection The Supervisory Board will set the performance ranges, i.e. with the turn around and subsequent sale to PPG of the North the values below which no payout will be made (the threshAmerican Decorative Paints business. Based on this review, old), the “at target” value and the maximum above which the the Supervisory Board has decided to approve payout of payout will be capped, it being noted that the STI awards will the award. not exceed 150 percent of the base salary for the CEO and 100 percent of the base salary for the other members of the Strategic objectives and (future) remuneration Board of Management. When properly applied at the appropriate levels in the organization, variable remuneration can be an important tool The chosen metrics will link remuneration with a focus on for achieving the strategic objectives of the company (see the company’s financial priorities and will, together with their the Strategy section). As regards the short-term incentive weighting, be published in the annual report. Performance (STI), the current remuneration policy particularly incentivtargets may qualify as sensitive information and will thereizes economic value creation (EVA) and growth in EBITDA. fore, in principle, not be published. Subject to adoption of 96 Remuneration report | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Valuation 1 shares Board of Management Unconditional shares, vested Series 2007–2009 Conditional share grant Number of vested shares End of lock up period (2012) Number of shares Number Value at grant in € Number Value at vesting in € Number Value in € Keith Nichols 4,250 196,265 6,408 297,331 3,626 135,467 Leif Darner 15,100 697,318 22,768 1,056,435 14,689 548,781 Series 2008 –2010 Conditional share grant Number of vested shares End of lock up period (2013) Number of shares Number Value at grant in € Number Value at vesting in € Number Value in € Keith Nichols 8,733 478,481 – – – – Leif Darner 11,600 635,564 – – – – Tex Gunning 3,867 211,873 – – – – Series 2009–2011 Conditional share grant Number of vested shares End of lock up period (2014) Number of shares Number Value at grant in € Number Value at vesting in € Number Value in € Keith Nichols 27,400 806,656 19,125 714,510 9,563 NA Leif Darner 27,400 806,656 19,125 714,510 12,432 NA Tex Gunning 27,400 806,656 19,125 714,510 12,432 NA Series 2010–2012 Conditional share grant Number of vested shares End of lock up period (2015) Number of shares Number Value at grant in € Number Value at vesting in € Number Value in € Keith Nichols 18,300 849,120 13,471 670,182 – NA Leif Darner 18,300 849,120 13,471 670,182 – NA Tex Gunning 18,300 849,120 13,471 670,182 – NA Conditional shares, not vested Series 2011–2013 Conditional share Vesting at min. Vesting at max. Series 2012–2014 Conditional share Vesting at min. Vesting at max. grant at target performance performance grant at target performance performance Number of shares Number Value at grant in € Number Number Number of shares Number Value at grant in € Number Number Keith Nichols 18,600 864,714 – 27,900 Ton Büchner 31,900 1,191,784 – 47,850 Leif Darner 18,600 864,714 – 27,900 Keith Nichols 23,900 892,904 – 35,850 Tex Gunning 18,600 864,714 – 27,900 Leif Darner 23,900 892,904 – 35,850 Tex Gunning 23,900 892,904 – 35,850 1 Values based on the share price on January 1 of the relevant financial year (face value). AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Remuneration report 97 Compliance and integrity management A compliance framework supported by implementation AkzoNobel Code of Conduct The Code of Conduct serves as a common reference document processes and monitoring and control procedures, which reflects our values and sets out our fundamental principles based on a comprehensive Code of Conduct and and rules for doing business. The code applies equally to our corporate actions and the behavior of individual employees, assesed by the Supervisory Board, is one of the essential regardless of the market segment, function or country in which foundations of good corporate governance and social we operate. The code is supported by a cascaded structure of internal regulations in the form of corporate directives, poliresponsibility. In everything we do we aim for the highest cies, practical manuals and guidelines that are applicable to all standards of performance and behavior. Our conduct employees and guide them in their day-to-day decisions. The Code of Conduct is available in 27 languages, is regularly distribmust be exemplary wherever we operate. uted in paper form and is widely available online. AkzoNobel is subject to local, regional and international laws and Compliance framework regulations, regulatory controls and customs and practices in the countries in which we do business. Our legal and compliance experts are monitoring and adapting to significant and rapid changes in a wide range of legal and compliance areas, to Treatment of Competition law Anti-bribery Export control HSE&S ensure that the code and our internal regulations remain suited employees for purpose and are properly applied. Code of Conduct for joint ventures, acquisitions and our supply chain Share dealing Privacy Information security Human rights Fraud We have a task to ensure that all employees – including those at joint ventures we operate and at newly acquired companies – are aware of, and comply with, laws and regulations that are relevant to their specific role, as well as the Code of Conduct and related internal regulations. In those joint ventures we do not control, we encourage our partners to consistently apply the values and principles reflected in our code when doing business. AkzoNobel expects employees of newly acquired companies to adhere to the Code of Conduct in their daily actions and to live up to our strategic values, our fundamental principles and rules for doing business. They receive extensive training which 98 Compliance and integrity management | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 enables them to fully acquaint themselves with the compliance Code of Conduct complaints procedure (SpeakUp!) a whole, including root cause analyses. The Compliance framework and the code. We value an open dialog on integrity and responsibility in Committee assists the Executive Committee in its ultimate our actions with our employees worldwide. We investigate responsibility to report to the Audit Committee of the SuperThe code also governs the behavior of our suppliers, agents, all alleged breaches of our code and apply appropriate visory Board. distributors, contractors and other trading partners with whom measures when complaints turn out to be substantiated. Our we work. This is directly reflected in what is called our Vendor employees are encouraged to report their views on processes The Compliance Committee comprises the General Counsel Policy. This policy asserts that we want a sustainable supply and practices to their manager or the relevant business level (chair), Secretary to the Executive Committee, and Corporate chain and therefore do business with trading partners who compliance committee, the compliance department or the Directors of Compliance, Internal Audit, Control and HR, and comply with our integrity values and our social and environmenCompliance Committee. A global reporting helpline is permaLegal Counsel Compliance. A total of 24 alleged complaints tal standards. Those partners are required to sign the AkzoNonently available to our employees to report, confidentially and, that were possibly material in character were handled at the bel Vendor Policy Declaration, which is rooted in our Code of if so desired, anonymously, breaches of our Code of Conduct. level of the Compliance Committee (2011: 24). Of these, Conduct. In a gradual process of enhancing assurance that our These reporting mechanisms are part of the complaints procethree are still under review. Only part of those investigated business partners comply with our Vendor Policy, the socially dure and are described in our SpeakUp! policy and manual. complaints were substantiated and the Compliance Commitresponsible performance of our business partners will be veriWe seek to ensure that lessons learned from the SpeakUp! tee took appropriate actions. However, none of those were fied to create a sustainable supplier base. See the Sustainability procedure are addressed in the form of case studies in our considered material for AkzoNobel. statements section. compliance training curriculum, to reflect as much as possible our day-to-day business reality. Business unit management and corporate staff departments Code of Conduct training, communication are responsible and accountable for awareness raising and and awareness In 2012, a total of 295 alleged breaches of the Code of compliance within their respective businesses and departWe appreciate that raising awareness through effective commuConduct were reported. Most of the cases related to busiments. We have appointed BU compliance officers in each of nication and training is pivotal to our compliance framework, and ness integrity and treatment of employees. Company-wide, the businesses. A compliance officer assesses the main risks, assists us in protecting the company and our employees against we had 131 dismissals on grounds related to breaches of the improves and monitors compliance and its effectiveness and economic and reputational harm. Communication on the Code Code of Conduct (2011: 99). The results are addressed in trains the relevant employees. The compliance officers invesof Conduct starts for new employees from the moment they join the non-financial letter of representation process (see later in tigate alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct and report AkzoNobel and includes online and classroom training. By the this section). Although the issues reported were not material their findings and lessons learned to the relevant business unit end of 2012, we had invited all employees with access to our for AkzoNobel, we are conscious of the need to continue to management team. The management team then takes approintranet to complete the Code of Conduct training module. Our conduct root cause analyses and take appropriate actions. priate action. employee completion rates (at 96 percent in 2012) are monitored monthly and form an element of the annual Performance and Compliance governance Compliance and integrity reporting and monitoring Development Dialog discussion. The compliance training curricThe compliance department, in close collaboration with the AkzoNobel has developed a set of corporate reporting and moniulum also offers specialized training to improve critical compeCompliance Committee, provides an adequate compliance toring tools to manage compliance and integrity at the company. tencies and skills to a designated group of employees on topics framework and assures its enforcement via various methods. The compliance department manages these tools and reports on such as competition law, anti-bribery, export control, privacy, These methods include the application of monitoring and outcome and effectiveness to the Compliance Committee. fraud awareness, anti-harassment, careful communications and reporting tools, developing the compliance training curricutrade secrets. lum and managing the corporate complaints procedure as AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Compliance and integrity management 99 Integrity management Code of Conduct complaints procedure (SpeakUp!) This is a permanently available internal system which encour2009 2010 2011 2012 ages employees to report alleged breaches of the Code of Conduct. The system is also available for temporary employCode of Conduct complaints reporting ees and third parties with whom AkzoNobel has a business Number of alleged complaints reported 198 260 245 295 relationship (such as customers, suppliers and agents). The Breakdown of reported complaints outcome of the reports and root cause analyses are reported Health and Safety 22 22 18 42 to the Compliance Committee and General Counsel and Business integrity 72 122 112 152 appropriate actions are undertaken. Treatment of employees 103 113 112 101 Other 1 3 3 – Competition law compliance declaration Employees who have contact with customers, suppliers Code of Conduct investigation or competitors confirm their adherence to the Competition Alleged complaints investigated (in %) 100 100 100 100 Law Compliance Manual through an annual declaration. Any Alleged complaints handled by the Compliance 18 23 24 24 possible concerns are reported to the General Counsel and Committee (in numbers) actions are taken. In 2012, 15,900 employees signed this Alleged complaints handled by the relevant 180 237 221 271 business (in numbers) declaration. Substantiated Code of Conduct complaints after investigation 127 170 149 163 (of total number of alleged complaints) Non-financial letter of representation (NFL) Number of dismissals for Code of Conduct violations 69 118 99 131 At the end of each year, the General Manager of each business signs the NFL to confirm compliance with the Code of Compliance monitoring Conduct and other corporate non-financial requirements. Competition Law Compliance Declaration 10,000 13,000 14,400 15,900 (number of targeted employees) The outcome is reviewed with the responsible member Non-financial letter of representation 100 100 100 100 of the Executive Committee and General Counsel and the (% of operational managers) results are reported to the Board of Management and the Share Dealing Code Statement (% of designated employees, 100 100 100 100 Audit Committee. Outstanding actions are followed up in members of Board of Management, Executive Committee and each business and progressed in quarterly reviews. The Supervisory Board) outcome of the NFL process, in combination with the interCode of Conduct training nal control self-assessment process, forms the basis for Trained (% employees with access to our intranet) 95 95 95 96 the Statement of the Board of Management in this Report. 100 Compliance and integrity management | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Share Dealing Code statement unit management, including the BU compliance officers, the Members of the Board of Management, Executive CommitBU export control officers and corporate staff departments, tee and Supervisory Board, along with certain designated are supported by the Compliance department. employees, annually confirm awareness of their obligations under the AkzoNobel Share Dealing Code and the DiscloTo confirm our commitment that every employee is entitled sure Controls and Procedures and agree to comply with to be treated with dignity and respect as an individual, and such obligations. the obligation of every employee to uphold high standards of personal conduct at work, a new corporate directive on Specific compliance areas anti-harassment was launched in 2012. A self-assessment Our Code of Conduct covers the various areas where risks was held to ensure continued compliance with privacy and can arise for our businesses. Those areas are addressed data protection laws for our data management systems in the by specific programs to guide our employees in abiding by Netherlands. This, as well as the implementation of various the code. In 2012, we continued to adapt our compliance new information management tools and applications, led programs to ongoing changes and kept them up-to-date. We to improvement measures and required privacy and data also trained our employees and businesses to be aware of protection training of specifically targeted employees. risks that can arise in the various areas. Special attention is given to competition law compliance during the compliance The Code of Conduct also sets out our approach to human training program. and labor rights. This approach is based on the principles of the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, As part of the actions to further implement anti-bribery reguthe key conventions of the International Labor Organizalations into our compliance framework, we developed a new tion and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. online training program for an appropriate number of employees In addition, we continue to integrate into our strategy and in 2012. This program provides guidance on the ban on facilitaoperations the principles on human rights, labor, environment tion payments and sets out norms on gifts and hospitality. We and anti-corruption of the United Nations Global Compact, also updated the AkzoNobel Share Dealing Code, as well as the to which AkzoNobel is a signatory. As a critical element of disclosure controls and procedures, in order to comply with new being a socially responsible company, our businesses and Dutch legislation. employees are required to respect the human rights of other employees and the communities in which we operate. Our Our Export Control program contains procedures and training code pays particular attention to the company’s presence that provide up-to-date guidance to employees on regulatory and operations in emerging markets, as compliance frameand enforcement activities, especially those coming from the works risk being less advanced in emerging, as compared US and the EU and including rules with extra-territorial effect. to mature economies. For more information on stakeholder In addition, a global network of export control officers has engagement and our environmental strategy, please turn to been established to support the businesses in implementing the Sustainability statements section. and complying with the Export Control program. Business AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | Compliance and integrity management 101 AkzoNobel on the capital markets During 2012, our share price Close dialog with the capital markets Dividend paid in € per share increased 33 percent to €49.75 We attach great value to maintaining an open dialog with the financial community in order to promote transparency. During Interim dividend Final dividend 2012, management gave presentations at a number of indus ew €750 million bond issued at N try conferences, as well as during meetings with investors and analysts. In the Netherlands, AkzoNobel uses the Share1.40 2.625 percent, with a maturity of holders’ Communication Channel to distribute the agenda 1.08 1.12 1.12 of the Annual General Meeting of shareholders and to allow 1.05 ten years shareholders who hold their shares through an associated bank to participate in proxy voting at the AGM. T  otal proposed dividend of €1.45 Dividend policy 0.40 0.30 0.32 0.33 0.33 per share, on a par with 2011 AkzoNobel’s dividend policy is to pay a stable to rising divi2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 dend each year, following our expected growth in cash generation. Cash dividend is default, stock dividend is optional. Share price performance Our share price increased 33 percent in 2012, outperforming Total proposed dividend of €1.45 per share both the DJ Stoxx Chemicals and AEX indices. The share price The Board of Management proposes a total dividend of performance relative to these indices for a one-year and a five€1.45 per common share. AkzoNobel’s shares will be trading year period is shown in the graphs on the following page. ex-dividend as of April 30, 2013. In compliance with the listing requirements of Euronext Amsterdam, the record date will Analyst recommendations be May 3, 2013. The final dividend as proposed to the 2013 At year-end 2012, AkzoNobel was covered by 30 equity Annual General Meeting of shareholders will be payable as brokers and the following analyst recommendations were of May 29, 2013. The dividend paid over the last five years is applicable (see diagram on the following page): shown in the graph on this page. 102 AkzoNobel on the capital markets | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Analyst recommendations in % Share price performance 2012 Key share data AkzoNobel share price in € 2010 2011 2012 AkzoNobel Year-end (share price in €) 46.49 37.36 49.75 C AEX index Year-high (share price in €) 47.70 53.74 49.75 DJ Stoxx Chemicals index A Buy 40 Year-low (share price in €) 37.18 29.25 35.16 A B Hold 43 55 Year-average (share price in €) 43.39 42.20 42.23 C Sell 17 Average daily trade (in € millions) 52.1 47.5 39.6 50 Average daily trade 1.2 1.1 0.9 B 45 (in millions of shares) Number of shares outstanding at 233.5 234.7 239.0 40 year-end (in millions) 35 Market capitalization at year-end 10.9 8.8 11.9 (in € billions) Listings 30 Net income per share (in €) 3.23 2.04 (9.14) AkzoNobel’s common shares are listed on the stock Dividend per share (in €) 1.40 1.45 1.45 31 Dec 11 Jan 12 Feb 12 Mar 12 Apr 12 May 12 Jun 12 Jul 12 Aug 12 Sept 12 Oct 12 Nov 12 30 Dec 12 exchange of Euronext Amsterdam. AkzoNobel is included in Dividend yield (in %) 3.2 3.4 3.4 the AEX Index, which consists of the top 25 listed companies in the Netherlands, ranked on the basis of their turnover in the stock market and free float. The AkzoNobel weight in Share price performance 2008-2012 the AEX index was 4.45 percent at year-end 2012. In 2012, AkzoNobel share price in € 241 million AkzoNobel shares were traded on Euronext AkzoNobel Amsterdam (2011: 290 million). AkzoNobel has a sponsored AEX index level 1 ADR program and ADRs can be traded on the interDJ Stoxx Chemicals index national OTCQX platform in the US. The 3:1 ratio (ADR: ORD) 75 became effective from January 2, 2012, onwards. 60 See the table below for stock codes and ticker symbols: 45 Euronext ticker symbol AKZA 30 ISIN common share NL0000009132 15 OTC ticker symbol AKZOY ISIN ADR US0101993055 0 31 Dec 07 30 Jun 08 31 Dec 08 30 Jun 09 31 Dec 09 30 Jun 10 31 Dec 10 30 Jun 11 30 Dec 11 30 Jun 12 30 Dec 12 Sedol code 5458314 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel on the capital markets 103 Distribution of shares 2011 at year-end in % AkzoNobel in key sustainability indices Credit rating and outlook For the seventh year in succession, AkzoNobel was included AkzoNobel is committed to maintaining a strong investment in the Dow Jones Sustainability World Index (DJSI World). grade rating. Regular review meetings are held between both E In 2012, we were ranked number one, being the Chemicals agencies and AkzoNobel senior management. See table for A North America 45 F supersector leader. We received particular recognition for our present rating and outlook. B UK/Ireland 13 risk and crisis management, innovation management and C The Netherlands 14 D A human capital development. We were also again represented Rating agency Long-term rating Outlook D Rest of Europe 15 in the Carbon Disclosure Project, which represents more Moody’s1 Baa1 Review for downgrade E Rest of world 2 than 500 institutional investors, with over $60 trillion in assets F Undisclosed 11 Standard & Poor’s 2 BBB+ Stable C under management. B 1 Rating affirmed on October 25, 2012. Broad base of international shareholders 2 Rating affirmed on December 26, 2012. AkzoNobel, which has a 100 percent free float, has a broad base of international shareholders. An analysis of the shareBonds Distribution of shares 2012 at year-end in % holder structure carried out in January 2013 showed that at In 2012, we issued a €750 million bond at a 2.625 percent 45 percent, the US and Canada make up the largest regional coupon and a maturity of ten years. For a full overview of our group of investors. Investors from the UK and Ireland hold bonds, please visit the Bond & Credit Information in the InvesA North America 45 E F 12 percent. Shareholders from the Netherlands hold 12 tors section of our corporate website or see Note 16 in the B UK/Ireland 12 percent of AkzoNobel shares, while a further 16 percent are Financial statements section. C The Netherlands 12 held by investors from the rest of Europe. Around 9 percent of D Rest of Europe 16 D A the company’s share capital is held by private investors, most Debt maturity in € millions (nominal amounts) E Rest of world 3 of whom are resident in the Netherlands. € Bonds F Undisclosed 12 $ Bonds C Sustainability is becoming more important for our investors. £ Bonds B 825 Around 39 percent of our shares are held by institutions that 800 750 are signatories of the UN PRI (United Nations Principles for 622 44 Responsible Investment). The sum of holdings by institutions that focus on ESG (Environmental, Social and Governance) 379 306 issues in some capacity is around 29 percent. 15 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 104 AkzoNobel on the capital markets | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Investor relations policy In the period preceding the publication of the results of that Contact information We provide shareholders and other parties in the financial quarter, AkzoNobel will be in a so-called “closed period”. If you have questions or comments about investor markets with equal and simultaneous information about During this time, we will not hold meetings with analysts or relations matters, please contact us: matters that may influence our share price. The contacts investors, make presentations at broker conferences, or hold between the Board of Management on the one hand, and discussions/conference calls with investors and analysts. AkzoNobel Investor Relations investors and analysts on the other, are carefully handled and These “closed periods” are published in our event calendar Strawinskylaan 2555 structured, and the company will not engage in any acts that available on our website. 1077 ZZ Amsterdam compromise the independence of analysts in relation to the The Netherlands company or vice-versa. Analysts’ reports and valuations are not assessed, commentwww.akzonobel.com/investor_relations ed upon or corrected, other than factually, by the company. T +31 20 502 7854 We communicate with our investors and analysts by organizWe do not pay any fee(s) to parties for carrying out research F +31 20 502 7605 ing or attending meetings such as the Annual General Meetfor analysts’ reports, or for the production or publication of E investor.relations@akzonobel.com ings of shareholders, our Capital Market Days, roadshows analysts’ reports, with the exception of credit rating agenand broker conferences. More information on these meetings, cies. Contacts with the capital markets are dealt with by Holders of ADRs in the US can contact our Transfer as well as the presentation materials, can be found on our the members of the Board of Management, AkzoNobel’s and Register Agent: website. Furthermore, we publish an annual report, quarterly investor relations professionals and, from time to time, other reports, the AkzoNobel Fact File and press releases, which AkzoNobel personnel specially mandated by the Board Deutsche Bank Shareholder Services are also available on our website. of Management. American Stock Transfer & Trust Company Peck Slip Station Briefings are given to update the market after each quarterly P.O. Box 2050 announcement via group meetings or teleconferences, and New York, NY 10272-2050 are accessible by telephone or via the website. Meetings with www.adr.db.com investors (bilateral and general) are held to ensure that the T +1 800 937 5449 (toll-free number) investment community receives a balanced and complete T +1 718 921 8124 view of our performance and the issues faced by the busiE DB@amstock.com ness, while always observing applicable rules concerning selective disclosure, equal treatment of shareholders and insider trading. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Governance and compliance | AkzoNobel on the capital markets 105 Financial statements Consolidated statement of income 108 Company financial statements 153 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 109 Note A General information 153 Consolidated balance sheet 109 Note B Financial non-current assets 155 and provisions for subsidiaries Consolidated statement of cash flows 110 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 111 Note C Trade and other receivables 155 Segment information 112 Note D Cash and cash equivalents 155 Note E Shareholders’ equity 155 Notes to the consolidated financial statements Note F Long-term borrowings 156 Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies 113 Note G Short-term debt 156 Note 2 Scope of consolidation 121 Note H Financial instruments 157 Note 3 Operating income 123 Note I Contingent liabilities 157 Note 4 Financing income and expenses 125 Note J Auditor’s fees 157 Note 5 Income tax 126 Note 6 Intangible assets 129 Other information Note 7 Property, plant and equipment 131 Independent auditor’s report 158 Note 8 Investments in associates and joint ventures 132 Result allocation and distributions 159 Note 9 Other financial non-current assets 132 Note 10 Inventories 133 Note 11 Trade and other receivables 133 Note 12 Cash and cash equivalents 134 Note 13 Group equity 134 Note 14 Post-retirement provisions 136 Note 15 Other provisions 140 Note 16 Long-term borrowings 140 Note 17 Short-term borrowings 141 Note 18 Trade and other payables 141 Note 19 Contingent liabilities and commitments 142 Note 20 Related party transactions 143 Note 21 Remuneration of the Supervisory Board 144 and the Board of Management Note 22 Financial risk management 148 Consolidated statement of income In € millions Note 20111 2012 Continuing operations Revenue 14,604 15,390 Cost of sales 3 (9,035) (9,596) Gross profit 5,569 5,794 Impairment 3 – (2,106) Selling expenses 3 (2,943) (3,199) General and administrative expenses 3 (1,142) (1,277) Research and development expenses 3 (349) (387) Other operating income/(expenses) 3 10 (69) (4,424) (7,038) Operating income 1,145 (1,244) Financing income 4 57 59 Financing expenses related to pensions 4 (57) (65) Other financing expenses 4 (336) (261) Results from associates and joint ventures 8 24 13 Profit/(loss) before tax 833 (1,498) Income tax 5 (233) (172) Profit/(loss) from continuing operations 600 (1,670) Discontinued operations Profit/(loss) for the period from discontinued operations 2 (59) (436) Profit/(loss) for the period 541 (2,106) Attributable to Shareholders of the company 477 (2,169) Non-controlling interests 64 63 Profit/(loss) for the period 541 (2,106) Earnings per share, in € Continuing operations Basic 13 2.29 (7.30) Diluted 13 2.27 (7.30) Discontinued operations Basic 13 (0.25) (1.84) Diluted 13 (0.25) (1.84) Total operations Basic 13 2.04 (9.14) Diluted 13 2.02 (9.14) 1 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 108 Consolidated statement of income | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Consolidated statement of Consolidated balance sheet comprehensive income at year-end, before result allocation In € millions 2011 2012 In € millions Note 2011 2012 Profit/(loss) for the period 541 (2,106) Assets Other comprehensive income Non-current assets Exchange differences arising on translation of foreign operations 55 8 Intangible assets 6 7,392 4,454 Cash flow hedge reserve (55) (7) Property, plant and equipment 7 3,705 3,739 Income tax relating to other comprehensive income 9 5 Deferred tax assets 5 813 830 Other comprehensive income for the period (net of tax) 9 6 Investment in associates and 8 198 185 Comprehensive income for the period 550 (2,100) joint ventures Comprehensive income attributable to Other financial non-current assets 9 1,187 1,748 Shareholders of the company 486 (2,146) Total non-current assets 13,295 10,956 Non-controlling interests 64 46 Current assets Comprehensive income for the period 550 (2,100) Inventories 10 1,924 1,545 Current tax assets 5 98 91 Trade and other receivables 11 2,937 2,698 Cash and cash equivalents 12 1,635 1,752 Assets held for sale 2 – 921 Total current assets 6,594 7,007 Total assets 19,889 17,963 Equity and liabilities Equity Shareholders’ equity 13 9,212 6,892 Non-controlling interests 531 465 Group equity 9,743 7,357 Non-current liabilities Post-retirement benefit provisions 14 1,053 982 Other provisions 15 664 735 Deferred tax liabilities 5 567 442 Long-term borrowings 16 3,035 3,388 Total non-current liabilities 5,319 5,547 Current liabilities Short-term borrowings 17 494 662 Current tax liabilities 5 413 390 Trade and other payables 18 3,369 3,242 Current portion of provisions 15 551 455 Liabilities held for sale 2 – 310 Total current liabilities 4,827 5,059 Total equity and liabilities 19,889 17,963 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Consolidated balance sheet 109 Consolidated statement of cash flows In € millions Note 2011 1 2012 Profit/(loss) for the period 541 (2,106) Income from discontinued operations 2 59 436 Adjustments to reconcile earnings to cash generated from operating activities Amortization/depreciation 6,7 565 635 Impairment losses 6,7,10 12 2,160 Financing income and expenses 4 336 267 Results from associates and joint ventures 8 (24) (13) Pre-tax result on divestments (23) 28 Income tax 233 172 Changes in working capital 12 (331) 251 Changes in provisions (484) (688) Interest paid (282) (231) Income tax paid 5 (227) (209) Other 21 35 Net cash from operating activities 396 737 Capital expenditures 12 (658) (826) Interest received 39 48 Dividends from associates and joint ventures 8 10 9 Acquisition of consolidated companies 2 (205) (94) Proceeds from divestments 49 216 Other changes (47) (79) Net cash from investing activities (812) (726) Proceeds from borrowings 17 911 1,583 Borrowings repaid 17 (1,381) (1,013) Acquisition of non-controlling interests (8) (51) Issue of shares for stock option plan 3 15 8 Dividends (362) (256) Net cash from financing activities (825) 271 Net cash used for continuing operations (1,241) 282 Cash flows from discontinued operations (96) (53) Net change in cash and cash equivalents of continued and discontinued operations (1,337) 229 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 12 2,683 1,335 Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (11) (6) Cash and cash equivalents 1,335 1,558 1 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 110 Consolidated statement of cash flows | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Consolidated statement of changes in equity Attributable to shareholders of the company Other (statutory) Additional Cash flow Cumulative reserves and Subscribed paid-in hedge translation undistributed Shareholders’ Non-controlling In € millions share capital capital reserve reserve profit equity interests Group equity Balance at January 1, 2011 467 9 29 (43) 8,522 8,984 525 9,509 Profit/(loss) for the period – – – – 477 477 64 541 Reclassification into the statement of income – – (1) – – (1) – (1) Other comprehensive income – – (54) 55 – 1 – 1 Tax on other comprehensive income – – 17 (8) – 9 – 9 Comprehensive income – – (38) 47 477 486 64 550 Dividend paid 1 24 – – (329) (304) (58) (362) Equity-settled transactions – – – – 32 32 – 32 Issue of common shares 1 14 – – – 15 – 15 Acquisitions and divestments – – – – (1) (1) – (1) Balance at December 31, 2011 469 47 (9) 4 8,701 9,212 531 9,743 Profit/(loss) for the period – – – – (2,169) (2,169) 63 (2,106) Transfer to goodwill – – (8) – – (8) – (8) Reclassification into the statement of income – – 19 39 – 58 – 58 Other comprehensive income – – (18) (14) – (32) (17) (49) Tax on other comprehensive income – – (1) 6 – 5 – 5 Comprehensive income – – (8) 31 (2,169) (2,146) 46 (2,100) Dividend paid 7 121 – – (342) (214) (42) (256) Equity-settled transactions – – – – 43 43 – 43 Issue of common shares 2 6 – – – 8 – 8 Acquisitions and divestments – – – – (11) (11) (70) (81) Balance at December 31, 2012 478 174 (17) 35 6,222 6,892 465 7,357 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Consolidated statement of changes in equity 111 Segment information Our Decorative Paints businesses supply a full range of range of customers including ship and yacht builders are used in a wide variety of everyday products such as ice interior and exterior decoration and protection products and architects, consumer electronics and appliance cream, soups, disinfectants, plastics, soaps, detergents, for both the professional and do-it-yourself markets. companies, steel manufacturers, the construction industry, cosmetics, paper and asphalt. Our Performance Coatings businesses are represented furniture makers, aircraft, bus and truck producers, can in most markets of this industry and we serve a large makers and bodyshops. Our Specialty Chemicals products Information per Business Area1 Amortization and Revenue from third parties Group revenue EBITDA2 depreciation Incidentals Operating income In € millions 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Decorative Paints 4,189 4,246 4,201 4,297 479 425 (157) (185) (92) (2,261) 235 (2,012) Performance Coatings 5,128 5,635 5,170 5,702 611 769 (117) (132) (37) (96) 458 542 Specialty Chemicals 5,270 5,504 5,335 5,543 906 889 (279) (305) (3) (83) 622 500 Corporate and other 17 5 (102) (152) (162) (182) (12) (13) 6 (80) (170) (274) Total 14,604 15,390 14,604 15,390 1,834 1,901 (565) (635) (126) (2,520) 1,145 (1,244) Invested capital Total assets Total liabilities Capital expenditures Impairment In € millions 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Decorative Paints 5,673 3,387 8,429 5,776 2,150 2,059 155 206 (5) (2,115) Performance Coatings 2,363 2,415 3,952 4,012 1,606 1,364 116 123 (5) (10) Specialty Chemicals 3,558 3,573 4,725 4,773 1,162 1,215 365 484 (1) (19) Corporate and other 1,019 1,655 2,783 2,480 5,228 5,658 22 13 (1) (16) Discontinued operations – – – 922 – 310 – – – (372) Total 12,613 11,030 19,889 17,963 10,146 10,606 658 826 (12) (2,532) Regional information1 Intangible assets Revenue by region of and property, destination plant and equipment Capital expenditures In € millions 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 The Netherlands 694 745 1,105 880 144 110 Germany 1,284 1,258 777 507 31 69 Sweden 515 486 463 433 54 70 UK 841 901 1,257 1,006 27 68 Other European countries 3,702 3,647 2,275 1,269 98 85 US and Canada 2,092 2,294 2,035 1,081 67 70 Brazil 949 987 633 524 54 123 Other Latin American countries 566 636 112 84 12 16 China 1,376 1,621 1,469 1,610 96 135 India 359 371 150 152 18 16 Other Asian countries 1,559 1,716 710 570 46 55 1 2  011 numbers restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a Other regions 667 728 111 77 11 9 discontinued operation. Total 14,604 15,390 11,097 8,193 658 826 2 EBITDA is operating income before incidentals and amortization/depreciation. 112 Segment information | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Notes to the consolidated 1 Note 1: Summary of significant accounting policies financial statements General information Discontinued operations (Note 2) Akzo Nobel N.V. is a company headquartered in the A discontinued operation is a component of our business Netherlands. The address of our registered office is that represents a separate major line of business or Strawinskylaan 2555, Amsterdam. We have filed a list geographical area of operations that has been disposed of subsidiaries and associated companies, drawn up of or is held for sale, or is a subsidiary acquired exclusively in conformity with sections 379 and 414 of Book 2 with a view to resale. Classification as a discontinued of the Netherlands Civil Code, with the Trade Registry operation occurs upon disposal or when the operation of Amsterdam. meets the criteria to be classified as held for sale, if earlier. When an operation is classified as a discontinued operation, We have prepared the consolidated financial statements of the comparative statements of income and statement of Akzo Nobel N.V. in accordance with International Financial cash flows are reclassified as if the operation had been Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the European discontinued from the start of the comparative period. Union. They also comply with the financial reporting requirements included in Section 9 of Book 2 of the Assets and liabilities are classified as held for sale if it is Netherlands Civil Code, as far as applicable. highly probable that the carrying value will be recovered through a sale transaction within one year rather than On February 19, 2013, the Board of Management through continuing use. When reclassifying assets and authorized the financial statements for issue. The financial liabilities as held for sale, we recognize the assets and statements as presented in this report are subject to the liabilities at the lower of their carrying value or fair value adoption by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. less selling costs. Assets held for sale are not depreciated but tested for impairment. Impairment losses on assets Consolidation and liabilities held for sale are recognized in the statement The consolidated financial statements include the of income. accounts of Akzo Nobel N.V. and its subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are companies over which Akzo Nobel N.V. In December 2012, we announced the divestment in 2013 has directly and/or indirectly the power to control the of the North American Decorative Paints business, subject to financial and operating policies so as to obtain benefits. In approval of the antitrust authorities. As a consequence, this assessing control, potential voting rights that are presently business has been reclassified as a discontinued operation. exercisable or convertible are taken into account. The financial statements of subsidiaries are included in the Use of estimates consolidated financial statements from the date that The preparation of the financial statements in compliance control commences until the date that control ceases. with IFRS requires management to make judgments, Non-controlling interests in equity and in results are estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in presented separately. Transactions between consolidated the financial statements. The estimates and assumptions companies and intercompany balances are eliminated. are based on experience and various other factors that Accounting policies, as set out below, have been applied are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances consistently for all periods presented in these consolidated and are used to judge the carrying values of assets and financial statements and by all subsidiaries. liabilities that are not readily apparent from other sources. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed Change in accounting policies on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates The accounting pronouncements which became effective are recognized in the period in which the estimate is for 2012, had no material impact on our consolidated revised or in the revision period and future periods, if the financial statements. changed estimates affect both current and future periods. The most critical accounting policies involving a higher AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 113 degree of judgment and complexity in applying principles differences between carrying amounts of assets Statement of cash flows of valuation are described below. Changes in the assumpand liabilities for tax and financial reporting purposes. We have used the indirect method to prepare the statement tions and estimates as described could result in Temporary differences result in deferred tax assets of cash flows. Cash flows in foreign currencies have been significantly different results than those recorded in and liabilities, which are included in the consolidated translated at transaction rates. Exchange rate differences the financial statements. balance sheet. We assess the likelihood that deferred affecting cash items are presented separately in the tax assets will be recovered from future taxable income. statement of cash flows. Receipts and payments with Business combinations (Note 2) respect to income tax are included in cash from operating In business combinations, identifiable assets and liabilities, In determining the amount of current and deferred tax activities. Interest payments are included in cash from and contingent liabilities are recognized at their fair we also take into account the impact of uncertain tax operating activities, while interest receipts are included values at the acquisition date. Determining the fair value positions and whether additional taxes and interest may in cash from investing activities. The costs of acquisition requires significant judgments on future cash flows to be be due. This assessment relies on estimates and of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, and other generated. The fair value of brands, patents and customer assumptions and may involve a series of judgments about investments, as long as paid in cash, are included in cash lists acquired in a business combination is estimated on future events and consideration of many factors, including from investing activities. Acquisitions or divestments of generally accepted valuation methods. These include interpretations of tax law and prior experience. subsidiaries are presented net of cash and cash equivalents the relief-from-royalty method, the incremental cash flow acquired or disposed of, respectively. Acquisitions of method and the multi-period excess earnings method. Provisions (Notes 14, 15) non-controlling interests are reported in cash from financing The fair value of property, plant and equipment acquired By their nature, provisions and contingent liabilities are activities. Cash flows from derivatives are recognized in the in a business combination is based on estimated market dependent upon estimates and assessments as to whether statement of cash flows in the same category as those of values. The fair value of inventories acquired in a business the criteria for recognition have been met, including the hedged items. combination is determined based on its estimated selling estimates of the probability of cash outflows. Estimates price in the ordinary course of business less the estimated related to provisions for environmental matters are based Earnings per share costs of completion and sale and a reasonable profit on the nature and seriousness of the contamination, as well We present basic and diluted earnings per share (EPS) for margin, based on the effort required to complete and sell as on the technology required for clean-up. The provisions our common shares. Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the inventories. for antitrust cases are based on an estimate of the costs, the profit or loss attributable to holders of our common fines and civil damages, taking into account legal advice shares by the weighted average number of common shares Impairment of intangible assets and property, and the current facts and circumstances. Provisions for outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS is calculated plant and equipment (Notes 6, 7) other litigation are also based on an estimate of the costs, by dividing the profit or loss attributable to shareholders We assess whether the carrying values of intangible assets taking into account legal advice and information currently of common shares by the weighted average number and property, plant and equipment are recoverable. In available. Provisions for termination benefits and exit costs of common shares outstanding, including the effects for this assessment, we make significant judgments and also involve management’s judgment in estimating the potentially dilutive common shares, which comprise of estimates to determine if the future cash flows expected to expected cash outflows for severance payments and site stock options and performance-related shares granted be generated by those assets (value in use) are less than closures or other exit costs. to employees. their carrying value. The data necessary for the impairment tests are based on our strategic plans and our estimates Accounting for post-retirement benefits (Note 14) Operating segments of future cash flows, which require estimating revenue Post-retirement benefits represent obligations that will be We determine and present operating segments (“Business growth rates and profit margins. The estimated cash flows settled in the future and require assumptions to project Areas”) on the information that internally is provided to are discounted using a net present value technique with obligations and fair values of plan assets. The accounting the Executive Committee, the body that was our chief business-specific discount rates. requires us to make assumptions regarding variables such operating decision maker during 2012. A Business Area as discount rate, rate of compensation increase, return is a component that engages in business activities from Accounting for income tax (Note 5) on assets, mortality rates and future healthcare costs. which it may earn revenue and incur expenses, including As part of the process of preparing consolidated financial Periodically, we consult with external actuaries regarding revenue and expenses that relate to transactions with statements, we estimate income tax in each of the these assumptions. Changes in key assumptions can have other Business Areas within the company. Operating jurisdictions in which we operate. This process involves a significant impact on the projected benefit obligations, results of a Business Area have been reviewed regularly estimating actual current tax expense and temporary funding requirements and periodic costs incurred. by the Executive Committee to make decisions about 114 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 resources to be allocated to the Business Area and investment in a foreign operation are recognized in the or foundation. Valuations of both funded and unfunded assess its performance, and for which discrete financial cumulative translation reserves (in other comprehensive plans are carried out by independent actuaries based on information is available. Business Area results reported to income), to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the the projected unit credit method. Pension costs primarily the Executive Committee include items directly attributable extent that the hedge is ineffective, such differences are represent the increase in the actuarial present value of to a Business Area as well as those items that can be recognized in the statement of income. When the hedged the obligation for projected pension benefits based on allocated on a reasonable basis. Unallocated items part of a net investment is disposed of, the associated employee service during the year and the interest on this comprise mainly corporate assets and corporate costs cumulative amount in other comprehensive income is obligation with respect to employee service in previous and are reported in Business Area “Corporate and other”. reclassified to the statement of income as an adjustment years, net of the expected return on plan assets. The to the transaction result. discount rate used in determining the present value of the Translation of foreign currencies obligations is the yield at reporting date of AA corporate Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the Exchange rates of key currencies bonds that have maturity dates approximating the terms of functional currency using the foreign exchange rate at The principal exchange rates against the euro used in our obligations. transaction date. Monetary assets and liabilities preparing the balance sheet and the statement of denominated in foreign currencies are translated into income are: When the calculation results in a benefit to AkzoNobel, the the functional currency using the exchange rates at the recognized asset is limited to the total of any unrecognized balance sheet date. Resulting foreign currency differences Balance sheet Statement of income past service costs and the present value of economic are included in the statement of income. Non-monetary 2011 2012 2011 2012 benefits available in the form of any future refunds from assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are US dollar 1.291 1.319 1.392 1.285 the plan or reductions in future contributions to the plan. translated into the functional currency at the exchange rate Pound sterling 0.838 0.816 0.868 0.811 In order to calculate the present value of economic at acquisition date. Swedish krona 8.944 8.593 9.030 8.705 benefits, consideration is given to any minimum funding Chinese yuan 8.127 8.217 9.001 8.109 requirements that apply to any plan. An economic benefit The assets and liabilities of entities with other functional is available if it is realizable during the life of the plan, or on currencies are translated into the functional currency of the settlement of the plan liabilities. the parent entity, using the exchange rates at the balance Revenue recognition sheet date. The income and expenses of entities with other Revenue is defined as the revenue from the sale and In certain countries we also provide post-retirement benefits functional currencies are translated into the functional delivery of goods and services and royalty income, net of other than pensions to our employees. These plans are currency, using the exchange rates at transaction date. rebates, discounts and similar allowances, and net of sales generally not funded. Valuations of the obligations under Foreign exchange differences resulting from translation tax. Revenue is recognized when the significant risks and these plans are carried out by independent actuaries based into the functional currency of investments in subsidiaries rewards have been transferred to a third party, recovery of on the projected unit credit method. The costs related to and of intercompany loans of a permanent nature with the consideration is probable, the associated costs and such plans primarily consist of the present value of the other functional currencies are recorded as a separate possible return of goods can be estimated reliably and benefits attributed on an equal basis to each year of service component (cumulative translation reserves) within other there is no continuing management involvement with the and the interest on this obligation with reference to employee comprehensive income. These cumulative translation goods. For revenue from sales of goods these conditions service in previous years. adjustments are reclassified (either fully or partly) to the are generally met at the time the product is shipped and statement of income upon disposal (either fully or partly) delivered to the customer, depending on the delivery Actuarial gains and losses that arise in calculating our or liquidation of the foreign subsidiary to which the conditions. Service revenue is generally recognized as obligation with reference to a plan, are recognized to the investment or the intercompany loan with a permanent services are rendered. extent that any cumulative unrecognized actuarial gain nature relates to. Before being consolidated, the financial or loss exceed 10 percent of the greater of the present statements of subsidiaries established in hyperinflationary Post-retirement benefits (Note 3, 14) value of the defined benefit obligation and the fair value countries are adjusted for the effects of changing prices of Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized of plan assets. That portion of the actuarial gains and the local currency. in the statement of income as incurred. losses is recognized in the statement of income over the expected average remaining working lives of the Foreign currency differences arising on the re-translation Most of our defined benefit pension plans are funded employees participating in the plan. When the benefits of a of a financial liability designated as a hedge of a net with plan assets that have been segregated in a trust plan improve, the portion of the increased benefits related AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 115 to past service by employees is recognized as an expense Shareholder Return (TSR) performance over a three-year Deferred tax is recognized using the balance sheet method, in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over the period compared with the peer group and for 50 percent providing for temporary differences between the carrying average period until the benefits become vested. To the on the ranking of the company in the Sustainability Asset amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and extent that the benefits vest immediately, the expense is Management (SAM) benchmark. the amount used for taxation purposes. We do not recognize recognized immediately in the statement of income. deferred tax for the following temporary differences: the The fair value of the performance-related shares granted initial recognition of goodwill, the initial recognition of assets We recognize gains and losses on the curtailment or is recognized as an expense with a corresponding increase or liabilities that affect neither accounting nor taxable profit, settlement of a defined benefit plan when the curtailment in shareholders’ equity. The fair value is measured at and differences related to investments in subsidiaries to the or settlement occurs. The gain or loss on curtailment grant date and amortized over the period during which extent that they will probably not reverse in the foreseeable comprises any resulting change in the fair value of plan the employees become unconditionally entitled to future. Deferred tax assets are recognized for unused tax assets, change in the present value of defined benefit the performance-related shares. The fair value of the losses, tax credits and deductible temporary differences, obligation and any related actuarial gains and losses and performance-related shares for which vesting is based on to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits past service cost that had not previously been recognized. the company’s SAM ranking, is the value of the Akzo Nobel will be available against which they can be utilized. The Interest on the defined benefit obligation for both N.V. common share on the date of the grant. The fair value nature of the evidence supporting the recognition of the pensions and other post-retirement benefits net of the for the TSR-linked vesting condition is measured using the deferred tax assets is the scheduled reversal of deferred tax expected return on plan assets is included in financing Monte Carlo simulation model. This Monte Carlo model liabilities, projected future taxable income, and tax planning expenses related to pensions. Other charges and benefits takes into account expected dividends, as well as the strategies. The amount of deferred tax assets considered recognized are reported in operating income. market conditions expected to impact our TSR performance realizable, could change in the near term if future estimates in relation to selected peers. The amount recognized of projected taxable income during the carry forward period Other employee benefits (Note 3, 15) as an expense is adjusted to reflect the actual number are revised. Other long-term employee benefits include long-service or of performance-related shares that vest, except when sabbatical leave, jubilee or other long-service benefits, and forfeiture or extra vesting of performance-related shares is Current and deferred tax assets and liabilities have been other employee benefits payable more than 12 months due to a TSR performance that differs from the performance offset in cases where there is a legally enforceable right for after the related service is rendered. These provisions are anticipated at the grant of the performance-related shares, such set off and they relate to income taxes levied by the measured at present value, using actuarial assumptions. because this is a market performance condition. same taxation authority on the same taxable entity, or on The discount rate is the yield at reporting date of AA-rated different taxable entities which intend either to settle current corporate bonds that have maturity dates approximating Income tax (Note 5) tax on a net basis or their tax assets and liabilities will be the terms of our obligations. The calculation is performed Income tax expense comprises both current and deferred realized simultaneously. using the projected unit credit method. Any actuarial gains tax, including effects of changes in tax rates. In determining and losses are recognized in the statement of income in the amount of current and deferred tax we also take into Measurement of deferred tax assets and liabilities is the period in which they arise. account the impact of uncertain tax positions and whether based upon the enacted or substantially enacted tax additional taxes and interest may be due. rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in An accrual is recognized for the amounts expected to which temporary differences are expected to be reversed. be paid under short-term bonus or profit sharing plans Income tax is recognized in the statement of income, unless Non-refundable dividend tax is taken into account in the if a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of it relates to items recognized in other comprehensive income. determination of deferred tax liabilities to the extent of past services provided exists and the obligation can be The income tax consequences of dividends are recognized earnings expected to be distributed by subsidiaries in the estimated reliably. when a liability to pay the dividend is recognized. foreseeable future. If separate tax rates exist for distributed and undistributed profit, the current and deferred taxes are Share-based compensation (Note 3) In the balance sheet, current tax includes the expected measured at the tax rate applicable to undistributed profit. We have a performance-related share plan, under which tax payable and receivable on the taxable income for the Deferred tax is not discounted. shares are conditionally granted to certain employees. year, using tax rates enacted or substantially enacted at These performance-related shares vest in three years. reporting date, as well as any adjustments to tax payable The number of shares which the employees will ultimately and receivable with respect to previous years. receive depends for 50 percent on our relative Total 116 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Research cost and preparation and start-up expenses recorded in equity if there is no change in control; these items of property, plant and equipment. Costs of major Research cost and preparation and start-up expenses are transactions will not result in goodwill. Goodwill related to maintenance activities are capitalized as a separate charged to the statement of income as incurred. an investment in associates and joint ventures component of property, plant and equipment, and is included in the carrying value of that investment. depreciated over the estimated useful life. Maintenance Government grants costs which cannot be separately defined as a component Government grants related to costs are deducted from Intangible assets with a finite useful life, such as licenses, of property, plant and equipment are expensed in the the relevant cost to be compensated in the same period. know-how, brands, customer relationships and intellectual period in which they occur. Gains and losses on the sale Emission rights granted by the government are recorded property rights, are capitalized at historical cost and of property, plant and equipment are included in the at cost. A provision is recorded if the actual emission is amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful statement of income. higher than the emission rights granted. Government life of the assets, which generally ranges from ten to forty grants to compensate for the cost of an asset are years. Development and software costs are capitalized if We have identified conditional asset retirement obligations deducted from the cost of the related asset. the costs can be measured reliably, the related product or at a number of our facilities that are mainly related to plant process is technically and commercially feasible, sufficient decommissioning. We recognize these conditional asset Intangible assets (Note 6) future economic benefits will be generated and sufficient retirement obligations in the periods in which sufficient Intangible assets are valued at cost less accumulated resources are available to complete the development. information becomes available to reasonably estimate amortization and impairment charges. All intangibles The expenditures capitalized include the cost of materials, the cash outflow. assets are tested for impairment whenever there is an consultancy, licenses, direct labor and overhead costs indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. In that are directly attributable to preparing the asset for its Impairments of intangible assets and property, addition, intangible assets with an indefinite useful life, intended use. Capitalized development and software costs plant and equipment (Notes 6, 7) such as goodwill and certain brands, are not amortized, are amortized on a straight-line basis over the estimated We assess the carrying value of intangible assets and but tested for impairment annually. useful life of related assets, which generally is up to five property, plant and equipment whenever events or years. Amortization methods, useful lives and residual changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying Goodwill in a business combination represents the excess values are reassessed annually. amount of an asset may not be recoverable. In addition, of the consideration paid over the net fair value of the for goodwill and other intangible assets with an indefinite acquired identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent Property, plant and equipment (Note 7) useful life, we review the carrying value annually in the liabilities. The cost of an acquisition is measured as the fair Property, plant and equipment are valued at cost less fourth quarter. value of the assets given, equity instruments issued and accumulated depreciation and impairment charges. liabilities incurred or assumed at the date of exchange. Costs include expenditures that are directly attributable The recoverable amount of an asset or its cash-generating For acquisitions before January 1, 2010, the cost of an to the acquisition of the asset, including financing unit is the greater of its value in use and its fair value less acquisition also included expenses directly attributable to expenses of capital investment projects under costs to sell, whereby estimated future cash flows are the acquisition. Contingent consideration was recognized construction. Government grants to compensate discounted to their present value. The discount rate used only if the company had a present obligation and the for the cost of an asset are deducted from the cost reflects current market assessments of the time value of economic outflow was probable and a reliable estimate of the related asset. money and, if appropriate, the risks specific to the assets. was determinable. For acquisitions made on or after If the carrying value of an asset or its cash-generating unit January 1, 2010, acquisition related costs are expensed Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method, exceeds its estimated recoverable amount, an impairment as incidental items on the line other operating income/ based on the estimated useful life. In the majority of cases loss is recognized in the statement of income. The assessment (expenses) in the statement of income. Any contingent the useful life of plant equipment and machinery is ten for impairment is performed at the lowest level of assets consideration to be transferred will be recognized at fair years, and for buildings ranges from 20 to 30 years. Land generating largely independent cash inflows. For goodwill value at the acquisition date. is not depreciated. In the majority of cases residual value is and other intangible assets with an indefinite life, we have assumed to be insignificant. Depreciation methods, useful determined this to be at business unit level (one level If the cost of an acquisition is less than the fair value of lives and residual values are reassessed annually. below segment). We allocate impairment losses in respect the net assets of the subsidiary acquired, the difference of cash-generating units first to goodwill and then to the is recognized directly in the statement of income. The Parts of property, plant and equipment that have carrying amount of the other assets on a pro rata basis. effects of all transactions with non-controlling interests are different useful lives are accounted for as separate AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 117 Except for goodwill, we reverse impairment losses if and we have incurred legal or constructive obligations on behalf and formal restructuring plan has been approved, and to the extent we have identified a change in estimates of the investee. Loans to associates and joint ventures are the restructuring has either commenced or has been used to determine the recoverable amount. We only carried at amortized cost less impairment losses. announced publicly. We do not provide for future operating reverse to the extent that the carrying value of the asset costs. Termination benefits for voluntary redundancy are does not exceed the carrying value that would have The results from associates and joint ventures consist of our recognized if we have made an offer encouraging voluntary been determined, net of amortization or depreciation, if share in the results of these companies, interest on loans redundancy, it is probable that the offer will be accepted no impairment loss had been recognized. Reversals of granted to them and the transaction results on divestments and the number of acceptances can be estimated reliably. impairment are recognized in the statement of income. of associates and joint ventures. Unrealized gains and losses arising from transactions with associates and joint ventures A provision for warranties is recognized when the Leases (Notes 7, 19) are eliminated to the extent of our interest in the investee. underlying products or services are sold. The provision is Lease contracts in which we have substantially all the risks based on historical warranty data and a weighting of all and rewards of ownership are classified as finance leases. Inventories (Note 10) possible outcomes against their associated probabilities. Upon initial recognition, the leased asset is measured at Inventories are measured at the lower of cost and net the lower of its fair value and the present value of minimum realizable value. Costs of inventories comprise all costs of In accordance with our environmental policy and lease payments. Subsequent to initial recognition, the purchase, costs of conversion and other costs incurred applicable legal requirements, we recognize a provision asset is accounted for in accordance with the accounting in bringing the inventories to the present location and for environmental clean-up cost when it is probable that a policy applicable to the asset. Minimum lease payments condition. The costs of conversion of inventories include liability has materialized and the amount of cash outflow made under finance leases are apportioned between the direct labor and fixed and variable production overheads, can be reasonably estimated. interest expenses and the reduction of the outstanding and take into account the stage of completion. The costs liability. The interest expenses are recognized as other of inventories are determined using the weighted average Financial instruments financing expenses over the lease term. cost formula. Net realizable value is the estimated selling Regular purchases and sales of financial assets and liabilities price in the ordinary course of business, less the estimated are recognized on trade date, which is the date we commit Payments made under operating leases are recognized cost of completion and selling expenses. to purchase or sell the asset. The initial measurement of all in the statement of income on a straight-line basis over financial instruments is fair value. Except for derivatives, the the term of the lease. Lease incentives received are Equity (Note 13) initial measurement of financial instruments is adjusted for recognized over the term of the lease. When share capital recognized as equity is repurchased, the directly attributable transaction costs. Below, the accounting amount of the consideration paid, which includes directly policies for financial instruments are explained, relating to the Associates and joint ventures (Note 18) attributable cost, is net of any tax effects, and is recognized following categories: Associates are those entities in which we have significant as a deduction from equity. Dividends are recognized as a influence, but no control, over the financial and operational liability in the period in which they are declared. • Derivative financial instruments policies. Joint ventures are those entities over whose • Other financial non-current assets activities we have joint control, established by contractual Provisions (Note 15) • Trade and other receivables agreement and requiring unanimous consent for strategic, We recognize provisions when a present legal or • Cash and cash equivalents financial and operating decisions. constructive obligation as a result of a past event exists, • Long-term and short-term borrowings and it is probable that an outflow of economic benefits is • Trade and other payables Associates and joint ventures are accounted for using the required to settle the obligation. Provisions are measured equity method and are initially recognized at cost. The at net present value and take into account legal fees. Derivative financial instruments (Note 22) consolidated financial statements include our share of the The expected future cash outflows are discounted at Derivative financial instruments include forward exchange income and expenses of the associates and joint ventures appropriate pre-tax interest rates, reflecting current market contracts, interest rate derivatives and commodity contracts, for the period that we have significant influence or joint assessments of the time value of money and, if applicable, as well as non-closely related embedded derivatives control, whereby the result is determined using our the risks specific to the liability. The increase of provisions included in normal business contracts. All derivative accounting principles. When the share of losses exceeds the as a result of the passage of time is recognized in the financial instruments are recognized at fair value on the interest in the investee, the carrying amount is reduced to statement of income under other financing expenses. balance sheet. nil and recognition of further losses is discontinued, unless Provisions for restructuring are recognized when a detailed 118 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Fair values are derived from market prices and quotes from Trade and other receivables (Note 11) Trade and other payables (Note 18) dealers and brokers, or are estimated using observable Trade and other receivables are measured at amortized Trade and other payables are measured at amortized cost, market inputs. Forward exchange and commodity cost, using the effective interest method, less any using the effective interest method. contracts are reported under trade and other receivables, impairment loss. An allowance for impairment of trade or under trade and other payables. and other receivables is established if the collection of a New IFRS accounting standards receivable becomes doubtful. IFRSs and interpretations thereof not yet in force Changes in the fair value of forward exchange and have been assessed for their potential impact on our commodity contracts are recognized in the statement Such receivable becomes doubtful when there is objective consolidated financial statements for 2013 and beyond. of income, unless cash flow hedge accounting or net evidence that we will not be able to collect all amounts investment hedge accounting is applied. In that case, the due according to the original terms of the receivables. Amendments to IAS 19, Employee benefits effective part of the fair value changes is deferred in other Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability The amendments to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” have comprehensive income and released to the related specific that the debtor will enter into bankruptcy or financial become effective as of January 1, 2013 and will be applied lines in the statement of income or balance sheet at the reorganization, and default or delinquency in payments in our 2013 financial reports. The amendments include the same time as the hedged item. are considered indicators that the receivable is impaired. requirement that actuarial gains and losses are recognized The amount of the allowance is the difference between in other comprehensive income, thus removing the corridor Interest rate derivatives are reported under other financial the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of method which we have applied so far. In addition, the non-current assets or long-term borrowings. The changes estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original expected return on plan assets recognized in the statement in fair value of interest derivatives are recognized in effective interest rate. An impairment loss is recognized in of income is calculated based on the rate used to discount financing income and expenses, where the effective part is the statement of income, as are subsequent recoveries of the defined benefit obligation, instead of applying an offset by the fair value changes attributable to the hedged previous impairments. expected rate of return on plan assets, as is required up risk of the underlying fixed rate bond, in the event fair value until our financial statements 2012. hedge accounting is applied. Cash and cash equivalents (Note 12) Cash and cash equivalents include all cash balances As from 2013, we will recognize administration costs as Both at the hedge inception and at each reporting date, and short-term highly liquid investments that are directly expense as incurred with the exception that administration we assess whether the derivatives used are highly effective convertible into cash. Cash and cash equivalents are costs related to the management of plan assets will be in offsetting changes in fair values or highly probable cash measured at fair value. recorded in other comprehensive income. In addition, past flows of hedged items. When a derivative is not highly service costs will be recognized in the statement of income effective, we discontinue hedge accounting prospectively. Long-term and short-term borrowings in full as incurred. In the event a fair value hedge relationship is terminated, (Notes 16, 17, 22) amortization of fair value hedge adjustments is included in Long-term borrowings are measured at amortized cost, We have made a preliminary assessment of the effect of the financing income and expense. When a cash flow hedge applying the effective interest rate method unless fair value implementation of these amendments on our consolidated relationship is terminated, the fair value changes deferred interest rate hedging is applied. In that case the carrying financial statements for 2012. The outcome of this in other comprehensive income (in equity) are released to amount is adjusted for the fair value changes caused by preliminary assessment is disclosed in Note 14. the statement of income only when the hedged transaction the hedged risk. Short-term borrowings are measured is no longer expected to occur. Otherwise these will be at amortized cost, using the effective interest method. released to the statement of income at the same time as The interest expense on borrowings is included in other the hedged item. financing expenses. Other financial non-current assets (Note 9) The fair value of borrowings, used for disclosure purposes, is Loans and receivables are measured at amortized determined on the basis of listed market price, if available. If a cost using the effective interest method, less any listed market price is not available, the fair value is calculated impairment losses. based on the present value of principal and interest cash flows, discounted at the interest at the reporting date. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 119 Other new IFRS accounting standards Endorsed by the Standard Published Implementation date in the standard European Union Anticipated impact IFRS 9 November 12, 2009 and January 1, 2015, earlier adoption permitted Postponed IFRS 9 introduces new requirements for classifying and measuring financial assets and Financial subsequent amendments on liabilities. This standard encompasses an overall change of accounting principles for Intruments December 16, 2011 financial instruments and will eventually replace IAS 39 – the current standard on financial instruments. As its scope will be further expanded during the next years, we will review the effects of a comprehensive standard on financial instruments and consider adoption when appropriate. Amendments to IAS 32 December 16, 2011 January 1, 2014 December 29, 2012 These amendments clarify that the right to offset must not be contingent on a future Financial Instruments: Presenevent; and must be legally enforceable. We will assess the effect of this standard on our tation – Offsetting Financial consolidated financial statements during 2013. Assets and Financial Liabilities IFRS 10 May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 This standard addresses the accounting of joint arrangements and eliminates proportionate Consolidated Financial postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier consolidation. As we do not apply this method, there is no impact on our consolidated Statements adoption permitted financial statements from the elimination of proportionate consolidation. We will assess any further effect of this standard on our consolidated financial statements during 2013. IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 This standard addresses the accounting of joint arrangements and eliminates proportionate postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier consolidation. As we do not apply this method, there is no impact on our consolidated adoption permitted financial statements from the elimination. IFRS 12 Disclosure of Interests May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 This standard contains the disclosure requirements for interests in subsidiaries, joint in Other Entities postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier ventures, associates and other unconsolidated interests. It may affect some disclosures in adoption permitted our consolidated financial statements. IFRS 13 Fair Value May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013 December 29, 2012 IFRS 13 replaces the fair value measurement guidance contained in existing IFRS with Measurement a single source of fair value measurement guidance. Except for certain pension plan assets, this standard is not expected to materially impact our consolidated financial statements. In 2013 we will assess the final effect of this standard on our consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 27, May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 These amendments address the requirements for separate financial statements (which are Separate Financial Statements postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier not the company financial statements). As we do not prepare separate financial statements, adoption permitted this standard is not applicable. Amendments to IAS 28, May 12, 2011 January 1, 2013; under EU endorsement December 29, 2012 These amendments address the criteria and measurement of associates and joint Investments in Associates postponed to January 1, 2014, with earlier ventures that qualify as held for sale. It is not expected to materially affect our and Joint Ventures adoption permitted consolidated financial statements. Amendments to IAS 1, June 16, 2011 January 1, 2013 June 5, 2012 These amendments concern a requirement to group items presented in other Presentation of Financial comprehensive income on the basis of potential reclassification to profit or loss. Statements As the amendments do not address which items are presented in other comprehensive income, they will only affect the order of items in the disclosures in our consolidated financial statements. 120 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 2 Note 2: Scope of consolidation In early 2012, we acquired 100 percent of Boxing OleoRecognized values at acquisition chemicals in Specialty Chemicals – the leading supplier of nitrile amines and derivatives in China and throughout Other Asia. On December 28, 2012, we completed the divestIn € millions Boxing acquisitions Total ment of Chemicals Pakistan, which was subsequently Goodwill 48 10 58 deconsolidated. This divestment resulted in a loss of €36 Other intangible assets 27 (3) 24 million, due to foreign currency translation differences in Property, plant and equipment 29 2 31 equity which need to be transferred to the statement of Inventories 17 3 20 income at divestment. Trade and other receivables 18 6 24 Cash and cash equivalents 10 – 10 The acquisitions in 2012 both individually and in total, Provisions – (1) (1) were deemed immaterial in respect of IFRS 3 disclosure Deferred tax assets/(liabilities) (7) 4 (3) requirements. Pre-acquisition carrying amounts were Long-term borrowings (3) – (3) not gathered. Revenue in 2012 was impacted by Trade and other payables (34) – (34) acquisitions for an amount of €236 million. Net identifiable assets and liabilities 105 21 126 Recognized in the statement of income – – – In 2012, the scope of consolidation for the Consolidated Consideration paid 105 21 126 financial statements encompassed 396 companies Cash and cash equivalents acquired (10) – (10) (2011: 435). Of this number, 9 companies were first-time To be paid in 2013 and later years (26) (1) (27) consolidations (2011: 15). Since the beginning of 2012, Payments related to previous years – 5 5 48 companies were deconsolidated due to divestment, Net cash outflow 69 25 94 merger, liquidation or immateriality (2011: 36). Firsttime consolidations in 2012 comprised 4 companies in conjunction with the acquisition of Boxing. Changes in scope of consolidation We have filed a list of subsidiaries and associated North Latin Asia Other companies, drawn up in conformity with sections 379 Number of subsidiaries 2011 Europe America America Pacific countries 2012 and 414 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, with Consolidated companies as of 456 243 24 35 114 19 435 the Trade Registry of Amsterdam. January 1 First-time consolidations 15 4 – 1 4 – 9 Deconsolidations (36) (23) (2) (7) (15) (1) (48) Consolidated as of December 31 435 224 22 29 103 18 396 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 121 Assets and liabilities held for sale Discontinued operations In € millions 2012 In € millions 2011 2012 Property, plant and equipment 187 Revenue 1,094 1,190 Intangible assets 377 Expenses (1,200) (1,255) Other assets 357 Impairment – (372) Total assets 921 Results from operating activities (106) (437) Total non-current liabilities 117 Income tax 39 20 Total current liabilities 193 Results from operating activities after tax (67) (417) Total liabilities 310 Results related to discontinued operations in previous years (3) (16) Tax related to discontinued operations in previous years 11 (3) Profit for the period/(loss) (59) (436) Discontinued operations In December 2012, we announced the divestment of the North American Decorative Paints business. The operating results for 2012 were a loss of €417 million after taxes. This Cash flows from discontinued operations In € millions 2011 2012 includes the goodwill impairment charge of €372 million, recorded in the third quarter of 2012. We assessed the Net cash from operating activities (73) (27) carrying value of the assets of Decorative Paints North Net cash from investing activities (23) (26) America in light of the divestments and concluded that no Net cash from financing activities – – impairment is necessary. Net cash from discontinued operations (96) (53) For 2012, we also incurred €19 million related to further settlements and tax-related costs from the divestments of businesses (Organon BioSciences, ICI businesses we acquired for resale to Henkel, National Starch) in previous years. 122 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 3 Note 3: Operating income Costs per category 2011 2012 Employee Employee In € millions benefits Amortization Depreciation Incidentals benefits Amortization Depreciation Incidentals Cost of sales (935) (9) (314) (50) (996) (6) (339) (118) Impairment – – – – – – – (2,106) Selling expenses (989) (98) (58) (64) (1,097) (118) (78) (135) General and administrative expenses (611) (30) (35) (24) (724) (30) (38) (93) Research and development expenses (230) (7) (14) (9) (247) (8) (18) (12) Other operating income/(expenses) – – – 21 – – – (56) Subtotal (2,765) (144) (421) (126) (3,064) (162) (473) (2,520) Discontinued operations – (26) (30) – – (26) (30) – Total (2,765) (170) (451) (126) (3,064) (188) (503) (2,520) Incidental items Employee benefits income In 2012, we incurred higher restructuring costs mainly in mature markets, as we implement the performance Salaries, wages and other employee benefits in At year-end 2012, we employed 50,610 staff for ongoing improvement program. Restructuring activities are ongoing operating income activities (year-end 2011: 52,020 employees). The net across the businesses, but in particular, we stepped up increase was due to: restructuring in the European businesses in Decorative Paints. In € millions 2011 2012 Salaries and wages (2,106) (2,354) • A net decrease of 540 due to acquisitions and In 2011, the incidental gains and losses related, besides Pension and other post-retirement cost (247) (294) divestments, mainly from the Boxing acquisition restructuring charges of €129 million, mainly to results Other social charges (412) (416) (620 employees) and the divestment of Chemicals from acquisitions and divestments (Schramm, Boxing) Total (2,765) (3,064) Pakistan (1,100 employees). and a release from an antitrust provision. • A decrease of 1,450 employees due to ongoing restructuring. • An increase of 580 employees, mainly due to new Revenue and cost by nature Employees hires in high growth markets. In € millions 2011 2012 Average number during the year 2011 2012 The average number of employees working outside Revenue 14,604 15,390 Decorative Paints 17,100 17,200 the Netherlands was 47,100 (2011: 46,100). Variable selling cost (712) (709) Performance Coatings 21,300 21,700 Materials and energy (7,193) (7,552) Specialty Chemicals 11,300 11,800 Amortization & Depreciation (565) (635) Corporate and other 1,400 1,500 Employee benefits (2,765) (3,064) Total 51,100 52,200 Impairment – (2,106) Other (2,224) (2,568) Operating income 1,145 (1,244) AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 123 Share-based compensation The shares of the series 2009-2011 have vested and were The fair value of the performance-related share plan Share-based compensation relates to the performancedelivered to the participants in 2012. at grant date is amortized as a charge against income related share plan. Charges recognized in the 2012 over the three-year vesting period. The fair value was statement of income for share-based compensation The conditional shares vested in 2012 as follows: €38.79 per performance-related share (without a holding amounted to €43 million and are included in salaries • our TSR performance over 2010-2012 series resulted restriction) conditionally granted in 2012 (2011: €46.91). and wages (2011: €32 million). Under the performancein an 11th position within the ranking of the peer related share plan, a number of conditional shares are group companies. This did not result in vesting of The share price of a common AkzoNobel share at granted to the members of the Board of Management, conditional shares year-end 2012 amounted to €49.75 (2011: €37.36). members of the Executive Committee and executives • the average position in the DJSI benchmark resulted each year. The number of participants of the performancein a 1.67th position within the ranking For further details on our performance-related share related share plan at year-end 2012 was 656 (2011: 636). plan, refer to the Remuneration report. As a result, the conditional shares of the 2010-2012 The conditional grant of shares is linked for 50 percent series vested for 66.67 percent (series 2009-2011: to the ranking of the company in the Dow Jones 62.5 percent), including dividend shares of 10.42 percent, Sustainability Indexes and the remaining 50 percent to the final vesting percentage amounted to 73.61 percent the relative TSR performance of the company compared (series 2009-2011: 69.80 percent). with a peer group. As from the series 2011-2013, the grant is linked for 50 percent to the Sustainable Asset Management (SAM) benchmark. Performance-related shares Balance per Balance at Vested on January 1, Granted in Vested in Forfeited in Dividend in December January 1, Series 2012 2012 2012 2012 2012 1 31, 2012 2013 2009 – 2011 755,484 – (755,484) – – – – 2010 – 2012 780,400 2,234 – (274,637) 29,003 537,000 537,000 2011 – 2013 866,104 1,214 – (8,100) 32,121 891,339 – 2012 – 2014 – 1,043,250 – (7,895) 38,929 1,074,284 – Total 2,401,988 1,046,698 (755,484) (290,632) 100,053 2,502,623 537,000 1 Equivalent in shares related to accumulated dividend, which is included in the balances on balance sheet date. 124 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 4 Note 4: Financing income and expenses Stock option plans For stock options exercised during 2012, the weighted Financing income and expenses Prior to 2008, performance-related stock options were average of the actual share price at date of exercise In € millions 2011 2012 granted to members of the Board of Management and amounted to €43.21 (2011: €49.71). A number of Financing income 57 59 executives. We have not purchased own shares in 0.5 million of outstanding stock options are non-dilutive Financing expenses (302) (239) connection with the stock option plan. the stock options but could potentially dilute basic earnings per share in Net interest on net debt (245) (180) are equity-settled and all exercisable. the future. Other interest movements Financing expenses related to pensions (57) (65) Stock options Interest on provisions (46) (29) Outstanding Outstanding Other items 12 7 Exercise per January Exercised in Expired in Forfeited in at December Net other financing charges (91) (87) Year of issue price in € 1, 2012 2012 2012 2012 31, 2012 Expiry date Net financing expenses (336) (267) 2002 46.53 107,250 – (107,250) – – April 25, 2012 2005 31.98 202,760 (202,135) (625) – – April 24, 2012 2006 46.46 397,478 (39,842) – – 357,636 April 26, 2013 Net financing charges for the year decreased by 2007 58.89 496,489 – – – 496,489 April 26, 2014 €69 million from €336 million to €267 million. Significant variances are: Total 1,203,977 (241,977) (107,875) – 854,125 • Financing expenses on net debt decreased by €63 million to €239 million (2011: €302 million) mainly Number and weighted average exercise price due to a reported loss of €67 million on buy-back of stock options bonds in December 2011 Weighted • Interest on provisions decreased by €17 million to Number of average exercise €29 million (2011: €46 million) due to higher discount options price in € rates applied in 2012 Balance at January 1, 2011 1,611,181 45.80 • Financing expenses related to pensions increased by Forfeited during the period (12,205) 47.69 €8 million to €65 million (2011: €57 million) due to lower Exercised during the period (394,999) 35.53 expected return on assets Balance at December 31, 2011 1,203,977 49.15 • Other items decreased by €5 million to €7 million (2011: Expired during the period (107,875) 46.45 €12 million), mainly explained by lower interest on Exercised during the period (241,977) 34.36 discounted long term receivables (€3 million) Balance at December 31, 2012 854,125 53.69 A reduction of €8 million (2011: €4 million) was included in the interest expenses of capital investment projects under construction. The average interest rate used for capitalization of these borrowing costs was 6.1 percent. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 125 5 Note 5: Income tax Pre-tax income from continued operations amounted to a adjustments to prior years and by tax-exempt gains, Deferred tax assets and liabilities loss of €1,498 million (2011: profit €833 million). The net the main one being a release of an antitrust provision. In In the deferred tax asset for other provisions (€326 million), tax charges related to continuing operations are included addition, the geographical mix of taxable income affected an amount of €189 million (2011: €213 million) is related in the statement of income as follows: the tax burden. to interest expense carried forward. From the total amount of recognized net deferred tax assets, €527 million (2011: The impact of non-refundable withholding tax is dependent €513 million) is related to entities that have suffered a Classification of current and deferred tax result on the relative share of our profit from countries that levy loss in either 2012 or 2011 in the tax jurisdiction to which withholding tax on dividends and on the timing of the a deferred tax asset relates, and where utilization is In € millions 2011 2012 remittance of such dividends. This relative share is expected dependent on future taxable profit in excess of the profit Current tax expense for to increase in the coming years. Based on the Dutch arising from the reversal of existing taxable temporary The year (229) (257) tax system there is only a limited credit for such taxes. differences. Deferred tax assets not recognized on the Adjustments for prior years 9 31 The impact for 2012 is exceptionally high because of an balance sheet are partly related to capital losses which (220) (226) anticipated extraordinary dividend. cannot be offset against operational taxable profits. Deferred tax expense for Origination and reversal of temporary (21) 51 Effective consolidated tax rate Income tax recognized directly in equity differences and tax losses Changes in tax rates 7 (2) in % 2011 2012 In € millions 2011 2012 Tax losses recognized or unrecognized 1 5 Corporate tax rate in the Netherlands 25.0 25.0 Current tax for (13) 54 Effect of different tax rates in 3.9 3.8 Currency exchange differences on (3) 4 Total (233) (172) certain countries intercompany loans of a permanent Tax exempt income/non-deductible 0.2 3.2 nature expenses (3) 4 The total tax charge, including discontinued operations Non-taxable income from investment in (0.7) (0.7) was €155 million (2011:€183 million). associates and joint ventures Deferred tax for Changes in enacted tax rates (0.9) 0.4 Share-based compensation (3) – Effective tax rate reconciliation (reductions in tax rate) Hedge accounting 17 (1) The effective income tax rate based on the consolidated Recognition of previously unrecognized (0.1) (0.8) Currency exchange differences on (5) 2 tax losses statement of income is 11 percent negative. It is negative intercompany loans of a permanent Current year losses for which no 0.3 1.5 nature because a tax charge was recorded despite a loss deferred tax asset was recognized incurred for the period, mainly attributable to the largely 9 1 Current year profits for which no 0.0 (0.2) non-tax-deductible impairment charges. Total 6 5 deferred tax asset was recognized Under/(over)-provided in prior years (1.1) (5.1) Excluding the impairment loss on intangibles of Non-refundable withholding taxes 1.4 4.7 €2,106 million, pre-tax income totaled a profit of Other – (0.1) Unrecognized deferred tax assets €608 million. The tax expense excluding the impairment Effective consolidated tax rate1 28.0 31.7 In € millions 2011 2012 of intangibles amounted to €193 million, thus resulting Capital losses 268 267 in an effective consolidated tax rate of 31.7 percent. 1 Excluding impairment. Tax losses 23 21 The effective tax rate in 2012 was affected by several Deductible temporary differences 124 123 adjustments to prior years. In addition, the geographical mix of taxable income affected the tax charge. The Total 415 411 effective tax rate in 2011 was affected by several 126 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 The loss carryforward recognized in the balance sheet and its usage in the coming years has a decreasing impact on the cash tax rate in coming years. Loss carryforwards recognized in the balance sheet In € millions 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Later Unlimited Total Total loss carryforwards 821 20 31 50 66 326 2,150 3,464 Loss carryforwards not recognized in (751) (7) (13) (26) (38) (7) (16) (858) deferred tax assets Total 70 13 18 24 28 319 2,134 2,606 Movement in deferred tax in 2011 Net balance Changes in Net balance January 1, exchange Acquisitions/ Recognized Recognized in December In € millions 2011 rates divestments in income equity 31, 2011 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets (713) (5) (19) 36 – (701) 61 762 Property, plant and equipment (96) 1 (4) 5 – (94) 62 156 Inventories 28 – – 1 – 29 33 4 Trade and other receivables 2 1 2 9 – 14 31 17 Share-based payments 11 – – 4 (3) 12 12 – Provisions for post-retirement benefits 134 (1) – (77) – 56 247 191 Restructuring provisions 14 – – 1 – 15 15 – Other provisions 331 8 – (26) – 313 345 32 Other items 150 1 – 15 12 178 194 16 Net operating loss carryforwards 752 27 5 55 – 839 839 – Deferred tax assets not recognized (408) (14) – 7 – (415) (415) – Tax assets/liabilities 205 18 (16) 30 9 246 1,424 1,178 Set-off of tax – – – – – – (611) (611) Net deferred taxes 205 18 (16) 30 9 246 813 567 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 127 Movement in deferred tax in 2012 Net balance Changes in AcquisiNet balance January 1, exchange tions/divestRecognized Recognized Held for December In € millions 2012 rates ments in income in equity sale 31, 2012 Assets Liabilities Intangible assets (701) 12 (6) 65 – 83 (547) 71 618 Property, plant and equipment (94) – 10 28 – 9 (47) 84 131 Inventories 29 – – – – (5) 24 27 3 Trade and other receivables 14 – – 9 – (2) 21 26 5 Share-based payments 12 – – 3 – – 15 15 – Provisions for post-retirement benefits 56 (7) – (133) – (11) (95) 223 318 Restructuring provisions 15 – – 14 – (2) 27 28 1 Other provisions 313 (4) – (25) – (7) 277 320 43 Other items 178 (2) – 9 – (4) 181 214 33 Net operating loss carryforwards 839 (1) (1) 105 1 – 943 943 – Deferred tax assets not recognized (415) 9 1 (6) – – (411) (411) – Tax assets/liabilities 246 7 4 69 1 61 388 1,540 1,152 Set-off of tax – – – – – – – (710) (710) Net deferred taxes 246 7 4 69 1 61 388 830 442 128 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 6 Note 6: Intangible assets Intangible assets Customer Other In € millions Goodwill Brands lists intangibles Total Balance at January 1, 2011 Acquisition cost 4,834 2,465 1,168 452 8,919 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 46 46 Accumulated amortization/impairment (1,015) (142) (349) (151) (1,657) Carrying value 3,819 2,323 819 347 7,308 Movements in 2011 Acquisitions through business combinations 49 10 74 15 148 Other investments – including internally developed intangibles 1 – – 54 55 Amortization1 – (18) (107) (45) (170) Changes in exchange rates (4) 39 7 9 51 Total movements 46 31 (26) 33 84 Balance at December 31, 2011 Acquisition cost 4,890 2,514 1,256 431 9,091 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 141 141 Accumulated amortization/impairment (1,025) (160) (463) (192) (1,840) Carrying value at year-end 2011 3,865 2,354 793 380 7,392 Movements in 2012 Acquisitions through business combinations 58 1 16 7 82 Other investments – including internally developed intangibles (6) – – 79 73 Transfer assets held for sale (96) (180) (76) (25) (377) Divestments (40) – (2) (1) (43) Impairment (2,450) (27) (6) – (2,483) Amortization1 – (19) (112) (57) (188) Changes in exchange rates 21 (11) (18) 6 (2) Total movements (2,513) (236) (198) 9 (2,938) Balance at December 31, 2012 Acquisition cost 4,102 2,226 1,030 445 7,803 Cost of internally developed intangibles – – – 166 166 Accumulated amortization/impairment (2,750) (108) (435) (221) (3,514) Carrying value at year-end 2012 1,352 2,118 595 389 4,454 1 Including Decorative Paints North America. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 129 Goodwill and other intangibles per segment Brands with indefinite Other intangibles with finite Goodwill useful lives useful lives Total intangibles In € millions 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Decorative Paints 2,079 17 1,904 1,881 453 398 4,436 2,296 Performance Coatings 678 686 – – 354 330 1,032 1,016 Specialty Chemicals 655 649 25 – 493 493 1,173 1,142 Discontinued operations 453 – – – 298 – 751 – Total 3,865 1,352 1,929 1,881 1,598 1,221 7,392 4,454 Average revenue growth rates per forecast period Dulux is the major brand with an indefinite useful life, • Revenue growth: based on actual experience, In % per year 2013-2017 2018-2022 due to its global presence, high recognition and strategic an analysis of market growth and the expected Decorative Paints 5.2 4.0 nature. Other intangibles include licenses, knowdevelopment of market share how, intellectual property rights, emission rights and • Margin development: based on actual experience Performance Coatings 5.1 3.1 development cost. Both at year-end 2012 and 2011, there and management’s long-term projections Specialty Chemicals 4.8 2.5 were no purchase commitments for individual intangible assets. No intangible assets were registered as security for Revenue growth and margin development projections bank loans. are extrapolated beyond this five-year explicit forecast period for another five years with reduced growth rates. Impairment Goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite useful lives For virtually all business units, a terminal value was are tested for impairment per business unit (one level calculated using a long-term average market growth rate below segment level) in the fourth quarter or whenever an that did not exceed 2 percent. The estimated pre-tax cash impairment trigger exists. The economic circumstances flows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax triggered an impairment test in Q3. We have undertaken weighted average cost of capital. The discount rates a prudent review, excluding restructuring effects, of are determined for each business unit and range from the balance sheet, taking into account lower expected 8.6 percent to 14.3 percent, with a weighted average growth rates. This has resulted in a non-cash impairment of 9.9 percent. charge against our Decorative Paint assets, primarily in Europe. In Europe, we recognized an impairment charge Reducing growth assumptions by 50 percent maintains of €1,948 million and in South America €158 million. The comfortable headroom in all businesses, except for those total of €2,106 million is disclosed on a separate line in which were impaired. We have calculated the sensitivity the consolidated statement of income. The impairment for 50 percent lower growth or a one percentage of Decorative Paints North America of €372 million is point higher discount rate. The combined effect of included in results from discontinued operations. the Decorative Paints businesses in Europe and Latin America would result in a recoverable amount around The impairment test is based on cash flow projections €180 million to €375 million below the carrying amount. of the five-year plan. The key assumptions used in the projections are: 130 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 7 Note 7: Property, plant and equipment Property, plant and equipment Capital expenditures • In Decorative Paints, we are investing to expand our Construction production capacity to meet the growing demand of Plant in progress Assets not China’s western region equipment and used in the Buildings and Other prepayments production • In Performance Coatings, we are investing in multiple In € millions and land machinery equipment on projects process Total projects, with the largest being the increase in the production capacity of our Automotive and Aerospace Balance at January 1, 2011 Coatings business in China to meet rising demand Cost of acquisition 2,254 5,654 664 279 33 8,884 • In Specialty Chemicals, we are investing in facilities Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,059) (3,908) (508) – (25) (5,500) being built in Brazil to supply the world’s largest pulp mill Carrying value 1,195 1,746 156 279 8 3,384 in Eldorado as well as a pulp mill in Suzano. We are also Movements in 2011 investing in Ningbo, China, and in our chlorine plant in Acquisitions through business combinations 42 27 6 1 – 76 Frankfurt, Germany, to convert to membrane electrolysis Divestments (26) (1) (1) (1) (1) (30) technology Capital expenditures 110 365 81 151 1 708 Impairments Transfer between categories – (7) 9 (2) – – In 2012, impairment charges have been recognized for an Depreciation 1 (80) (313) (57) – (1) (451) amount of €34 million (2011: €8 million). The impairment Impairment (2) (6) – – – (8) charges have been recognized in the cost of sales. The Changes in exchange rates 4 21 – – 1 26 impairment charges related to restructuring activities in, Total movements 48 86 38 149 – 321 among others, the US, Germany, Mexico and Italy. Balance at December 31, 2011 Cost of acquisition 2,330 5,906 750 428 28 9,442 Commitments Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,087) (4,074) (556) – (20) (5,737) The carrying value of the property, plant and equipment Carrying value at year-end 2011 1,243 1,832 194 428 8 3,705 financed by hire purchase and leasing and not legally owned by the company was €52 million (2011: €9 million) Movements in 2012 which is related to buildings and land, €1 million Acquisitions through business combinations 7 19 1 4 – 31 to plant and equipment and machinery. Purchase Transfer to assets held for sale (82) (88) – (15) (2) (187) commitments for property, plant and equipment totaled Divestments 5 (64) (5) (22) 1 (85) €89 million (2011: €49 million). Capital expenditures 62 327 91 371 1 852 Transfer between categories 31 64 2 (100) 3 – Depreciation 1 (89) (345) (68) – (1) (503) Impairment (10) (11) (6) (5) (2) (34) Changes in exchange rates (10) (14) 5 (21) – (40) Total movements (86) (112) 20 212 – 34 Balance at December 31, 2012 Cost of acquisition 2,295 5,943 818 648 30 9,734 Accumulated depreciation/impairment (1,138) (4,223) (604) (8) (22) (5,995) Carrying value at year-end 2012 1,157 1,720 214 640 8 3,739 1 Including Decorative Paints North America. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 131 8 Note 8: Investments in associates and joint ventures 9 Note 9: Other financial non-current assets At year-end 2012, the carrying value of investments in Other financial non-current assets associates amounted to €83 million (2011: €90 million) In € millions 2011 2012 and in joint ventures €102 million (2011: €108 million). Loans and receivables 294 287 Other than financial instruments 893 1,461 In 2012, the results from associates and joint ventures Total 1,187 1,748 amounted to a profit of €13 million (2011: €24 million). No significant contingent liabilities exist related to associates and joint ventures. The loans and receivables include the subordinated loan of €75 million granted to the ­­Pension Fund APF in The most significant associates and joint ventures of the Netherlands and the non-current part of an escrow AkzoNobel are: Metlac Holdings Brl (49 percent), Metlac account of the ­­AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension Scheme in the Spa (44 percent), Delesto B.V. (50 percent), Eka Chile SA UK amounting to €133 million, invested in bonds and (50 percent), Fort Amanda Specialties LLC (50 percent) cash. Under certain conditions, the minimum annual and I.C. Insurance Holdings Ltd (49 percent). funding of this pension fund from the escrow account is £25 million (€31 million). Summary of financial information on a 100 percent basis Other financial non-current assets include an amount of €1,292 million related to pension plans in an asset position Associates Joint ventures (2011: €712 million). In € millions 2011 2012 2011 2012 Condensed statement of income Revenue 113 126 673 545 Income before tax 15 18 39 14 Net income 10 12 29 9 Condensed balance sheet Current assets 101 116 191 183 Non-current assets 128 77 192 158 Total assets 229 193 383 341 Current liabilities 38 41 92 89 Non-current liabilities 29 28 79 49 Shareholders’ equity 162 124 212 203 Total liabilities and equity 229 193 383 341 132 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 10 Note 10: Inventories 11 Note 11: Trade and other receivables Of the total carrying value of inventories at year-end 2012, Trade and other receivables Allowance for impairment of trade receivables €50 million is measured at net realizable value (2011: In € millions 2011 2012 In € millions 2011 2012 €68 million). In 2012, €39 million was recognized in the Trade receivables 2,370 2,174 Opening balance 114 108 statement of income for the write-down of inventories Prepaid expenses 123 72 Additions charged to income 36 46 (2011: €25 million), while €28 million of write-downs were Tax receivables other than income tax 154 172 Release of unused amounts (14) (18) reversed (2011: €17 million). There are no inventories Receivables from associates and 39 31 Acquisition/divestment 6 (3) subject to retention of title clauses. joint ventures Utilization (32) (25) FX and commodity contracts 28 16 Transfer to assets held for sale – (6) Other receivables 223 233 Currency exchange differences (2) (2) Inventories Total 2,937 2,698 Closing balance 108 100 In € millions 2011 2012 Raw materials and supplies 649 519 Trade receivables are presented net of an allowance for The addition to and release of the allowance for Work in progress 91 81 impairment of €100 million (2011: €108 million). In 2012, impairment have been included in the statement of income Finished products and goods for resale 1,177 944 €46 million of impairment losses were recognized in the under selling expenses. Inventory prepayments 7 1 statement of income (2011: €36 million). Total 1,924 1,545 The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables Ageing of trade receivables mentioned above. We do not hold any collateral for trade receivables. We do not have a significant In € millions 2011 2012 customer concentration. Performing accounts receivable 2,092 1,903 Past due accounts receivables and not impaired < 3 months 227 226 3 – 6 months 10 11 6 – 9 months 4 – 9 – 12 months – – > 12 months 2 3 Impaired accounts receivables 143 131 Allowance for impairment (108) (100) Total trade receivables 2,370 2,174 With respect to the trade and other receivables that are neither impaired nor past due, there are no indications as of reporting date that the debtors will not meet their payment obligations. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 133 12 Note 12: Cash and cash flows 13 Note 13: Group equity Cash and cash equivalents Cash flow and net debt Composition of share capital at year-end Operating activities in 2012 resulted in a cash inflow of In € millions 2011 2012 Authorized Subscribed €737 ­million (2011: €396 ­million). The change is mainly In € share capital share capital Short-term investments 343 301 due to a net effect of: Priority shares (48 with nominal 19,200 19,200 Cash on hand and in banks 1,292 1,451 value of €400) Included under cash and cash 1,635 1,752 • Higher cash inflow from working capital, Cumulative preferred shares (200 400,000,000 – equivalents in the balance sheet which was mainly realized in Q4 million with nominal value of €2) Debt to credit institutions (300) (194) Common shares (600 million with 1,200,000,000 478,094,904 Total per cash flow statement 1,335 1,558 nominal value of €2) Partly offset by: Total 1,600,019,200 478,114,104 • Higher payments related to provisions Short-term investments almost entirely consist of cash (mainly in relation to pensions) loans, time deposits, marketable private borrowings and marketable securities immediately convertible into cash. For Net debt increased in 2012 to €2,298 million (2011: Outstanding common shares more information on credit risk management, see Note 22. €1,895 million) as higher cash flows from operating Number of shares 2011 2012 activities were more than offset by higher capital Outstanding at January 1 233,530,454 234,688,341 At December 31, 2012, an amount of €119 million in cash expenditures. Issued in connection to stock 1,157,887 4,359,111 and cash equivalents was restricted (2011: €125 million). options exercised and performance Restricted cash is defined as cash that cannot be accessed shares granted centrally due to regulatory or contractual restrictions. Balance at year-end 234,688,341 239,047,452 Changes in working capital Weighted average number of shares In € millions 2011 2012 Number of shares 2011 2012 Trade and other receivables (160) (18) Issued common shares at January 1 233,530,454 234,688,341 Inventories (210) 108 Issued common shares during the year 409,553 2,551,704 Trade and other payables 39 161 Shares for basic earnings per 233,940,007 237,240,045 Total (331) 251 share for the year Effect of potentially dilutive shares1 For stock options 73,906 12,233 Changes in provisions For performance-related shares 1,735,998 2,113,705 Shares for diluted earnings per share 235,749,911 239,365,983 In € millions 2011 2012 Pension provisions (403) (607) 1 All potentially dilutive shares are non-dilutive for 2012 due to the loss. Restructuring – 51 Other provisions (81) (132) Total (484) (688) 134 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Subscribed share capital Non-controlling interests For further details on subscribed share capital, see Note E in the company financial statements. 2011 2012 Equity stake Equity stake Other components of shareholders’ equity Group equity Partner % € mln % € mln Changes in fair value of derivatives comprise the effective Akzo Nobel Swire Paints Swire Pacific Limited, China 30.00 170 30.00 170 portion of the cumulative net change in the fair value (Shanghai) Limited, of cash flow hedging instruments related to hedged Shanghai, China transactions that have not yet occurred. Tax related Akzo Nobel India Ltd, Privately held, India 43.60 109 27.04 73 Kolkata, India to cash flow hedges was €1 million negative (2011: ICI Pakistan Limited, Privately held, Pakistan 24.19 50 – – €17 million positive). Karachi, Pakistan PT ICI Paints Indonesia, PT DWI Satrya Utama, Indonesia 45.00 44 45.00 38 Cumulative translation reserves comprise all foreign Jakarta, Indonesia exchange differences arising from the translation of ICI Paints (Malaysia) Sdn Privately held, Malaysia 40.05 32 40.05 33 the financial statements of foreign operations, as well Bhd, Kuala Lumpur, as from the translation of intercompany loans with Malaysia a permanent nature and liabilities and derivatives that Akzo Nobel Swire Paints Swire Pacific Limited, Industrial 46.00 26 46.00 36 hedge the net investments in a foreign subsidiary. (Guangzhou) Limited, Development Co. Ltd of Guanzhou, China China Tax related to exchange differences arising on translation International Paint Noroo Holdings, South Korea 40.00 20 40.00 24 of foreign operations were €6 million positive (2011: (Korea) Ltd, Busan, €8 million negative). South Korea Kayaku Akzo Corp, Nippon Kayaku Co., Ltd., Japan 25.00 12 25.00 10 Equity-settled transactions include the stock option Tokyo Japan program and the performance-related share plan Akzo Nobel Kemipol AS, Privately held, Turkey 49.00 9 49.00 14 Izmir, Turkey whereby options or shares are granted to the Board Marshall Boya, DilovasiMarshall Employees Foundation, 11.75 6 11.75 6 of Management and other executives. For details of Kocaeli, Turkey Privately held, Turkey the share-based compensation, see Note 3. Akzo Nobel Boya Sanayi Privately held, Turkey 25.00 5 25.00 6 ve Ticaret A.S. (PC), IAS 19 Izmir, Turkey As from 2013, the amended IAS 19 on pensions will Akzo Nobel Pakistan Privately held, Pakistan 24.19 16 become effective. Implementation of this amendment Limited will result in including the pension deficit in other Others 48 39 comprehensive income in shareholders’ equity. Total 531 465 The impact is disclosed in Note 14. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 135 14 Note 14: Post-retirement benefit provisions Post-retirement benefit provisions Movements in post-retirement benefit provisions Post-retirement benefits comprise defined benefit pensions Other postPensions retirement benefits Total and other post-retirement benefits, including healthcare or welfare plans. We have a number of defined benefit pension In € millions 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 plans. The largest pension plans are the ICI Pension Fund Defined benefit obligation and the AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension Scheme in the UK which Balance at beginning of year (14,171) (15,110) (394) (421) (14,565) (15,531) together account for 79 percent of our pension plan defined Acquisitions/divestments/transfers 9 34 – 3 9 37 benefit obligations. The benefits of these and other plans Curtailments – 9 – – – 9 are based primarily on years of service and employees’ Settlements 16 66 – – 16 66 compensation. The funding policy for the plans is consistent Past service cost (6) (18) (5) 1 (11) (17) with local requirements in the countries of establishment. Current service costs (51) (53) (6) (8) (57) (61) Obligations under the defined benefit plans are systemContribution by employees (4) (4) (2) (2) (6) (6) atically provided for by depositing funds with trustees Interest costs (725) (697) (18) (18) (743) (715) or separate foundations, under insurance policies, or by Benefits paid 919 1,024 31 31 950 1,055 balance sheet provisions. Plan assets principally consist Actuarial gains/(losses) (715) (1,411) (16) (1) (731) (1,412) of long-term interest-earning investments, quoted equity Changes in exchange rates (382) (304) (11) 7 (393) (297) securities and real estate. Valuations of the obligations Defined benefit obligation at year-end (15,110) (16,464) (421) (408) (15,531) (16,872) under the pension and other post-retirement plans are carried out regularly by independent qualified actuaries. Plan assets Balance at beginning of year 13,122 14,605 – – 13,122 14,605 We also provide certain healthcare and life insurance Acquisitions/divestments (6) (25) – – (6) (25) benefits to retired employees, mainly in the US and Settlements (16) (58) – – (16) (58) the Netherlands. We accrue for the expected costs Contribution by employer 502 738 29 29 531 767 of providing such post-retirement benefits during the Contribution by employees 4 4 2 2 6 6 service years of the employees. Benefits paid (919) (1,024) (31) (31) (950) (1,055) Expected return on plan assets 684 650 – – 684 650 In line with our pension risk management policy, in Actuarial gains/(losses) 840 158 – – 840 158 May 2012 a longevity swap was transacted with a third Changes in exchange rates 394 330 – – 394 330 party by the AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension Scheme. The Plan assets at year-end 14,605 15,378 – – 14,605 15,378 insurance contract covers €1.75 billion of UK pension Funded status (505) (1,086) (421) (408) (926) (1,494) liabilities relating to almost 17,000 current pensioners and their dependants and helps protect AkzoNobel Unrecognized net loss/(gain) 491 1,671 10 8 501 1,679 against future increases in life expectancy. Later in 2012 a program in the US was implemented, offering certain Unrecognized past service costs 5 3 (17) (11) (12) (8) deferred members payment of benefits as a lump sum Restriction on asset recognition (3) (8) – – (3) (8) in December 2012. This is expected to reduce employer Medicare receivable – – (4) (3) (4) (3) contribution requirements into those plans in future years. Net balance sheet provisions (12) 580 (432) (414) (444) 166 A number of smaller pension plans have been curtailed Recorded under during the year, including plans in Canada, South Africa Provisions for pensions and other (653) (634) (400) (348) (1,053) (982) and Pakistan. As a result of the announced Decorative post-retirement benefits Paints divestment in 2013, €51 million of post-retirement Other financial non-current assets 712 1,292 – – 712 1,292 balance sheet provisions with an associated funded Current portion (71) (69) (32) (24) (103) (93) status of €111 million are classified as held for sale at Held for sale – (9) – (42) – (51) the end of 2012. Total (12) 580 (432) (414) (444) 166 136 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 DBO at funded and unfunded pension plans Funded status in earlier years at December 31 Pensions Other post-retirement benefits In € millions 2011 2012 In € millions 2008 2009 2010 2008 2009 2010 Wholly or partly funded plans 14,812 16,116 Defined benefit obligation (11,468) (13,688) (14,171) (441) (393) (394) Unfunded plans 298 348 Plan assets 10,480 11,821 13,122 – – – Total 15,110 16,464 Funded status (988) (1,867) (1,049) (441) (393) (394) Actuarial gains and losses Pensions Other post-retirement benefits In € millions 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 Defined benefit obligation Due to experience (147) 331 (92) (98) 22 (5) 5 23 11 – Due to change in assumptions 1,624 (2,034) (158) (617) (1,433) 5 (12) (19) (27) (1) Plan assets Due to experience (1,445) 614 652 840 158 – – – – – Total 32 (1,089) 402 125 (1,253) – (7) 4 (16) (1) Net periodic costs Weighted average assumptions at year-end Other post-retireOther post-retirement Pensions ment benefits Pensions benefits In € millions 2011 2012 2011 2012 In % 2011 2012 2011 2012 Service costs for benefits earned during the period (51) (53) (6) (8) Pension benefit obligation Interest costs on defined benefit obligations (725) (697) (18) (18) Discount rate 4.6 3.9 4.4 3.5 Expected return on plan assets 684 650 – – Rate of compensation increase 3.7 3.4 Amortization of unrecognized net losses (31) (36) (2) – Amortization of past service costs (6) (17) (2) 6 Net periodic pension costs Change of restriction of asset recognition – (5) – – Discount rate 5.4 4.6 4.9 4.4 Settlement/curtailment gain 1 (7) – – Rate of compensation increase 4.6 3.7 Total (128) (165) (28) (20) Expected return on plan assets 5.3 4.3 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 137 The remaining plans primarily represent defined Plan assets At year-end 2012, an amount of £133 million contribution plans. This includes, among others, the The assumptions for the expected return on plan assets (€163 million; 2011: £143 million or €170 million) remained Pension Fund APF in the Netherlands. The ITP2 plan in were based on a review of the historical returns of the in an escrow account on behalf of the AkzoNobel (CPS) Sweden is financed through insurance with the Alecta asset classes in which the assets of the pension plans Pension Scheme in the UK. The present minimum annual insurance company and is classified as a multi-employer are invested. The historical returns on these asset classes funding of this pension fund from the escrow account is defined benefit plan. AkzoNobel does not have access were weighted based on the expected long-term allocation £25 million (€31 million). The current portion is included in to sufficient information from Alecta to enable a defined of the assets of the pension plans. trade and other receivables, and the non-current part in benefit accounting treatment and hence it is accounted other financial non-current assets. For the latter see also for as a defined contribution plan. Contributions in 2012 The primary objective with regard to the investment of Note 9. were €10 million (2011: €10 million). Alecta’s target funding pension plan assets is ensuring that each individual scheme ratio in 2012 was 140 percent although the actual ratio has sufficient funds available to satisfy future benefit Weighted average assumptions for the other postat September 2012 stood at 123 percent. There is also obligations. For this purpose so-called asset and liability retirement benefit plans were as follows: a small number of multi-employer plans in the US in management (ALM) studies are made periodically at each which AkzoNobel participates with annual contributions pension fund under responsibility of the fund managers. For totalling less than €1 million. These are also accounted each of the pension plans an appropriate mix is determined Assumed healthcare cost trend rates at year-end for as defined contribution plans. The expenses of plans on the basis of the outcome of these ALM studies, taking In %/year 2011 2012 classified as defined contribution plans in AkzoNobel into account the national rules and regulations. Healthcare cost trend rate assumed 6.6 5.9 totaled €180 million in 2012 (2011: €154 million). for next year Pension plan assets principally consist of long-term Rate to which the cost trend rate is 4.0 3.8 Interest costs on defined benefit obligations for both interest-earning investments, quoted equity securities and assumed to decline (the ultimate pensions and other post-retirement benefits together real estate. At year-end 2012 and 2011, plan assets did trend rate) with the expected return on plan assets in the net periodic not include financial instruments issued by the company, Year that the rate reaches the 2019–2030 2019–2032 costs table together comprise the net financing expenses nor any property occupied or other assets used by it. The ultimate trend rate on post-retirement benefits of €65 million (2011: weighted average pension plan asset allocation at year€59 million), see Note 4. end 2012 and 2011, and the target allocation for 2013 for Assumed healthcare cost trend rates can have a significant the pension plans by asset category are as follows: effect on the amounts reported for the healthcare plans. A one percentage point change in assumed healthcare Life expectancy cost trend rates would have the following effects: Plan asset allocation At December 31 Plan assets In years 2011 2012 at December 31 Target Sensitivity healthcare cost trends In % 2011 2012 2013 Currently aged 60 Equity securities 15 15 14–16 1% point 1% point Male 26.1 26.2 In € millions increase decrease Long-term interest earning 73 72 72–75 Female 28.5 28.7 (Increase)/decrease on total of service (1) 1 investments and interest cost Currently aged 45, at age 60 Real estate 2 2 1–2 (Increase)/decrease on post-retirement (14) 12 Male 27.2 27.3 Other 10 11 9–11 benefit obligations Female 29.5 29.9 Total 100 100 100 138 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 In the US, the Medicare Prescription Drug Improvement The amendments to IAS 19 “Employee Benefits” have and Modernization Act of 2003 introduced prescription become effective as of January 1, 2013 and will be applied drug benefits for retirees, as well as a federal subsidy in our 2013 financial reports. We have made a preliminary to sponsors of post-retirement healthcare plans, which assessment of the effect of the implementation of these both began on January 1, 2006. We have recognized amendments on our consolidated financial statements for this reimbursement right as an asset under other financial 2012, as follows in the table below. non-current assets, measured at fair value amounting to €3 million at year-end 2012 (year-end 2011: €4 million). Effect of the implementation of the amendment to IAS 19 Cash flows We expect to contribute €388 million to our defined benefit 2012 pension plans in 2013. This includes a top-up payment of In € millions 2012 restated £135 million (€165 million) for the ICI Pension Fund. For Consolidated statement of income other post-retirement benefit plans the contribution for Operating income (1,244) (1,198) 2013 is expected to be €26 million. Financing expenses related to pensions (65) (3) Income tax (172) (203) The figures in the table below are the estimated future Profit/(loss) for the period (2,106) (2,029) benefit payments to be paid from the plans to beneficiaries Attributable to over the next ten years. Shareholders of the company (2,169) (2,092) Non-controlling interests 63 63 Expected benefit payments Consolidated statement of comprehensive income Other postIn € millions Pensions retirement Actuarial gains and losses, and other items relating to – (1,298) post-retirement benefits 2013 978 27 Income tax relating to other comprehensive income – 249 2014 972 27 Other comprehensive income for the period 6 (1,043) 2015 975 27 Comprehensive income for the period (2,100) (3,072) 2016 979 27 Attributable to 2017 985 27 Shareholders of the company (2,146) (3,118) 2018 2022 4,985 128 Non-controlling interests 46 46 Balance sheet Deferred tax assets 830 1,144 Other financial non-current assets 1,748 1,297 Total post-retirement benefit provisions 1,126 2,140 Deferred tax liabilities 442 420 Shareholders’ equity 6,892 5,764 Non-controlling interests 465 464 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 139 15 Note 15: Other provisions 16 Note 16: Long-term borrowings Movements in other provisions Long-term borrowings In € millions 2011 2012 Restructuring Environmental In € millions of activities costs Other Total Debt issued 2,941 3,289 Balance at January 1, 2012 135 414 563 1,112 Debt to credit institutions 15 10 Additions made during the year 204 46 109 359 Other borrowings 79 89 Utilization (143) (33) (167) (343) Total 3,035 3,388 Amounts reversed during the year (9) (21) (23) (53) Unwind of discount 1 17 8 26 The amounts due within one year are presented under Acquisitions/divestments – 1 – 1 short-term borrowings. For details on the exposure to Transfer to assets held for sale (4) – (2) (6) interest rate and foreign currency risk, see Note 22. During Changes in exchange rates – – 1 1 2012, the average effective interest rate was 5.24 percent Balance at December 31, 2012 184 424 489 1,097 (2011: 6.22 percent). Non-current portion 42 368 325 735 Current portion 142 56 164 362 Debt issued Balance at December 31, 2012 184 424 489 1,097 In € millions 2011 2012 5 5/8 % 2003/13 ($500 million) 387 – 7 3/4 % 2008/14 (€825 million ) 822 823 7 1/4 % 2009/15 (€621 million) 634 630 8 % 2009/16 (£250 million) 297 305 Provisions for restructuring of activities Other provisions Provisions for restructuring of activities comprise Other provisions relate to a great variety of risks and 4 % 2011/18 (€800 million) 790 792 accruals for certain employee benefits and for costs commitments, including provisions for antitrust cases, 2 5/8 % 2012/22 (€750 million) – 739 which are directly associated with plans to exit or cease claims, other long-term employee benefits such as Other 11 – specific activities and closing down of facilities. For all long-service leave and jubilee payments. At year-end Total 2,941 3,289 restructuring provisions a detailed formal plan exists and 2012, the provision for antitrust cases amounted to the implementation of the plan has started or the plan €21 million (2011: €134 million), see Note 19. Folllowing has been announced before the balance sheet date. the judgment in the Metacrylates case by the General Aggregated maturities of long-term borrowings Most restructuring plans are expected to be completed Court in June 2012 we paid €113 million. In € millions 2014 – 2017 After 2017 within two years from the balance sheet date. For more Debt issued 1,758 1,531 information, see Note 3. The majority of the cash outflows related to other Debt to credit institutions 9 1 provisions are expected to be within one to five years. Other borrowings 44 45 Provisions for environmental costs In calculating the other provisions, a pre-tax discount Total 1,811 1,577 For details on environmental exposures, see Note 19. rate of on average 3 percent has been used. Current portion of provisions Current portion of post-retirement provisions (€93 million) and other provisions (€362 million) adds up to €455 million (2011: €551 million). 140 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 17 Note 17: Short-term borrowings 18 Note 18: Trade and other payables We have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit Short-term borrowings Trade and other payables facility originally expiring in 2016. In 2012 the maturity In € millions 2011 2012 of €1.7 billion of this facility has been extended with an Debt to credit institutions 300 194 In € millions 2011 2012 additional year to 2017. At year-end 2012 and 2011, this Suppliers 2,130 1,990 Current portion long-term borrowings 194 468 facility had not been drawn. At year-end 2012 and 2011, Amounts payable to employees 234 258 Total 494 662 none of the borrowings was secured by collateral. Derivatives 22 12 Taxes and social security contributions 227 230 In 2011, a bond was issued with a nominal amount of In 2012, bonds of $133 million and €26 million matured. Payable to customers 142 156 €800 million maturing December 2018 at a coupon of In December 2013 a bond totaling $0.5 billion will mature Dividends 30 19 4 percent. In 2012, a bond was issued with a nominal and is classified as a short-term borrowing. Payable to associates and joint 38 32 value of €750 million maturing in 2022 at a coupon rate of ventures 2.625 percent. We have US dollar and euro commercial paper programs Other liabilities 546 545 in place, which can only be used to the extent that the Total 3,369 3,242 Financial lease liabilities are included in other borrowings equivalent portion of the €1.8 billion multi-currency and aggregated €52 million. An amount of €6 million will revolving credit facility is not used. We had no commercial mature within one year and €17 million will mature in the paper outstanding at year-end 2012 and 2011. period 2014 through 2017 and €29 million after 2017. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 141 19 Note 19: Contingent liabilities and commitments Environmental matters Claims and litigations that the contingent liabilities materialize, they are typically We are confronted with substantial costs arising out AkzoNobel is – together with others – involved in civil paid over a number of years and the timing of such of environmental laws and regulations, which include proceedings initiated by Cartel Damages Claims HP SA/ payments cannot be predicted with confidence. obligations to eliminate or limit the effects on the NV before the Dortmund Court in Germany in relation While the outcome of said cases, claims and disputes environment of the disposal or release of certain wastes to the Hydrogen Peroxide infringement in the 1990’s. cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe, based or substances at various sites. Proceedings involving CDC Project 13 SA has initiated civil proceedings upon legal advice and information received, that the final environmental matters, such as the alleged discharge of against AkzoNobel and other companies before the outcome will not materially affect our consolidated financial chemicals or waste materials into the air, water, or soil, are Amsterdam District Court in relation to the Sodium position but could be material to our results of operations pending against us in various countries. In some cases Chlorate infringements in the 1990’s. These claims are or cash flows in any one accounting period. this concerns sites divested in prior years or derelict sites disputed. An appeal by the company is pending with belonging to companies acquired in the past. the General Court against the decision by the European Commitments Commission to impose fines on the company for violations Purchase commitments for property, plant and It is our policy to accrue and charge against earnings of EU competition laws regarding Heat Stabilizers. The equipment aggregated €89 million at year-end 2012 environmental clean-up costs when it is probable that Commission’s fine imposed for this case has been (2011: €49 million). a liability has materialized and an amount is reasonably provided for. estimable. These accruals are reviewed periodically and adjusted, if necessary, as assessments and clean-ups AkzoNobel has provided various indemnities and Maturity operational lease contracts proceed and additional information becomes available. guarantees in respect of past divestments to the relevant In € millions 2011 2012 Environmental liabilities can change substantially due to purchasers and their permitted assigns (if applicable), Payments due within one year 159 166 the emergence of additional information on the nature or which in general are capped in time and/or amount (in Payments between one and five years 358 354 extent of the contamination, the geological circumstances, proportion to the value received). In connection with the the necessity of employing particular methods of Organon BioSciences divestment to Schering-Plough, Payments due after more than five 197 199 years remediation, actions by governmental agencies or private AkzoNobel has limited its maximum exposure to claims Total 714 719 parties, or other factors. Cash expenditures often lag to €850 million. The provided guarantees and indemnities behind the period in which an accrual is recorded by a have varying maturity periods. AkzoNobel has received number of years. various claims under such indemnities and guarantees. In In the 2012 figures, €156 million is included for operational some instances, AkzoNobel has been named as a direct lease commitments of the North American Decorative As stated in Note 15, the provisions for environmental defendant despite the divestments. Paints business, which has been classified as held for costs accounted for in accordance with the aforesaid sale (payments due within one year €39 million, payments policies aggregated €424 million at year-end 2012 A number of other claims are pending, all of which are between one and five year €88 million and payments due (2011: €414 million). The provision has been discounted contested. We are also involved in disputes with tax after more than five years €29 million). using an average pre-tax discount rate of 2.9 percent authorities in several jurisdictions. (2011: 3.4 percent). While it is not feasible to predict the Guarantees related to investments in associates and outcome of all pending environmental exposures, it is Provisions are recognized when an outflow of economic joint ventures totaled €10 million (December 31, 2011: reasonably possible that there will be a need for future benefits for settlement is probable and the amount is €13 million). provisions for environmental costs which, in management’s reliably estimable. It should be understood that, in light opinion, based on information currently available, would of possible future developments, such as (a) potential not have a material effect on the company’s financial additional lawsuits, (b) possible future settlements, and (c) position but could be material to the company’s results rulings or judgments in pending lawsuits, certain cases of operations in any one accounting period. may result in additional liabilities and related costs. At this point in time, we cannot estimate any additional amount of loss or range of loss in excess of the recorded amounts with sufficient certainty to allow such amount or range of amounts to be meaningful. Moreover, if and to the extent 142 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 20 Note 20: Related party transactions We purchased and sold goods and services to various During 2012, we considered the members of the Executive related parties in which we hold a 50 percent or less equity Committee and the Supervisory Board to be the key interest (investment in associates and joint ventures). Such management personnel as defined in IAS 24 “Related transactions were conducted at arm’s length with terms parties”. For details on their remuneration, as well as on comparable to transactions with third parties. In 2012, shares and options held by members of the Supervisory a significant related party transaction was a €115 million Board or Board of Management, see Note 21. In the gas supply (2011: €204 million) by the company to ordinary course of business, we have transactions with Delesto, a joint venture of AkzoNobel and Essent. Delesto various organizations with which certain of the members transforms gas into steam and electricity. The steam is of the Supervisory Board or Executive Committee are used in our production processes and the electricity is associated, but no related party transactions were effected sold to the market. in 2012. Likewise, there have not been any transactions with members of the Supervisory Board or Executive We have contracts with several pension funds, for which Committee, any other senior management personnel or the financial impact is also included in Note 14. any family member of such persons. Also no loans have been extended to members of the Supervisory Board • At year-end 2012, AkzoNobel had a loan to the Pension or Executive Committee, any other senior management Fund APF in the Netherlands of €75 million (2011: personnel or any family member of such persons. €81 million) • In recognition of a funding deficit in the ICI Pension Fund in the UK, the company has agreed to make top-up contributions of £135 million (€165 million) in 2013, followed by payments of £178.5 million (€219 million) in each year from 2014 to 2017 • In recognition of a funding deficit in the AkzoNobel (CPS) Pension Scheme in the UK, the company has agreed to make top-up contributions of £42 million (€51 million) in each year from 2013 to 2018. In addition, contributions of at least £25m (€31 million) will be paid each year from the escrow account (see Notes 9 and 14) until 2017 or the earlier date on which the escrow account is exhausted. • In recognition of a funding deficit in the ICI Specialty Chemicals Fund in the UK, the company has agreed to make a top-up contribution of £4 million in 2013 • In recognition of a funding deficit in the JP McDougall Pension Scheme in the UK, the company has agreed to make top-up contributions of £2 million in each year from 2013 to 2020 • In recognition of funding deficits at several pension plans in the US, the company has agreed to make top-up contributions of $25 million in 2013 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 143 21 Note 21: Remuneration of the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management Total compensation to key management personnel Supervisory Board amounted to €24.1 million (2011: €15.4 million), which is Total Employer’s Total inclusive of €1.7 million related to Dutch crisis tax (of which remuneration Remuneration Attendance fee Committee fee charges remuneration €1.4 million related to members of Board of Management. In € 2011 2012 Payments to the members of the Supervisory Board did Karel Vuursteen, Chairman 122,600 100,000 2,500 15,000 3,600 121,100 not exceed the threshold for crisis tax). €10.4 million related Sari Baldauf1 – 33,300 10,000 6,700 2,400 52,400 to short-term employee benefits (2011: €7.6 million); Uwe-Ernst Bufe, Deputy Chairman 80,100 60,000 15,000 – 3,600 78,600 €1.5 million to post-employment benefits and other Virginia Bottomley2 82,600 16,700 5,000 3,300 1,200 26,200 post-employment compensation (2011: €2.1 million), Dolf van den Brink 75,000 50,000 2,500 20,000 – 72,500 €8.1 million to share based compensation (2011: Peggy Bruzelius 175,600 50,000 12,500 15,000 17,000 94,500 €5.7 million) and €2.5 million relates to payments upon Antony Burgmans 70,000 50,000 2,500 15,000 – 67,500 termination of employment. The members of the Executive Peter Ellwood 77,600 50,000 17,500 13,800 3,600 84,900 Committee which are not a member of the Board of Louis Hughes 92,600 50,000 25,000 15,000 3,600 93,600 Management are included in key management personnel. Ben Verwaayen1 – 33,300 10,000 6,700 2,400 52,400 Total 776,100 493,300 102,500 110,500 37,400 743,700 Supervisory Board Members of the Supervisory Board receive a fixed 1 As of May 1, 2012. remuneration: €100,000 for the Chairman, €60,000 for 2 Until May 1, 2012. the Deputy Chairman and €50,000 for the other members. Members of committees receive an extra compensation. Members living outside the Netherlands receive an Shares held by the members of the attendance fee dependent on the country of residence. Supervisory Board Members who are resident in the Netherlands do not receive an attendance fee except for meetings Number of shares at year-end 2011 2012 held outside the Netherlands. Karel Vuursteen 400 400 Sari Baldauf – – In accordance with the Articles of Association and good Uwe-Ernst Bufe 500 500 corporate governance practice, the remuneration of Dolf van den Brink 500 500 Supervisory Board members is not dependent on the Peggy Bruzelius 500 500 results of the company. Antony Burgmans 500 500 Peter Ellwood 500 500 We do not grant share-based compensation to our Louis Hughes 500 500 Supervisory Board members, neither do we provide Ben Verwaayen – – loans. Travel expenses and facilities for members of the Supervisory Board are borne by the company and reviewed by the Audit Committee. The shares in the company owned by Supervisory Board members serve as a long-term investment in the company. 144 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Board of Management qualitative targets of the members of the Board Mr. Gunning concerned a conditional cash payment The individual contracts of the members of the Board of of Management (30 percent). For more information, relating to the period 2009-2011 and subject to Management are determined by the Supervisory Board see the Remuneration report. pre-defined objectives focusing on the integration of within the framework of the remuneration policy adopted the ICI activities into the AkzoNobel group companies. by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. We do not Other short-term benefits provide loans to members of the Board of Management. Other short-term benefits include employer’s charges and Post-employment benefits and other For more detailed information on the decisions of the other compensations. Employer’s charges refer to social post-employment compensation Supervisory Board with respect to the individual contracts contributions and healthcare contributions. The social Other post-employment compensation are payments to of the members of the Board of Management, see the charges of Mr. Nichols (€110,300) related to employer’s a person intended for building up retirement benefits other Remuneration report. contribution in the UK. Costs for Mr. Darner (amounting than those included in Post-employment benefits. Pension to €689,500) related to compensation for living expenses, contributions were calculated over the 2012 remuneration. Short-term incentive home leave allowances and relocation. Costs for These amounts together with the contributions over The short-term incentives for 2012 are linked to EVA Mr. Nichols (€72,100) related to living expenses and the 2012 short-term incentives are included in the (35 percent), EBITDA (35 percent) and the individual and home leave allowances. A special award (€578,600) to post-employment benefits and other post-employment compensation. Share-based compensation Board remuneration 2011 The costs for share-based compensation are non-cash Short-term Other shortPost-employShare-based Total remuneraand related to the performance-related share plan and the In € Salary incentives term benefits ment benefits compensation tion share matching plan following IFRS 2. The fair value of the Keith Nichols 591,500 206,400 238,900 198,200 848,500 2,083,500 performance-related share plan at grant date is amortized Leif Darner 591,500 206,400 154,200 217,900 848,500 2,018,500 as a charge against income over the three-year vesting Tex Gunning 591,500 206,400 4,900 240,800 848,500 1,892,100 period. The fair value was €31.15 per performance-related Hans Wijers 788,700 423,500 4,900 482,900 1,132,100 2,832,100 share conditionally granted in 2012 for those members Rob Frohn 591,500 206,400 7,400 185,800 848,500 1,839,600 of the Board of Management facing a two-year holding Total 3,154,700 1,249,100 410,300 1,325,600 4,526,100 10,665,800 restriction (2011: €46.91) and €38.79 for those members whose holding restriction will lapse after the end of their Board member’s term. The fair value for the shares related to the share matching plan amounted to €39.72 and the Board remuneration 2012 fair value for the matching arrangement for Mr. Büchner Other postamounted to €37.92. Postemployment Share-based Short-term Other shortemployment compensacompensaTermination Total remuTermination benefits In € Salary incentives term benefits benefits tion tion benefits neration Termination benefits include costs that have been incurred Ton Büchner 1 534,700 170,900 5,700 – 128,900 399,500 – 1,239,700 in 2012 relating to leaving arrangements. Keith Nichols 602,000 224,500 182,400 109,100 78,000 880,400 – 2,076,400 Leif Darner 602,000 200,100 689,500 229,500 – 1,248,600 796,300 3,766,000 Former members of the Board of Management Tex Gunning 602,000 200,100 584,600 236,700 – 951,300 – 2,574,700 In 2012, charges for former members of the Board of Hans Wijers2 267,700 267,700 2,000 213,100 – 1,661,900 1,130,600 3,543,000 Management amounted to €18,000 (2011: €21,000). Rob Frohn3 200,700 130,400 2,800 73,100 – 1,245,500 602,000 2,254,500 Total 2,809,100 1,193,700 1,467,000 861,500 206,900 6,387,200 2,528,900 15,454,300 1 As of April 23, 2012. 2 Until April 23, 2012. 3 Until May 1, 2012. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 145 Performance-related shares Number of performance-related shares With regard to the performance related shares granted to the members of the Board of Management in 2010, the Balance at Balance at Vested on final vesting percentage of the series 2010-2012 equaled January 1, Granted Vested Forfeited Dividend December January 1, 66.67 percent (series 2009-2011: 62.5 percent), including Series 2012 in 2012 in 2012 in 2012 in 2012 31, 2012 2013 dividend shares 73.61 percent. The members of the Board Ton Büchner 2012 – 2014 – 31,900 – – 1,199 33,099 – of Management will retain the shares for a minimum period of two years after vesting or (if shorter) for the duration of Keith Nichols 2009 – 2011 19,125 – (19,125) – – – – their tenure as member of the Board of Management. 2010 – 2012 19,473 – – (6,736) 734 13,471 13,471 2011 – 2013 19,173 – – – 722 19,895 – Share matching plan 2012 – 2014 – 23,900 899 24,799 – The CEO and other members of the Board of Management are required to build up, over a five-year Leif Darner 2009 – 2011 19,125 – (19,125) – – – – period from the date of appointment, and then hold, at 2010 – 2012 19,473 – – (6,736) 734 13,471 13,471 least three times respectively one time their gross base 2011 – 2013 19,173 – – – 722 19,895 – salary in AkzoNobel shares for the duration of their tenure 2012 – 2014 – 23,900 – – 899 24,799 – as member of the Board of Management. Under certain conditions, members who invest part of their short term Tex Gunning 2009 – 2011 19,125 – (19,125) – – – – incentives in AkzoNobel shares may have such shares 2010 – 2012 19,473 – – (6,736) 734 13,471 13,471 matched by the company. See the Remuneration report. 2011 – 2013 19,173 – – – 722 19,895 – 2012 – 2014 – 23,900 – – 899 24,799 – Hans Wijers 2009 – 2011 25,547 – (25,547) – – – – 2010 – 2012 25,964 – – (8,981) 978 17,961 17,962 2011 – 2013 25,564 – – – 962 26,526 – 2012 – 2014 – 10,700 402 11,102 – Rob Frohn 2009 – 2011 19,125 – (19,125) – – – – 2010 – 2012 19,473 – – (6,736) 734 13,471 13,471 2011 – 2013 19,173 – – – 722 19,895 – 2012 – 2014 – 8,000 – – 301 8,301 – 146 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Shares held by the Board of Management Number of shares at year-end 2011 2012 Ton Büchner – 10,810 Keith Nichols 7,069 16,632 Leif Darner 46,162 48,594 Tex Gunning – 14,435 Stock options Outstanding at Exercise Outstanding at Forfeited Exercised in December 31, Year of issue price in € January 1, 2012 in 2012 2012 2012 Expiry date Keith Nichols 2006 46.46 3,000 – – 3,000 April 26, 2013 2007 58.89 3,750 – – 3,750 April 26, 2014 Leif Darner 2006 46.46 13,000 – – 13,000 April 26, 2013 2007 58.89 13,000 – – 13,000 April 26, 2014 Hans Wijers 2002 46.53 14,850 (14,850) – – April 25, 2012 2005 31.98 23,000 – (23,000) – April 24, 2012 2006 46.46 19,800 – – 19,800 April 26, 2013 2007 58.89 19,800 – – 19,800 April 26, 2014 Rob Frohn 2006 46.46 13,000 – – 13,000 April 26, 2013 2007 58.89 13,000 – – 13,000 April 26, 2014 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 147 22 Note 22: Financial risk management Financial risk management framework Maturity of liabilities and cash outflows Credit risk management Our activities expose us to a variety of financial risks: market Credit risk arises from financial assets such as cash risk (including: currency risk, fair value interest rate risk Between and cash equivalents, derivative financial instruments Less than one and five Over five and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. These risks are In € millions one year years years with a positive fair value, deposits with financial inherent to the way we operate as a multinational with a institutions, and trade receivables. We have a credit large number of locally operating subsidiaries. Our overall At December 31, 2011 risk management policy in place to limit credit losses risk management program seeks to identify, assess, and – if Borrowings 489 2,219 812 due to non-performance of financial counterparties and necessary – mitigate these financial risks in order to minimize Interest on borrowings 178 382 64 customers. We monitor our exposure to credit risk on potential adverse effects on our financial performance. Our Finance lease liabilities 5 3 1 an ongoing basis at various levels. We only deal with risk mitigating activities include the use of derivative financial Trade and other payables 3,369 – – financial counterparties that have a sufficiently high credit instruments to hedge certain risk exposures. The Board of rating. Generally, we do not require collateral in respect of Fx contracts (hedges) Management is ultimately responsible for risk management. financial assets. Investments in cash and cash equivalents Outflow 2,676 – – We centrally identify, evaluate and hedge financial risks , and and transactions involving derivative financial instruments Inflow (2,687) – – monitor compliance with the corporate policies approved are entered into with counterparties that have sound by the Board of Management, except for commodity risks, Other derivatives credit ratings and good reputation. Derivative transactions which are subject to identification, evaluation and hedging Outflow 19 14 – are concluded mostly with parties with whom we have in the businesses. We have treasury hubs located in Brazil, Inflow (11) – – contractual netting agreements and ISDA agreements Asia and the US that are primarily responsible for regional Total 4,038 2,618 877 in place. We set limits per counterparty for the different cash management and short-term financing. We do not allow types of financial instruments we use. We closely for extensive treasury operations at subsidiary level directly At December 31, 2012 monitor the acceptable financial counterparty credit with external parties Borrowings 656 1,794 1,548 ratings and credit limits and revise where required in Interest on borrowings 211 332 121 line with the market circumstances. We do not expect Liquidity risk management Finance lease liabilities 6 17 29 non-performance by the counterparties for these The primary objective of liquidity management is to provide Trade and other payables 3,242 – – financial instruments. Due to our geographical spread for sufficient cash and cash equivalents at all times and and the diversity of our customers, we were not subject Fx contracts (hedges) any place in the world to enable us to meet our payment to any significant concentration of credit risks at balance Outflow 2,380 – – obligations. We aim for a well-spread maturity schedule sheet date. The credit risk from trade receivables is Inflow (2,417) – – of our long-term borrowings and a strong liquidity position. measured and analyzed at a local operating entity level, At year-end 2012, we had €1.8 billion available as cash Other derivatives mainly by means of ageing analysis, see Note 11. and cash equivalents (2011: €1.6 billion), see Note 12. Outflow 12 14 – In addition, we have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving Inflow – – – Generally, the maximum exposure to credit risk is credit facility originally expiring in 2016. In 2012 the Total 4,090 2,157 1,698 represented by the carrying value of financial assets maturity of €1.7 billion of this facility has been extended in the balance sheet. with an additional year to 2017. At year-end 2012 and 2011, this facility had not been drawn. We have US dollar At year-end 2012, the credit risk on consolidated level was and euro commercial paper programs in place, which €4.5 billion (2011: €4.6 billion) for long-term borrowings can only be used to the extent that the equivalent portion given, trade and other receivables and cash. Our of the €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit facility credit risk is well spread amongst both global and local is not used. We had no commercial paper outstanding counterparties. Our largest counterparty risk amounted at year-end 2012 and 2011. The table analyzes our cash to €230 million at year-end 2012. outflows per maturity group based on the remaining period at balance sheet date to the contractual maturity date. The amounts disclosed in the table are the contractual undiscounted cash flows. 148 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Foreign exchange risk management In 2011 and 2012 we applied cash flow hedge accounting To hedge the price risk of electricity that is used for the Trade and financing transactions of CNY793 million for an acquisition of which Specialty Chemicals plants in Sweden and Finland, we We operate in a large number of countries, where we have CNY242 million was still outstanding at the end of 2012. entered into future contracts on the power exchange clients and suppliers, many of whom are outside of the There was no material gain/loss in 2012 on the effective Nord Pool Spot, based on expected use of electricity local functional currency environment. This creates currency hedges (2011: €11 million gain). An amount of €8 million over the period 2013 – 2017. We apply cash flow hedge exposure which is partly netted out on consolidation. has been recognized as consideration paid in Note 2. accounting to these contracts in order to mitigate the In the cash flow hedge reserve the remaining 2011 gain accounting mismatch that would otherwise occur. The purpose of our foreign currency hedging activities is of €3 million was recorded, which will be included in the The effective part of the fair value of these contracts to protect us from the risk that the functional currency net consideration paid in 2013 and 2014. amounted to a €10 million loss net of tax in equity (2011: cash flows resulting from trade or financing transactions €9 million net deferred loss), which are expected to affect are adversely affected by changes in exchange rates. Our The foreign exchange and interest rate risks related to operational cost within the next five years. All hedges were policy is to hedge our transactional foreign exchange rate divestments amounting to $201 million and effective in 2012 and 2011. exposures above predefined thresholds from recognized CAD190 million were hedged using forward contracts and assets and liabilities. Cash flow hedge accounting is cash flow hedge accounting was applied. The gain on the Interest rate risk management applied by exception. Derivative transactions with external effective hedges amounted to €5 million of which We are partly financed with debt in order to obtain more parties are bound by overnight limits per currency. €2 million relates to a divestment completed in 2012 which efficient leverage. Fixed rate debt results in fair value is included in the net cash flow in Note 2. The remaining interest rate risk. Floating rate debt results in cash flow In general, forward exchange contracts that we enter €3 million gain in the cash flow hedge reserve will be interest rate risk. The fixed/floating rate of our outstanding into have a maturity of less than one year. When included in the net cash flow on divestments in 2013. bonds shifted from 94 percent fixed at year-end 2011 necessary, forward exchange contracts are rolled over to 88 percent fixed at year-end 2012. During 2012, no at maturity. Currency derivatives are not used for Price risk management interest rate swap contracts were outstanding. speculative purposes. Commodity price risk management We use commodities, gas and electricity in our production Fair value hedges closed out in previous years resulted in processes and we are particularly sensitive to energy price an adjustment to the carrying amount of a bond of which Hedged notional amounts at year-end movements. €13 million was amortized to the statement of income in 2012 on the interest line. Buy Sell Buy Sell Our Chlor Alkali activity in the Netherlands mitigates price The effective interest rate (excluding hedge results) over In € millions 2011 2011 2012 2012 risks related to electricity by concluding electricity futures 2012 was 5.63 percent (2011: 6.60 percent). Combined US dollar 619 1,062 273 616 to gradually cover the expected use over future periods. with the amortization of interest rate swaps closed out in Pound sterling 222 501 68 541 We apply cash flow hedge accounting to these futures. All 2011, the effective interest rate was 5.24 percent (2011: Swedish krona 306 6 275 58 contracts qualified as effective for hedge accounting. The 6.22 percent). Other 445 334 273 517 fair value of the contracts outstanding at year-end 2012 Total 1,592 1,903 889 1,732 amounted to a loss of €10 million, net of tax (year-end Capital risk management 2011: a loss of €7 million, net of tax). In the cash flow Our objectives when managing capital are to safeguard hedge reserve a loss of €10 million net of tax was recorded our ability to satisfy our capital providers and to maintain Investments in foreign subsidiaries, associates (year-end 2011: a loss of €11 million net of tax), which is a capital structure that optimizes our cost of capital. For and joint ventures expected to affect profit within the next three years. this we maintain a conservative financial strategy, with Net investment hedge accounting is applied on hedges of the objective to remain a strong investment grade pound sterling net investments in foreign operations which In order to hedge the oil price risk, we have entered into company as rated by the rating agencies Moody’s and were hedged by a £250 million bond. In 2012 the hedge oil/gas swap contracts. At the end of 2012, the fair value Standard & Poors. The capital structure can be altered, was fully effective. of these contracts amounted to a loss of €4 million net of among others, by adjusting the amount of dividends paid tax (year-end 2011: €3 million loss net of tax). We did not to shareholders, return capital to capital providers, apply hedge accounting to the changes of the fair values or issue new debt or shares. of these contracts. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 149 Consistent with other companies in the industry, Fair value of financial instruments we monitor capital headroom on the basis of funds and IAS 39 categories from operations in relation to our net borrowings level Loans and receivables and other liabilities are recognized (FFO/NB-ratio). The FFO/NB-ratio for 2012 at year-end at amortized cost, using the effective interest method. amounted to 0.30 (2011: 0.34). Funds from operations We estimated the fair value of our long-term borrowings are based on net cash from operating activities, based on the quoted market prices for the same or similar which is adjusted, among others, for the elimination issues or on the current rates offered to us for debt with of changes in working capital, additional payments similar maturities. for pensions and for the effects of the underfunding of pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations. The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents, trade Net borrowings is calculated as a total of long and receivables less allowance for impairment, short-term short-term borrowings less cash and cash equivalents, borrowings and other current liabilities approximate fair adding an after-tax amount for the underfunding of value due to the short maturity period of those instruments. pension and other post-retirement benefit obligations and lease commitments. The only financial instruments accounted for at fair value through profit or loss are derivative financial instruments In 2012, a bond was issued with a nominal value and the short-term investments included in cash. The of €750 million maturing in 2022 at a coupon rate fair value of foreign currency contracts, swap contracts, of 2.625 percent. forward rate agreements, oil contracts and gas and electricity futures was determined by valuation techniques using market observable input (such as foreign currency interest rates based on Reuters) and by obtaining quotes from dealers and brokers. The following valuation methods for financial instruments carried at fair value through profit or loss are distinguished: • Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities • Level 2: inputs other than quoted prices included within level 1 that are observable for the a ­ sset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) • Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable) Level 1 fair valuation methods were used for €3.6 billion of the long-term borrowings and €0.5 billion of the short-term borrowings. All other fair values were determined using level 2 fair valuation methods. 150 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Fair value per financial instruments category Carrying value per IAS 39 category Loans and At fair value Carrying Out of scope receivables/ through profit Total In € millions amount of IFRS 7 other liabilities or loss carrying value Fair value 2011 year-end Other financial non-current assets 1,187 860 327 – 327 338 Trade and other receivables 2,937 277 2,632 28 2,660 2,660 Cash and cash equivalents 1,635 – – 1,635 1,635 1,635 Total financial assets 5,759 1,137 2,959 1,663 4,622 4,633 Long-term borrowings 3,035 – 3,035 – 3,035 3,341 Short-term borrowings 494 – 494 – 494 496 Trade and other payables 3,369 1,217 2,130 22 2,152 2,152 Total financial liabilities 6,898 1,217 5,659 22 5,681 5,989 2012 year-end Other financial non-current assets 1,748 1,428 320 – 320 335 Trade and other receivables 2,698 244 2,438 16 2,454 2,454 Cash and cash equivalents 1,752 – – 1,752 1,752 1,752 Total financial assets 6,198 1,672 2,758 1,768 4,526 4,541 Long-term borrowings 3,388 – 3,388 – 3,388 3,713 Short-term borrowings 662 – 662 – 662 678 Trade and other payables 3,242 1,240 1,990 12 2,002 2,002 Total financial liabilities 7,292 1,240 6,040 12 6,052 6,393 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Notes to the consolidated financial statements 151 Sensitivities Sensitivity object Sensitivity, measured at year-end 2012 Hypothetical impact, net of tax Foreign currencies: We perform foreign currency sensitivity analysis by applying A 10 percent strengthening of the euro Profit: €4 million (2011: €nil) an adjustment to the spot rates prevailing at year-end. versus US dollar Equity: €nil (2011: €nil) This adjustment is based on observed changes in the exchange rate in the past and management expectation for A 10 percent strengthening of the euro Profit: €5 million (2011: €1 million) possible future movements. We then apply the expected versus the pound sterling Equity: €nil (2011: €nil) possible volatility to revalue all monetary assets and liabilities (including derivative financial instruments) in a currency Net investment hedge accounting other than the functional currency of the subsidiary in its is applied to GBP250 million, which balance sheet at year-end. results in a sensitivity on equity of nil. Commodity prices: We perform our commodity price risk sensitivity analysis by Electricity price Specialty applying an adjustment to the forward rates prevailing at Chemicals Netherlands: year-end. This adjustment is based on observed changes A 10 percent change in the forward Equity: €10 million. (2011 €11 million). in commodity prices in the previous year and management price of electricity (€5 per MWh) as (up/down) expectations for possible future movements. We then apply compared with the market prices We apply cash flow hedge accounting the expected volatility to revalue all commodity-derivative (up/down) to the fair value changes of electricity financial instruments in the applicable commodity in our futures). balance sheet at year-end. For the purpose of this sensitivElectricity price Specialty ity analysis, the change of the price of the commodity is not Chemicals Sweden and Finland: discounted to the net present value at balance sheet date. A 10 percent change in the forward Equity: €10 million. (2011 €7 million). price on the Nord Pool exchange elec(down/up) tricity (€3.76 per MWh) as compared We apply cash flow hedge accounting with the market prices (up/down) to the fair value changes of electricity futures). Oil price Specialty Chemicals Netherlands: A 10 percent change in price of oil (€8 Profit: €8 million (2011: €6 million. per barrel) as compared with market (down/up) prices (up/down) Over the full term of the (partially longterm) contracts, net impact on profit will be €nil. Interest rates: We perform interest rate sensitivity analysis by applying an A 100 basis points increase of Profit: €6 million (2011: €2 million). adjustment to the interest rate curve prevailing at year-end. EURIBOR interest rates This adjustment is based on observed changes in the interest rate in the past and management expectation A 100 basis points increase of US Loss: €4 million (2011: €1 million). for possible future movements. We then apply the expected LIBOR interest rates possible volatility to revalue all interest bearing assets and liabilities. A 100 basis points increase of GBP Loss: €nil million (2011: €2 million). LIBOR interest rates 152 Notes to the consolidated financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Company financial statements Statement of income A Note A: General information In € millions 2011 2012 The financial statements of ­Akzo Nobel N.V. have been Net income from subsidiaries, 538 (2,308) prepared using the option of section 362 of Book 2 of associates and joint ventures the Netherlands Civil Code, meaning that the accounting Other net income/(loss) (61) 139 principles used are the same as for the consolidated Total net income/(loss) 477 (2,169) financial statements. Foreign currency amounts have been translated, assets and liabilities have been valued, and net income has been determined in accordance Balance sheet as of December 31, before result allocation with the principles of valuation and determination of income presented in Note 1 to the Consolidated In € millions Note 2011 2012 financial statements. Subsidiaries of ­Akzo Nobel N.V. Assets are accounted for using the equity method. Non-current assets As the financial data of ­Akzo Nobel N.V. are included in Financial non-current assets B 16,120 14,486 the Consolidated financial statements, the statement of Total non-current assets 16,120 14,486 income of ­Akzo Nobel N.V. is condensed in conformity Current assets with section 402 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Trade and other receivables C 124 80 The remuneration paragraph is included in Note 21 of Cash and cash equivalents D 205 473 the Consolidated financial statements section. Total current assets 329 553 Total assets 16,449 15,039 Equity and liabilities Equity Subscribed share capital 469 478 Additional paid-in capital 47 174 Change in fair value of derivatives (9) (17) Other statutory reserves 240 264 Cumulative translation reserves 4 35 Other reserves 8,061 8,205 Undistributed results 400 (2,247) Shareholders’ equity E 9,212 6,892 Non-current liabilities Provision for subsidiaries B 304 454 Long-term borrowings F 6,618 7,345 Total non-current liabilities 6,922 7,799 Current liabilities Other short-term debt G 315 348 Total current liabilities 315 348 Total equity and liabilities 16,449 15,039 AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Company financial statements 153 Statement of changes in shareholders' equity Statutory reserves Additional Cash flow Other Cumulative Subscribed paid-in hedge Statutory translation Other Undistributed Shareholders' In € millions share capital capital reserve reserves reserves reserves results equity Balance at January 1, 2011 467 9 29 233 (43) 7,610 679 8,984 Changes in fair value of derivatives – – (38) – – – – (38) Changes in exchange rates in respect of subsidiaries, – – – – 47 – – 47 associates and joint ventures Net income – – – – – – 477 477 Comprehensive income – – (38) – 47 – 477 486 Dividend paid 1 24 – – – – (329) (304) Equity-settled transactions – – – – – 32 – 32 Issue of common shares 1 14 – – – – – 15 Addition to other reserves – – – 7 – 420 (427) – Acquisitions and divestments – – – – – (1) – (1) Balance at December 31, 2011 469 47 (9) 240 4 8,061 400 9,212 Changes in fair value of derivatives – – (8) – – – – (8) Changes in exchange rates in respect of subsidiaries, – – – – 31 – – 31 associates and joint ventures Net loss – – – – – – (2,169) (2,169) Comprehensive income – – (8) – 31 – (2,169) (2,146) Dividend paid 7 121 – – – – (342) (214) Equity-settled transactions – – – – – 43 – 43 Issue of common shares 2 6 – – – – – 8 Addition to other reserves – – – 24 – 112 (136) – Acquisitions and divestments – – – – – (11) – (11) Balance at December 31, 2012 478 174 (17) 264 35 8,205 (2,247) 6,892 154 Company financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 B Note B: Financial non-current assets and provisions for subsidiaries C Note C: Trade and other receivables Movements in financial non-current assets Trade and other receivables In € millions 2011 2012 Subsidiaries Receivables from subsidiaries 46 25 Other financial Receivable from associates and 14 14 non‑current joint ventures In € millions Share in capital Loans1 assets Total FX contracts 19 6 Balance at January 1, 2011 9,729 7,056 89 16,874 Other receivables 45 35 Acquisitions/capital contributions 691 – 3 694 Total 124 80 Divestments/capital repayments (113) – – (113) Net income from subsidiaries, associates 538 – – 538 and joint ventures Equity-settled transactions 28 – – 28 D Note D: Cash and cash equivalents Change in fair value of derivatives (48) – – (48) Loans granted – 2,052 – 2,052 Repayment of loans – (3,870) – (3,870) Cash and cash equivalents Changes in exchange rates 28 51 – 79 In € millions 2011 2012 Other changes (127) – (2) (129) Short-term investments 41 21 Transfer to provision for subsidiaries 15 – – 15 Cash on hand and in banks 164 452 Balance at December 31, 2011 10,741 5,289 90 16,120 Total 205 473 Acquisitions/capital contributions 156 – – 156 Divestments/capital repayments – – (2) (2) Net income from subsidiaries, associates (2,308) – – (2,308) and joint ventures E Note E: Shareholders’ equity Equity-settled transactions 35 – – 35 Change in fair value of derivatives 3 – – 3 Subscribed share capital Loans granted – 1,856 – 1,856 The holders of common shares are entitled to receive Repayment of loans – (1,422) – (1,422) dividends as declared from time to time and are entitled Changes in exchange rates 52 6 – 58 to one vote per share at the Annual General Meeting Other changes (153) – (7) (160) of shareholders. The holders of the priority shares are Change to provisions for subsidiaries 150 – – 150 entitled to dividend of 6 percent per share or the statutory Balance at December 31, 2012 8,676 5,729 81 14,486 interest in the Netherlands, whichever is lower, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends. They are entitled to 200 votes per share (in accordance with the 200 times higher 1 Loans to these companies have no fixed repayment schedule. nominal value per share) at the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. In addition, the holders of priority shares have the right to draw up binding lists of nominees for appoint­ment to the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management; amendments to the Articles of Association are subject to the approval of the Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Company financial statements 155 Priority shares may only be transferred to a transferee Statutory reserves have been recognized following section Debentures designated by a Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares and 373 paragraph 4 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. against payment of the par value of the shares, plus interest At the Annual General Meeting of shareholders of April 26, In € millions 2011 2012 at the rate of 6 percent per annum or the statutory interest in 2001, an amendment to the Articles of Association was 71/4 % 2009/15 (€975 million) 634 630 the Netherlands, whichever is lower. There are no restrictions approved whereby the par value of the priority shares was 8 % 2009/16 (£250 million) 297 305 on voting rights of holders of common or priority shares. decreased to €400 and of the common shares and the 4 % 2011/18 (€800 million) 790 791 The Articles of Association set out procedures for exercising cumulative preferred shares to €2. As the revised nominal Total 1,721 1,726 voting rights. The Annual General Meeting of shareholders values are lower than the original par values, in accordance has in 2012 resolved to authorize the Board of Management with section 67a of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, for a period of 18 months (i) to issue shares (or grant rights we recognize a statutory reserve of €61 million for this We have a €1.8 billion multi-currency revolving credit to shares) in the capital of the company up to a maximum reduction in subscribed share capital. Statutory reserves facility originally expiring in 2016. In 2012 the maturity of 10 percent, which in case of mergers or acquisitions can also include €16 million for capitalized development costs, of €1.7 billion of this facility has been extended with be increased by up to a maximum of 10 percent, of the total as well as the reserves relating to earnings retained by an additional year to 2017. At year-end 2012 and 2011, number of shares outstanding (and to restrict or exclude the subsidiaries, associates, and joint ventures after 1983. this facility had not been drawn. At year-end 2012 pre-emptive rights to those shares) and (ii) to acquire shares and 2011, none of the borrowings was secured by in the capital of the company, provided that the shares that Dividend collateral. Interest charged on these borrowings will at any time be held will not exceed 10 percent of the We will propose to the Annual General Meeting on April averaged 0.1 percent in 2012 (2011: 0.9 percent). issued share capital. The issue or repurchase of shares 26, 2013 a 2012 final dividend of €1.12 per share, which requires the approval of the Supervisory Board. would make a total 2012 dividend of €1.45 per share (2011: €1.45). During 2012, we paid the 2011 final G Note G: Short-term debt We held no common shares at year-end 2012 or 2011. dividend of €1.12 and the 2012 interim dividend of €0.33. Short-term debt Earnings per common share are calculated by dividing net income by the weighted average number of common F Note F: Long-term borrowings In € millions 2011 2012 shares outstanding during the year. Current portion long-term borrowings 48 58 Debt to subsidiaries 8 8 Of the shareholders’ equity of €6.9 billion, an amount of Long-term borrowings FX contracts 12 10 €6.2 billion (2010: €8.5 billion) was unrestricted and Borrowings from associates and 37 27 In € millions 2011 2012 available for distribution – subject to the relevant provisions joint ventures Debentures 1,721 1,726 of our Articles of Association and Dutch law. Short-term bank loans 21 3 Debt to subsidiaries 4,858 5,619 Debt related to pensions 10 8 Other borrowings 39 – Debt related to other suppliers 32 68 Total 6,618 7,345 Unrestricted reserves at year-end Other liabilities 147 166 Total 315 348 In € millions 2011 2012 For the fair value of the debenture loans and the related Shareholders’ equity at year-end 9,212 6,892 interest-rate derivatives, see Note 22 of the Consolidated Subscribed share capital (469) (478) financial statements section. We have US dollar and euro commercial paper programs, Subsidiaries’ restrictions to (158) (181) in place which can only be used to the extent that transfer funds the equivalent portion of the €1.8 billion multi-currency Statutory reserve due to (61) (61) capital reduction revolving credit facility is not used. We had no paper Reserve for development costs (15) (16) outstanding at year-end 2012 and 2011. Unrestricted reserves 8,509 6,156 156 Company financial statements | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 H Note H: Financial instruments J Note J: Auditor’s fees At year-end 2012, Akzo Nobel N.V. had outstanding Auditor's fees foreign exchange contracts to buy currencies for a total of €0.9 billion (year-end 2011: €1.6 billion), while contracts Network Network to sell currencies totaled €1.7 billion (year-end 2011: In the outside the In the outside the Netherlands Netherlands Total Netherlands Netherlands Total €1.9 billion). The contracts mainly related to US Dollars, Pound sterling and Swedish krona, and all have maturities In € millions 2011 2012 within one year. These contracts offset the foreign exchange Audit 3.2 6.8 10.0 2.9 8.2 11.1 contracts concluded by the subsidiaries, and the fair value Audit-related 0.4 0.3 0.7 0.2 0.1 0.3 changes are recognized in the statement of income to offset Tax – 0.3 0.3 – 0.2 0.2 the fair value changes on the contracts with the subsidiaries. Other services 0.3 – 0.3 – – – For information on risk exposure and risk management, Total 3.9 7.4 11.3 3.1 8.5 11.6 see Note 22 of the consolidated financial statements. I Note I: Contingent liabilities Amsterdam, February 19, 2013 Akzo Nobel N.V. is parent of the group’s fiscal unit in the The Board of Management Netherlands, and is therefore liable for the liabilities of said Ton Büchner fiscal unit as a whole. Keith Nichols Leif Darner Akzo Nobel N.V. has declared in writing that it accepts joint Tex Gunning and several liability for contractual debts of certain Dutch consolidated companies (section 403 of Book 2 of the The Supervisory Board Netherlands Civil Code). These debts, at year-end 2012, Karel Vuursteen aggregating €0.5 billion (2011: €0.4 billion), are included in Uwe-Ernst Bufe the consolidated balance sheet. Additionally, at year-end Sari Baldauf 2012, guarantees were issued on behalf of consolidated Dolf van den Brink companies for an amount of €2.9 billion (2011: €2.1 billion), Peggy Bruzelius iincluding a guarantee issued by Akzo Nobel N.V. in Antony Burgmans relation to the exemption of Dulux Paints (Ireland) Ltd, Peter Ellwood under section 5(c) of the companies (amendment) Act Louis Hughes 1986 Ireland. Ben Verwaayen The debts and liabilities of the consolidated companies underlying these guarantees are included in the consolidated balance sheet or in the amount of longterm liabilities in respect of operational lease contracts as disclosed in Note 19 of the consolidated financial statements. Guarantees relating to associates and joint ventures amounted to €10 million (2011: €13 million). AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Company financial statements 157 Other information Independent auditor’s report evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the information as required under Section 2:392 sub 1 at b h To the Supervisory Board and the Annual General Meeting financial statements. The procedures selected depend has been annexed. Further, we report that the report of the of shareholders of ­Akzo Nobel N.V. on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of Board of Management as set out on pages 1 to 106, to the risks of material misstatement of the financial statethe extent we can assess, is consistent with the financial Report on the financial statements ments, whether due to fraud or error. In making those statements as required by Section 2:391 sub 4 of the We have audited the accompanying financial statements risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control Netherlands Civil Code. 2012 of Akzo Nobel N.V., Amsterdam, as set out on relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of Amsterdam, February 19, 2013 pages 107 to 157. The financial statements include the the financial statements in order to design audit proceKPMG Acountants N.V. consolidated financial statements and the company dures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not financial statements. The consolidated financial statements for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveE.H.W. Weusten RA comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December ness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes 31, 2012, the consolidated statements of income, evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a management, as well as evaluating the overall presentasummary of the significant accounting policies and other tion of the financial statements. We believe that the audit explanatory information. The company financial statements evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to comprise the company balance sheet as at December provide a basis for our audit opinion. 31, 2012, the company statement of income for the year then ended and the notes, comprising a summary of the Opinion with respect to the consolidated accounting policies and other explanatory information. financial statements In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give Management’s responsibility a true and fair view of the financial position of Akzo Nobel Management is responsible for the preparation and fair N.V. as at December 31, 2012 and of its result and its presentation of these financial statements in accordance cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with with International Financial Reporting Standards as International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted adopted by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book by the European Union and with Part 9 of Book 2 of the 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code, and for the preparation Netherlands Civil Code. of the report of the Board of Management in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Netherlands Civil Code. Opinion with respect to the company Furthermore, management is responsible for such internal financial statements control as it determines is necessary to enable the In our opinion, the company financial statements give a preparation of the financial statements that are free from true and fair view of the financial position of Akzo Nobel material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. N.V. as at December 31, 2012 and of its result for the year then ended in accordance with Part 9 of Book 2 of the Auditor’s responsibility Netherlands Civil Code. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our Report on other legal and regulatory requirements audit in accordance with Dutch law, including the Dutch Pursuant to the legal requirements under Section 2:393 Standards on Auditing. This requires that we comply with sub 5 at e and f of the Netherlands Civil Code, we have ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to no deficiencies to report as a result of our examination obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial whether the report of the Board of Management, to the statements are free from material misstatement. extent we can assess, has been prepared in accordance An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit with Part 9 of Book 2 of this Code, and whether the 158 Other information | Financial statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Result allocation and distributions Statutory provisions Article 44 Article 43 44.7 43.6 Cash dividends by virtue of paragraph 4 of article 20, The Board of Management shall be authorized to article 42, or article 43 that have not been collected determine, with the approval of the Supervisory Board, within five years of the commencement of the second what share of profit remaining after application of the day on which they became due and payable shall revert provisions of the foregoing paragraphs shall be carried to the company. to reserves. The remaining profit shall be placed at the disposal of the Annual General Meeting of shareholders, Proposal for result allocation with due observance of the provisions of paragraph 7, With due observance of Dutch law and the Articles of it being provided that no further dividends shall be paid Association, it is proposed that the loss of €2,169 million on the preferred shares. is charged against the other reserves. Furthermore, with due observance of article 43, paragraph 7, it is proposed 43.7 that dividend on priority shares of €1,152 and on common From the remaining profit, the following distributions shall, shares of €347 million (to be increased by dividend on to the extent possible, be made as follows: shares issued in 2013 before the ex-dividend date) will be distributed. Following the acceptance of this proposal, (a) to the holders of priority shares: 6 percent per share or the holders of common shares will receive a dividend of the statutory interest referred to in paragraph 1 of article €1.45 per share of €2, of which €0.33 was paid earlier 13, whichever is lower, plus any accrued and unpaid as an interim dividend. The final dividend of €1.12 per dividends (b) to the holders of common shares: a dividend share (which under the conditions to be published by the of such an amount per share as the remaining profit, less company and at the shareholders’ election will be paid the aforesaid dividends and less such amounts as the either in cash or in stock) will be made available on Annual General Meeting of shareholders may decide to May 29, 2013. carry to reserves, shall permit. Special rights to holders of priority shares 43.8 The priority shares are held by “Stichting ­­Akzo Nobel” Without prejudice to the provisions of paragraph 4 of this (Foundation ­­Akzo Nobel), whose board is composed of the article and of paragraph 4 of article 20, the holders of members of the Supervisory Board who are not members common shares shall, to the exclusion of everyone else, of the Audit Committee. They each have one vote on the be entitled to distributions made from reserves accrued by board of the Foundation. virtue of the provision of paragraph 7b of this article. The Meeting of Holders of Priority Shares has the right 43.9 to draw up binding lists of nominees for appointment to Without prejudice to the provisions of article 42 and the Supervisory Board and the Board of Management. paragraph 8 of this article, the Annual General Meeting of Amendments to the Articles of Association are subject shareholders may decide on the utilization of reserves only to the approval of this meeting. on the proposal of the Board of Management approved by the Supervisory Board. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Financial statements | Result allocation and distributions 159 Sustainability statements 2020 Sustainability strategy 163 Additional sustainability information Consolidated Sustainability statements 164 In this report Case studies 4 Note 1: Managing our values 165 Our ambitions and strategy 10 Note 2: Reporting principles 167 Risk management 22 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement 170 Report of the Board of Management 34 Business performance 51 Safety 171 Corporate governance statement 82 Note 4: People health and safety 172 Compliance and integrity management 98 Note 5: Process safety 173 AkzoNobel on the capital markets 102 Note 6: Product stewardship 174 Note 7: HSE management 175 On our website (www.akzonobel.com/sustainability) Additional information on processes, detailed data and contacts is available to support: Employees 178 Note 1: Managing our values Note 8: Our people 179 Note 2: Reporting principles Note 9: Restructuring 181 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement Note 10: Community 181 Notes 4–7: Safety performance Notes 8 –10: Employee/community performance Value chain 183 Notes 11–13: Value chain processes and performance Note 11: Climate change 184 Notes 14–19: Environmental performance Note 12: Products and solutions 185 Note 13: Supply chain 186 This Sustainability statements section of the Report 2012 is separate from, and does not in any way form part of, the company’s annual financial report (“jaarlijkse financiële verslaggeving”) as defined in article 5:25c of the Dutch Financial Markets Supervision Act. This section contains summarized key performance Environment 188 indicators (KPIs) relating to sustainability performance. Further information on Note 14: Energy 189 AkzoNobel’s sustainability strategy, activities and results can be found on our corporate website: www.akzonobel.com/sustainability Note 15: Greenhouse gas emissions 189 Note 16: Local air quality 190 Note 17: Raw materials efficiency 191 Note 18: Water 191 Note 19: Soil and ground water remediation 192 Independent assurance report 193 Standing the test of time Back in 1991, our Powder Coatings business was chosen to supply products for a new, five-storey Patient Tower at the Mission Hospital in Mission Viejo, California. Given the projected lifespan of the building, architects chose the most durable powder coating system available at the time, Interpon D2000. Now, more than 21 years after application, the Interpon D2000 system continues to exceed all performance expectations, even in California’s tough climate. Tests at the hospital building have shown that both color change and gloss level significantly exceed the product’s 15-year guarantee. Why are we so proud? Because long-term protection is vital to high value infrastructure and California’s Mission Hospital is testament to the quality of our architectural powder coatings, which are ideal for all buildings where optimum aesthetic, technical and economic performance is essential. Mainly applied on aluminum and galvanized steel – but suitable for use wherever attractive, durable colors are required – Interpon D2000 coatings are specially designed for the architectural and construction industry. Providing stylish protection and decoration, the system has been used on a number of high profile buildings all over the world, including Aurora Place in Sydney, Australia, and Lloyd’s Register in London, UK. Europe’s largest building, the Shard tower in the London Bridge quarter, also features products from the D2000 range. During 2012, we boosted our Interpon D2000 Brilliance range with five new shades of bright metallic sparkle paints. The single coat product is suitable for all architectural aluminum uses, as well as garden and street furniture. The total range has also been upgraded to higher weather-resistant technology. Applications to date include Arsenal’s Emirates Stadium in London and Guangzhou Taikoo Plaza in China. 2020 Sustainability strategy Over the past decade, AkzoNobel has built a very strong Examples include: Maintain strong existing foundations – maintain foundation for sustainability and is recognized as a leader • Innovative coating solutions with lower curing excellence in people and process safety, product in its industry, as demonstrated by a consistently high temperatures – which also last longer in service stewardship, integrity management, training and position on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) and • Low friction coatings which reduce energy development and community involvement. by the number one position achieved in 2012 for the DJSI requirement in use Chemicals supersector. End-user segment drivers Ambition: Based on the World Business Council for Sustainable However, if we are to maintain our leadership position and • We will increase the revenue from downstream Development Vision 2050 work, we have developed take advantage of business growth opportunities, we must eco-premium solutions (that generate direct resource scenarios for our end-user segments. A common feature accelerate the pace of our commitment. Building on firm and energy benefits for our customers, consumers is that resource scarcity (energy and raw materials) foundations already in place, a new approach to sustainability and users) to 20 percent of our revenues by 2020 will drive major changes in these segments. This will has been developed by our Business Areas, together create significant business opportunities for AkzoNobel, with input from external stakeholders. This new approach Resource efficiency – accelerating resource efficiency particularly when we look across the full value chain. is focused on getting more value from fewer resources. improvements across the value chain. Buildings and Infrastructure Achieving longer term business success for AkzoNobel Examples include: • Mandatory thermal integrity standards and its business partners relies on the ability to get the • Manufacturing excellence delivering yield • 70 percent of the world’s population will live in urban areas greatest positive impact out of products and services, from improvements and cost savings at our plants • 95 percent of new building stock using zero net energy the fewest resources possible. Focusing on more effective • Lowest imaginable cost formulations • Huge increase in energy efficiency retrofitting use of scarce natural resources will contribute to cost • Increased use of renewable materials and energy • <6 percent of buildings heated with fossil fuels savings and will generate revenue growth for AkzoNobel in our suppliers and our own operations and for its business partners across the entire value chain. Transportation Ambition: • Universal access to low carbon transport For AkzoNobel, we believe sustainability leadership will • We will substantially reduce our carbon emissions • Super efficient and aerodynamic planes require an ever more external focus as the most significant through the cradle-to-grave value chain by • Reductions in carbon emissions: contribution to sustainable development we can make is 25–30 percent per ton by 2020 (2012 base) • 80 percent reduction in light duty vehicles the positive impact of our products for our four end-user • As of 2014, we will report on an index measuring how • 50 percent reduction in shipping/freight segments: Building and Infrastructure, Transportation, we improve resource efficiency across the full value Consumer Goods and Industrial. chain, compared with the value we generate Consumer Goods • People will use only five tons of non-renewable materials By doing more with less, sustainability value will be Capable engaged people – engaging our people and per year (down from 85 in the US) fundamentally connected to business value. We are partnering with our suppliers and customers to deliver • Customers will expect long-lasting, efficient products making sustainability profitable by tailoring solutions to significant changes. • Recycling or products and packaging integrated into our customers’ needs today and in the future and by business models future-proofing our supply chain. Ambition: • Sustainability is an integral part of business and culture Industrial Strategy 2020 elements in all parts of our organization • Four to ten-fold improvement in eco-efficiency of Sustainable business – creating business value through • Suppliers and customers are fully engaged in developing resources and materials from 2000 products and solutions which provide both functionality innovative, sustainable solutions • Closed loop processes, making landfill obsolete and other sustainability benefits, as well as cost savings • Cooperation across sectors the norm from operational efficiencies. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 163 Consolidated Sustainability statements Sustainability topics have been integrated into The blue pages in the AkzoNobel Report 2012 describe all sections of the AkzoNobel Report 2012. the sustainability processes and activities that span our businesses. The strategic ambitions in place in 2012 are This summary focuses on sustainability processes listed in the table on this page and in detail throughout and activities that span our businesses. this section. Safety A fuller overview of our sustainability strategy, activities Expressed by the strategic objective Top quartile safety and results can be found in the Sustainability section of our performance. Details of our people, process and product corporate website: www.akzonobel.com/sustainability safety performance can be found in Notes 4–7 of this section. Consolidated Sustainability statements Employees Expressed by the strategic objective Top quartile Ambition Ambition Ambition performance in employee engagement, diversity and talent Note 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2015 development. Details of our people performance can be Top quartile safety performance found in Notes 8–10 of this section. Total reportable injury rate employee/supervised 4 3.7 3.6 3.1 2.4 2.5 2.0 <2.0 contractors (per million hours) Value chain Manufacturing sites with BBS program (% sites) 4 – 72 76 76 100 100 100 Expressed by the strategic objective Top quartile eco-efficiency improvement rate. Details of our Top three in sustainability environmental and social performance and improvement Position in SAM sustainability assessment 2 2 2 1 Top 3 Top 3 Top 3 activities across the value chain can be found in Notes Top quartile employee engagement 11–13 of this section. Employee engagement (mean score out of five)1 8 80 3.56 3.74 3.80 – – 4.33 % internal promotion into executive level 8 80 74 80 70 – – 80 Environment % cross BU moves of leadership talents 8 5 5 6 5 – – – Expressed by the strategic objective Top quartile % executives women 8 10 12 13 15 14 – 20 eco-efficiency improvement rate. Details of our % executives high growth markets 8 11 12 13 13 14 – 20 environmental performance and improvement activities for our own operations can be found in Notes 14–19 of Top quartile eco-efficiency improvement rate this section. Eco-premium solutions (% total revenue) 12 18 21 22 22 23 25 30 Carbon value chain assessments 11 158 286 330 366 – – – Integrity Greenhouse gas emissions per unit product 11 – 22 32 3 5 5 10 All our sustainability activities are underpinned by integrity (cradle-to-gate) (% reduction from 2009) management. Details of our compliance performance and Sustainable fresh water management 18 38 48 74 83 70 80 100 improvement activities can be found in the Governance (% manufacturing sites) and compliance section of this report, in the Compliance Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure 14-18 – 7 11 13 15 – 30 (% reduction from 2009) and integrity management chapter. 1 From 2010, employee survey changed from % favorable to Gallup GrandMean: average of mean scores for each question (out of five). We define top quartile at the start of each sentence and 2 2010 and 2011 data restated, see Note 11. in the glossary. 164 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 1 Note 1: Managing our values Strategic focus Sustainability framework The focus has shifted away from an emphasis purely on Our sustainability agenda incorporates economic, The AkzoNobel sustainability framework maps out risks – working on integrity, governance and compliance environmental and social aspects. We consider the drivers a progression towards sustainability. It has three with our standards and applicable laws and regulations, to be the global mega-trends, population growth and the levels, which include environmental, economic and which are now integrated in the compliance framework new middle class, long-term scarcity of natural resources social aspects. (see Governance and compliance section) – towards and the impact of climate change. creating opportunities for value creation through process • Invent: integrate sustainable value propositions excellence, innovation and talent development. The importance of sustainability to running our business • Manage: include sustainability in all aspects is firmly integrated into the AkzoNobel strategy. It helps of the value chain us enhance our existing business, create new business • Improve: continue to comply and ensure our opportunities and minimize risks. In 2010, we updated license to operate our ambitions for 2015 for sustainable, accelerated growth in order to support our overall goals: • Top quartile safety performance Sustainability framework • Top three position in sustainability • Top quartile performance in diversity, employee Level of development Environmental Economic Social engagement and talent development • Top quartile eco-efficiency improvement rate Invent Carbon and Eco-premium Leadership Integrate sustainable value water policies solutions training These are underpinned by the company value of propositions integrity in all that we do. During 2012 we reviewed and updated the company Eco-premium Required Eco-efficiency Supportive Operational Market and sustainablity strategies (see Strategy section and Manage Zero VOC eco-analysis analysis supplier visits eco-efficiency propositions 2020 Sustainability strategy in this section for details). Include sustainability in all aspects Market Investment Sales and of the value chain R&D Sourcing Manufacturing research decisions marketing The Executive Committee monitors the company’s financial and sustainability performance using dashboards, which specify indicators – both leading and lagging – against Improve strategic objectives. For most key performance indicators Environmental/product Stretched safety Code of Conduct Continue to comply and ensure stewardship targets we have announced 2015 ambitions. Other short-term a license to operate and long-term ambitions are set at business level. Examples of sustainability activity The Notes in the Sustainability statements and other Value chain aspects elements of this report illustrate our performance against these goals. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 165 Management structure Management processes The main corporate monitoring processes for sustainability We have established a Sustainability Council, which We include key sustainability issues in our corporate items are: advises the Executive Committee on strategy developand business planning processes, as well as in our risk ments, monitors the integration of sustainability into management and compliance processes. Where there Non-financial letter of representation (NFL) management processes and oversees the company’s are specific sustainability risks or issues of concern The outcome of the NFL process, in combination with the sustainability targets and overall performance. The council, to stakeholders, we develop position papers and an internal control self-assessment process, forms the basis which meets quarterly, is chaired by the CEO and includes improvement plan owned by a subject matter expert. for the Statement of the Board of Management in this representatives from the Executive Committee (Supply Overall progress in embedding sustainability is monitored Report 2012 (for more information see Compliance and Chain, HR and RD&I), Managing Directors from our using an annual self-assessment benchmark, which intergrity management chapter in the Governance and businesses and the Corporate Directors of Strategy, reflects the content of the sustainability framework and compliance section). Sustainability and HSE, Sourcing and Communications. management processes. The assessment results are reviewed at corporate level. In-control process The Corporate Director for Sustainability and HSE reports An annual, in-depth, in-control process informs directly to the CEO and has an expertise team for HSE In 2012, we have taken these results together with management whether business processes are in and Sustainability, including a group focusing on lifecycle functional management review processes to form our control. Shortcomings are reported and remediated. and sustainability assessments. view. The results indicate that sustainability processes are “in place” or “mostly in place” in all businesses. Corporate audits The Managing Director of each business defines their Embedding of sustainability processes continues to These include sustainability and compliance issues. respective non-financial targets and reports on progress be highest in the compliance aspects such as risk The outcomes are shared with the Audit Committee every quarter. All businesses have also appointed a management, Code of Conduct, health and safety and Sustainability Council. Our processes for managing sustainability focal point to support the embedding of and reporting. During the year, there were encouraging sustainability were reviewed as part of our 2012 sustainability throughout their operations. They bring improvements in product stewardship and the newer external assurance activity. At functional level, these together an appropriate team to develop and implement areas of carbon and eco-premium solutions, due to are supplemented by specialist audits, for example the sustainability agenda for the business. Focal points concerted company level programs, and in marketing compliance and HSE. from across the company have regular meetings to and sales through specific business activities. exchange best practices and identify opportunities for further development. We strive to empower all employees to contribute and be accountable for our sustainability performance, using Meanwhile, each function in the value chain has identified training and other engagement processes, including focus areas for sustainability, with targets where appropriate. site level activity, web-based resources and, in 2012, Functional management teams, such as HR, Supply a Global Sustainability Day. This responsibility continues Chain and RD&I, which are made up of both corporate to be anchored in the personal targets and remuneration and business representatives, are in place to support packages of managers and employees. Since 2009, the implementation of functional strategy, including the half of the conditional grant of shares for Board members sustainability elements. and all executives has been based on AkzoNobel’s performance in the SAM (Sustainability Asset The compliance framework and the management structure Management) assessment over a three-year period for integrity and compliance aspects is detailed in the (see Remuneration report chapter in the Governance Governance and compliance section under Compliance and compliance section). and integrity management. 166 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 2 Note 2: Reporting principles Reporting scope Reporting boundaries an increase in quoted kg CO2(e) per ton for 2009–2011, The Report 2012 combines our financial and sustainability The AkzoNobel Report 2012 integrates sustainability but there was no notable percentage change from reporting and is addressed to readers interested in both aspects of our processes and business operations in each 2009–2012, which therefore remains at 3 percent. areas. In particular, we seek ways of linking sustainability section, in particular the Strategy, Our leadership, Business For our own operations, environmental impact and performance to business results in areas such as performance and Governance and compliance sections. improvements are quoted relative to production quantity, operational eco-efficiency, carbon emission reduction, i.e. the product volumes leaving every manufacturing eco-premium solutions and people development and This Sustainability statements section summarizes the plant. There is no change in this indicator. engagement. global, cross-business elements of the sustainability agenda and company performance. It includes quantitative and We identify issues which affect comparability in the text The information in this Report offers an update on our qualitative information relating to the calendar year 2012 or footnotes. implementation of the ten principles of the United Nations and comparative data for 2011, 2010 and 2009. We report Global Compact (UNGC). More sustainability information, on consolidated data from entities where AkzoNobel is Reporting process and assurance including an index of all Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) the majority shareholder (more than 50 percent) and joint The reporting period is 2012. Data has mainly been indicators and a summary of our UNGC progress is ventures where we have management control, but exclude obtained from our financial management reporting available on our corporate website. all data from entities where we have minority ownership, or systems, corporate HR information management systems, no management control. We include data from Chemicals corporate compliance information reporting systems and The topics of this Report were selected on the basis of the Pakistan (which was sold at the end of 2012 and had its the AkzoNobel corporate reporting systems for Health, sustainability aspects of our strategy, the GRI guidelines own management board), and Decorative Paints North Safety and Environment performance indicators, which and input from various external stakeholders. These America, which is classified as discontinued operations in have associated approval and verification processes. include our engagement with: the Financial statements section. Reporting for Chemicals These processes continue to be updated and improved. Pakistan has been limited to HSE and compliance issues. Data collection for the newer value chain reporting aspects • Shareholders is carried out using standard templates and procedures. • Customers Comparability More details on all reporting processes are available on • Employees Previously, our policy was to report acquisitions within our website. • Rating organizations, notably Sustainable Asset one calendar year. From 2010, we report from the date of Management (SAM) – the rating agency for the purchase, recognizing that reporting improvements may We are confident in the overall reliability of the data reportDow Jones Sustainability Indices – and the be required at these facilities. A significant change reflected ed, but recognize that some of the information is subject to Carbon Disclosure Project in 2011 data is the acquisition of the Schramm/SSCP an element of uncertainty, inherent to limitations associated • Sustainability organizations such as the World Business businesses, and for 2012 data the Boxing Oleochemicals with measuring and calculating data. Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD), the acquisition and our new facilities at Ningbo, both in China. World Resources Institute (WRI), Forum for the Future Senior managers approved the content and the quantitative and the International Integrated Reporting Council In 2010, we changed our employee survey to Gallup Q12. data used in the Sustainability statements section relating The Gallup GrandMean scores are not comparable with to their respective areas of responsibility. The integration of Reporting policies the previous survey’s percent favorable score. sustainability in day-to-day business is part of our routine Materiality internal audit process. We have used the principle of materiality to assess Our value chain (cradle-to-gate) carbon footprint is the topics to include in the report, which are current measured per metric ton of product sales leaving The Sustainability statements section has been reviewed and important for the company and key stakeholders. AkzoNobel. In 2012, the definition of product was clarified by independent, external auditors. The Assurance report, There have been no significant changes from 2011. to reduce variability in the indicator. It now excludes sold including the scope of the audit, can be found in the A summary of the process is available on our website. by-products and sold energy. Previous years’ data has Independent assurance report at the end of this section. been restated on the same basis. This has resulted in AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 167 The fastest spray gun... Revolutions in the way bodyshops operate are fairly rare, so in recent years there have been very few radical changes to the way in which vehicles are re-sprayed. The traditional refinish application process requires bodyshop personnel to precisely measure each component to ensure a correct mixture of clearcoat and hardener. As well as being relatively time-consuming, it can result in spills and mixing errors. In an effort to make this process faster, more efficient and more reliable for its bodyshop customers, our Automotive and Aerospace Coatings business has developed an ingenious packaging solution called click&go. Deceptively simple to use, the system uses disposable, pre-measured pouches that fit into a special frame. click&go™ is faster and more efficient for our bodyshop customers Painters first allow the two components to merge by opening the frame. You then click it closed, give it a quick ten-second shake to activate the clearcoat and it’s ready to go. The system is then attached directly to the spray gun for immediate use. Once application is complete, the pouch is simply detached from the frame and thrown away. The plastic frame can even be recycled. There’s no spillage, less waste, no need for mixing because the clearcoat and hardener are pre-measured (eliminating mixing errors), no exposure to fumes and product behavior is more consistent. An ideal solution for bodyshops that want to maximize productivity and efficiency and a perfect example of how AkzoNobel is actively seeking new ways to support the growth and sustainability of its customers. click&go A simple system using disposable, pre-measured pouches, ™ making the process of re-spraying faster, more efficient and more reliable for bodyshop customers. 3 Note 3: Stakeholder engagement Our approach 2020 strategy development activities, exhibitions at more than 50 sites, a special CEO The aim of our stakeholder engagement is to learn from We received input from customers, suppliers, employees video and live Q&A sessions with company experts. The key financial, social and environmental stakeholder groups and NGOs during the development of our strategy. questions were focused on six areas (customers, strategy, and in collaboration to develop leading sustainability environment, community, products and suppliers). This initiative solutions relevant to: Product-related partnerships helped to build on a range of other activities where employees We have some notable NGO partnerships linked to product are setting the local agenda and driving improvement, for • Our stakeholder needs areas. Through the Amsterdam Initiative on Malnutrition (AIM), example through local green teams and community activities • Implementation of strategic ambitions the Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN) and the around the world. • Management of risks and opportunities project Smarter Futures, our Ferrazone iron fortificant is making an important contribution to the Millennium Development Customers and suppliers Our key stakeholders are employees, customers, Goals of the United Nations. Activities during 2012 included Involvement of customers and suppliers is crucial to our value suppliers, investors, communities, specific sustainability/ support for the GAIN Netherlands office and the AIM chain approach to sustainability. We encourage customers to research organizations and NGOs. This section includes secretariat, as well as participation in a cassava fortification challenge us and work with us on more sustainable product some highlights. There are more details in the Strategy project and QC/QA laboratories. The winners of the internal propositions. There are many specific examples in the case and other sections of this report: AkzoNobel Sustainability Award contributed their prize money studies and Business performance section of this Report. Our to Smarter Futures to develop an instrument which can key supplier contracts include sustainability aspects and we • Communities: Note 10 of this section monitor the amount of Ferrazone in wheat/flour – important have had detailed discussions to identify joint development • Customers: Business performance section for the future development of this application. areas with some of our biggest suppliers during the year. One • Employees: Note 8 of this section specific project is a detailed review of titanium dioxide with • Investors: Governance and compliance section Following our 2010 partnership agreement with the Forest value chain partners to identify joint improvement opportunities. • Suppliers: Note 13 of this section Stewardship Council (FSC), we have set up a central fund • Specific sustainability/research organizations to support the FSC’s work in increasing the supply of Shareholders and analysts and NGOs: Note 3 of this section FSC-certified products. We are also rolling out local partnership We continued to develop engagement with shareholders on agreements between our consumer woodcare brands and the sustainability aspects by taking part in five conferences during Stakeholder engagement in 2012 FSC’s national offices to promote awareness of the FSC and the year, as well as answering questions in telephone briefings Our commitment and primary partners the use of wood and paper from sustainably-managed forests. and questionnaires. Questions during 2012 continued to focus We support a number of charters and external We have eight active partnerships in the Netherlands, UK, on financial benefits from sustainability activity and solutions for organizations to demonstrate our commitment Germany, Switzerland, Czech Republic, Brazil, Russia and customers, raw materials supply, carbon policy and specialist to sustainability issues. the Nordics. In 2013, we will also set up local partnerships topics, for example nanotechnology. Sustainability aspects in Poland, Belgium, Argentina and Canada. In Brazil, the of business are also included in many analyst and general These include the UN Global Compact – where we are also program has included communication to the sales team, shareholder presentations. an active member of the network in the Netherlands – the clients and consumers, training for painters and sales clerks, UN Declaration of Human Rights, the Responsible Care® as well as involvement in FSC Friday and the smallholders See also the AkzoNobel on the capital markets chapter Global Charter and the CEO Water Mandate, where we are certification program. in the Governance and compliance section. represented on the steering group. As part of a joint PRI-UN Global Compact initiative designed to improve companyEmployee engagement Supporting our development areas investor communications on ESG information, AkzoNobel is During 2012, we held our first Global Sustainability Day, We continue to develop our biodiversity priorities working hosting one of the pilot presentations designed to test and engaging employees from around the world on the theme: with the IUCN Leaders for Nature Inspirational Programme refine the ESG Investor Briefing concept. If sustainability is the answer, what is the question? Employees on Ecosystems and Young Leaders for Nature program in the were encouraged to get involved and ask questions via a Netherlands. Current focus is to identify “hot spots” in some range of activities including site/team meetings, community of our key value chains, to identify a quick scan process which 170 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Safety could be integrated with other environmental assessments Key performance indicators – safety and to develop case studies to raise awareness. Ambition Ambition Ambition 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2015 To help us further develop reporting and transparency, AkzoNobel is one of more than 80 pilot companies in the People International Integrated Reporting Council program to Total reportable injury rate employee/supervised 3.7 3.6 3.1 2.4 2.5 2.0 <2.0 contractors (per million hours) create a forward-looking company reporting framework. Manufacturing sites with BBS program (% sites) – 72 76 76 100 100 100 Developing good practice Process In the field of carbon management we co-chair the WBCSD Regulatory actions (Level 3) 3 4 0 3 0 0 0 Chemicals Sector Working Group. Together with peers, we Significant loss of containment (Level D) 1 0 2 0 0 0 0 have developed chemicals sector guidelines to drive consistent reporting of Scope 1 and 2, as well as Scope 3 up and Product downstream emissions. The current focus is to explore how Priority substances with management plan (%) – – 23 42 40 60 100 we can best address so-called avoided or Scope 4 emissions REACH compliance Tier 2 (%) – 8 44 83 80 100 100 – the emissions avoided by the use of our products through, Management for example, energy or resource efficiency improvements. Safety incidents (Level 3) 9 10 8 3 0 0 0 HSE audits 66 61 66 61 – – – To enhance the importance and development of sustainable value chains, we again supported the organization of the International Supply Management Congress in Amsterdam. This was a joint initiative with ADC Performance Improvement, IDH (the Dutch Sustainable Trade Initiative), KPMG, NEVI The AkzoNobel HSE vision of zero injuries, waste and Management focus and employee engagement at (Dutch knowledge network for purchasing and supply harm is based on our company strategy. The HSE Agenda every level have delivered a reduction of 23 percent management), Rabobank, Shell and Unilever. The event for 2011 to 2015 sets the targets and milestones for in the total reportable injury rate. Specifically, the is a meeting point for sharing knowledge, experience and achieving our ambition to be in the top quartile of peer tailor-made approaches of our Behavior-Based best practices across supply chain professionals, NGOs companies. Top quartile performance is measured by Safety program, and the focus and support for and thought leaders. The focus for 2012 was creating scale comparing the total reportable rate (TRR) for incidents sites that have consistently fallen short in performance through pre-competitive cooperation: Experience the impact with eight comparable companies. (so-called safety roadmap sites), mainly contributed of supply chains. to meeting our milestones. In order to step up process As well as focusing on management leadership, behaviorsafety, a Process Safety Excellence program will be Indices and recognition based improvement processes and operational discipline, introduced on a global basis. During 2012, we achieved a number one position on the Dow the company has launched a standard set of improvement Jones Sustainability Index in the Chemicals supersector. We programs which are common across the company – the continued to be included in the FTSE4Good index and to take HSE Common Platform. By working to improve through part in the Carbon Disclosure project. We were also one of common programs, we aim to achieve consistency, high three chemical companies given “prime” status in the Oekom effectiveness and efficiency. The businesses have taken investment universe. In the Netherlands, we were shortlisted responsibility for implementing these programs. Leading in the Transparency benchmark (top three). units are providing experience and best practice, which can be shared with others in order to accelerate progress. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 171 4 Note 4: People health and safety An improvement program for people safety is in place at • T he total reportable rate of injuries for employees and • T he total illness absence rate remains stable at 2.0 percent our businesses and related ambitions have been set for supervisors dropped from 3.6 (2010) and 3.1 (2011) (2011: 2.0 percent). We continue to monitor this indicator 2015. Overall, performance indicators for people safety to 2.4 in 2012. This correlates with a decrease in the for the whole company, aiming to stay at a level around show that the company continues to structurally improve. number of 13.4 safety incidents from 36 in 2011 to 23 1.9 percent, but will not set new long-term ambitions In general, the number of incidents is going down, while in 2012 • The occupational illness rate for employees and at the same time new initiatives help us to accelerate • However, the improved safety performance does not supervised contractors stands at 0.2 illnesses per improvement. extend to independent contractors. More independent million hours worked (2011: 0.3). With our continued contractors were injured in 2012 than in the previous expansion in high growth countries, we recognize that Employee and contractor safety year, demonstrating the need to refocus more on contractor there are challenges associated with cultural aspects Even with a general downward trend in reportable incidents safety management and the involvement of independent (such as health beliefs and the emphasis on group in 2012, the company continues to strive for zero incidents contractors in our safety improvement programs in 2013 importance), and differences in healthcare systems in order to become a leading company in safety perfor• There was a stronger focus in 2012 on operational which may discourage illness reporting or impact the mance. The downward trend is reflected in both the total discipline and a strict adherence to the intrinsic company comparability of reporting number of injuries to employees and supervised contracsafety value. This was supported by the launch of the • Our health risk appraisal tool, the Wellness Checkpoint, tors, as well as in the number of 13.4 safety incidents. TakeCare program and our Life-Saving Rules, which were is appreciated and being used by an increasing number formally announced during a global Safety Day. With full of employees and their families. By the end of 2012, Employee and supervised contractors total implementation to be completed in 2013, the focus on more than 11,000 people had joined the program reportable injuries injury rate personal accountability and safety priority is expected to • Occupational hygiene workshops for people in HSE critical facilitate a continued decrease in incidents and injuries roles have been delivered in each of the three regions Ambitions • The steady improvement in our injury rate was supported by management focus and employee engagement in Safe driving 3.7 3.6 3.1 the form of a Behavior-Based Safety (BBS) program. In 2012, AkzoNobel recorded fewer total motor vehicle 2.4 During 2012, AkzoNobel signed a sole, global supplier incidents resulting in injury and fatalities than in previous 2.0 agreement with Behavioral Science Technology Inc. years. However, this subject remains high on our agenda. for the supply of best practice behavioral safety 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 methodology to all businesses. BBS has now been Motor vehicle incidents implemented at 76 percent of our manufacturing sites, 2010 2011 2012 with the remaining facilities (mostly newly-acquired Incidents with injury 34 29 28 units) due to be included during 2013 Independent contractors total reportable Fatalities – employees 1 0 1 injuries injury rate Employee health Not only do we ensure a safe working environment, but • In 2012, we recorded fewer motor vehicle incidents with we also foster employee health and well-being, as well as injury – from 34 and 29 in 2010 and 2011 respectively to 4.2 3.5 managing illness absenteeism. 28 in 2012. Tragically, one motor vehicle incident involved 2.8 3.0 an AkzoNobel employee fatality (see Note 7) Employee health • The company continues to monitor safe driving performance and strives for improvement. This year, 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 a Safe Driving training program was developed, parallel Total illness absence rate 1.9 2.0 2.0 to ongoing training initiatives. The program will result in a The total reportable rate (TRR) is the number of injuries, including fatalities, resulting in a lost time case, restricted work or requiring medical treatment by a competent Occupational illness rate 0.3 0.3 0.2 pilot in 2013, followed by company-wide implementation. medical practitioner per million hours worked. Wellness Checkpoint use >5,000 >8,800 >11,300 172 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 5 Note 5: Process safety We continue to use “loss of primary containment’’ Safety Management Framework, which describes the as our main indicator of asset integrity/process safety process safety management elements in a uniform manner, performance at our manufacturing sites. uniting production, maintenance and engineering disciplines. In parallel with this policy, a new set of Process Safety Loss of containment incidents are divided into four Management Standards and Guidance Notes have been categories depending on severity. developed, which describe the AkzoNobel requirements and best practices for process safety management. Loss of containment incidents The project will be aligned with process safety improvement initiatives to ensure an integrated approach, share best practices and engage with local sites across our Levels businesses. D 0 (2011: 2) Significant Self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) A project has been launched to reposition the HSE C annual self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) as the 16 company-wide HSE improvement planning tool. Specific (2011: 31) Not contained at site focus was put on high hazard sites to ensure they achieve reference level in all process safety elements. These B reference levels are defined in the company’s HSE 209 (2011: 228) management system and are set to achieve the level Not readily controlled but contained at site of top quartile safety performance. Currently, 52 percent of high hazard sites have achieved reference level. A 1,809 (2011: 1,843) A dedicated emphasis program has been rolled out Readily controlled and contained at site to support sites facing difficulties in achieving these high ambitions. Follow-up and dedicated management attention and professional support are given to these Comparing 2012 with 2011, no significant change in the sites to bring them to the desired performance level. loss of containment figures can be observed, apart from a downward trend in Level C and D incidents. We expect several Common Platform projects which began in 2012 (Process Safety Management, embedding the SelfAssessment Questionnaire) to offer significant help in achieving the process safety performance goals set in the Common Platform Agenda 2011–2015. Process safety management An integrated approach to process safety management was developed during the year for all manufacturing operations, from low to high hazard sites. This resulted in a Process AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 173 6 Note 6: Product stewardship Our ambition is to be in the top quartile of companies Going forward, our target is to review and risk manage REACH in our peer group for product stewardship. Based on all our priority substances by 2015, with 60 percent We are on schedule to submit dossiers for registration the product stewardship objectives included on our complete by the end 2013 and 80 percent by the end of AkzoNobel substances in June 2013 in accordance HSE Agenda 2011–2015, our focus has been on HSE of 2014. with the REACH regulations. We have also continued to Common Platform programs during 2012. provide additional information and answer questions from the authorities on registration dossiers for substances Priority substance management Distribution incidents registered in 2010. We have identified a list of 146 priority substances by 2009 2010 2011 2012 scoring all hazardous substances used in AkzoNobel Classification and labelling of AkzoNobel products Road 44 82 67 44 products and processes. Scores are allocated Through the introduction and use of common software in Sea 7 5 3 2 to substances on the basis of their human and our chemicals and coatings businesses, we are harmoenvironmental hazard (under the GHS system) and where Rail 1 4 10 0 nizing the way product material safety data sheets are societal concern exists over their use. Substances with Air 0 0 0 0 generated. We are on schedule with implementation of the higher scores are designated as AkzoNobel priority Total 52 91 80 46 Global Harmonized System (GHS) for labelling of chemical substances and are subject to review by our experts. substances and products. Product distribution Where possible, priority substances are removed from our We insist that our products are transported and distributed Advocacy products and substituted with more sustainable materials. safely by our contractors, so we audit their performance We are active in industry associations at a local, regional and monitor and record incidents involving distribution and global level. Our aim is to establish equitable and Where possible, priority substances are removed from our of our products. In 2012, we prepared a comprehensive sustainable standards in our industry that protect human products and substituted with more sustainable materials. guidance note for our businesses to raise the profile of health and the environment. Participation in this way also If this is not possible, a full review of the substance is safe product distribution, which included a risk management gives us an opportunity to engage in a dialog with regulaperformed following state-of-the-art risk assessment tool. During the year, a significant drop in these incidents tors before changes in new rules impacting our products techniques from the EU REACH regulations. Only when was observed. are finalized. safe use of a priority substance can be demonstrated is it allowed for use in our products and processes. Product stewardship summaries For example, in China we provided advice to Chinese We continue to develop product stewardship summaries government officials drafting the Chinese Green Label In 2012, we set a target to review and risk manage 40 on a voluntary basis for the substances we manufacture standard for antifouling paints through our participation percent, or 58, of our priority substances. We achieved under the Responsible Care® initiative. These documents in the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers this objective and 40 priority substances will no longer communicate hazards and give advice to customers on in China (AICM) and the International Paint and Printing Ink be permitted for use in AkzoNobel products and will be the safe use of our products. In 2012, more than 100 Council (IPPIC). We also assisted the Chinese authorities removed or substituted with more sustainable alternatives. substance summaries were posted on the website of in the development of a new national standard for transAn example of a group of priority substances to be phased the American Chemicals Council (ACC) and International portation of organic peroxides to optimize safe transport out is a group of seven phthalates used in coatings Council of Chemical Associations (ICCA). of these substances in China. as plasticisers, where there are concerns over their toxicity. This group of phthalates will be phased out Regulatory affairs We continue to promote harmonization between countries and substituted with more sustainable alternatives In addition to complying with regulations that impact on and the implementation of changes in chemical substance from the end of 2014. our products and processes, we carefully monitor changes regulations through our representatives in trade assoand prepare ourselves for new regulations that will affect ciations such as the International Council of Chemical our businesses. In 2012, our primary activities included: Associations (ICCA). 174 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 7 Note 7: HSE management processes High production volume (HPV) program Management systems The common HSE systems initiative will continue to In 2012, we continued to participate in the extended HPV Operational excellence at our sites is supported by evaluate and implement effective common systems for program, a voluntary industry initiative to ensure sufficient risk-based management systems that follow the AkzoNobel in 2013. Examples include the One Incident data is available to assess the hazards of substances. Responsible Care® and Coatings Care® principles. Our Reporting System. Working through the American Chemicals Council (ACC), HSE management standards are set up and updated we ensured appropriate information and data were generin accordance with international standards such as HSE audit ated and supplied to the US government. We will continue ISO-14001, RC-14001, OHSAS-18001. Validation of The HSE audit process combines a continuous improvement to participate in this work. our process safety management standards with PAS tool for sites with a periodic audit managed by our internal 55 (public standard for process safety) will take place in auditing department. For most sites, the audit frequency is The aim of our Product Stewardship program is not only 2013. Many sites and businesses have additional external every five years. For sites with an intrinsic high hazard rating, to comply with all rules and regulations that impact on certification for their management systems, which are this frequency is every three years. our products, but to also, where possible, go beyond subject to audit by our internal audit group and external legislation. By working in this way, we promote a high audits from certification authorities. During 2012, we carried out 56 corporate HSE audits level of sustainability, human and environmental safety (2011: 62) and five reassurance audits (2011: 4), which are and make sure our products are future-proof in advance required for sites with high risk findings. Learnings from the of legislative change. External certification 2012 audits indicate that we need to continue to improve our management of occupational health, asset integrity and, in % of production 2010 2011 2012 to a lesser extent, security. ISO-14001/RC-14001 72 73 75 OHSAS-18001/RC-14001 35 37 42 In 2012, the number of HSE lead auditors was increased. We run yearly regional training sessions for auditors in North Common Platform America, Latin America, Europe and Asia to calibrate the A Common Platform of HSE programs has been launched classification of audit findings and share good practice and in order to achieve company-wide consistency in all our new developments. HSE management systems. For the first time, AkzoNobel now has: Management audits number of audits • Transparency of performance information • Delivery of process safety excellence in line with current 66 61 66 61 PSM practices • A best practice people (behavioral) safety methodology • A global approach to managing priority substances • A common HSE leadership training program 2009 2010 2011 2012 The Common Platform has given complete clarity to line Safety incidents managers and HSE professionals about what to focus on The company continues to strive for zero injuries and in order to deliver top quartile performance. Management zero 13.4 safety incidents. We classify incidents based focus and employee engagement at every level have on severity of outcome, from local impact (Level 1) to the delivered a reduction of 23 percent in the total reportable highest category (Level 3). The number of Level 1, 2 and injury rate in 2012. 3 safety incidents totaled 23 (2011: 36). The number of Level 3 safety incidents dropped from eight in 2011 to AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 175 three in 2012. However, we regret that two employees Regulatory actions and five members of the public died as a result of these We have defined three categories of regulatory actions, incidents. More focus has been put on the follow-up of from self-reported issues (Level 1) to formal legal incident investigation findings and recommendations, while notifications with fines above €10,000 (Level 3). both investigation process and follow-up are consistently tracked. Regional pools of experienced investigators are There were three Level 3 regulatory actions in 2012. being set up to assist in local incident investigations and share investigation knowledge and experience. Regulatory actions 2009 2010 2011 2012 • One employee died after a fall from a platform while Regulatory actions 3 4 0 3 carrying out maintenance work at the Sheikupura site Level 3 in Pakistan Regulatory Action Level 3: a formal notice of a criminal prosecution or • One employee, a sales representative, died in a motor penalty greater than €10,000. vehicle incident near Frankfurt, Germany • Five members of the public died when a site boundary Security management wall, adjacent to where they had built makeshift shelters, Security of people, assets and information are pivotal collapsed during extreme rainfall in Hyderabad, India factors to the success of our business and therefore remain an integral part of our HSE management system. Ongoing security assessments help our sites to identify risk and put in place advanced security protection. Safety incidents HSE capability development The HSE function has adopted the competency framework 10 of the Integrated Supply Chain. The framework incorporates 9 8 all HSE competencies required by HSE professionals and line managers with critical HSE functions. The profiles of key roles have been defined, including required competencies 3 and proficiency levels. 2009 2010 2011 2012 An HSE Faculty was established in 2012 as part of the AkzoNobel Academy, providing core training and development Safety incidents (Level 3) involve any loss of life; more than five severe injuries; environmental, asset or business damage totaling more than €25 million; or extensive programs for line managers, HSE and PS&RA professionals. reputational damage. The curriculum for line managers with critical HSE functions has been based on the competency framework, with special emphasis on training line managers in HSE leadership, asset integrity and hazard study. HSE professionals are included in the line management training, while product safety specialists have been trained in substance risk assessment. In depth modules will be developed during 2013 to meet the specialist needs of both groups. 176 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Creating more with less Creating more value with less environmental impact has been a core element of our operational eco-efficiency program for several years. As well as reducing the amount of resources we use and cutting emissions and waste produced during manufacturing, it also helps to generate important cost savings. Another crucial element of our operational eco-efficiency program is the fact that it stimulates creativity and innovation as we search for new ways to decrease our environmental impact. And it’s not limited to our own operations. The program also applies to upstream and downstream activities throughout the value chain. Our manufacturing site in Itupeva, Brazil, is a real environmental success story. Operated by the Surface Chemistry business, the facility has introduced a number of initiatives that have significantly improved sustainability performance at the site. For example, their ammonia recovery project resulted in a 35 percent reduction of CO2 emissions for ammonia usage along the entire value chain. In addition, direct process NO2 emissions decreased by a remarkable 79 percent. The Itupeva site has also started implementation of the Comprehensive Energy Diagnostics program (CED), which will lead to increased energy efficiency of around 25 percent. These endeavors, combined with the ammonia recovery project, will result in annual cost savings of nearly €2.5 million. This combination of both environmental and economic benefits makes Itupeva a great example of the positive results we are achieving as we continue to improve our eco-efficiency performance. All environmental comparisons are made against the baseline year of 2009 and per ton of product. Employees Key performance indicators – employees Ambition Ambition 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 People data Diversity and inclusion Employees 54,700 55,600 57,240 55,272 NA % of women executives 10 12 13 15 20 % of executives from high 11 12 13 13 20 Employee engagement growth markets ViewPoint score 3.56 3.74 3.80 Top quartile1 % of women executive potentials NA 27 26 27 30 Talent management % of executive potentials NA 26 31 31 30 from high growth markets % internal promotion into 80 74 80 70 80 executive level Executive diversity: women in % per area % cross BU moves of 5 5 6 5 10 leadership talents General management/Sales 3 3 3 4 % online P&D Dialog participation 72 76 78 84 95 Support 18 24 24 28 % retention of leadership talent 98 97 96 96 95 Marketing 12 15 22 27 (overall) Manufacturing 10 8 10 7 % retention of leadership talent 96 96 94 97 95 RD&I/Technology 7 13 14 14 (women/high growth markets Other 14 13 13 14 employees) Total AkzoNobel 10 12 13 15 # managers joined Managers 95% (MEP/ Essentials Program, per region: AMP) Executive diversity: people from high growth markets in % per area Europe 732 2,039 2,562 3,008 General management/Sales 19 18 20 21 Americas 796 968 1,341 1,496 Support 9 12 12 12 Asia 728 1,212 1,642 1,566 Marketing 8 10 5 9 Other 0 135 151 81 Manufacturing 7 5 10 12 Total 2,256 4,354 5,696 6,151 RD&I/Technology 4 5 5 4 # managers joined Advanced 95% (MEP/ Management Program, per region: AMP) Other 5 4 6 11 Europe 199 441 695 833 Total AkzoNobel 11 12 13 13 Americas 80 201 309 348 Asia 173 172 298 283 Other 0 59 69 59 Total 452 873 1371 1,523 Ranking of engagement index 3.61 3.80 3.85 Top quartile1 on Learning and Growth (Q12) 1 We define top quartile in the glossary. 178 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 8 Note 8: Our people HR at AkzoNobel is fully dedicated to serving the needs talent pipeline and strong succession planning. Good progsenior or middle managers become more proficient at of both our individual businesses and the company as a ress has been made in 2012. Our new OneHR infrastructure leading larger, or more complex organizations, develop whole. To support us in this regard, and in addition to our went live in China, with the next rollouts planned for Brazil leadership talent among their staff and create highoperational activities, at the end of 2011 we set a new and India in Q1 2013. performing teams spanning various functional areas HR functional excellence agenda, which was aligned with • AkzoNobel Academy to enable functional and the company’s performance improvement program. This In addition, in 2012, we decided to take an integral operational excellence. The Academy is the key enabler is directed at delivering strong succession in line with our Talent Management Suite (TMS) approach to HR IT to drive and facilitate capability build; incorporate diversity and inclusion objectives and achieving internal in the following areas: Recruitment; Learning and internal and external best practices and best practice and external recognition as an employer of choice. To that Development; Compensation and Benefits; and sharing; offer courses that are directly linked to end, we defined five key focus areas: Performance Management. In other words, we will be key areas that drive our functional and operational pursuing the implementation of a coherent IT solution excellence ambition in a sustainable way; ensure that • P ut in place OneHR Services in our key countries, to address all four HR domains, further reducing the our courses, standards, improvement methodologies serving all businesses within those countries fragmentation in our IT landscape. and tools are easily accessible across the organization • Develop a strong talent pipeline based on an and benchmarked against world class standards. Each integrated talent management approach Talent management function now has its own Faculty Leader to define • Implement an AkzoNobel Academy to underpin With the basics of OneHR Services falling into place, we are capability need/competencies and the associated functional and operational excellence taking action to create a healthy talent pipeline with strong curriculum to grow these capabilities. In addition, we • Professionalize recruitment and retention to succession planning in line with our diversity and inclusion have now launched a catalog of best practice courses become the employer of choice in key countries ambitions. Using a clear definition of what it is to be a for key functional areas and defined the curricula for • Deliver a step change in HR capabilities and leader at AkzoNobel, we are aiming to have talent pipelines 2013, which is aimed at improving identified capabilities expertise levels with two or three immediate successors to key positions. • Continued use of our Performance and Development We will achieve this by managing the careers of our key Dialog. The P&D Dialog is AkzoNobel’s global In 2012, we made significant progress, a fact underlined talents in a more proactive manner and linking succession performance appraisal and employee development by the outcome of the 2012 SAM benchmark. Indeed, planning to career planning, with clearly aligned learning and program. All employees are required to participate. the social dimension of the SAM benchmark places development opportunities, mentoring and coaching facilities, Our company values and success factors (behavioral AkzoNobel in number one position in the Chemicals and career development possibilities. competencies) are an integral part of all development supersector, in areas such as human capital development, discussions and are integrated into the system and labor practice and human rights. Key actions in 2012 annual performance appraisal process • Use of Matching Forums at Business Area and Function HR Services level to regularly discuss upcoming vacancies with Diversity and Inclusion For basic HR administration, we are driving towards a stanpotentials in the company Our talent management activities are aligned with our dardized OneHR Services way of working and organization • Individual Development Plans (IDPs) for key talents diversity and inclusion ambitions: at AkzoNobel, we strive across the company, based on three linked elements: stan• Improved Leadership Talent Review process, with more to draw from as wide a talent pool as possible and create dardized processes, executed on a standardized IT platform focus on an individual’s future potential and capabilities, a working environment where differences are valued and (myHR), by HR staff in an HR Service Center. This will and ensuring that we identify and assess potential where everyone has the opportunity to develop their skills enable us to provide a consistent and quality service across earlier in the careers of our talents and talents. our ten key countries, while reducing costs to benchmark • Continued use of our two main management programs. levels. In addition, the OneHR Services project is also absoThe Management Essentials Program (MEP) is designed To achieve this, we have had a dedicated Diversity and lutely central to removing the different systems that exist in to give all managers the fundamental skills needed Inclusion (D&I) program in AkzoNobel since 2008. The goals the function today and provides the foundation on which we to properly manage their people. The Advanced of the program are to create awareness and engagement can focus on our core challenge: putting in place a healthy Management Program (AMP) is designed to help more around diversity, to embed the concept in the organization, AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 179 to establish company-wide metrics and to make AkzoNobel Recruitment program to various countries and trained more than a true reflection of the markets in which we operate. To support us in attracting the talent we need to achieve 100 HR professionals across AkzoNobel our ambitions, we are driving towards becoming an We have made good progress with D&I in recent years – employer of choice in our key countries, targeting, for Employee engagement something which has been highlighted by our success in example, a top 100 position in China and a top ten In addition to underpinning our ambition to become filling senior level appointments with candidates from our position in the Netherlands. This should lead to recruiting an employer of choice with our talent management focus groups (women or people who come from high growth better talents at lower cost. To support us in this, we have and diversity and inclusion activities, we aim to become markets). For example, of the total number of senior level established recruitment “centers of expertise” in our top one of the top companies when it comes to employee positions that were filled last year, 33 percent of the external ten key countries to help us leverage the scale of AkzoNobel engagement by creating a working environment where recruitments and 24 percent of the internal moves were as an employer and to serve our businesses more people feel valued and are given the right conditions to female. In addition, 29 percent of external and 18 percent of efficiently and effectively. perform at their best. We use our ViewPoint Employee internal placements were from high growth markets. Engagement Survey to monitor progress. This is based Key actions in 2012: on the Gallup Q12 survey and provides a comparison In addition, we have improved the proportion of our • Established recruitment centers of expertise against nearly 500 organizations. executives who are either women or come from high growth in our top ten key countries markets. Since the start of 2009, the proportion of women in • Improved attractiveness (and reduced cost) Our overall engagement score went up only slightly this executive positions has increased from 10 percent in 2009 of AkzoNobel as an employer through a One year, as did the scores for each of the questions on the to 15 percent of the total population in 2012. The presence AkzoNobel Employee Value Proposition – survey. While there were positives, there are a number of women in executive positions has been particularly Where your ideas go far of areas where action needs to be taken and plans to strengthened in functional roles over the past two years, remedy the gaps are already in place, including: especially in HR, Finance, Purchasing, Legal, Marketing and, HR training to a lesser extent, Sales and Manufacturing. With regard Achieving all of the actions on our agenda will require • Introduction of HR Coaches program to ensure HR to executives in high growth markets, we have made less the support of a suitably qualified HR organization. business partners can coach managers to improve progress, although the proportion of executives coming from We have therefore set about delivering a step change people management skills, especially in the area of these markets is 13 percent. in HR capabilities and expertise levels. Guided by a new performance management and employee engagement. HR competency framework and development center, Sixty HR business partners have been trained so far In 2012, a number of initiatives were put in place to further HR employees are now being offered the learning • Introduction of Engagement Catalysts program to embed D&I in the AkzoNobel culture. These included: opportunities they need to be a strategic partner to enable people managers to further strengthen their their organization. engagement expertise and to enable them to act as • Three-step D&I program: All of our businesses have trusted advisors to (low performing) people managers. now gone through this comprehensive program, Key actions in 2012 In total, 89 people managers have been trained so far which culminates its first phase in 2015 • Rolled out the HR Development Center to help • Introduction of global webinars for all people managers • We have also invested considerably in D&I awareness our people develop the capabilities required to to improve best practice sharing and help managers training for managers in the skills needed to create and deliver functional and operational excellence across raise engagement levels in their teams. Twelve webinars sustain diverse teams. In total, 4,700 of our managers the company have been held so far have already completed the training and D&I e-learning • Defined an HR curriculum within the AkzoNobel module for all employees, while nearly 25,000 employees Academy to strengthen capabilities, based on a globally have completed the online training program clearly defined competency framework • Establishment of a company-wide diversity and • Launched the HR Business Partner program to inclusion policy strengthen the ability of this key group to be strategic • Establishment of a company-wide anti-harassment directive partners to the business. In 2012, we rolled out the 180 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 9 Note 9: Restructuring 10 Note 10: Community Employee survey scores for each engagement item In 2012, we continued to restructure our business to meet Community involvement is an integral part of the social the needs of our customers and deliver our company pillar in our strategic Sustainability framework (see Note Percentile Mean strategy. As a responsible employer, we are committed 1 in this section). The requirement to engage with local GrandMean 2010 23 3.56 to supporting our employees during such reorganizations. communities is also embedded in our HSE standards 2011 33 3.74 We do this in compliance with legal requirements and is part of our auditing cycles. Our main societal 2012 37 3.80 and, where applicable, in consultation with employee contributions fall into three areas: representative bodies. We strive to ensure clear and Learn and grow 2010 25 3.61 ongoing communications, transparent selection processes • Support to community/social development through 2011 33 3.80 and, in many cases, support in the transition from work the AkzoNobel Community Program and AkzoNobel 2012 37 3.85 to work, which can include training and out-placement. Education Fund Progress 2010 24 3.41 • Improve prosperity in society through products 2011 32 3.67 and partnerships 2012 35 3.75 • Social contribution of our overall business activities Best friend 2010 23 3.19 2011 32 3.45 2012 37 3.57 There is a growing trend towards combining business Quality 2010 34 3.84 strategic drivers with societal contributions. Strategic 2011 40 3.96 drivers include: license to operate, employee 2012 46 4.02 development, company and product branding and Mission/Purpose 2010 28 3.67 market growth through increased prosperity in society. 2011 33 3.80 2012 33 3.82 Community Program Opinions count 2010 33 3.46 Our Community Program encourages sites and individuals 2011 39 3.61 to take part in projects where our products/resources and 2012 42 3.67 the skills and knowledge of employees can benefit the Development 2010 23 3.37 wider community. In the past seven years, this has led 2011 32 3.59 to a variety of projects, from educating underprivileged 2012 37 3.68 youngsters to creating more awareness about the Cares 2010 22 3.60 importance of a clean environment. It also provides 2011 29 3.81 opportunities for employees to develop team-building 2012 33 3.88 and leadership skills. Recognition 2010 21 2.98 2011 33 3.30 Since the start of the program in 2005, more than 9,000 2012 37 3.41 volunteers from 50 countries have worked on around Do best 2010 26 3.65 2011 31 3.77 2,000 projects, representing approximately €13 million of 2012 35 3.82 investment. Our sites initiate over 250 projects each year, Materials and equipment 2010 31 3.77 with little variation in the regional spread. Nearly 70 percent 2011 38 3.88 of projects have supported educational/employability and 2012 38 3.91 healthcare/well-being activities, with environmental and Expectations 2010 28 4.18 housing projects also well represented. The economic 2011 32 4.24 slowdown has prompted more focus on projects benefiting 2012 34 4.27 deprived, socially disadvantaged groups. For example, AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 181 involvement in the set up and running of soup kitchens, 2012 projects by region E shelters and daycare centers for the homeless and vocational training for unemployed youngsters and women are taking D place on a continuous basis in various parts of the world. A Europe 144 B North America 43 The fund is also available to support post-relief efforts for C Latin America 14 C major disasters in countries where we operate, as long D Asia 48 A as there is hands-on involvement by our employees. For E Other regions 4 B example, in 2012, almost 50 percent of the workforce in Adria, Italy, helped restore a hospital for disabled elderly and Alzheimer patients in Emilia Romagna, which was severely hit by a major earthquake. Other post-relief aid actions took place in Thailand, which experienced its worst floods in 50 Education Fund years. Our employees teamed up to help children resume The Education Fund was created at the end of 1994 in their education as soon as possible by cleaning, repairing order to make a contribution to the education of children and renovating a school. Meanwhile, in the US, relief aid was in developing countries. Since being launched, it has provided after a tornado hit the Mid-West. changed the lives of tens of thousands of young people by supporting projects ranging from school renovation In 2012, 253 new projects were initiated, while almost in Burkina Faso, to improving sanitation and hygiene 3,000 employees voted for their favorite entries in our annual conditions at schools in Vietnam, and improving the Community Program Best Practice contest. First prize went capabilities of primary school teachers in Brazil. to employees at Marine and Protective Coatings in Seoul, South Korea, and their “Dream-helpers make dreams of Several thousand children aged three to 16 have directly disabled children come true” project. Our volunteers helped benefited from quality pre-school and primary education set up a one-on-one buddy system for 30 disabled children provided by the Education Fund. at the Hanwoori Community Welfare Center. A special fundraising campaign staged in 2011 raised Cumulative Community Program involvement around €140,000, providing around 500 young people, Projects (number) mainly girls, in Vietnam, India and Brazil with vocational Volunteers (number) training opportunities. In 2012, our support continued Support (€ million) to focus on vocational training to help deprived young 13.0 people find decent and safe employment which offers 10000 12.5 11.5 them long-term prospects. 8000 10.0 9,000 10 8.5 8,000 6000 7,000 7.5 6,000 4000 5 2000 1,931 2.5 1,408 1,678 1,133 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 182 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Value chain Key performance indicators – value chain This chapter shows our sustainability performance and improvement activities to reduce our impact across Ambition Ambition Ambition 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2015 the value chain. Our ambition is to achieve top quartile Carbon footprint cradle-to-gate/per ton of product – 21 31 3 5 5 10 eco-efficiency improvement rates compared with peer (% reduction from 2009) companies. Current top quartile definition is based on our Products own operations (see Environment chapter in this section). Eco-premium solutions (% of revenue) 18 21 22 22 23 25 30 VOC in product (% reduction from 2009) – <5 6 – Lifecycle thinking is the basis for all our sustainability work. Raw materials and suppliers It is included in many of our processes, including: Raw materials suppliers Vendor Policy signed 85 91 95 97 96 96 96 (% of spend) • Product development NPR2 suppliers Vendor Policy signed (% of spend) 57 77 80 80 80 80 The eco-premium solutions concept includes Suppliers on SSV program since 2007 185 266 304 373 – – – sustainability aspects along the value chain. It Critical spend covered by supplier management 80 encourages the development of more innovative, framework (% of PR3 spend in high growth markets) sustainable products. We aspire to achieve zero Own operations environmental footprint across our value chain Sustainable fresh water management 38 48 74 83 70 80 100 with our products (% of manufacturing sites) • Eco-premium assessment Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure – 7 11 13 15 20 30 We use lifecycle assessments to review the environmental (% reduction from 2009) and ecological aspects of products. This data is used Greenhouse gas emissions per unit of production 272 267 256 257 245 in the annual eco-premium solution assessment Carbon footprint own operations (Mton) 4.7 5.2 4.8 4.7 – – < 4.6 • Investment decisions 1 2010, 2011 figures restated, see Note 11. Since 2008, it has been mandatory to include an 2 Non-product related. eco-efficiency assessment for investment proposals 3 Product related (raw materials and packaging). exceeding €5 million • Carbon footprint assessment AkzoNobel carbon footprint in Mton CO2(e) We measure the carbon footprint of all our key value chains (366 in 2012) using a full cradle-to-grave, or screening, lifecycle assessment 11 5 <1 9 3 Eco-Efficiency Analysis (EEA) is our standard assessment method, based on a combination of lifecycle assessments and lifecycle costing. Assessment work is carried out by business and corporate specialists and based on a corporate lifecycle assessment database. Raw materials Production Transport of goods Customer use Product and packaging and packaging inc. energy disposal/recycling AkzoNobel product related carbon footprint based on 366 key value chains: includes emissions of six main greenhouse gases. In the use phase there are also 3 Mton CO2(e) emissions due to VOCs. Excludes non-product categories, e.g. employee travel, capital, investments. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 183 11 Note 11: Climate change Cradle-to-gate carbon footprint in million tons of CO2(e) All Scope 3 categories million tons CO2(e) Management We continue to focus on improving the energy efficiency Scope 3 upstream Purchase goods and services* 11 and managing the fuel mix of our energy intensive Scope 2 Capital goods 0.7 Scope 1 businesses to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and Fuel and energy-related activities* 0.4 potential carbon costs. We are also committed to Upstream transportation* 0.1 reducing the impact of our raw materials and developing 16.1 15.9 Waste generated in operations* 0.2 14.6 solutions that help our customers to reduce their energy Business travel 0.2 requirements. Employee commuting 0.1 Upstream leased assets <0.01 Businesses have developed carbon management plans Downstream transportation 0.2 which identify specific improvement opportunities and Processing of sold products/Use of sold products 9 programs. These plans are quantified and summarized at a End of life treatments of sold products 3 company level to manage and follow up carbon reduction 2009 2011 2012 Downstream leased assets <0.01 targets. Examples of programs in place include the Franchises <0.02 following elements found in Notes 11–18 of this Report: The carbon footprint of the six main greenhouse gases is measured from cradleto-gate based on the international Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol and Lifecycle Investments 0.4 Assessment ISO 14040-44. See Assessment method on our website. The Total 25 • Material strategies for key raw material groups cradle-to-gate assessment excludes Chemicals Pakistan: the Performance summary includes Scope 1 and 2 emissions from this business. 2009 and 2011 cradle-to-gate *Included in cradle-to-gate product footprint. (e.g. solvents and resins) data has been restated to reflect changes in raw material data. More information on the assessment can be found on our corporate website. • Renewable raw materials • Energy strategy including renewable energy targets The AkzoNobel Carbon Policy confirms the business • The results of the cradle-to-gate assessments show and ambitions opportunity and the societal imperative of managing our a reduction of approximately 3 percent, from about • Joint activities with suppliers to reduce the footprint climate impact throughout our product chains through 980 kg/ton (2009) to around 950 kg/ton in 2012 on a of key raw materials innovative products, technology and energy management. comparable basis. We have achieved reductions as • Reformulations using lower footprint raw materials It sets cradle-to-gate carbon footprint intensity targets a result of steam supplies with lower carbon footprint, • New curing developments to reduce energy use (10 percent reduction by 2015, and 20-25 percent reformulation of products and different product mix. during product application reduction by 2020, both with a 2009 baseline) and states However, new facilities and acquisitions in China have • Site programs to improve yields, reduce waste our ambition to control absolute emissions from our own increased the carbon footprint and improve energy efficiency operations no higher than 2008 levels. • 2012 absolute scope 1 and 2 emissions were 4.7 million tons of CO2(e) (2008 baseline: 4.6 million) In addition to activities to reduce energy use and greenhouse We have assessed the cradle-to-gate footprint of our gas emissions in our value chain, we participate in different operations since 2009. We have now assessed 366 key Scope 3 upstream and downstream business initiatives, such as the WBCSD Chemical Sector value chains. This year indicates a total footprint of around This year we have assessed all Scope 3 categories group for carbon reporting and Scope 4 emissions. Our 15.9 million tons of CO2(e) assessed cradle-to-gate for our according to the GHG Protocol Scope 3 standard, taking carbon management and performance is reported through ongoing businesses. There was an additional 0.35 million into account guidance on measurement and reporting the Carbon Disclosure Project. We have also taken an tons of CO2(e) in Scope 1 and 2 reported from Chemicals developed by the WBCSD Chemical Sector Working active part in developing the GHG Protocol Accounting and Pakistan (divested by year-end). As in previous years, Group. The results are summarized in the table and Reporting Guidelines for product lifecycles and corporate the cradle-to-gate assessment indicated that around diagram on the previous page. value chains (Scope 3). 70 percent was from raw materials extraction and processing (Scope 3 upstream) and under 30 percent from our own direct and indirect emissions from energy use. 184 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 12 Note 12: Products and solutions AkzoNobel’s challenging target to increase the percentage a whole, which stayed flat at 22 percent despite been more favorable towards a product portfolio that of eco-premium solutions to 30 percent of revenues tough trading conditions, cost pressure and product is on average higher in VOC content. by 2015 involves teamwork and cooperation with downtrading. This figure is the composite of revenues stakeholders across the entire value chain. Sustainability achieved by Specialty Chemicals (25 percent), Our resolve to reduce the use of VOCs remains strong; and the reduction of our ecological footprint are Performance Coatings (14 percent) and Decorative we will focus heavily on Europe and North America, where embedded in AkzoNobel’s strategy for RD&I and these Paints (26 percent). we are in the process of implementing the highly promising aspects are inherent throughout the innovation process. results of RD&I projects that resulted in reformulated Our sales and marketing professionals have a pivotal Eco-premium solutions in % of revenue products, reducing or even eliminating VOCs. In 2011, role to play in engaging with customers to identify Ambition the Decorative Paints business managed to reduce the products to meet their immediate functional needs, average VOC content in its products by 18 percent and 30 and to deliver against immediate and longer term 15 percent in Europe and North America, respectively sustainability requirements. 21 22 22 (compared with the 2009 baseline). Total VOC content 18 in all our products sold in these markets has dropped by Eco-premium solutions 17 percent and 22 percent, respectively. Our forecasts Eco-premium solutions help to create value for our show that this reduction trend will continue in the future. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 businesses and our customers. They provide top line growth opportunities because of their improved An eco-premium solution is measured using a quantitative analysis or a We are making technological progress in reducing VOCs qualitative assessment focusing on six categories: toxicity, energy efficiency, use performance in areas such as raw material use, in products sold in China, but we must also keep up with of natural resources/raw materials, emissions and waste, land use and risks (e.g. manufacturing processes and product innovation. accidents). The eco-premium solution must be significantly better than currently the market and match our product offering to customer available solutions in at least one criterion, and not significantly worse in any. These solutions demonstrate improvements in our own demand. It is a feature of the coatings market in China operations and across the entire value chains in which that customers are not migrating as quickly as customers we operate. We seek to offer solutions that allow our VOC in products elsewhere towards low or zero VOC products. We have customers, their customers, or the end-users, to minimize AkzoNobel remains committed to taking a leadership role key projects in place to mitigate the absolute output their environmental or safety impacts. We also achieve in the reduction of VOCs within the coatings industry and of VOCs, but we forecast strong growth in product improvements by working with our suppliers to reduce we are beginning to see the impact of substantial RD&I categories that are comparatively high in VOC content. their eco-footprints. Our innovations are focused on effort in reducing the VOC content of our products. Therefore, we will not be able to reach the same level identifying new and lower footprint product formulations, In view of changing market dynamics, we have adopted of VOC content reduction that we have set out to processes and applications with the aim of serving our a renewed implementation mode in our strategy for achieve in other markets. customers’ needs with as little environmental and safety reducing the use of VOCs in our products. We will focus impact as possible. on implementing our VOC reduction projects on Despite the changes in our global sales mix, we are a regional basis, and to that end we will continue to use already seeing results of our RD&I projects. We will We have an ambition to increase the share of revenue the comprehensive model created by a cross-functional continue to measure and analyze the VOC content in from eco-premium solutions year-on-year to at least group of RD&I, marketing and product stewardship in our products on an annual basis. Our evaluation of the 30 percent. This is a challenging goal because the order to track and quantify the progress of our projects. 2011 position shows that against the 2009 baseline, assessments are made against equivalent mainstream, we have realized a 6 percent reduction in average VOC or standard, products in the market, which is a moving The world has changed substantially since we initiated content across our coatings and paints product ranges. target. Since 2008, our businesses have carried out annual this program in 2009. Our sales forecasts are showing assessments of their product and RD&I project portfolios. that the balance of growth is beginning to shift. We are In 2012, total revenue from eco-premium solutions was now expecting to see less growth in waterborne wall paint about €3.5 billion. We have maintained the proportion of products globally, but on the other hand, we expect higher revenue from eco-premium solutions for the company as growth in China, where historically market conditions have AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 185 13 Note 13: Supply chain Risk management Supplier management Our main objective is to create a sustainable supplier Ambition Ambition Ambition base, supporting our license to operate. In 2012, we % of spend value 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2015 continued to optimize our supplier management processes, Product related suppliers Vendor Policy signed 85 91 95 97 96 96 96 aiming to secure supply of the materials we need for the NPR1 business suppliers Vendor Policy signed – 62 products for our customers, as well as contributing to the NPR1 centrally contracted suppliers 89 100 77 80 80 80 80 continuous reduction of our footprint. We have specified Vendor Policy signed two supplier segments: Suppliers on SSV program since 2007 185 266 304 373 – – • Critical suppliers – suppliers in emerging countries 1 Non-product related. From 2011 we have combined the NPR supplier reporting. supplying products for which no technical alternative products are available, or for which no commercially attractive alternative suppliers are known. We want to ensure that the labor conditions, environmental conduct From 2013, we will use a new KPI: Critical PR spend formulated and discussed with the supplier. Follow up visits and business integrity of these suppliers is in line with covered by supplier management framework, which are arranged to verify implementation and progress. the standards of our Vendor Policy and the AkzoNobel gives a better view of the spend impact of the capability Code of Conduct and capacity building efforts with our suppliers. Our Key suppliers • Key suppliers – specified because of their importance 2013 ambition is 80 percent. The supplier management In 2012, as part of the operational effectiveness program, to our business, based on the level of spend, the risk framework includes our key supplier management we further developed our key supplier management for the business or business dependency, and the level process, our Supplier Support Visit process, as well as our process. This involved implementing a Supplier of cooperation and innovation potential Vendor Policy process. It provides an overall framework to Sustainability Decision Tree and process flow. Decision select the most effective process for each of our suppliers, criteria include signing of the Vendor Policy, spend These supplier segments form the highest risk for our focused on emerging markets. value, critical spend, eco-footprint and the capability business in terms of our manufacturing sites’ production to collaborate in sustainable innovation opportunities. capacity and/or our company’s reputation. Vendor Policy This new process for key supplier management was Our aim is to have all our suppliers sign the AkzoNobel introduced and piloted at the top three key suppliers. Supplier management Vendor Policy, which includes our Code of Conduct. We The supplier management processes we have in place are: have signed agreements with 97 percent of product related The existing process has focused primarily on suppliers and 80 percent of centally contracted non-product related of value today. In the new process, we will define and • Vendor Policy, which covers 97 percent of the product suppliers (by spend value), in which they confirm their identify suppliers that are critical to AkzoNobel today and related (PR) spend, including all critical suppliers and compliance with environmental, social and governance in the future and manage them in a differential way. These key suppliers factors. This covers about 92 percent of our total spend. suppliers are essential to supporting us in realizing our • Supplier Support Visits, which include all critical strategic objectives. suppliers, represents 14 percent of our PR spend Supplier Support Visits in high growth countries In 2007, we implemented Supplier Support Visits. Collaborative initiatives • Key supplier management, for all key suppliers These visits focus on critical suppliers and are carried out by We are a founding member of the International Supply covers 38 percent of our global PR spend teams from Procurement and HSE. The Supplier Support Chain Management Congress in Amsterdam. In 2012, Visits program remains highly successful, with 373 visits we were again part of the leadership for the organization, having been conducted since the start of the program. sponsorship and support for the congress, which is Of all Supplier Support Visits, 46 percent have resulted in recognized as a valuable contributor to the development a developmental score, which means actions have been of sustainability thinking and supply chain processes. 186 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Our activities do not target specific suppliers, but rather We concluded the formulation of our solvent strategy, Operations management the value chains in which we participate as a whole. including the sustainability profile of the solvents we AkzoNobel is a manufacturing company, so excellence in use, especially the VOC and GHG footprint, and the supply chain management and manufacturing operations Strategies going forward application of bio-based solvents. We have a number is a fundamental requirement for success. The procurement strategy for the coming years is to move of opportunities in scope for evaluating renewable and In 2012, the company’s performance improvement further beyond availability-price-synergy towards crossbio-based raw materials, especially in the solvents program focused on delivering operational excellence functional sourcing, integration and value chain orientation. and resins supply chains. in the full supply chain. Based on the Lean Six Sigma Buying on price moves towards total cost of ownership. improvement thinking, many improvement activities Supplier relationships move towards cooperation and Complexity reduction have been initiated in our supply chain and operations: partnering. We see this as a way to leverage the size and So-called slates of raw materials in key areas of spend scope of our global business, our position with suppliers are being developed. These slates define a core list of • More than 50 manufacturing site improvement and to drive competitive advantage. preferred materials/suppliers. Sustainability aspects such projects have started as carbon footprint and product safety are key criteria • Supply chain planning processes have been Cross-functional (Procurement, RD&I, Supply Chain and applied. The objective is to migrate our materials/suppliers improved and standardized Operations) initiatives including suppliers are increasing in over time onto these core materials, making our value • Capabilities are being developed through number and impact. An integral part of the key supplier chain less complex and more sustainable. The slate the creation and delivery of the Supply Chain approach is to structure cooperation and joined innovation approach gives clear information on potential business Faculty within the AkzoNobel Academy so that a cross-functional approach is critical. opportunities to improve our value chains – lower cost, lower carbon footprint and reduced risk. After a first Improvement is measured in safety, customer service, We continued the development and implementation internal phase of analysis, suppliers will become part cost, quality, working capital and eco-efficiency. of the raw material strategies for TiO2, resins and latex. of the process. Lifecycle assessments have indicated that for most of These strategies include elements such as material our businesses, the environmental footprint of our direct resource planning, capacity and supply cover, supplier Logistics/distribution activity is low compared with the impact of raw materials selection and sourcing plans per region, “make” versus In our performance improvement program, we have and use of our products. However, we see improving “buy” and renewable materials. They are also an instrustarted to manage warehousing and logistics at a operational eco-efficiency as a fundamental element of mental tool in reducing the footprint of our global value regional AkzoNobel level. This will result in a reduction manufacturing excellence – helping us to achieve cost chains. In 2012, we focused on making the strategies of warehouses and combined transport solutions. It will reduction, environmental protection and more effective more robust through thorough review in an integrated also have a positive effect on our footprint. use of raw materials and natural resources. cross-functional Process Management Office, run bi-weekly, to embed the overall process and strategy. We are involved with Smartway in the US and the EU, A key initiative is the implementation of the renewable This process also ensures that we have taken into focusing on CO2 reduction, and with the Clean Shipping energy strategy at our sites. Together with a partner, account interdependencies with a forward-looking Index in Sweden, Germany and the Netherlands, as well in 2013 we will start to assess opportunities for introducing perspective, including sustainability. as the Sustainable Shipping Initiative facilitated by Forum solar, wind or other renewable energy sources at our for the Future in the UK. manufacturing sites. One outcome of the TiO2 strategy process is the decision to participate in the building of a TiO2 manufacturing Car lease Investment decisions site in China. This will mitigate risks by securing part of The carbon emission ambition for our own passenger car All our major (more than €5 million) investment proposals our supply, understanding the mechanics of that market, fleet is 130 g/km. In Europe, we reduced from 143 g/km require a sustainability evaluation alongside the financial having direct contact with the ore suppliers (backward in 2011 to 136 g/km in 2012. case. During 2012, this process was updated to integration) and enabling less price volatility. include assessments at different stages in the project AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 187 Environment development, so that sustainability is considered from Key performance indicators – environment the start. At the point of application for capital, the Ambition Ambition Ambition requirements include an eco-efficiency assessment, 2009 2010 2011 2012 2012 2013 2015 as well as a full review of health and safety, process Operational eco-efficiency footprint measure – 7 11 13 15 – 30 and product safety, natural resource/raw material (% reduction from 2009) requirements and environmental impacts. Sustainable fresh water management 38 48 74 83 70 – 100 (% manufacturing sites) These requirements are fully embedded in the company Greenhouse gas emissions 272 267 256 257 – – 245 per unit of production (own operations) process for allocating funds for an investment or acquisition. The proposals are reviewed by subject matter experts, who provide comments and advice to the Executive Committee, on both the financial and This section shows the environmental impact and We measure progress using an internal indicator which non-financial issues associated with the investment, improvements in our own operations. Many of these combines energy, water, waste and air emissions, as well to provide a strong basis for the investment decision. improvements are driven through our operational as cost elements. Between 2009 and 2012, we achieved eco-efficiency (OEE) program. a reduction of 13 percent in this measurement. Without the acquisition effect of Boxing Oleochemicals, the current Operational eco-efficiency program OEE footprint improvement would have been 15 percent. The focus of the operational eco-efficiency agenda Our ambition is to reduce it by 30 percent by 2015, with a is to increase raw material efficiency, reduce consumption baseline of 2009. We will need to strengthen our current of energy and decrease emissions and production of target of 5 percent per year improvement in order to waste. Improvements include many small site contributions achieve this. upgrading existing processes, rationalization of the manufacturing footprint and application of best available To increase the transparency of our OEE performance technology for new investments. The ambition is to have and its related projects, a new OEE communications a top quartile performance, which is defined as belonging platform called EcoXchange was built, in combination to the top 25 percent in the SAM industry benchmark for with dedicated OEE project tracking. the OEE criterion. 188 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 14 Note 14: Energy 15 Note 15: Greenhouse gas emissions Energy use Renewable energy Greenhouse gas emissions are primarily CO2 related to Energy is a major raw material for some of our In 2012, a renewable energy strategy was developed. fuel, but also include some CO2, CH4 and HFC process Specialty Chemicals businesses, so energy efficiency The strategy is based on three pillars: emissions. This section reflects the performance of all our and carbon efficient energy use are important metrics own operations covering the gate-to-gate scope. More for these operations. • Protect what we have — current share of renewable details on our Carbon Policy and cradle-to-gate reporting energy about 33 percent can be found in Note 11 in this section. • Energy use per ton of production is stable at 5.7 GJ/ton • Participate in cost-attractive large energy ventures (2011: 5.7 GJ/ton). Absolute energy use was down • Explore commercially feasible on-site renewable 1 percent at 106,000 TJ (2011: 107,000 TJ) in line energy options Greenhouse gas emissions in million tons with lower production volumes. The total costs of energy used in our production is about €0.6 billion First actions from this strategy involve our considerations Direct CO2(e) Mt kg CO2(e) per ton of production • More details about energy use per region and energy to participate in wind parks. Another action is the Indirect CO2(e) Mt Ambition source can be found on our website installation of a solar roof in Castelletto, Italy, delivering 5 300 15 percent of the required energy for this paint 272 267 256 257 245 production plant. 4 240 Energy use in 1000*TJ 3 180 Energy use 3.2 3.2 3.2 2.8 GJ per ton production 2 120 1.9 2.0 250 7.5 1 1.6 1.5 60 200 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 6 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 150 4.5 Total greenhouse gas emissions made up of direct emissions from processes and 3 combustion at our facilities and indirect emissions from purchased energy. 100 111 107 106 97 50 1.5 0 • Total greenhouse gas emissions per ton of production 0 increased by 1 percent to 257 kg/ton CO2(e) 2009 2010 2011 2012 (2011: 256 kg/ton). Absolute GHG emissions have Energy use is the sum of fuels, electricity, steam, hot water and other utilities come down by 1 percent to 4.7 million tons of CO2(e) expressed as fuel equivalents. (2011: 4.8 million tons). The decrease is mainly caused by lower fuel consumption Energy reduction for the other sites is supported via a • More details on the distribution of the various sources site Energy Diagnostics Methodology. Many production for greenhouse gases can be found on our website sites have identified improvement projects for energy savings which are being implemented, including Houston and Morris in the US and Stockvik in Sweden. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 189 16 Note 16: Local air quality Air monitoring around our operations is focused Volatile organic compounds in kilotons Ozone depleting substances on volatile organic compound (VOC) and NOx and Emissions of ozone depleting substances are at a very low Volatile organic compounds kg per ton of production SOx emissions. We monitor particulates at site level level (2012: 1.75 tons). They are mainly due to Freon22 in Ambition as required. older air conditioning and cooling units, which are 7.5 0.25 continuously being replaced (for example in Huron, where 0.25 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) 0.22 an old chiller was replaced by a state-of-the-art model). VOC emissions from our manufacturing operations 6 0.19 0.19 0.19 0.20 may lead to local low-level ozone creation, smog 4.5 0.15 formation and associated health problems for people NOx and SOx emissions 4.2 4.3 in surrounding areas. All our businesses will continue 3 3.6 3.6 0.10 in kilotons 2009 2010 2011 2012 to manage VOC emissions from sites, in line with 1.5 0.05 NOx 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 regional legal requirements. The VOC reduction focus NOx kg/ton 0.12 0.10 0.11 0.10 for our paints and coatings businesses is increasingly 0 0 concentrating on low/zero VOC product design, rather SOx 6.2 7.1 7.7 7.6 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 than only controlling VOCs in our operations. Reducing SOx kg/ton 0.37 0.36 0.41 0.41 VOC emissions may lead to local low level ozone creation, smog formation and VOC emissions from our sites remains part of the scope associated local health issues. We measure halogenated and non-halogenated Emissions may form acid rain that can lead to acidification. The gases are emissions organic compounds discharged to air. of our OEE program, while our Research, Development from manufacturing and combustion of fuel that we burn. The total quantitiy of NOx/ SOx emissions from manufacturing processes discharged directly to air (e.g. after and Innovation groups are working on projects to reduce any abatement process) and the quantity of NOx/SOx emissions calculated from the solvent content of our products – VOC in product. NOx and SOx the use of fuels. (See Note 12 in this section). NOx and SOx emissions may have a significant impact on local air quality because of their contribution to VOC emissions per ton of production stayed flat at 0.19 acidification. Therefore, these compounds are monitored. kg/ton (2011: 0.19 kg/ton). Total VOC emissions remained flat at 3.6 kilotons (2011: 3.6 kilotons), primarily because • SOx emissions (from process emissions and energy) acquisitions offset improvements made at many sites. per ton of production were stable at 0.41 kg/ton of Focused investigation at these acquisition sites and production (2011: 0.41 kg/ton). Absolute emissions continued OEE program activities will keep us on target were down 2 percent at 7.6 kilotons (2011: 7.7 kilotons). to achieve our ambitions. The emissions per ton for the three sulfur derivatives plants in Germany, the US and Argentina were down, while our Pakistan operation also improved • NOx emissions from our sites per ton of production were down 6 percent at 0.10 kg/ton (2011: 0.11 kg/ton). Total emissions were down at 1.9 kilotons (2011: 2.0 kilotons) 190 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 17 Note 17: Raw material efficiency 18 Note 18: Water Waste Total waste in kilotons Fresh water availability Effective waste management helps to increase raw Sustainable water supply is essential to life – and materials efficiency in our manufacturing operations, Reusable Total kg per ton of production to the sustainability of our business. We rely on water Non-reusable Ambition reduces our environmental footprint and reduces costs. for raw materials production, product formulation and Our focus is on reducing total waste and eliminating 250 14.7 manufacturing, power generation, cooling, cleaning, 15 hazardous waste to landfill. The exception is asbestos 13.1 transporting and for effective use of some products. waste – mainly from demolishing old equipment and 200 11.6 11.0 12 10.0 buildings – where the preferred current safe disposal Our ambition is to have sustainable fresh water 150 9 route is properly designed landfill facilities. 160 155 management in place at all our manufacturing 100 121 6 sites in 2015. 118 • Total waste per ton of production generated and 89 103 96 85 50 3 leaving our sites was down 5 percent to 11.0 kg/ton Around 88 percent of our fresh water intake is from (2011: 11.6 kg/ton). The total waste volume came 0 0 surface water and 87 percent of our intake is used down to 203 kilotons (2011: 217 kilotons), a decrease 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 for cooling. In addition to the intake of fresh water, of 6 percent Waste means any substance or object arising from our routine operations which the emission of contaminated water from our sites • We have realized improvements from projects we discard, or intend to discard. Non-reusable waste is not used for resources, to surface waters may negatively impact fresh water recovery, recycling, reclamation, direct reuse or alternative uses. implemented in the OEE program, resulting in resources and eco-systems. We continue to reduce a decrease to 85 kilotons of non-reusable waste the chemical oxygen demand (COD) of our effluent (2011: 96 kilotons). Non-reusable waste per ton of to surface water. production generated and leaving our sites was down Hazardous waste in kilotons 10 percent, to 4.6 kg/ton (2011 5.1 kg/ton). An example More details on the sources and use of fresh water is the conversion of a sodium sulphate stream to a Reuseable Total kg per ton of production can be found on our website. Non-reuseable not landfill product which is now being supplied by Pulp and Non-reuseable to landfill Performance Chemicals (Magog and Valleyfield) 4.2 Sustainable fresh water management • The program for waste prevention through alternative 50 3.9 3.8 3.8 4.0 in % manufacturing sites outlets for obsolete paint materials has been successful. 48 51 40 3.2 Around 15,000 tons of obsolete materials have been 45 Ambition 41 sold as by-product, which is being used as raw material 30 2.4 for paint. This material would otherwise have been 100 1.6 83 discarded as waste. Sustainable outlets have also 20 25 24 23 74 been found for other by-product streams (7,500 tons) 18 0.8 48 10 • Hazardous waste per ton of production stayed flat at 4.9 4.7 38 3.0 2.7 3.8 kg/ton (2011: 3.8 kg/ton) 0 0 • The non-renewable hazardous waste to landfill was 2009 2010 2011 2012 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 down 9 percent to 2.7 kilotons (2011: 3.0 kilotons) Hazardous waste is waste that is classified and regulated as such according to the Sustainable fresh water management is defined as a low risk score in all national, state or local legislation in place. categories in the AkzoNobel sustainable fresh water assessment tool: water sources, supply reliability, efficiency, quality of discharges, compliance and social competitive factors. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability statements 191 19 Note 19: Soil and groundwater remediation Water emissions Chemical oxygen demand (COD) in kilotons Soil and groundwater remediation • 83 percent of sites have sustainable fresh water There are substantial costs associated with the management in place (2011: 74 percent), as measured Chemical oxygen demand assessment and remediation of historical soil and by the AkzoNobel fresh water management risk kg per ton of production groundwater contamination. We periodically review assessment tool contamination at our sites, taking remedial action 6 0.20 • Fresh water use per ton of production has come down when required, and have procedures to prevent to 15.3 m3/ton (2011:15.6 m3/ton). Total fresh water use 4.8 0.15 0.16 new contamination. was 283 million m3 (2011: 291 million m3), a decrease 3.6 0.12 of 3 percent 0.10 0.10 0.09 In line with IFRS accounting rules, we make 2.4 0.08 provisions for environmental remediation costs Reductions in COD in effluent are being achieved across 2.5 when it is probable that liability will materialize 1.2 1.9 1.8 0.04 the company. The COD load to surface water per ton of 1.6 and the cost can be reasonably estimated. production reduced to 0.09 kg/ton (2011: 0.10 kg/ton). 0 0 We have set aside €424 million, which we believe The total COD load to surface water was down 12 percent 2009 2010 2011 2012 is sufficient for the sites where we have ownership to 1.6 kilotons (2011: 1.8 kilotons). Improvements are or responsibility (see also Notes 15 and 19 in the Chemical oxygen demand (COD) is the amount of oxygen required for the chemical due to various initiatives, such as the one at Santo Andre, oxidation of substances in the wastewater effluent which is directly discharged into Financial statements section). where a project was approved to connect its operations surface waters from our facilities. It excludes our effluent treated by others. to the municipal wastewater treatment. Fresh water use in million m3 Fresh water consumption m3 per ton of production 500 20 400 15.8 15.7 15.6 15.3 16 300 12 309 291 283 200 270 8 100 4 0 0 2009 2010 2011 2012 Total fresh water intake from surface, ground or potable water sources. 192 Sustainability statements | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Independent assurance report To the readers of AkzoNobel’s Sustainability 3000): Assurance Engagement other than Audits or with the Internal Audit team to evaluate the implementation statements 2012 Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the and test the operating effectiveness of controls in International Auditing and Assurance Standards Board. respect of the information in the Managing our values We were engaged by the Board of Management of This standard requires, among others, that the assurance paragraph at local level AkzoNobel N.V. (further AkzoNobel) to provide assurance team possesses the specific knowledge, skills and on the sustainability information in the AkzoNobel Report professional competencies needed to provide assurance Additionally, we determined, as far as possible, whether 2012. The Board of Management of AkzoNobel is on sustainability information, and that they comply with the information concerning sustainability in the other responsible for the preparation of the AkzoNobel Report the requirements of the Code of Ethics for Professional sections of the AkzoNobel Report 2012 is consistent 2012, including the identification of material issues. Our Accountants of the International Federation of Accountants with the information in the Sustainability statements. responsibility is to issue an assurance report based on to ensure their independence. the engagement outlined below. During the assurance process, we discussed the Work undertaken necessary changes in the information presented in the Scope Our procedures for limited assurance included: Sustainability statements and reviewed the final version Our assurance engagement was designed to provide: to ensure that it reflects our findings. • A risk analysis, including a media search, to identify • Limited assurance on whether the information in the relevant sustainability issues for AkzoNobel in the Conclusions and opinion Sustainability statements section (further Sustainability reporting period Based on our procedures for limited assurance, nothing statements) and in the Compliance and integrity • Reviewing the suitability of the internal reporting criteria has come to our attention to indicate that the information management chapter of the Governance and • Evaluating the design and implementation of the in the Sustainability statements and in the Compliance compliance section of the AkzoNobel Report 2012 is systems and processes for the collection, processing and integrity management chapter of the Governance and fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance and control of the information in the Sustainability compliance section is not fairly presented, in all material with the reporting criteria statements, including the consolidation of the data for respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. • Reasonable assurance on whether the information in the Sustainability statements In our opinion, the information in the Managing our the Managing our values paragraph (see Note 1 in the • Interviewing management at corporate and business values paragraph is presented, in all material respects, Sustainability statements) is presented, in all material level responsible for the sustainability policies, in accordance with the reporting criteria. respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria as implementation, management, internal controls, defined by AkzoNobel monitoring and reporting We also report, to the extent of our competence, that the • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business information on sustainability in the rest of the AkzoNobel We do not provide any assurance on the achievability of level responsible for providing the information and Report 2012 is consistent with the information in the the objectives, targets and expectations of AkzoNobel. consolidating the data for the Sustainability statements Sustainability statements. Procedures performed to obtain a limited level of assur• Evaluating internal and external documentation, based ance are aimed at determining the plausibility of informaon sampling, to determine whether the information Amsterdam, February 19, 2013 tion and are less extensive than those for a reasonable in the Sustainability statements is supported by KPMG Sustainability level of assurance. sufficient evidence Part of KPMG Advisory N.V. • Joining an audit of HSE&S (Health, Safety, Environment Reporting criteria and assurance standard & Security Management) at the Decorative Paints site in W.J. Bartels RA, Partner AkzoNobel applies the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines Montataire, France (G3.1) of the Global Reporting Initiative, supported • Reviewing the relevant work of Internal Audit by internally developed guidelines as described in the Reporting principles paragraph. It is important to view Our additional procedures for reasonable assurance included: the performance data in the context of these criteria. We believe these criteria are suitable in view of the purpose of • Testing the relevant work of Internal Audit in respect our assurance engagement. of the information in the Managing our values paragraph • Joining the sustainability assessment questionnaire We conducted our engagement in accordance with the review at the Automotive and Aerospace Coatings International Standard for Assurance Engagement (ISAE business in Sassenheim, the Netherlands, together AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Sustainability | Independent assurance report 193 Summaries Financial summary 196 Sustainability performance summary 200 Index 202 Glossary 203 Financial calendar 205 Financial summary Consolidated statement of income In € millions 2003 1 2004 2005 2 2006 2007 2008 3 2009 2010 2011 5 2012 Revenue 13,106 12,833 13,000 10,023 10,217 15,415 13,028 14,640 14,604 15,390 Operating income 1,146 1,588 1,492 887 778 (577) 855 1,219 1,145 (1,244) Financing income and expenses (248) (205) (162) (134) (151) (232) (405) (327) (336) (267) Income tax (254) (412) (338) (96) (166) (260) (141) (170) (233) (172) Results from associates and joint ventures 7 10 6 87 (20) 25 21 25 24 13 Profit for the period from continuing operations 651 981 998 744 441 (1,044) 330 747 600 (1,670) Minority interests attributable to minority shareholders (49) (36) (37) (29) (31) (65) (77) (83) (64) (63) Discontinued operations – – – 438 9 23 32 90 (59) (436) Net income, attributable to shareholders 602 945 961 1,153 419 (1,086) 285 754 477 (2,169) Common shares, in millions at year-end 285.7 285.8 285.8 287.0 262.3 231.7 232.3 233.5 234.7 239.0 Dividend 343 343 343 344 472 417 325 320 304 214 Number of employees at year-end 64,600 61,400 61,300 42,700 42,600 60,000 54,700 55,600 52,020 50,610 Average number of employees 66,400 63,600 61,400 61,900 42,600 61,300 56,300 55,100 51,100 52,200 Employee benefits 3,505 3,216 3,221 2,158 2,215 3,022 2,955 2,980 2,765 3,129 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 197 202 212 162 240 252 231 266 286 295 Average EBITDA per employee (in €1,000) 30 28 34 30 30 31 31 36 36 36 Ratios Operating income in % of revenue 8.7 12.4 11.5 8.8 7.6 –4 6.6 8.3 7.8 –4 Operating income in % of invested capital 13.6 20.8 19.4 16.3 14.6 –4 7.3 9.6 9.1 –4 Net income in % of shareholders’ equity 26.2 40.6 32.0 30.5 122.9 –4 3.7 8.4 5.2 –4 Employee benefits in % of revenue 26.7 25.1 24.8 21.5 21.7 19.6 22.7 20.4 19.3 20.3 Per share information (in €) Net income 2.11 3.31 3.36 4.02 33.82 (4.38) 1.23 3.23 2.04 (9.14) Adjusted earnings 2.06 3.71 3.10 3.26 Shareholders’ equity 8.76 9.12 11.95 14.44 42.06 32.21 33.47 38.48 39.25 28.84 Highest share price during the year 32.44 33.79 40.18 49.41 65.56 57.11 46.52 47.70 53.74 49.98 Lowest share price during the year 16.00 24.87 30.82 38.30 44.41 22.85 26.01 37.18 29.25 34.85 Year-end share price 30.60 31.38 39.15 46.18 54.79 29.44 46.40 46.49 37.36 49.75 1 T  he 2003 figures have not been restated to IFRS accounting standards. 2 The 2003–2005 figures have not been restated for the Organon BioSciences divestment. 3 Continuing operations from ICI are included as from 2008. The 2008 figures have not been restated for the National Starch divestment. 4 Not meaningful as income was a loss. 5 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 196 Financial summary | Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Consolidated balance sheet In € millions 2003 1 2004 2005 2 2006 2007 2008 3 2009 2010 2011 2012 Intangible assets 590 448 488 682 669 7,172 7,388 7,308 7,392 4,454 Property, plant and equipment 3,967 3,535 3,432 3,346 2,203 3,357 3,474 3,384 3,705 3,739 Financial non-current assets 1,866 1,418 1,800 1,706 1,402 1,848 1,783 1,977 2,198 2,763 Total non-current assets 6,423 5,401 5,720 5,734 4,274 12,377 12,645 12,669 13,295 10,956 Inventories 2,133 1,978 1,987 2,042 1,177 1,781 1,441 1,678 1,924 1,545 Receivables 2,671 2,761 2,910 2,919 2,164 2,977 2,666 2,896 3,035 2,789 Cash and cash equivalents 727 1,811 1,486 1,871 11,628 1,595 2,128 2,851 1,635 1,752 Assets held for sale – – 322 219 – 4 – – – 921 Total current assets 5,531 6,550 6,705 7,051 14,969 6,357 6,235 7,425 6,594 7,007 Shareholders’ equity 2,502 2,605 3,415 4,144 11,032 7,463 7,775 8,984 9,212 6,892 Minority interests 140 140 161 119 97 450 470 525 531 465 Total equity 2,642 2,745 3,576 4,263 11,129 7,913 8,245 9,509 9,743 7,357 Provisions 3,333 2,877 2,210 2,132 1,598 2,072 1,919 1,855 1,717 1,717 Long-term borrowings 2,717 2,392 2,702 2,551 1,954 2,341 3,641 2,880 3,035 3,388 Other non-current liabilities 590 200 183 181 133 715 674 589 567 442 Total non-current liabilities 6,640 5,469 5,095 4,864 3,685 5,128 6,234 5,324 5,319 5,547 Short-term borrowings 441 560 357 410 1,635 1,338 384 907 494 662 Current portion of provisions – 500 766 571 518 845 797 593 551 455 Other current liabilities 2,231 2,677 2,571 2,652 2,276 3,510 3,220 3,761 3,782 3,632 Liabilities held for sale – – 60 25 – – – – – 310 Total current liabilities 2,672 3,737 3,754 3,658 4,429 5,693 4,401 5,261 4,827 5,059 Invested capital 8,117 7,145 8,007 8,060 5,197 13,424 11,732 12,718 12,613 4 11,030 Capital expenditures 581 551 514 371 359 534 513 534 658 4 826 Depreciation 599 540 528 349 330 453 424 435 419 4 463 OWC 2,359 1,691 2,016 1,891 4 1,659 Ratios Revenue/invested capital 1.56 1.68 1.68 1.85 1.91 1.07 1.06 1.15 1.16 4 1.40 Equity/non-current assets 0.41 0.51 0.62 0.74 2.60 0.64 0.65 0.75 0.73 0.67 Inventories and receivables/other current liabilities 2.15 1.77 1.90 1.87 1.47 1.36 1.28 1.22 1.31 1.19 Operating working capital as % of revenue 16.5 13.7 13.9 13.2 4 11.2 1 The 2003 figures have not been restated to IFRS accounting standards. The 2003–2005 figures have not been restated for the Organon BioSciences divestment. 2  Continuing operations from ICI are included as from 2008. The 2008 figures have not been restated for the National Starch divestment. 3  4 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Summaries | Financial summary 197 Business Area statistics In € millions 2008 2009 1 2010 2011 4 2012 Decorative Paints Revenue 5,006 4,573 4,968 4,201 4,297 EBITDA 2 598 487 548 479 425 EBIT 2 401 298 343 327 249 Operating income (669) 133 275 235 (2,012) Invested capital 3 6,187 6,206 6,404 5,673 3,387 EBIT margin 2 (in %) 8.0 6.5 6.9 7.8 5.8 Capital expenditures 120 112 154 155 206 Average number of employees 24,600 22,900 21,800 17,100 17,200 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 203 200 228 246 250 Average EBITDA per employee (in €1,000) 24 21 25 28 25 Performance Coatings Revenue 4,575 4,112 4,786 5,170 5,702 EBITDA 2 566 594 647 611 769 EBIT 2 467 492 540 495 638 Operating income 444 433 487 458 542 Invested capital 3 2,004 1,817 2,122 2,351 2,415 EBIT margin 2 (in %) 10.2 12.0 11.3 9.6 11.2 Capital expenditures 89 61 87 116 123 Average number of employees 21,000 20,200 20,600 21,300 21,700 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 218 204 232 243 263 Average EBITDA per employee (in €1,000) 27 29 31 29 35 Specialty Chemicals Revenue 5,687 4,359 4,943 5,335 5,543 EBITDA 2 909 738 939 906 889 EBIT 2 605 490 679 625 583 Operating income 130 422 604 622 500 Invested capital 3 4,055 3,106 3,457 3,620 3,573 EBIT margin 2 (in %) 10.6 11.2 13.7 11.7 10.5 Capital expenditures 305 319 273 365 484 Average number of employees 12,900 11,400 11,100 11,300 11,800 Average revenue per employee (in €1,000) 441 382 445 472 470 Average EBITDA per employee (in €1,000) 70 65 85 80 75 1 Restated for transferred businesses and excluding National Starch, divested in 2010. 2 Before incidentals. 3 At year-end. 4 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. 198 Financial summary | Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Regional statistics In € millions 2008 1 2009 2010 2011 3 2012 2008 1 2009 2010 2011 3 2012 2008 1 2009 2010 2011 3 2012 The Netherlands Other European countries China Revenue by destination 867 792 803 694 745 3,666 3,095 3,398 3,702 3,647 1,054 997 1,249 1,376 1,621 Revenue by origin 1,423 1284 1,537 1,646 1,601 2,582 2,211 2,336 2,459 2,400 968 929 1,177 1,361 1,699 Capital expenditures 86 104 84 144 110 81 69 83 98 85 67 143 147 96 135 Invested capital 2 2,007 1,489 1,266 1,477 1,168 2,359 2,420 2,616 2,665 1,595 861 772 952 1,225 1,365 Number of employees 2 5,000 4,800 5,000 5,200 5,200 10,100 9,400 9,100 8,900 8,500 6,300 6,100 6,700 7,400 7,700 Germany US and Canada India Revenue by destination 1,141 1,088 1,160 1,284 1,258 3,330 2,600 2,954 2,092 2,294 246 249 332 359 371 Revenue by origin 1,179 1,089 1,096 1,228 1,219 3,463 2,712 3,074 2,222 2,413 205 200 251 283 288 Capital expenditures 25 19 22 31 69 94 55 63 67 70 7 6 17 18 16 Invested capital 2 1,086 983 915 975 647 3,250 2,554 2,762 1,735 1,683 140 141 139 121 123 Number of employees 2 3,600 3,700 3,500 3,800 3,600 12,000 10,100 10,300 5,100 5,100 1,400 1,400 1,600 1,700 1,800 Sweden Brazil Other Asian countries Revenue by destination 478 423 468 515 486 765 732 844 949 987 1,620 1,336 1,448 1,559 1,716 Revenue by origin 1,457 1,284 1,475 1,481 1,505 729 715 815 903 909 1,477 1,189 1,263 1,344 1,491 Capital expenditures 50 37 19 54 70 39 25 23 54 123 36 21 31 46 55 Invested capital 2 557 461 542 559 532 644 783 723 684 558 890 469 627 685 527 Number of employees 2 3,800 3,500 3,400 3,300 3,200 3,000 2,800 2,700 2,800 2,900 6,400 5,400 5,600 6,100 5,000 UK Other Latin American countries Other regions Revenue by destination 1,093 768 798 841 901 541 415 550 566 636 614 533 636 667 728 Revenue by origin 1,206 830 854 879 967 374 244 353 379 435 352 341 409 419 465 Capital expenditures 31 22 28 27 68 10 5 7 12 16 8 7 10 11 10 Invested capital 2 1,324 1,562 1,782 2,117 2,460 132 (16) 149 156 170 174 114 245 214 203 Number of employees 2 4,200 3,800 3,900 3,900 3,800 1,800 1,500 1,600 1,700 1,700 2,400 2,200 2,200 2,100 2,100 1 Excluding National Starch, divested in 2010. 2 At year-end. 3 Restated to present Decorative Paints North America as a discontinued operation. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Summaries | Financial summary 199 Sustainability performance summary Economic/Governance/Social Ambition Area 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 Product Eco-premium solutions 5 % revenue 18 18 21 22 22 30 Business integrity Code of Conduct incidents handled by the Compliance Committee number 19 23 24 24 Code of Conduct trained % employees 31 95 95 95 96 Health and safety 2 Fatalities employees number 0 0 1 2 2 0 Total reportable injury rate employees/supervised contractors /million hours 4.6 3.7 3.6 3.1 2.4 <2.0 Lost time injury rate employees/supervised contractors /million hours 1.9 1.5 1.6 1.3 1.1 Occupational illness rate employees /million hours 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 Total illness absence rate employees % 2.2 1 2.0 1.9 2.0 2.0 Fatalities contractors (supervised plus independent) number 0 3 0 1 0 Total reportable injury rate independent contractors /million hours 5.2 2.8 3.0 3.5 4.2 Manufacturing sites with BBS program3 % 72 76 76 100 Distribution incidents number 52 91 80 46 Motor vehicle incidents with injury number 31 34 29 28 Employees 5 Employee numbers number 54,700 55,600 57,240 55,272 Women executives % 8 10 12 13 15 20 High growth country executives % 10 11 12 13 13 20 Online P&D Dialog participation % 60 72 76 78 84 95 Management development program participation cumulative number 527 2,708 5,227 7,067 7,674 8,300 Employee engagement index 7 % favorable 7 78 80 3.56 3.74 3.80 4.33 Community Program investment in € millions 1.5 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.5 Reliable operations Management audits plus reassurance audits number 61 66 61 66 61 Safety incidents – Level 3 number 2 9 10 8 3 0 Safety incidents – Level 1, 2, 3 number 33 32 36 23 Significant loss of containment (Level D) number 1 0 2 0 0 Regulatory actions – Level 3 number 3 4 0 3 0 Sourcing 5 Raw material suppliers – Vendor Policy signed % purchases 82 85 91 95 97 96 NPR central suppliers – Vendor Policy signed10 % purchases 80 89 100 77 80 80 NPR business suppliers – Vendor Policy signed10 % purchases 62 Supportive Supplier Visits since 2007 number 152 185 266 304 373 200 Sustainability performance summary | Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Environmental Ambition Area 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2015 Raw material efficiency Total waste (excluding Soda Ash process) 4 kiloton 285 249 258 217 203 per ton production kg/ton 15.1 14.7 13.1 11.6 11.0 10.0 Total hazardous waste kiloton 62 71 77 71 71 per ton production kg/ton 3.3 4.2 3.9 3.8 3.8 Non-reusable waste 4 kiloton 84 86 89 103 96 85 per ton production kg/ton 4.4 4.5 5.2 5.3 5.1 4.6 Hazardous non-reusable waste 4 kiloton 19 23 30 29 26 20 per ton production kg/ton 1 1.2 1.8 1.5 1.4 1.1 Hazardous waste to landfill kiloton 4.9 4.7 3.0 2.7 per ton production kg/ton 0.29 0.24 0.16 0.15 Maintain natural resources/fresh air Fresh water use million m3 304 297 270 309 291 283 per ton production m3/ton 16.0 16.0 15.8 15.7 15.6 15.3 COD emissions kiloton 3.1 2.9 2.5 1.9 1.8 1.6 per ton production kg/ton 0.16 0.15 0.15 0.10 0.10 0.09 Manufacturing sites with sustainable fresh water % 38 48 74 83 100 VOC emissions kiloton 4.9 4.0 4.2 4.3 3.6 3.6 per ton production kg/ton 0.26 0.22 0.25 0.22 0.19 0.19 0.19 NOx emissions9 kiloton 0.9 1.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 per ton production kg/ton 0.12 0.10 0.11 0.10 SOx emissions9 kiloton 4.1 4.8 6.2 7.1 7.7 7.6 per ton production kg/ton 0.37 0.36 0.41 0.41 Direct CO2(e) emissions (Scope 1) 6 million tons 1.7 1.6 1.9 2.0 1.6 1.5 per ton production 6 kg/ton 87 85 110 102 85 82 -10% Indirect CO2(e) emissions (Scope 2) 6 million tons 3.1 3.0 2.8 3.2 3.2 3.2 per ton production 6 kg/ton 161 161 162 165 171 175 -10% Total energy use 1000TJ 116 115 97 111 107 106 per ton production GJ/ton 6.1 5.7 5.7 5.7 5.7 Value chain Total CO2(e) emissions (cradle-to-gate) 5 kiloton 14.6 8 15.9 8 16.1 8 15.9 per ton product 5 kg/ton 980 8 960 8 950 8 950 -10% 1 Former AkzoNobel businesses only. as a result of the process chemistry. This aqueous mixture is stored and 8 F  igures for 2009-2011restated in line with raw material data updates 2 HSE KPIs: from 2009 report employees/supervised contractors evaporates in large, managed on-site lagoons. and product definition. (was employees only) and independent contractors (was all contractors). 5 Excludes Chemicals Pakistan. 9 2007 and 2008 figures include main emmisions only. 3 BBS restated for manufacturing sites only. 6 Includes Chemicals Pakistan. 10 From 2011 the NPR supplier data is combined. 4 In addition to this figure, our Soda Ash facility in Pakistan generated on a dry 7 From 2010 employee survey changed from % favorable to Gallup Q12 GrandMean: basis 490 ktons (2011: 495 ktons) of non-reusable non-hazardous waste, average of mean scores for each question (out of five). AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Summaries | Sustainability performance summary 201 Index Accounting policies 113 Financial instruments 148 Report of the Supervisory Board 45 Acquisitions and divestments 36, 121 Functional Chemicals 57 Research, Development and Innovation 20, 25 Antitrust cases 142 Glossary 203 Result allocation 159 Audit Committee 81 Health and Safety 171 Risk management 22 Auditor’s report 158 Incidentals 36, 123 Safe harbor statement 206 Automotive and Aerospace Coatings 68 Industrial Chemicals 58 Segment information 112 Board of Management 32 Industrial Coatings 69 Shareholders’ equity 111, 154, 155 Borrowings 140, 141 Intangible assets 129 Specialty Chemicals 53 Business Area statistics 198 Internal controls 23, 40, 47, 88, 100 Strategic ambitions 16 Carbon Policy 184 Invested capital 37 Supervisory Board 43 Cash and cash equivalents 134 Investments in associates and joint ventures 132 Surface Chemistry 60 Chairman’s statement 8 Key developments by Business Area 56, 66, 76 Sustainability statements 164–192 Chemicals Pakistan 61 Marine and Protective Coatings 67 Sustainability framework 165 Code of Conduct 88, 98 Net debt and net financing expenses 38, 134 Tax 37, 126 Community Program 181 Nomination Committee 87 Ten-year financial summary 196 Company financial statements 153–157 Operating working capital 37 Wood Finishes and Adhesives 71 Consolidated balance sheet 109 Outlook 40 Consolidated statement of cash flows 110 Pensions 27, 38, 136 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 111 Performance Coatings 63 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 109 Performance improvement program 35 Consolidated statement of income 108 Powder Coatings 70 Contingent liabilities and commitments 142 Product stewardship 174 Corporate governance 81 Property, plant and equipment 131 Decorative Paints 73 Provisions 136, 140 Dividend proposal 37, 159 Proxy voting 89, 102 Earnings per share 37, 108 Pulp and Performance Chemicals 59 Emissions/waste 189 Regional statistics 199 Employees 123, 178 Remuneration 90, 144 Executive Committee 32 Remuneration Committee 87 Financial calendar 205 Report of the Board of Management 34 202 Index | Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Glossary Adjusted earnings per share Earnings per share substances which may have an impact on people or the Basic earnings per share from continuing operations Net income attributable to shareholders divided by the environment: CO2, NOx and SOx, VOCs, COD, hazardous excluding incidentals in operating income, amortization weighted average number of common shares outstanding and non-hazardous waste. Definitions are in the Sustainability of intangible assets and tax on these adjustments. during the year. statements section. BBS EBIT GHG Behavior-based safety. Operating income before incidentals. Greenhouse gases. Carbon footprint EBIT margin Incidentals The carbon footprint of a product or organization is the total EBIT as percentage of revenue and can refer to margins Incidentals are special charges and benefits, results on amount of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions caused during both before and after incidentals. acquisitions and divestments, restructuring and impairment a defined period, or across the total or part of a product charges, and charges related to major legal, antitrust and lifecycle. It is expressed in terms of the amount of carbon EBITDA environmental cases. EBIT and EBITDA before incidentals dioxide equivalents emitted. EBIT before depreciation and amortization. Refers in this are key figures management uses to assess the company’s report to EBITDA before incidentals. performance, as these figures better reflect the underlying CO2(e) trends in the results of the activities. Carbon dioxide equivalent EBITDA margin EBITDA as percentage of revenue. Invested capital COD Total assets (excluding cash and cash equivalents, Chemical oxygen demand is the amount of oxygen required Eco-efficiency investments in ­associates, assets held for sale) less current for the chemical oxidation of substances in the wastewater Eco-efficiency means doing more for less: creating goods ­income tax payable, deferred tax liabilities and effluent which is directly discharged into surface waters from and services while using fewer resources and creating less trade and other payables. our facilities. waste and pollution. Key value chain Code of Conduct Eco-premium solutions Used to map the carbon footprint of our businesses. Key Our Code of Conduct defines our company values and how A measure of the eco-efficiency of our products. An value chains are product groupings with similar footprint we work. It incorporates fundamental principles on issues eco-premium solution is significantly better than competing characteristics, which are representative of the majority such as business integrity, labor relations, health, safety, offers in the market in at least one eco-efficiency criterion of total business unit revenue/production. environment and security and community involvement. (toxicity, energy use, use of natural resources/raw materials, emissions and waste, land use, risks), and not significantly Loss of containment Community Program worse in any other criteria. A loss of containment is an unplanned release of material, AkzoNobel’s global Community Program encourages product, raw material or energy to the environment (including and gives financial support for employees to get involved, EMEA those resulting from human error). Loss of containment hands-on, in their local communities. Europe, Middle East and Africa. incidents are divided into four categories, dependent on severity, from small, on-site spill up to Level D – a significant Comprehensive income Emerging Europe escape. The change in equity during a period resulting from Central and Eastern Europe (excluding Austria), Baltic States transactions and other events other than those changes and Turkey. Mature markets resulting from transactions with shareholders in their Comprised of Western Europe, the US, Canada, Japan capacity as shareholders. Emissions and waste and Oceania. We report emissions to air, land and water for those AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Summaries | Glossary 203 Natural resource use Regulatory action Top quartile talent development: 80 percent internal We do not report specific natural resource use, except We have defined three categories of regulatory action, from promotion rate into executive level positions, based water. We do report our use of energy and waste from self-reported issues (Level 1) to formal legal notifications with on 2012 consultation with talent management experts. our operations, and indicate the main raw materials used fines above €10,000 (Level 3). 80 percent is seen as best practice in the field because in our products. it requires a good and healthy talent management process, ROI% as well as opportunities for new hires. Net debt Calculated as EBIT of the last 12 months divided by average Long-term borrowings plus short-term borrowings less cash invested capital. Top quartile eco-efficiency improvement rate: orginally based and cash equivalents. on 2009 benchmark of operational eco-efficiency targets 13.4 Safety incident from peer companies in the chemicals sector (~5 percent Net income We have defined three levels of safety incidents. The highest p.a.). Revised to top 25 percent in the DJSI (SAM) industry Net income attributable to shareholders of Akzo Nobel N.V. category – Level 3 – involves any loss of life; more than five benchmark for the OEE criterion. severe injuries; environmental, asset or business damage Occupational illness frequency rate totaling more than €25 million; inability to maintain business; Top quartile in sustainablity: a top three position The number of reportable cases of occupational illnesses per or serious reputation damage to AkzoNobel stakeholders. on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. million hours worked. Shareholders’ equity per share Top quartile in employee engagement: top quartile Operating income Akzo Nobel N.V. shareholders’ equity divided by the number of the Gallup Q12 Operating income is defined in accordance with IFRS and of common shares outstanding at December 31. includes the relevant incidental charges. Total reportable rate of injuries (TRR) SAM (Sustainable Asset Management) assessment The number of injuries per million hours worked. Full Operating working capital (OWC) Assesses the sustainability performance of companies definitions are in the Sustainability statements section. Defined as the sum of inventories, trade receivables and selected for the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI). trade payables in the Business Areas. When expressed as a The DJSI tracks the performance of the global sustainability Total shareholder return (TSR) ratio, operating working capital is measured against four times leaders. The index comprises the top 10 percent in each Used to compare the performance of different companies’ last quarter revenue. sector for the 2,500 largest companies. stocks and shares over time. It combines share price appreciation and dividends paid to show the total return Operational eco-efficiency Top quartile to the shareholder. The relative TSR position reflects the Refers to the eco-efficiency of our manufacturing operations. Top quartile safety performance: comparing the total market perception of overall performance relative to a Our aim is to improve the operational eco-efficiency by reportable rate (TRR) with eight peer chemicals and reference group. reducing the resources used and emissions/waste from our coatings companies. sites during the manufacture of our products. Wellness Checkpoint Top quartile in sustainablity: a top three position on the Dow The company’s health assessment tool, which allows P&D Dialog Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) based on SAM assessment. employees to prepare their personal health risk assessments The Performance and Development Dialog (P&D Dialog) and health improvement plans. Employee family members is AkzoNobel’s global performance and appraisal system Top quartile in diversity: 20 percent female executives may also participate in this program. for employees. and 20 percent executives from the high growth markets, based on 2009 benchmark with peers – Chemical Sector RD&I and FMCG. Research, Development and Innovation. 204 Glossary | Summaries | AkzoNobel Report 2012 Financial calendar 2013 April 18 April 26 April 30 Report for the Annual General Ex-dividend date of first quarter Meeting of 2012 final dividend shareholders May 3 May 6 – May 23 May 24 May 29 Record date of 2012 Election period cash Determination of Payment date cash final dividend or stock final dividend exchange ratio dividend and delivery of new shares July 18 October 21 2014 February 6 Report for the Report for the Report for the second quarter third quarter year 2013 and the fourth quarter These dates are subject to change. For the most accurate information, see the events calendar on our website. AkzoNobel Report 2012 | Summaries | Financial calendar 205 Disclaimer Report 2012 including Sustainability report Design In this Report 2012, great care has been taken in drawing up The company’s annual financial report is combined with Pentagram, London the properties and qualifications of the product features. No the sustainability report into one Report 2012. The sustainAkzoNobel Corporate Communications rights can be derived from these descriptions. The reader is ability sections, however, in no way form part of the company’s advised to consult the available product specifications themannual report as the company is required to publish pursuant Photography selves. These are available through the relevant business units. to Dutch law. Tessa Posthuma de Boer In this publication the terms “AkzoNobel” and “the company” Additional photography supplied refer to Akzo Nobel N.V. and its consolidated companies in Report 2012 – Dutch version by AkzoNobel businesses general. The company is a holding company registered in the A summarized version of the financial statements is also Netherlands. Business activities are conducted by operating available in Dutch. In the event of any discrepancies between Print subsidiaries throughout the world. The terms “we”, “our” and the two versions, the English report will prevail. Tesink B.V., Zutphen, the Netherlands “us” are used to describe the company; where they are used in the Business performance section, they refer to the busiBrands and trademarks Paper ness concerned. In this Report 2012, reference is made to brands and tradeHeaven 42, printed with bio-ink marks owned by, or licensed to, AkzoNobel. Unauthorized Safe harbor statement use of these is strictly prohibited. This Report 2012 contains statements which address such key issues as AkzoNobel’s growth strategy, future financial results, market positions, product development, products in the pipeline and product approvals. Such statements should be carefully considered and it should be understood that many factors could cause forecasted and actual results to differ from these statements. These factors include, but are not limited to, price fluctuations, currency fluctuations, developments in raw material and personnel costs, pensions, physical and environmental risks, legal issues, and legislative, fiscal and other regulatory measures. Stated competitive positions are based on management estimates supported by information provided by specialized external agencies. AkzoNobel is the largest global paints and coatings company and a major producer of specialty chemicals. We supply industries and consumers worldwide with innovative products and are passionate about developing sustainable answers for our customers. Our portfolio includes well known brands such as Dulux, Sikkens, International and Eka. Headquartered in Amsterdam, the Netherlands, we are consistently ranked as one of the leaders in the area of sustainability. With operations in more than 80 countries, our 50,000 people around the world are committed to excellence and delivering Tomorrow’s Answers Today™. 06734_250213
