J&K Sai Star Society ( Annual Repot – 2012 ) Activities Report and vision Document By Brigadier Amarjit Singh Randwal ( Retd) President “Rural Development, Healthcare, Education & Environment” “Welfare of Ex-Servicemen & Widows” Tele:01921-224349 Websitewww.saistar.co.in Annual Report for the Year 2011-12 J&K SAI STAR Society Nagrota Gujroo, Ramkot, Jammu184205. (J&K) INDIA** Registered No. 4680/S, under J&K Govt. Act VI of 1998 (1941 AD), Member UN Global Compact (Donations exempted from Income t Tax under Sec 80 G of the IT Act) Committed to ---“Sustainable Rural Development, Healthcare and Education” 1. Sainiks, Agriculturists and Intellectuals Society for Total Agrarian Rural Reforms (Sai Star) are a charitable NGO dedicated to improve the quality of life of Rural population in Remote villages. The Society is mainly devoted to Rural Development, Promotion of Youth Activities and Adventure Sports, Healthcare, Environment up-gradation, empowerment of Women , Children; Welfare of Exservicemen and widows. Vision 2. To improve quality of life of rural population by sustainable development at grass root level. Mission 3. All inclusive development by working at gross root level and employing sustainable technologies and information with regard to Healthcare, education, agriculture. Correct use of natural resources and environment with special emphasis on empowerment of women, children and welfare of ex-servicemen and widows. OBJECTIVES OF J&K SAI STAR SOCIETY  Improve Quality of life of Rural Population.  Sustainable Agriculture Development.  Environment Up-gradation and Ecology Literacy.  Agriculture, Horticulture and Floriculture.  Biotechnology & Vermi-culture Awareness.  Empowerment of Women and Children.  Welfare of Ex-servicemen and Widows.  Promotion of Youth Activities and Adventure Sports.  Making villages IT Knowledge Center in ICT.  Healthcare, AIDS Awareness and Disease Prevention.  Promotion of Youth Activities, Cultural and Vocational Training.  Promotion of Adventure and Sports activities.  To Co-operate with other NGOs and Government Agencies for achieving the objectives. Activities during the Year 2011-12 4. Focus of the Society has been to create facilities and awareness in the rural areas on Self-Help basis, which will act as pivots for grass root social work in consonance with overall mission. Area of Work & Methododology 4a. The State of Jammu and Kashmir has geographical 2.22 lakhs sq kilometers which is 6.93 percent of total Indian territory. Out of total area Ladakh covers 70%, Jammu 19% and Kashmir 11%. As per 2001 census population of the State is one Crore and 70 thousands; population density per sq km is 99 and 75.12% of the people live in rural areas. There are 22 Districts, 6758 villages , 143 Blocksand 4130 Panchayats. There are no major Industries in the State and thus Corporate social responsibilities (CSR) activities are almost zero. 4b. It was observed that some of the remote areas of J&K State are most neglected specially in the filed of Education and Healthcare. Keeping this in view Sai Star Society has undertaken rural development work in backward are of Udhampur and Kathua Districts in Jammu division. People living below poverty line in this are worst sufferers and need civil society intervention. 4c. Sai Star Society being member of UN Global Compact and following its charter specially adhering to the principle of anti-corruption, it has decided to get help for most of the projects in kind and act as a facilitator specially from Army Sadhbavna programme, where chances of misuse of funds is not there. Development Works undertaken and Impact on the Target Group Establishing of ECHS Polyclinic 5. Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme ( ECHS) Polyclinic was operationalised on 29 Sep 2011, and it was formally inaugurated by Major General A K Sehgal, GOC Sub Area Udhampur on 22 Oct 2011.This is a landmark achievement of the Society for welfare of the Ex-servicemen and widow pensioners, which will provide free medical facilities including treatment for all diseases in Military or Civil Hospitals of their choice any where in the country. This event was widely covered in the Media. Copy of one of the News Papers report is attached at annexure. 6. Healthcare  300 to 400 patients were provided free treatment every month during the year.  Society Ambulance was provided for evacuation of serious cases as on required basis.  Healthcare awareness and Medical check up were carried out and follow up Health Cards issued to students in situ. Approx 3600 rural people were treated during the Medical Camps organized in remote villages.  Regular awareness Campaign in rural area regarding use of Local Herbs and ISM, which has been very helpful to rural poor in disease prevention.  BPL patient were provided assistance for high cost treatment like Pacemaker implant through Red Cross. 7. Education  Two Rural Govt. Schools which were Up-graded to Class 10th & 12th have been adopted by the Society. These Schools have facilitated BPL Boys/ Girls to continue their education and proving very useful to students from remote areas specially girls.  Sainik Star Primary School being run by the Society at Preet Nagar, Jammu is providing quality education to poor Children.  Art & craft Course was run with HP Sancta and 25 Girls were trained.  Boundary Wall of Govt. High School Babey costing Rs. one lakh was repaired through Sadhbavna project.  Annual Rural Internship training was organized for PG students SP Jain Institute of Management & Research, Mumbai under their Department of Corporate Citizen (DOCC) Programme.  A project Study “Design and execution of higher education and career awareness programme for rural youth in educational institutes of Jammu Province” was carried out. This was adjudged as one of the Best Study of the year. Letter of appreciation sent by S P Jain Institute of Management and Research is at Annexure 2. As a result of this study a Power Point Presentation (PPP) was prepared, which was presented in various Schools as a part of awareness programme by our internship trainees. CDs of the PPP were also distributed to the Schools for future reference. 8. Welfare of Ex-Servicemen, Widows and BPL  464 pension related cases were processed, taken up and settled through PCDA (Pensions) Allahabad through ESM Helpline.  ECHS and CSD Smart Cards documentation being done regularly.  CSD Canteen facility is being provided to Ex-servicemen & Widow pensioners at Helpline location (Km 67 Dhar – Udhampur Road) once a week on every Monday under the arrangement of Army Sadhbavna assistance.  BPL public and other deserving cases being assisted in their documentation to get financial assistance from local administration.  Financial and Material assistance provided to families for poor Girls marriages.  A Community Development Center constructed and being run by the Society for the Resident of Backward Area (RBA) at village Babey. This is also being used by village Panchayat & local Rural Development officials.  Environment Awareness Campaign was conducted in rural areas.  Interaction with ICRC and local Red Cross & MEA, Govt. of India to assist families of Indian Prisoners languishing in Pakistani Jails. 9. Networking and Outreach.  In consonance with the objective of the Society, interaction is being carried out with Govt. agencies and other NGOs to achieve our objectives. The Society is networking with following NGOs:International Committee for Development & Co-operation (IRCDC). Ex-servicemen League, Jammu. Hari Prabhu Sanstha, Nagrota Gujroo. Green Society for Peace & Justice, Thaiyal ( Majalta). Nehru Yuva Kendra, Thara Kalyal.  A single window Helpline being run by the Society is doing excellent work like helping handicaps, assistance to widows & senior citizens to resolve their problems. 10. Anti-Corruption and Right to Information The Society is member of United Nations Global Compact and adhering to its charter & making efforts to advance human rights, environment and anticorruption principals. U N Global Compact Executive Director letter appreciating the work by the society is at annexure 3. The Society has also assisted public in solving their problems by obtaining information through RTI Act 2005 / J&K State RTI Act 2009. Way Ahead Future Action Plan 11. The following facilities/and projects are being planned and will be undertaken in near future: Establishing a Mobile Sainik Helpline in order to provide assistance to the Senior Citizen & Differently-abled at their Doorstep.  Construction of a Community Development centre on Dhar -Udhampur Road.  To get link Road constructed between R. C. Peak and High School Garh Samna Banj to connect a remote high altitude area.  To establish a Dispensary in Remote area of Udhampur district and Mobile Medical Unit to provide basic Healthcare facilities to BPL Population at their Doorstep  To establish & maintain a Mobile Library and Career Counseling Unit for Higher & Vocational Educational awareness to students in Rural areas.  To establish Environment Park & Herbal plants Nursery. 12.Social Recognition/ Awards o The Society was shortlisted for India NGO Innovation & Creditably Alliance Awards. o The Society Website “ www.saistar.co.in” has become very popular and 9225 persons have visited the site till the end of the year. Summary 13. The Year under review has been most significant as the Society has been able to achieve major targets specially establishing the Ex-servicemen Contributory Health Scheme Polyclinic which has a staff of 12 persons including 3 Doctors. This Polyclinic will provide free medical care and treatment specially to ex-servicemen. 14. Most of the projects were implemented through the assistance of Army Sadhbhavana and SaiStar Society acting as one-stop contact point for planning, execution and subsequent running of the same. There has been significant impact on quality of life of the poor people in the target are intervention, specially healthcare and education. The work of the Society has also been recognized by India NGO innovation awards Committee and UN Global Compact Headquarters. Signed & authorized By No. 4680/S/R/12 President J&K Sai Star Society
