Foreword 2012 was marked by the slowdown in global economic growth respect for the environment. We contribute to developing the and signiﬁcant market volatility, particularly in Europe. After regions where we operate and which we serve. In 2012, the Dow four years of crisis, the situation of the European air transport Jones Sustainability Index ranked Air France-KLM amongst the industry is now more fragile. 19 most responsible companies in the world. For Air France-KLM, 2012 was the year in which our fundamentals This distinction encourages us to play a lead role within our secwere restored as the ﬁrst necessary step towards the Group’s tor. To achieve the targeted reduction in greenhouse gas emisrecovery. Our working practices have been overhauled, new action sions from civil aviation, the Group supports, within the framework plans have been determined for each of our businesses, costs of IATA and the ICAO, the establishment of a global approach, have been reduced and our ﬁnancial situation improved. We shall guaranteeing equity between all airlines. We also contribute to maintain discipline in terms of capacity management, investment research and innovation, particularly to stimulate the production and costs in 2013, a crucial year for the success of the Group’s of sustainable biofuels. Transform 2015 transformation plan and the return to proﬁtability. It is thanks to the mobilization of everyone across the company that Proud of how far we have come, I hereby reafﬁrm our commitment we shall return to the path of proﬁtable and sustainable growth. to acting as a sustainable company reﬂected in our becoming a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact and enshrined in Index The leading European airlines need to reinforce their position in our Corporate Social Responsibility Statement and Social Rights the global aviation landscape faced with competition from the low and Ethics Charter. 03 > Foreword cost carriers, the Gulf State airlines and the emerging countries, 04 > Interview within a context of regional sector consolidation. In Europe, this consolidation movement, launched in 2004 with the merger be07 > Financial results tween Air France and KLM, is now virtually complete with three 08 > Aviation industry developments large groups currently operating in Europe, as in the United States. 09 > Air France-KLM key strengths The next stage will depend on the trend in the international regulatory framework towards a proliferation of open skies agreements. 10 > CSR main accomplishments 02 As a global business, the mission of air transport is to connect people, economies and cultures, driving economic growth and 03 social progress. In this regard, Air France-KLM has a number of key strengths. Backed by a modern ﬂeet and the size of its network, our Group is the most present in the emerging countries with more than 60% of our long-haul capacity oriented towards growth markets. We have strengthened our partnerships with the members of the SkyTeam alliance and launched co-operation with Etihad. Our Group is also recognized for its sustainable development Governance Environment Society performance. We have turned Corporate Social ResponsibilCORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 14 > Our CSR approach 26 > Minimizing our 42 > Integrating sustainability ity, which is the heart of our strategy, into a decisive advantage. environmental footprint into the customer experience We assume our responsibilities and act to reconcile growth with 16 > Stakeholders 18 > Organization 28 > Our footprint in 2012 52 > Ensuring a responsible human 30 > Climate change resources policy 19 > Shareholders 31 > Carbon footprint 60 > Contributing to local 20 > Safety 21 > Managing risk 32 > Sustainable alternative fuels development It is thanks to the mobilization on 22 > Ethical principles 34 > Noise Annexes of everyone across the company ny 23 > Public Positions 35 > Local air quality 36 > Waste, water and energy that we shall return to the path 38 > Research and innovation of proﬁtable and sustainable 39 > Biodiversity growth. JEAN-CYRIL SPINETTA, Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer, Air France-KLM Group The information in this report relates to the 2012 ﬁnancial year, started on 1 January, 2012 and ended on 31 December, 2012. Where information relates to a different time frame, this is explicitly stated. Report published in April 2013. Interview Alexandre de Juniac, Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Air France, and Peter Hartman, President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of KLM. A look back at the Group’s situation in 2012 and the Not only do we want to develop outlook for the next years a market for sustainable biofuel and set an example, but we also want to inspire others to join us in 2012 was the year of implementation for the hensive review of its activities and processes, ties, and avoiding layoffs and wage reductions. making the airline Transform 2015 plan. Could you describe and deﬁning strategic orientations to ensure The negotiations resulted in the signature of the main phases of this plan ? the most appropriate response to the priorities. new collective labor agreements for each staff industry more At both KLM and Air France we were mindful category: Ground Staff, Cabin Crew and Pilots. sustainable. Alexandre DE JUNIAC— In early 2012, faced to respect the three principles underpinning Following the signature of these agreements with negative results, the Air France-KLM Board the success of the Transform 2015 plan: equiand consistent with its commitment, Air France PETER HARTMAN, President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of KLM of Directors set three priorities: restoring comtable application across all employee categoimplemented the measures to manage overpetitiveness through cost cutting, restructuring ries, continuous investment in ﬂight safety and staffing by offering employees a voluntary 04 the short and medium-haul operations and rapidly reducing debt. The Group launched a working conditions, and a resolute focus on improving the quality of the service offered to departure plan and encouraging, in particular, part-time working. Estimated at the end 05 transformation plan aimed at regaining compecustomers. of March, targets of these measures, which titiveness over the next three years. This plan include voluntary departures and assisted meahas two phases. The ﬁrst, announced in Januasures, are mainly achieved. vity between Air France, HOP! and Transavia will ry 2012, was reﬂected in the implementation Transform 2015 includes an Human resourcallow to better meet all our customers' needs. of immediate cost-saving measures while the es dimension. How was this implemented? Peter HARTMAN— For KLM, the social dimensecond, presented in June 2012, aims to transsion of Transform 2015 aims to improve productiform the Group through an in-depth remodelling Alexandre DE JUNIAC— To restore the vity and reduce Support function staff by 10%. At Customer satisfaction is at the heart of the of its organization and working methods. This company’s competitiveness and return to the the end of 2012, new collective labor agreements Air France and KLM commercial strategy. second phase involved the negotiation of new path of proﬁtable and sustainable growth, we were signed with the unions. What changes do you plan to make? CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 collective labor agreements and the deploylaunched a negotiation process as part of the The measures adopted, particularly the salary ment of action plans. ongoing workplace dialogue. These negotiafreeze and an increase in the number of hours Alexandre DE JUNIAC— For a service comtions, which began during the spring of 2012, worked for all staff categories, aim to reduce pany, the principal objective is customer satisPeter HARTMAN— Throughout 2012, Air were aimed at introducing measures to ensure payroll costs while preserving jobs, “keeping the faction. This is why the measures that we have France and KLM worked together on the a 20% improvement in our economic efﬁciency. family together”. By facilitating mobility and a implemented and plan to pursue in 2013 will concrete implementation of the Transform 2015 In return, Air France made a commitment to temporary transition to working part-time, KLM be reﬂected in a very concrete improvement plan with each company carrying out a comprepreserving the scope of the company’s activimade a commitment, within the framework of this in our product aimed at making it the world’s agreement, to no compulsory layoffs. best in class. Professional mobility within the company remaiOn its long-haul network, Air France is applying ned a priority in 2012, enabling employees to the strategic lines deﬁned by the Transform acquire new skills and develop their employability. 2015 plan and intends to increase its economic efﬁciency. Growth is thus being targeted Air transport remains a tremendous of the heavily-loss-making short and mediumoperated by Air France, we have enhanced the in areas offering strong potential and mainly The Air France medium-haul operation has haul operations is a key dimension of Transform product offer and adapted the fare strategy. concerns the opening of new routes such as driver of development both around our undergone in-depth restructuring. Could 2015. These operations are vital to Air FranceThe activities of the leisure company Transavia Montevideo, Kuala Lumpur and Minneapolis, hubs and at our destinations. Air France you outline the main points? KLM’s development in that they meet the needs France have been developed to include new and increased frequencies to Bangkok, Guangof passengers travelling within Europe while destinations. Lastly, we have created the new zhou, Libreville or Havana. and KLM both play a major role in local Alexandre DE JUNIAC— In an uncertain ecofeeding the long-haul ﬂights departing from the HOP! Brand to capture the synergies between With several million euros of investment in our economies. nomic environment and faced with ever-tougher competition, Air France launched a commercial dual Paris-CDG and Amsterdam-Schiphol hubs. The Air France group has organized the short the Air France group’s three French regional subsidiaries – Brit Air, Régional and Airlinair. Business class, we have initiated a comprehensive renovation of our product in terms of ALEXANDRE DE JUNIAC, offensive and adapted its offer to the new deveand medium-haul operations around three The medium-haul network is undergoing a maboth on-board comfort and the welcome for Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Air France lopments in the travel industry. The restructuring complementary business units. For the activity jor reorganization. The segmentation of this actipassengers on the ground. Financial results Financial results 2012 Revenues The Air France-KLM group comprises a single holding company and two airlines, Air France and KLM, We also introduced a new training procompensating the CO 2 emissions of their Alexandre DE JUNIAC— Air transport re€25,633 m each of which retains its own brand and identity. Its three main businesses are passenger transport, cargo transport and aviation maintenance services, for its own ﬂeet and those of other airlines. gram to register the Air France’s signature at ﬂ ight. Since 2012, we offer our corporate mains a tremendous driver of development Result from current operations For the period between January 1 and December 31, 2012, consolidated revenues amounted to €25.63 the heart of the service and focus on our ﬁve customers the possibility to operate some of both around our hubs and at our destinations. billion, up by 5.2% on the previous ﬁnancial year. Over twelve months, the result from current operations core: customize, enhance, pay attention, have an eye for detail, daring. their ﬂights on sustainable biofuel through the KLM BioFuel program. Not only do we want to Air France and KLM both play a major role in local economies. Air France is the largest pri€-300 m was a negative €300 million (versus income of €-353 million at December 31, 2011). Customer focus, reactivity and team work develop a market for sustainable biofuel and vate-sector employer in the Île-de-France reare our guiding principles that have led us set an example, but we also want to inspire gion, with 44,000 employees principally based to choose this organization, the ambition to others to join us in making the airline industry at Paris-Charles de Gaulle and Paris-Orly. We BREAKDOWN OF REVENUES BY SECTOR BREAKDOWN OF PASSENGER REVENUES favour the roll-out of Transform 2015 and meet more sustainable. contribute to local development thanks to the OF ACTIVITY 2012 BY NETWORK 2012 (percentages) (percentages) its objectives of a return to competitiveness and The fact that we operated the longest susservices operated by Air France and by our a more upmarket positioning of its products tainable biofuel powered ﬂ ight ever, ﬂ ying regional airlines. We are also a major indusand services passengers from Amsterdam to Rio de Janeiro on the occasion of the United Nations trial player with 9,000 highly-qualiﬁ ed jobs in maintenance. Air France Industries KLM 12 % 18 % 9% South America Cargo Asia-Paciﬁc Peter HARTMAN— In 2012, KLM pursued the sustainable development conference, Rio +20 Engineering & Maintenance ranks number two development of its network around the Amsterdam-Schiphol hub both in Europe and on on June 19, aims to do just that. I truly believe that sustainable biofuels are world-wide in aircraft maintenance, a rapidlygrowing sector. 79 % 4% 19 % 13 % Africa & rapidly-growing markets like Asia and South here to stay. Passenger Aviation North America transport maintenance Middle East America. We plan to increase our offer on longhaul ﬂights thanks to more efﬁcient use of the You were appointed Chairman and CEO of ﬂeet and the deployment of new-generation aircraft. In current challenging context, what role does corporate social responsibility play the Air France-KLM Group by the Group’s Board of Directors. You will succeed Jean5% 34 % 7% Other businesses (catering, charters, etc.) Europe Caribbean & Indian Ocean We need to adapt and be ﬂexible to beneﬁt in the Group’s strategy? Cyril Spinetta as from 1st July 2013. the business opportunities around us. Transparency, personalized services and customer Peter HARTMAN— In this context, doing Alexandre DE JUNIAC— My new role as DISTRIBUTION OF THE GROUP’S REVENUE 06 centricity are getting increasingly important in the airline industry, topics in which we already business while taking into account the impact on the environment and wider society is the Group Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁ cer will be to continue the turnaround at Through its business activity and investments Air France-KLM contributes to economic development where 07 play a leading role and which is a position we way forward towards the future. Sustainable Air France-KLM by developing the special the Group is based and in the countries it serves. want to keep. development reﬂects both our commitment to strengths of each airline, at the same time as Therefore we continue our investment in 24/7 responsible business practice and our ability we embark on a new phase in the construcsocial media support to listen to and better to adapt to the changes with which we are tion of the Group. We cannot afford to fail. Our serve the needs of our customers. Another faced. Transform Plan is on the pathway to success, €1,421 m €280 m €549 m €643 m Repayment Industrial Aeronautical Fleet step forward will be the implementation of our Mobilized around four key priorities, we contiand the majority of the projects agreed are of debt new World Business Class, starting in July nue to lower our environmental footprint, offer now being deployed. Our priority in the years 2013, created by a famous Dutch designer. our customers high-quality and innovative serahead will be to generate the ﬁnancial room The sustainability aspect is taken into account vices, ensure a responsible human resources for manoeuvre we need to ensure our leading Loans €1,840 m Investments and development €1,219 m Disposal of aircraft CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 and financial assets in this new concept. policy and contribute to development at position in the airline industry and continue destinations we ﬂy to. We strive to set new to invest in our products and services, in our standards of excellence in corporate social ﬂeet, and in training. Air France-KLM will need This year KLM operated the longest-ever ﬂight on sustainable biofuel. Could you tell responsibility by working together with all our stakeholders. to be a major player in the emerging global consolidation process. Revenues Airports us more about this and about the launch of €25,633 m the BioFuel program? €2,491 m Passengers Maintenance State & local Taxes on authorities Peter HARTMAN— Sustainability is an tickets integral part of our business strategy. We (not included Cargo in turnover) see that, within a context of soaring fossilfuel prices, climate change and renewable On March 25, 2013, Jean-Cyril Spinetta announced his decision to step down as energy remains a considerable challenge. In the Group’s Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer and Board Director of Air Francethe medium and long-term, signiﬁcant use of KLM on July 1, 2013. On that date, Alexandre de Juniac will succeed Mr Spinetta and Expenses alternative sustainable biofuels is crucial, but Frédéric Gagey will be appointed Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of Air France. cooperation is key. Leo van Wijk will also step down as Air France-KLM’s Deputy Chief Executive Ofﬁcer Our biofuel approach focuses on the deveon July 1, 2013 but will remain a Board Director. Peter Hartman, who will be replaced lopment of a market for sustainable biofuel by Camiel Eurlings as President and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of KLM on July 1, 2013, €225 m €12 m €712 m €1,150 m €7,328 m €6,285 m €7,660 m together with partners, our own sector, gowill be appointed Vice Chairman of the Air France-KLM Board of Directors. State & local Non-proﬁt Airports Air trafﬁc Suppliers Other Employees vernments and customers. authorities (sponsorship) (fees) control (fuel) suppliers (payroll tax Already since 2008, we invite our customers (taxes & fees) (en route charges) € 2,104 m) to invest in renewable energy projects by Air France-KLM key strenghts Aviation industry Air France-KLM developments key strengths Liberalization and consolidation Liberalization of air travel progresses slowly around the world with certain regions moving faster than others. The consolidation momentum continued through mergers, alliances and partnership agreements. Airlines can improve 122 DESTINATIONS their position in the airline industry as shown by recent consolidation of airlines in the US. Europe Airline business The airline industry is a facilitator of international trade and business. Climate change 17 DESTINATIONS Operating in a highly competitive environment, concerning a highly cyclical Aviation accounts for around 2% of global man-made CO2 North America 11 54 24 business and standing out in the value emissions. Mitigating climate change remains an important DESTINATIONS challenge in a context of resources scarcity and volatility chain as earning the lowest returns and Caribbean DESTINATIONS bearing virtually the highest risk. of oil prices; a shift towards low carbon fuels is crucial. Africa & DESTINATIONS Collaboration throughout the sector and partners is key 12 Middle East Asia 3 to reduce emissions using new technology, efficient Paciﬁc operations, improved infrastructure and economic measDESTINATIONS ures to ﬁll the remaining emissions gap. DESTINATIONS 08 South America Indian 09 Ocean 243 destinations in 103 countries Customer behavior (Summer schedule 2013, Transavia not included) The changes in customer behavior seen during the crisis now look to be structural. While price is very much a focus, customers are increasingly Regulations Network well informed and sensitive to the value of the Stricter regulations are applied to consumer protection CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 service offered. Customer needs are also more and security, resulting in more restrictions for customAir France-KLM offers the largest international network, built around its two coor77.4 million and more personalized and, through internet and ers and higher costs for carriers. Unlike rail transport, dinated hubs, Paris-CDG and Amsterdam-Schiphol. The dual hub system is one social media, they expect a quicker response. aviation funds all of its own infrastructure costs, both of the cornerstones of the Group’s strategy where smaller ﬂows of European and on the ground and in the air, as well as ﬂight security regional trafﬁc connect with intercontinental ﬂights. This enables a high frequency of and safety costs. No sign of signiﬁcant relief regarding ﬂights while limiting the overlap of destinations served by the two airlines. regulation is expected. passengers carried Fleet 1.4 million Air France-KLM invests in its ﬂeet on a continual basis and operates a modern and Structural growth efﬁcient ﬂeet: 573 aircraft in operation, average age 9.9 years. Companies are currently curtailing their travel expenditure due to the economic but the need for personal contons of cargo tact for business or individual reasons remains intact. The SkyTeam air transport industry is underpinned by structural growth Vision 2050 International Air Transport Association (IATA)’s Air France and KLM are members of SkyTeam, the second largest alliance in the of 4% to 5% annually, and should be maintained over the coming two decades (See registration document 2012 page 34). However, high growth will be concentrated in the Asian region with great potential to provide air transport services connecting the growing megacities prediction for 2050 for aviation is 16 billion passengers will ﬂy and 400 million tons of cargo carried. Sustainable technologies, efﬁcient infrastructure and answering customer needs are key in this. 100,744 employees (FTE) world: 19% market share, 19 member airlines serving more than1000 destinations in 187 countries. The arrival of Xiamen Airlines further strengthened Skyteam’s leading position in the Greater China region while Aerolíneas Argentinas is a strong asset in South America’s second largest economy. The SkyTeam alliance strengthens the Group’s product range in terms of its network and populations of the emerging countries. and the services it offers to its customers, such as linked loyalty programs, new ground services for passengers and the SkyPriority program. CSR main accomplishments CSR main accomplishments KEY FIGURES DJSI Supersector leader A new contractual Safety e-learning For the 8th year running, Air France-KLM was framework In 2012, all KLM employees were ranked industry leader in the aviation secTo reach Transform 2015 plan’s objecinvited to complete an online tor category in the Dow Jones Sustainability tives, Air France and KLM signed new training module on safety. Particu31% Reduction Index. For the fourth time, the Group was ranked ﬁrst in the wider “Travel and Leisure” collective labour agreements for each employees category of staff. lar emphasis was placed on safety in the workplace, ﬂight safety and supersector. For further information, on well-being at work. of noise For further information, see page 79 see page 54 For further information, hindrance see page 56 since 2000 The longest sustainable biofuel-powered 15% Reduction KLM BioFuel Program The KLM BioFuel program was launched KLM Takes Care Launch of the new KLM Takes CSR e-learning 2,000 Group purchasing from the sheltered 10 ﬂight ever of relative CO2 and enables companies to operate part Care online platform to inform of the Group’s employees sector 11 On June 19, 2012, KLM ﬂew from Amsterdam to Rio de Janeiro emission of their ﬂights on sustainable biofuel, thereand interact with customers on have been trained. €15 million with an aircraft partly powered by biofuel using used cooking oil. since 2000 by stimulating the further development of sustainability topics. For further information, For further information, The ﬂight carried Dutch government ofﬁcials to the Rio+20 summit biofuels. For further information, see page 59 see page 49 For further on climate change. For further information, see page 33 see page 47 information, see pages 30-34 For further information, see page 32 New sustainable products onboard Innovation is everyone’s business CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 18 sustainable products have been added to KLM’s product and service range, for example, UTZ certiﬁed coffee and “beter Participatory approaches to deleven” certiﬁed chicken. velop innovation are in place at Air France, along with Servair, its catering subsidiary, chooses Air France, these involve ground local and seasonal products from France and its international operations, cargo and cabin destinations, along with organic and labeled products. crew. In 2012, 5,000 suggesFor further information, see page 51 tions were made to Air France Industries. For further information, see page 59 New life for staff Commitment uniforms to internship Air France has strengthened Community Old Air France uniforms were reits commitment to internship projects at our cycled into ﬁber insulation for vehiby doubling the number of Signatures de service destinations cles. Used lifejackets are turned into €12 million contributed by travel kits. A Dutch designer created apprenticeship placements Air France is training 11,000 cabin 20th Anniversary of the Air France Foundation crew and 1,300 ground staff and the Group to environmental a fashion bag for onboard sale from it provides to 1,000. In 20 years, the Foundation has supported 856 projects in 80 countries. managers at Paris-CDG in its unique and social projects. old KLM uniforms. For further information, More than 2,200 Air France staff members are mobilized and participate see page 55 approach to customer service. For further information, in the Friends of the Foundation network. For further information, see page 67 see page 36 For further information, For further information, see page 66 see page 47 Governance Governance integrate sustainability within the supply chain to ofEnvironmental management systems are based on the fer customers responsible and innovative products ISO 14001 standard. Air France and KLM are certiﬁed for Our CSR approach and services; ensure a responsible social policy and encourage personal development to ensure the motivation and professionalism of its employees; all of their relevant activities, both at their facilities in France and The Netherlands and onboard their aircraft. Several internal audits have been carried out throughout the organization to identify new opportunities for further improvement. adding economic and social value at the hubs and In 2012, KLM’s environmental certiﬁcation was renewed destinations where the Group operates. for a further three years. Air France-KLM’s CSR commitment is based on workIntegrating sustainability Air France Industries (AFI) was awarded Single and Global ing in line with fundamental rights, as contained in interin business and operations The Group has set out overall objectives that are inteCertiﬁcation covering nine standards, including the evaluanational principles: The Universal Declaration of Human Air France-KLM aims to make sustainability an integrated into each airline’s objectives for these four key tion of the ISO 26000 standard on CSR. In 2012, AFI carRights, The International Labour Organization’s (ILO) gral part of its business strategy. This commitment issues ( see pages 27, 43, 53 and 61). ried out implementation tests of CSR impact assessment Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at is supported at Executive level. All employees are At Air France, two Board Meetings per year are dedicriteria for all new projects. Work, and The Organization for Economic Cooperation encouraged to take part in developing innovative suscated to reviewing QSE “Quality, Safety, Environment”. and Development’s (OECD) guiding principles. tainability initiatives. At KLM, every quarter the environmental objectives Reporting in line with international The Executive Committee reviews the CSR strategy on are monitored in the Safety and Quality Board. The benchmarks Realizing our CSR ambitions an annual basis, as part of a “Group Strategic FrameExecutive Committee approves the new target setting The Group has put in place a common reporting system The Group’s ambition is to set the standard in CSR and work” and is reviewed and approved by the Board of yearly and monitoring takes place quarterly within to consolidate its social, societal and environmental indicato remain the frontrunner in the airline industry. Directors during the annual Group strategy meeting. divisions. tors. This system is audited and checked annually by one Air France-KLM’s commitment to environmental proAt Air France, CSR is driven by an Executive Vice Managing directors and senior executives at Air of its statutory auditors, in line with the ISAE 3000 standard tection, social equity and local development is laid out President who is a member of the Board of Directors, France and at KLM have CSR performance indica(International Standard on Assurance Engagement) ( see in its Corporate Social Responsibility Statement. This while at KLM an Executive Board Member carries out tors linked to their variable remuneration covering pages 70-77). commitment is strengthened by our Climate Action this role. environmental and social elements. In operational The CSR Report follows the GRI3 (Global ReportPlan and Social Rights and Ethics Charter. KLM’s CSR Council meets quarterly, bringing together divisions at Air France and KLM, safety objectives in ing Initiative) guidelines ( see GRI compliance chart executives and managers to give advice on CSR policy the workplace are taken into account, while for the on page 78). In 2012, Air France contributed to the Adhering to national and to the Board of Directors and Executive Committee. procurement division, the CSR compliance of supdevelopment of GRI4 guidelines. international commitments The Air France and KLM CSR departments are repliers and the use of the sheltered sector are part of 14 Air France-KLM has been a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact since 2003 and is comsponsible for setting out policy and deployment at each airline. the yearly action plan. 15 mitted to respecting and promoting its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor standards, Taking our responsibilities CSR GOVERNANCE AND IMPLEMENTATION the environment and the fight against corruption To meet the expectations of its stakeholders and to BOARD OF DIRECTORS AIR FRANCE-KLM ( see the list of Global Compact Principles on page 78). implement appropriate risk management as part of The Group is committed to encouraging its partners its CSR policy, Air France-KLM has identiﬁed four key Air France-KLM Approves the strategic orientation of the Group’s activities and ensures implementation Reviews management reports, which provide information, among other subjects, on CSR performance to commit to this path, notably through its Sustainable issues: environment, customers, employees and conaims to make The audit committee monitors the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control and of the Group’s risk management systems AT GROUP LEVEL Development Charter for Group Suppliers. tribution to local development. sustainability Air France is a signatory of the Caring for Climate initiaThe Group is working alongside all of its stakeholders tive led by the UN Global Compact and the UN Enviin order to: an integral part CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 ronment Program. reach a sustainable balance between aviation growth of its business GROUP EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE (GEC) INTERNAL AUDIT KLM is partnering with WWF-NL since 2007 towards and its total environmental footprint; strategy. Validates the Group's CSR policy, which is included in the annual Independently assesses the effectiveness of the risk management a more sustainable aviation industry by raising CO2 Group Strategic Framework system and performs assurance audits and fuel efﬁciency and investing in sustainable biofuels. Approves the annual audit plan The Group supports national commitments to promote CSR. For example, Air France is a signatory of the Diversity Charter, the Charter for Corporate Commitment AIR FRANCE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, KLM BOARD OF MANAGING DIRECTORS AND SUPERVISORY BOARD to Equal Opportunities in the State Education System, Approve the strategic orientation and CSR policy and ensures implementation the Good Parenting Charter and KLM has signed the Sustainable Supply and Corporate Responsibility ManiEXECUTIVE COMMITTEES AIR FRANCE AND KLM festo, which aims to support the market for sustainable products and services. Determine the CSR policy and associated risks and opportunities QSE Management Review twice a year at Air France and KLM Safety & Quality Board AT AIRLINE LEVEL CSR DEPARTMENT BUSINESS, OPERATIONS AND SUPPORT DEPARTMENTS Deﬁnes and implements CSR policy Integrate CSR policy Coordinates the Environmental Ensure the responsibility and monitoring of the Quality-Safety-Environment (QSE) systems Management System Manage emergency and crisis situations Governance Stakeholders OUR STAKEHOLDERS MAP Certiﬁcation authorities Minimizing our environmental footprint Air trafﬁc control Listening and sharing services are responsible for dealing with incidents afScientiﬁc community Listening, sharing and engaging play a major part in Air fecting customers as quickly as possible. Both airlines International, France-KLM’s commitment. The Group pays a great are members of working groups (Commissions consulEuropean Environmental deal of attention to the expectations of its customers, tatives de l’environnement in France and Alders Table and national NGOs Airports authorities employees, suppliers, local communities, associations, in The Netherlands), which bring together local comIntegrating sustainability local authorities and civil society representatives, such munity representatives, airlines and airports to examine Employees Suppliers into the customer as NGOs. local environmental issues. Passengers Maintenance Cargo experience and distributors customers customers Stakeholders are identiﬁed by analyzing their relation Feedback from stakeholders has also inﬂuenced the Air transport (BtoB, BtoC, BtoT) to the Group’s four key issues. For each stakeholder Group’s reporting: the 2012 CSR report includes more and industry bodies group, issues and risks have been assessed and detailed information on risk management and human Rating agency means of consultation set out. Relationships with difrights, in particular concerning the Group’s employees Shareholders and investors ferent stakeholders are reevaluated on an annual basis. and sub-contractors. Media and key opinion leaders Professional The Group assesses employee perceptions by carrying Trade Union organizations out surveys and organizing forums several times per Involving our subsidiaries Ensuring a responsible human resources policy year. Externally, Air France and KLM have set up various All European Air France-KLM subsidiaries signed the Local authorities forms of dialogue, including customer surveys, materiSocial Rights and Ethics Charter in 2008, an important Local residents associations ality tests, comments from SRI investors and by taking step in setting out a common strategy. Local economic Humanitarian players NGOs 16 into account recommendations from non-ﬁnancial rating agencies. ( For more information about dialogue Each subsidiary also deﬁnes its own CSR action plan, in line with its business activities and contributing to Contributing to local development 17 with our stakeholders, see the table on page 68). the Group's ambitions. The majority of the subsidiaries also take part in the Group’s social and environmental Understanding our stakeholders reporting ( see see pages 70-76). This ongoing dialogue helps the Group to better underAir France’s catering subsidiary Servair has set out stand the societal changes, challenges and questions strategic paths concerning the Group’s four key isit is faced with. In 2012, stakeholder dialogue enabled sues. Ambitious targets are set on an annual basis, Transavia France is active in environmental protection Mobilizing the airline sector Air France-KLM to further develop its biofuel policy and particularly in terms of reducing waste, energy and initiatives: modernizing its ﬂeet, carrying out a carbon Air France-KLM is a member of major international to consider new ways in which to reduce its overall water consumption. audit, and offering organic and fair trade products bodies (IATA), European bodies (AEA), regional bodies environmental impact. onboard. The airline also takes part in the Solid’air (ERA – European Regions Airline Association) and naCORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Dialogue also promotes exchange between business program, which each year supports projects to protional bodies (FNAM Fédération Nationale de l’Aviation sectors. Air France and KLM share best practices in mote solidarity and the cultures of those countries Marchande and BAR – Board of Airline RepresentaCSR through their membership of associations or coaliit serves. tives). These organizations collectively represent the tions of companies. For example KLM is a member of, KLM Cityhopper, transavia.com and Martinair are air transport sector and advocate its public positions. Each sustainability issue represents an area where we the “Dutch Sustainable Growth Coalition”, an initiative implementing programs to reduce the weight carPeter Hartman President and CEO of KLM was Chairled by the CEOs of seven leading DJSI Dutch compaseek to identify best practices and encourages companies ried onboard and to improve energy efﬁciency. They man of the IATA Board of Governors from June 2011 to nies in sustainability, among which KLM. Its mission to improve their performance. We are convinced that are also involved alongside KLM in shared waste June 2012. Jean-Cyril Spinetta, Chairman and CEO of is to share, shape and stimulate sustainable business companies adapting to these challenges will be more management projects. Air France-KLM is a member of the European Comgrowth models with other companies. successful in the long run. mission’s “Aviation Platform”. Stakeholder expectations can also have a signiﬁcant Sharing our commitment to CSR Despite mounting economic pressure and ﬁnancial within SkyTeam impact on the Group’s operations. For example, in 2012, following complaints from residents living close challenges, Air France-KLM continues to demonstrate Air France and KLM share a strong commitment to Accenture has the high ambition to be a sustainable to the airport about a particular noise produced by its commitment to sustainable growth and development. CSR with other members of SkyTeam, which was the company and sustainable mobility is an important part A320s, Air France and the DGAC requested Airbus to They show their leading role in setting the agenda for ﬁrst alliance to adopt a CSR Charter. investigate the origin of the noise, which led to changes SkyTeam airlines have set up a dedicated CSR working of this. We are delighted to have joined the KLM BioFuel sustainable development within the airline industry, in the design of new aircraft. group to ensure the roll out of common initiatives and programme, together with other Dutch companies, to take advocating the use of next generation biofuels, route Together with its partners in the KLM BioFuel program, to share best practices. This working group shares the lead and invest in a market which could have a major KLM is further developing and pioneering in the biofuel planning technologies and the need for new policies and knowledge and meets on a yearly basis. In 2012 this impact on the sustainability achievements supply chain. legislation to further develop European aviation. took place at Alitalia. of both aviation and Dutch businesses. Air France and KLM have implemented consultation In 2012, two of the four airlines listed on the non-ﬁnancial mechanisms that enable their stakeholders to express DANIEL WILD, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes were SkyTeam memANJA MONTIJN-GROENEWOUD, their grievances. Air France and KLM’s Customer Care Head of Research, RobecoSAM Rating Agency bers: the Air France-KLM Group and Delta Air Lines. Managing Director Accenture the Netherlands Governance Organization Shareholders Applying corporate governance principles During the 2012 ﬁnancial year, the Board of Directors commissioned Pursuant to the obligation for air transport comMaintaining a high rate of Air France-KLM is a limited company with a Board of Directors and an independent ﬁrm to conduct an evaluation of its functioning and panies to monitor and control their shareholders, employee share ownership is organized under French law. The Board of Directors comprises 15 that of its Committees. Generally speaking, the Board’s operational Air France-KLM implements a procedure for their Air France-KLM has one of the highest proportions members, 4 of whom are Dutch. On March 31, 2013 there were four functioning had improved since the last evaluation carried out by an identiﬁcation. On December 31, 2012, Air Franceof employee share ownership of the companies in female members, 26.7% of total Board members. independent ﬁrm in 2010 and the self-evaluations carried out in 2011 KLM was 61.1% owned by French interests (comthe SBF 120 stock index, with almost 10% of Group The Board of Directors determines the orientation of the company’s and 2012 thanks, notably, to the quality of the information and discuspared with 69.8% on December 31, 2011) and more equity owned by over half of current or former emactivities and ensures implementation.The Board relies upon the sions, the transparency of the General Management, the level of the than 75% by European institutions. ployees, collectively representing the Group’s secrecommendations of its specialized committees: the Audit CommitBoard’s involvement in deﬁning the strategy, and the particular attenond largest shareholder. tee, the Remuneration Committee and the Appointments Committee. tion paid to the customer, the product and the Group’s organization Involving our investors Two employee shareholder representatives sit on The Board operates according to accepted French corporate governwith the gradual integration of a number of functions at the holding Air France-KLM has regular dialogue with ﬁnancial the Board of Directors. These are appointed by the ance principles, as set out in the AFEPMEDEF Corporate Governance company level. analysts, institutional investors and SRIs. Beyond employee shareholders themselves and contribute Code updated in 2010. In application of these principles, the Board meetings organized to communicate ﬁnancial results, to the work of the Audit Committee. of Directors regularly discusses and updates its mode of governance. senior executives regularly take part in conferences on air transport in Europe and the US. Investor Day provides an opportunity to discuss the strategic deciBOARD OF DIRECTORS AND SPECIALIZED COMMITTEES : STATUS 2012 sions made by the Group. The Transform 2015 plan and its ﬁrst outcomes were examined at Investor 15 directors of which: Day 2012. More focus on non-ﬁnancial results and 12 directors appointed by the General Shareholders’ Meeting balance between short and long term proﬁt have BREAKDOWN OF SHARE CAPITAL 18 Composition (of which 2 representatives of the employee shareholders) become more signiﬁcant. (December 31, 2012) 19 3 representatives of the French State appointed by ministerial decree Merger of the posts of Chairman and Chief Executive Ofﬁcer since October 17, 2011 Listening to individual shareholders Directors’ term of ofﬁce 4 years (exceptionally 2 or 3 years to ensure the smooth renewal of the Board of Directors). The Group also continued active dialogue among its individual shareholders. Each quarter, the Group 15.9% French state 6 Directors independent, in view of the Group’s ownership structure (notably the French Independence of the Directors State and employees) and the speciﬁc rules governing the appointment of a number publishes its results and sends its ACTION’air letter of its Board directors. to the 7,000 members of the Shareholders’ Club. The Group takes part in brieﬁngs for individual share1.4% Treasury shares 73.1% Others Newly appointed directors may carry out site visits, meet with key managers from within the holders, which provide an opportunity to present strategy, results and challenges facing the sector Training of Board of Directors members company and undertake training organized by the company. They receive a complete dossier 9.6% CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 containing all the information required to fulﬁll their mandate. and to address shareholder concerns. In 2012 the Employees* Group met with shareholders in Bordeaux, Nantes, (*) FCPE: 7.6%; direct thresholds: 2% Number of meetings and average attendance rate 9 meetings; Attendance rate: 94.07 % Nice and Toulouse. Visits to Air France sites, including hub facilities and crew facilities at Paris-CDG are Specialized committees Audit Committee Remuneration Committee Appointments Committee organized for Club members. The Consultative Committee for Individual ShareCHANGES IN EMPLOYEE SHARE OWNERSHIP Number and independence of members 6 (of whom 3 independent) 3 (all independent) 4 (all independent) holders has provided a forum to consider the way in which the Group communicates with individual March 2009 March 2010 December 2011 December 2012 shareholders since 2000. The Committee is com12% 11.8% 9.7% 9.6% Number of meetings and average attendance rate 6 meetings; 83.33% 1 meeting; 100% 1 meeting; 100% prised of twelve members and meets four times per year. In 2012, one of the Committee’s meetings was Annual evaluation of the functioning During the 2012 ﬁnancial year, the Board of Directors commissioned an independent ﬁrm of the Board of Directors and Committees to conduct an evaluation of its functioning and that of its Committees. dedicated to the Group’s CSR policy. SHAREHOLDERS’ GENERAL MEETING, MAY 31, 2012 The Board adopted its internal regulations, a Code of stock market compliance and a Code Internal regulations, compliance and ethics of ﬁnancial ethics. Board’s internal regulations are regularly updated and are available online: One share equals one vote Yes www.airfranceklm-ﬁnance.com 14,371 shareholders Number of shareholders present, represented, granting Publication of compensation modalities and amounts paid to executive directors in the representing power of attorney to the chairman or voting by mail Registration Document, the Management Report and on the Group website. 111,468,698 shares Compensation of the company ofﬁcers Executive directors receive neither stock options nor bonus shares. Should they leave the company they do not receive any special indemnities. Attendance rate 37.65% For further information, see the Registration Document 2012 at www.airfranceklm-ﬁnance.com Governance Safety Managing risk Safety is the absolute priority for Air France-KLM. It is To ensure employee skills are maintained at the highdepartment to Group Executive Committee and the Auessential for both customers and staff and imperative est level, the Group constantly improves its training Safety dit Committee of the Board of Directors. FOCUS for the sustainability of air transport. programs. Crisis prevention and management plans management in our The Group Strategic Framework determines once a E-CARE: For an airline, safety covers all measures put in place are in place at all destinations and exercise drills are year the strategic risks (competition, economic growth, complex world, is a single to reduce the risks associated with aviation. It should carried out on an annual basis. etc.) as well as the related action plans within the conmanaging the risks application not be confused with aviation security, the role of text of its work to establish the Group’s strategy. These Ongoing vigilance platform for which is to combat criminal and terrorist acts against associated with our risks and action plans are the subject of a presentation managing aircraft and passengers. Airport and airline security have become extremely enterprise by looking and discussion during the meeting of the Board of operational risks important in recent years. The Group’s security proDirectors devoted to the Group’s strategy. Meeting international standards cedures aim to ensure the protection of its customfor the unknown; In 2012, Air France put in All of the Group’s businesses are subject to exteners, employees and assets (aircraft, facilities and IT seeing what is hidden; Complying with rules place a new system for sive controls and certiﬁcation, and meet extremely systems). This operation includes various measures and controlling the and regulations managing operational strict standards and the highest level of regulations such as risk analysis of Air France and KLM’s busiThe Group meets regulatory requirements governing air incidents, as well as in the industry, at a European level with the European ness and operations, and the systematic inspecoutcome of that transport, covering ﬂights, ground operations, aircraft compliance audits. Aviation Safety Agency (EASA), and globally with the tion of aircraft, passengers, baggage, cargo, and knowledge! maintenance and airport policing. e-CARE also enables International Air Transport Association (IATA), whose employees. These procedures, which are subject to Progress made in these areas has resulted in certiﬁcaall members of staff to PIETER KORVER, IOSA operational safety audit is a benchmark within strict regulation, are carried out with a constant contion from independent organizations, such as IOSA, report any situation they Director Flight safety, the industry. cern for the privacy of passengers and employees. ISO 9001, QualiAF for the effectiveness of management think may present a Quality & Compliance, KLM 20 Following the IOSA safety audit in 2012, both Air France and KLM were awarded renewed certiﬁcaIn this area, the Group is working directly with airports, government agencies, national civil aviation systems and ISO 14001 for the validation of environmental management systems. To guarantee the safety potential risk. Used by all operational businesses 21 tion, without qualiﬁcation for a further two years. authorities, the European Commission, the Associaof onboard catering, Air France is certiﬁed ISO 22000. and based upon a shared Almost a thousand points were checked. tion of European Airlines, IATA and the International risk management matrix, To achieve the highest attainable standard of ﬂight Civil Aviation Organization (ICAO). Ensuring independent monitoring the application platform's safety, the Safety Management System (SMS) has In order to ensure the highest level of protection for and auditing most important objective been implemented across the two airlines. The SMS their customers and employees in more than 100 In addition to this risk management system, Air Franceis to include all data deals speciﬁcally with the management of risks in countries and 200 cities, Air France and KLM’s seIdentifying and monitoring risk KLM has put in place internal monitoring and audit derelated to ﬂight safety. aviation, and is supported by a commitment at the curity departments constantly monitor international As an airline group, Air France-KLM is exposed to genpartments. The ﬁrst of these is based on the COSO Almost 2,000 monthly highest level of management within the Group and geopolitical developments. These dedicated teams eral risks related to its business. To guarantee that these framework (Committee of Sponsoring Organization of reports are analyzed and by training and awareness building initiatives among are responsible for ensuring continuous ﬂight operarisks are taken into account as effectively as possible, the the Treadway Commission), whose purpose is to draw when necessary are used CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 all members of staff. tions and where necessary, for implementing adGroup has implemented a system to identify and monitor up framework guidelines to ensure the execution and to produce action plans. ditional security measures. risks. Strategic and operational risk map processes have efﬁciency of operations, the accuracy of accounting and e-CARE will gradually be Promoting a culture of safety been established by all the relevant entities, supervised ﬁnancial data and compliance with laws and regulations. extended to customer The safety of operations rests upon a shared comby Internal Audit & Internal Control. Examples are risks Internal audits aim to improve the Group’s processes service, environmental mitment to rigor, vigilance, individual responsibility speciﬁcally linked to air transport, such as the cyclical and to help achieve ﬁxed objectives at Group level or issues, workplace health and mutual trust. and seasonal nature of the business, operational risks, objectives set for particular purposes in each business. and safety, security, food Air France launched the “Safety Culture” project the risks of terrorist attacks, geopolitical instability or ( For further information, see Air France-KLM Registrahygiene, etc. By the end in 2011 to develop the way operational staff take sanitary events, regulatory risks as rules related to the tion Document 2012). of the roll out phase, responsibility for and put in place ﬂight safety obtreatment of passengers, environmental and social risks e-CARE will have over jectives. The “Trajectoire” initiative was launched in or risks to IT systems. Additionally, other non-ﬁnancial 45,000 users. 2009 to generate proposals for improvements to risks more directly linked to the Group’s activity, such as ﬂight safety, since then, several hundred pilots have FOCUS the impact of competition, negotiating collective agreebeen involved in its work. ments and industrial disputes are also mapped. Market KLM launched its SafetyF@cts online safety awareIT passes the test risks (fuel, currencies and interest rates) are managed ness initiative in 2012. Managers receive information by the Risk Management Committee. The Air France site at Valbonne manages almost 300 IT applications, a on various topics related to safety every two months Every three months the entities of both airlines update third of which are considered critical and sensitive. In November 2012, in an interactive format. the content of their major operational and ﬁnancial risks, a crisis simulation exercise tested how the company would cope if the including market risks, by indicating the risk itself, the entire data centre became unavailable. Thanks to the activation of a probability it will occur and its potential impact. Presenback up site, the airline operated as normal throughout the exercise, tations on the most signiﬁcant operational and ﬁnancial demonstrating the reliability and security of infrastructure. risks are made by the Internal Audit & Internal Control Governance Ethical principles Public Positions As a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact, the Air France-KLM procurement and Air France HR Inclusion of airlines in the EU emissions 2011-2015. This agreement commits each party to specific acAir France-KLM is committed to respecting fundadepartments each have a code of ethics in force, The Social trading scheme (EU ETS) tions to accelerate the realization of sustainable initiatives in the mental human rights principles and the ﬁght against which is signed by all members of staff. Rights and Ethics The EU Directive establishing the EU emissions trading scheme field of biofuels and waste treatment. corruption. The Board of Directors has adopted a Compliance Charter forms the (EU ETS) has applied to aviation since 1 January 2012. The system Charter and a Financial Code of Ethics. The Comapplies to all ﬂights to, from and within Europe. Supporting the competitiveness of European Respecting human rights pliance Charter imposes rules on trading shares on shared foundation Air France-KLM has always supported the implementation of a market aviation In its CSR Statement, Air France-KLM undertakes company ofﬁcers, senior executives and some emof the Group’s based measures mechanism that beneﬁts environment far more than On the 27th September 2012, the Commission adopted a Communito respect human rights and to oppose all forms of ployees of the company in sensitive posts, while the commitments a straightforward tax, provided the mechanism is non-discriminatory cation on the EU's external policy on aviation. Air France-KLM shares child and forced labor. The Group is also committed Financial Code of Ethics deﬁnes rules concerning and cost efﬁcient. EU ETS, limited to intra European ﬂights, is to be the Commission's observations and analysis and supports it in its to promoting these principles among its suppliers. ﬁnancial information, with which they must comply. by reafﬁrming considered as a ﬁrst step towards a worldwide system that should efforts to promote fair and equitable competition. Changes to the The Social rights and Ethics Charter affirms the KLM has a Code of Conduct in place that sets out the values and be deﬁned at ICAO level. European regulatory framework are necessary to preserve the sector's Group’s commitment to foster a climate of trust and the main principles concerning ﬁnancial and business fundamental rights Negotiations at ICAO have intensiﬁed with the aim of arriving at a procompetitiveness, especially in areas involving infrastructure costs such mutual respect in the workplace. The Charter applies integrity, conﬁdentiality, compliance and commitment posal for an international acceptable solution for a worldwide system. as en route charges and airport fees. that guide the to all Group employees, including European subsidiarto CSR. The Code serves as a framework for regulaThis proposal needs to be ready for the three-yearly Assembly in Fall Innovation and support for R&D projects are important tools in mainies. The Charter also states that the Group will ensure tions in these areas within KLM. Group’s social 2013. “Carbon leakage” needs to be avoided and there should be a taining the competitiveness of the aviation industry. In this context, that fundamental social rights are respected by all of Air France-KLM does not tolerate any form of briband ethical policy. fair share for the aviation industry. Revenues of new market measures the ACARE (Advisory Council for Aviation Research and Innovation its sub-contractors, throughout the world. ery, extortion or corruption. In line with the changing Every employee should be used for climate mitigation within the aviation sector, such in Europe) strategic roadmap, which promotes research, innovation The Group has identiﬁed strengths and improvements international legislative and regulatory context, an as sustainable biofuels. and proper policy instruments, is the appropriate framework to proof human rights risk factors within its businesses. Air France and KLM manual on corruption prevenis encouraged to vide support for European initiatives. CORAC Council (Conseil pour become acquainted Single European Sky 22 Measures to counter these risks cover various areas, tion has been drawn up in 2012. The manual will be la Recherche en Aéronautique Civile) is drawing up the roadmap for 23 e.g. the protection of customers’ personal data, to available in 2013 to all members of staff, and will be with this Charter To date, the Single European Sky is still not yet implemented. The French research between now and 2050. an agreement on psychosocial risks at Air France accompanied by a training module. Single European Sky regulation, passed in 2009 by the European and a CSR Charter for suppliers including social To enable members of staff to signal serious matters and proactively Parliament, was intended to overhaul air trafﬁc control in order to enConsumer rights and environmental criteria. The Group started to check which they may be aware of, such as accountancy endorse it. able a 3-fold increase in capacity, improve the safety performance by Customer relations are at the heart of Air France-KLM's business. the compliance to this CSR charter by carrying out and ﬁnancial fraud or corruption, both Air France and a factor 10, enable up to 12% less CO2 emissions and reduce ATM Safety, punctuality and reliability are key. In case of any unforeseen JEAN-CYRIL SPINETTA, pilot CSR audits in 2011 followed by a greater amount KLM have set up a whistle blowing procedure. This costs by 50%. events Air France and KLM take all measures necessary for minimum Chairman and CEO of audits in 2012 ( see page 48). For example when procedure is accessible to all, discretionary and with Through active cooperation in the ACARE, AIRE and SESAR prodelays. The Group contributes to the work undertaken by the Euroof Air France-KLM sustainable biofuel is obtained no human rights should no risk of sanction to the whistle blower. KLM intends grams, Air France-KLM already is actively involved in the developpean Commission on consumer rights and remains vigilant on the be violated and it should contribute to the social and to introduce a whistle blower policy with a general ment of measures that make implementation possible any moment. fair and equal application of rules to all airlines operating to and from economic development of local communities. scope under which all matters can be reported in Given the importance of a contribution of SES to worldwide CO2 the European Union, and the necessary reasonable application. The CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 2013, which will serve next to existing company reduction, Air France–KLM and the airline associations call upon Group will pay particular attention to these issues during the review of Applying business conduct rules (complaints) regulations. Member States to take their responsibility in ﬁnally reaching the regulations, which is on the Commission's agenda in 2013. Air France-KLM ensures that ethical principles are Single European Sky. met in the way it does business. As a framework for Complying with competition law Airport infrastructure its operations, Air France-KLM has several rules of Since 2007, Air France-KLM has established its own Alternative fuels The European Commission has proposed several laws aimed at solving conduct. Some of these rules apply to all members speciﬁc compliance policy related to competition law, Sustainable alternative fuels constitute one of the most promising the problems of congestion on the ground at airports, reducing delays of staff, while others are more speciﬁc. For example, with the publication of its “Competition Law Comways to reduce air transport's carbon footprint. Air France-KLM and improving service quality. These proposed regulations relate to the pliance Manual”. This manual is available to all emprovides financial support for research and is creating an interallocation of slots, ground handling and noise. ployees. In addition to this publication, several other national market for sustainable aviation biofuels that are enviRegarding the issue of slots, Air France-KLM like all airlines considmeans of prevention have been developed and made ronmentally friendly and are respectful of economic and social ers that any revision of the current system must preserve internationavailable to the Group’s employees, for example a development. The Group supports the European Commission's ally recognized principles. These principles enable the operation of a telephone hotline dedicated to competition law. Biofuel Flightpath initiative, which is being conducted in partnerconsistent slot allocation system, which preserves the competitiveness An e-learning module on competition regulations has ship with Airbus, Air France, KLM and other European airlines and of European operators. been made compulsory for all Air France and KLM European biofuel producers. All of those involved are committed executives holding posts that require such knowledge. to promoting the production of sustainable biofuels for aviation, At the end of the training and ﬁnal assessment, emto support the creation of a genuine European industry. Due to ployees sign a declaration in which they commit to the limited amount of biomass grown in a sustainable manner for comply with competition rules relevant to their work. the production of liquid fuels, the Group supports the principle In 2013, some of those members of staff concerned of comprehensive legislation that focuses the provision of these will undergo this training again. scarce resources to areas that have no alternative to liquid fuels such as aviation, shipping and long distance road transport. The Dutch government and KLM signed a “Green Deal” for the period Environment Objectives Main achievements 2012 CO2 AIR FRANCE 2012 3.7 liters/passenger/100km (93g CO2/passenger/km) 3.69 liters/passenger/100km: objective achieved AIR FRANCE 2015 ‘2008 Fuel Plan’: 300,000 tons of fuel saved between Objective achieved 2008 and 2012 ‘New fuel Plan’: 1% reduction of fuel by 2015 (compared 25 000 tons of fuel saved compared to 2011 thanks to the set to 2011) up of the New Fuel Plan in June 2012 AIR FRANCE 2020 1.5% improvement to energy efﬁciency per year 3% improvement in 2012 compared to 2011 KLM Set up of a long term biofuel supply chain strategy 2025 Scalable production of sustainable and affordable biofuel. Ca. 100 commercial biofuel flights Amsterdam-Paris, First Aim for 1% sustainable biofuel in 2015 in context transatlantic biofuel flight to Rio de Janeiro, Launch of KLM of WWF-NL partnership BioFuel program Minimizing KLM Advance purchase agreement with ITAKA ~3% reduction compared to 2009 (2012: 88.8g CO2/ton km) our environmental 2020 20% reduction of CO2 emissions per ton/kilometer 30,000 ton CO2 reduction by fuel saving of 12 million liters in 2020 (baseline 2009: 91.6g CO2/ton.km) NOISE footprint 2012 AIR FRANCE Expand activity while keeping noise emissions below 2005 levels (10 major French airports) 30% reduction in noise energy compared to 2005 26 KLM Continue testing the new regulatory and enforcement system 27 ∞ Reduce noise at Schiphol in partnership with the aviation sector which should sustainably balance movements and noise mitigation AMBITION COMMITMENTS LOCAL AIR QUALITY We aim for a sustainable balance Air France-KLM’s major Investing in sustainable aviation AIR FRANCE Rate of car use: 80% between aviation growth and environmental impact is caused fuel and contributing to aviation 2013 Contribute to the reduction of polluting emissions Inter-Business Travel Plan (PDIE) signed on September 20, caused by commuting in the Paris region with minimizing our environmental footprint by the emissions of its ﬂight and renewable energy research. a 5% shift in transport modes 2012 at Orly Airport by a group of companies representing almost 60% of the 27,000 employees based at the airport by mobilizing our industry, innovating operations. This is why Air our supply chain and reducing our own FranceKLM has adopted a Involving internal and external KLM impact. strategy to mitigate climate stakeholders in environmental CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY REPORT 2012 2012 Towing with external power, while not using the Auxilary Emission reduction due to 6600 hrs less APU use change, known as the “Climate action plans in line with ecoPower Unit (APU) Action Plan” and also minimizes design principles and supports its environmental impact in the environmental protection KLM ﬁeld of noise, waste, energy and programmes led by NGOs. ∞ Increase the roll-out of electrically powered, ground equipment 34 new electric conveyor belts, 6 new hybrid hydrant dispensers water. The Group goes beyond regulatory requirements by : Providing its passengers with WASTE transparent information on their 2013 AIR FRANCE 41% hazardous waste recycled in 2012. Improvement Mitigating noise and emissions related CO2 emissions and the Increase proportion of waste recycled to 50% of the non-hazardous waste traceability process from our operations by renewing possibility to offset travel related KLM ﬂeet and implementing the most efﬁcient procedures. CO2 emissions and corporate customers with the opportunity ∞ Reduce non-recyclable waste, investigate techniques for internal waste processing 600 tons reduction in the amount of catering waste incinerated to ﬂy part of their business travel ENERGY Continuing to modernize its on sustainable biofuel. ﬂeet, optimizing its performance AIR FRANCE 3% reduction in the energy consumption of buildings 2014 Improve the energy efﬁciency of buildings through thanks to inclusion of this objective in suppliers' contracts and collaborating with partners in Supporting efforts to reach an 8% reduction in their energy consumption and equipment improvement the entire supply chain. a new worldwide climate agreement and mobilises KLM the aviation sector for a fair 2016 2% annual improvement in the energy efﬁciency 2.4% energy saving (896m3 of natural gas and 2,146 MWh of buildings of electricity saved) contribution to collective targets. Minimizing our environmental footprint Our footprint Noise ( read about our actions on page 34 ) 31% in 2012 GLOBAL NOISE ENERGY Noise energy 125 % Movements 116 % noise reduction 100 % Compared with 2000 despite a 16% increase 69 % in movements 75 % AIR FRANCE-KLM FIGURES 50 % Carbon footprint 2000 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ( read about our actions on page 31 ) CO2 EMISSIONS AND TRAFFIC TKT CO2 Air Quality ( read about our actions on page 35 ) 150 % 125 % 28. 3 773 tons 16.1 tons 140 % 28 130 % 29 120 % million 110 % of NOx Emissions of SO2 Emissions tons of 100 % 109 % of ground operations of ground operations CO2 90 % Waste, water, energy Emissions of ground and 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 ( read about our actions on page 36 and 37 ) ﬂight operations (of which CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILTY REPORT 2012 ﬂight operations: 99.7%) GROUP SPECIFIC FUEL CONSUMPTION The Group has achieved a reduction of its relative CO2 emissions of 15% in 2012, since 2000. In 2012, it achieved 3.6 liters/ 57,060 tons 812 , 000 m 3 9 million tons passenger/100km – 91g CO2/passenger/km L / PAX / 100 KM 4.3 G CO2 / PAX /KM 107 Non-Hazardous waste Water used of fuel 4.1 3,6 L 102 Consumed 3.9 91 G 97 58% 3.7 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 92 recycling Hazardous industrial waste 905,785 MWh Energy consumption (electicity, gas, other energy) Minimizing our environmental footprint Climate change Carbon footprint Implementing effective Meeting international Fuel consumption per passenger reduced by Air France-KLM has a longstanding commitment to aircraft, engine manufacturer and supplier recomregulations commitments almost 4% between 2008 and 2011 deal with climate change by reducing its own carbon mendations, etc. Instead of concrete or gravel to Optimum fuel Combatting climate change is a global challenge, Air France-KLM has pledged to respect the 27% reduction in CO2 emissions for ﬂights footprint. balance an aircraft, KLM Cargo introduced water management is a to which the aviation industry was the ﬁrst to commitments made by the aviation sector in between mainland France and overseas terThe Group realizes this reduction through improving containers which can be emptied at the destinastrategic challenge. organize a joint response. Regulations at a global 2009, namely: ritories in 2011, compared with 2005 its operational efﬁciency, active ﬂeet renewal, offsettion in order to save weight on the return ﬂight. sectoral level can effectively control the industry’s to improve energy efﬁciency by 1.5% annually 30% reduction in noise emissions compared ting and using sustainable alternative fuels ( see The new “Air France CO2 emissions. until 2020 (excluding economic measures) with 2005 pages 32-33), in accordance with its Climate Action Plan In 2012, at KLM, almost 10,000 tons of carbon emisFuel Plan” allowed The EU’s Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) has stabilization and carbon neutral growth from ( see focus page 30). It also contributes to our proﬁtsions were avoided thanks to the numerous measures 25 000 tons of fuel applied to all European and non-European air2020 onwards In the context of the Green Deal on biofuel with ability due to fuel cost savings. in place, such as the rollout of 5,500 new, lightweight Air France-KLM improved its fuel efﬁciency by 1.5% in trolleys. savings in 2012 by lines landing in the European Economic Area 50% reduction in CO2 emissions by 2050, the Dutch government, KLM has executed since 1 January 2012. However, in November compared with 2005 levels another series of ﬂights on sustainable biofuel 2012 compared to 2011. At Air France, the implementation of the renewed amcombining the various 2012, the European Commission suspended to Paris, the ﬁrst transatlantic ﬂight on susKLM aims to reduce its CO 2 emissions (per bitious Fuel Plan resulted in savings of 25,000 tons divisions' fuel savings. the application of this measure for intercontiInvolving in national tainable biofuel to Rio de Janeiro and KLM ton*kilometer) by 20% by 2020, compared with 2009 of carbon emissions in 2012. As part of this plan, Air Saving ideas are nental ﬂights for the year 2012, ﬂights within the commitments launched the BioFuel program for corporate ﬁgures, including an expected reduction of 685,500 France has for example replaced its entire ﬂeet of long EU remain subject to the scheme ( see Public Four years after the Commitments Agreement customers. tons of fuel by 2020 thanks to its ambitious ﬂeet rehaul baggage containers with new containers which collected from Positions, page 23 ). for the French aviation industry, Air France has newal program (see hereafter). are 11 kg lighter, and thus more CO2 efﬁcient. The new employees and from In order to meet their obligations for 2012, achieved or exceeded its objectives in all of its Air France Fuel Plan will contribute to 1% reduction of industry best practice Air France and KLM have already bought emisareas of responsibility: Achieving operational efﬁciency Air France’s fuel consumption by 2015. sions permits corresponding to their ﬂights operFour key areas in fuel saving measures can be and are implemented distinguished: Renewing our ﬂeet while respecting our 30 ated within Europe, which are subject to ETS. The International Civil Aviation Authority (ICAO) is SHARE OF TRANSPORT IN GLOBAL Aircraft: reduce onboard weight, reduce engine and The main lever of CO2 emissions reduction is ﬂeet reabsolute priority: 31 committed to publishing proposals for regulating MAN-MADE CO2 EMISSIONS Auxiliary Power Units fuel consumption, reduce drag, newal as new aircraft are more fuel efﬁcient. The aversafety. global aviation emissions. A legal and technical framework for a market-based mechanism is in (source: GIEC1, Stern Review2) AIR TRANSPORT LAND ~2% etc. A 1kg reduction of onboard weight on all Air France aircraft results in an annual 76 ton reduction of CO2 emissions. age age of Air France-KLM aircraft is 9.9 years. Air France and KLM continued the modernization of their ﬂeet in 2012: development, which will enable carbon neutral TRANSPORT MATTHIEU LEFER, growth by 2020, as per the resolution adopted in MARINE OTHER 3-4% Airspace: ﬂight path optimization, reduce aircraft waitAir France: three 777-300ERs and two A380s added Air France Fuel Plan manager. 2010 by the organization’s 174 member states. TRANSPORT INDUSTRIES ing times, optimize altitude, etc. The impact of Euroto the long haul ﬂeet and two new A320-214s replaced The vote to adopt the measures will take place 15-17% pean ATC on Air France’s fuel consumption has ﬁve previous generation A320-211s. in October 2013 by the ICAO assembly. It is esbeen estimated at 6% per year, or around 70kt. KLM: replacement of MD11s with more energy efﬁcient sential that the speciﬁc details of a framework Fuel carried onboard: optimization of regulation fuel Airbus A330-300 aircraft. KLM CityHopper ﬁnished CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 towards a global market based mechanism are quantities, optimization of operational fuel. Route the replacement of the F100 ﬂeet with 22 Embraer agreed upon. optimization, accurate planning, weight savings 190 aircraft resulting in reduction of CO2 emission International Air Transport Association (IATA) and taxiing with one or two engines switched of 155,000 tons in 2012.Transavia.com replaced an 1. IPCC Fourth Assessment Report / Technical Summary (http://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/ off resulted in 2012 in a fuel saving for KLM of 737-800 equipped with a next generation 737-800, member airlines are mobilized to make a deciassessment-report/ar4/wg3/ar4-wg3-ts.pdf p.49), 2007 and GIeC-AIe 2005 sive contribution to this work and to facilitate the 2. Stern Review Chapitre 15 (http://www.hm-treasury.gov.uk/media/4/5/Chapter_15_ ca 9 million liters. equipped with lighter carbon brakes and lightweight adoption of the most effective solutions possible. Carbon_Pricing_and_emissions_Markets_in_Practice.pdf, box 15.6), 2006 Flight process: adapting procedures to minimize fuel construction materials for the galleys. consumption during the ﬂight by taking into account Offsetting emissions Air France and KLM provide their customers with CO2 FOCUS emissions calculators, available on both of their websites and the option to offset these emissions. The The “Climate Action Plan”, sets out the 6 ways in which Group offers certiﬁed sustainable carbon reduction the Group is mitigating impacts of climate change credits that guarantee high-level offsets. Support efforts towards achieving a global climate agreement, with a fair contribution for aviation Air France’s partnership with GoodPlanet uses this opPursue ﬂeet modernization and contribute to aeronautical research tion to ﬁnance the construction of biogas storage reserInvolve stakeholders within and outside the Group around ambitious environmental action plans voirs in China and the conversion of organic waste into which further integrate eco-design principles compost for agriculture in Madagascar. Gold Standard Actively stimulates the implementation of sustainable aviation biofuels and is involved in research for renewable energy offsetting through KLM’s CO2ZERO program and the Support environmental protection programs led by NGOs launch of its KLM BioFuel program for corporate cusProvide our customers with information on their travel-related CO2 emissions and provide opportunities to offset these. tomers enables KLM customers to take part in saving CO2 emissions on a voluntary basis. Minimizing our environmental footprint Stimulating the industry We are ﬂying on sustainable biofuel. Are you? Air France is participating in a project to produce biofuel from forestry waste, led by the CEA Innovating in the (Commissariat à l'Énergie atomique et aux énergies supply chain Involving customers alternatives). The ﬁrst deliveries are scheduled for 2018 and represent around 15,000 tons per Supporting regulatory In 2009 KLM created, in cooperation with North Sea Group and Spring and partners year. Air France and KLM support the European Commission’s ITAKA initiative (Initiative Towards incentives Associates, SkyNRG in order to develop a sustainable fuel supply from purchase To create a market for sustainable bio jet sustainable Kerosene for Aviation). This project, fuels Air France and KLM are collaborating Air France-KLM has been the world’s most sustainable airline group according to the Dow Jones Sustainability Index for 7 years running. KLM and SkyNRG are now which is funded under the 7th European Air France and KLM are involved in the Biofuel to delivery. SkyNRG is now supplying with partners and customers. In the Biofuel introducing a new initiative in sustainable aviation: the KLM BioFuel programme. We are proud to present Accenture, Schiphol Group, Heineken, Philips, Nike, DSM and Ahold as the ﬁrst, leading companies that have joined this programme. They will ﬂy part of their air travel on sustainable biofuel, helping to promote the further development of biofuel. By pioneering together we are making a major step towards more sustainable aviation. Want to join us? more than 15 airlines throughout the powered by Framework Program for Research and Flightpath 2020 European initiative, which Flightpath 2020, Air France and KLM explore Technological Development (FP7), will establish aims to produce 2 million tons of sustainable world, including Air France-KLM. the opportunity for a voluntary off-take links between farmers, biofuel producers, biofuels in Europe by 2020. In 2012, three In 2012, KLM established a speciﬁc long agreement with 2 others airlines, in order to distributers and users to break down the barriers working sessions bringing together key European term supply chain strategy with focus secure the market for newcomer producers. to commercial rollout. In the short term, KLM has players took place. on innovative partnerships. For the As part of its WWF-NL partnership and the signed an advance purchase agreement with ITAKA Air France participates in the French Ini-FCA middle long term KLM is now, together Green Deal commitment, KLM launched in to secure the use of large quantities of sustainable (Initiative Futurs Carburants Alternatifs) led by with Climate KIC partners, developing 2012 the KLM BioFuel program for biofuels. the DGAC (Direction générale de l’Aviation Civile). new biofuel supply chains and currently corporate customers. The ﬁrst of its kind This working group aims to reach the European investigating other partnerships. in aviation. The seven launching customers target at a national level, 200,000 tons per year. of this program are also frontrunner companies in their own sector. Sustainable alternative fuels are one of the most promising routes to achieving reduction in 32 Sustainable aviation’s CO2 emissions. They are essential in achieving Air France-KLM ambitions as well as for the aviation industry as a whole. The aviation industry, unlike other modes of transport has no alternative to liquid fuel, and moreover no alternative technology is likely to emerge before 33 alternative fuels 2050. Because of this, Air France-KLM considers the transition from fossil fuels to renewables a priority, to ensure the future of commercial aviation. The Group’s strategy is to explore the entire value chain from research to commercialization in order to achieve a breakthrough for scalable and affordable sustainable biofuel. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Air France-KLM Stringent sustainability criteria FOCUS demonstrates vision and Air France-KLM supports the use of different Bio to Rio leadership in the use of types of renewable feedstock, on condition that its production meets stringent sustainability On June 19, 2012, KLM carried sustainable biofuels. RSB criteria, including: substantial reduction in CO2 out the ﬁrst transatlantic biofuelhas set the world’s highest emissions, a minimal impact on biodiversity, powered ﬂight using a Boeing no competition with food production or the 777-200, transporting passengers standard for respecting people availability of food resources, and a positive from Amsterdam to Rio de Janeiro and the environment in biofuel impact on the social development of local for the Rio+20 conference. The production. Thanks to the communities. ﬂight was partly powered by biofuel Through the SAFUG Group (Sustainable from used cooking oil, supplied efforts of KLM and SkyNRG, Aviation Fuel User Group) that today counts by SkyNRG. Simultaneously KLM the world’s ﬁrst RSB certiﬁed 23 airlines as members, Air France-KLM is a launched its “BioFuel program” in supply chain for jet fuel is now member of the RSB (Roundtable of Sustainable the presence of the Dutch Secretary of Infrastructure and Environment fully operational. This is a great Biofuels) whose 12 sustainability criteria are recognized by the European Commission. with 7 leading companies. moment for sustainability. PETER RYUS, CEO Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (RSB) Services Foundation Minimizing our environmental footprint Noise Local air quality Dialogue with residents MAIN EMISSIONS OF tween the Schiphol warehouse and customers located at Air France and KLM strengthen ties with residents AN AIRCRAFT ENGINE Schiphol. FOCUS and other local stakeholders through dialogue. KLM has included a 4% CO2 emissions reduction target In France, this discussion is held in the context of H2O over ten years into its policy for cargo trucking suppliers. Sustainable CCEs (Environmental Consultative Commissions) PM In June 2012, Air France’s road freight operations saw transport CO2 SO2 and CCARs (Advisory Residents’ Assistance Comdelivery of its ﬁrst “eco truck”, which uses between 25% agreements NOx HC between missions). Air France is involved in these at all and 30% less diesel, thanks to its dual diesel-LPG fuel airports where it operates. In The Netherlands, KLM system. KLM E&M has tested a biogas-powered truck as companies Greenhouse gases (CO2, H2O) participates at the Alders Table for discussion on Sulphurated compounds (SO2) part of its “green lane” project, with the objective to make Air France is a noise. For a second year, the Alders Table has tested Nitrogen oxide (NOx) the daily transport between Amsterdam and Paris more partner in interSoots (PM) the new regulatory and enforcement system which Unburnt hydrocarbons (HC, VOC) sustainable in the near future. company transport should sustainably balance movements and noise In 2012, KLM expanded the use of fully electrical cars in plans at Paris-CDG mitigation. operations of catering, maintenance and staff transportaand Paris-Orly. These In the Schiphol Regional Consultative Committee Aviation does not only have an impact on the climate tion. Four electric vehicles are tested by Air France at CDG plans aim to pool (CROS), KLM works with the representatives of lo( see pages 30-31), but has also an impact on the air airport to ensure their autonomy and reliability prior to wider resources between cal residents, Schiphol and Air Trafﬁc Control The quality as well in areas close to airports due to emissions implementation. companies to Netherlands to establish measures and solutions from aircraft engines, ground operations on the airport KLM strives to make the remainder of its vehicle ﬂeet more promote responsible designed to reduce the disturbance that local resipremises and maintenance activities. Also engine tires sustainable. A successful pilot project involving 40 vehicles mobility, to engage dents of the airport might experience from ﬂights. and brakes are a source of gases and particles emitted. powered by 100% 2nd Generation biodiesel showed that in dialogue and to 34 Reducing impact Local air quality and its implications in terms of human health are a growing concern. Air France and KLM closethe CO2 emissions during production process can be reduced up to 80%. The feasibility of implementation of 2G develop innovative 35 solutions to expand The French and Dutch governments have shown an ly monitor air quality indicators ( see environmental biodiesel on the long term is currently under consideration. responsible car use While accommodating the increasing demand for ongoing commitment to reduce the impact of noise footprint, pages 28-29), support research to improve air 31% by employees. In mobility, a challenge for the aviation industry is to hindrance for local residents. They have implementquality and take measures in the area of ground handling Control indirect and 2012, the Group maintain the noise hindrance at an acceptable level ed policies that aim to include exposure to aircraft equipment and vehicles. induced emissions published a guide The Group’s ongoing for those living near to airports. Air France-KLM made noise in urban planning considerations. These poliIn 2012, Air France and its subsidiary Servair carried designed to make investment in its ﬂeet has the reduction of noise a requirement in its Corporate cies seek to prevent new residents moving to areas More electric ground handling out a carbon audit, in line with ADEME (Agence de the current public meant a 31% reduction Social Responsibility Statement. exposed to noise, and also to reduce the impact of equipment l'environnement et de la maîtrise de l'Énergie) methtransport options in noise energy between noise by soundprooﬁng existing housing. In France To reduce emissions associated with the use of combusodology. Although direct emissions (Scope 1) from the easier to understand. 2000 and 2012. Reducing noise hindrance and in The Netherlands, airlines ﬁnance soundprooftion engine powered ground handling equipment, several combustion of kerosene represented 92% of its total, Air CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Operating a modern ﬂeet of aircraft reduces noise hining of homes located around the airport. In 2012 measures were taken in 2012: France carefully assessed its indirect emissions (Scope € 34 M drance. The Group’s ongoing investment in its ﬂeet has the Group paid €34 million towards soundprooﬁng Air France 2) and its induced emissions (Scope 3). meant a 31% reduction in noise energy between 2000 (€18 million by Air France, €16 million by KLM). Awareness campaign on reducing Ground Power Unit Cleaning of KLM’s uniforms, overalls, pillows and blankets and 2012. This reduction is an achievement not at least use, installation of several electric power converters, has been centralised at Schiphol, which by decreasing Paid in 2012 by because the number of movements has increased by Assessing nuisance 30 parking spaces no longer require a GPU, saving the number of transport kilometers with 40%, contributes Air France-KLM for 16% over the same period of time ( see diagram Noise is measured by sound level, however other 112,000 liters of fuel. to the reduction of local emissions. soundprooﬁng. page 29). factors can impact the hindrance created by noise: 20% of diesel powered self-propelled passenger stairs Improving departure and approach procedures can the frequency with which it occurs, sound dissowere decommissioned thanks to the opening of satelEMISSIONS OF POLLUTANTS PER SECTOR also help to reduce noise hindrance for local resinance, etc. The CORAC (French Council for Civil lite S4 at CDG, which provides direct access to the IN THE PARIS REGION dents. Air France and KLM actively contribute to the Aviation Research) has launched a psycho-acoustic terminal building. (source: AirParif, latest Inventory 2007) implementation of noise abatement procedures. The study on the perception of aircraft noise. The study KLM environmental beneﬁts of each new procedure are asaims to identify noise hindrance factors and to guide In order to minimize the use of Auxiliary Power Unit in 100% Nature sessed, approved and made public by the French and aircraft manufacturers in their research. 2012 at Schiphol, KLM increased the number of elecAgriculture Dutch civil aviation authorities. At the instigation of ACNUSA, public authorities have trically powered cooler/heater units by 55%, bringing 75% Waste treatment Night ﬂights regulations are very constraining. They deal launched the DEBATS study (Discussion on the Efthe total number of electrical cooler/heater units to 14. Energy production with the number of allocated slots and the respect of fects of Aircraft Noise Affecting Heath), whose purReplacement of 31 diesel powered conveyor belts by Manufacturing industry their scheduled times, and aircraft must comply with pose is to “Better understand the effects of aircraft electric ones and introduction of 6 hybrid dispensers. 50% Residential and tertiary noise criteria. Air France and KLM are very committed noise on health”. services to comply with these rules. Air France sits on the steering committees of both Favor fuel-efﬁcient vehicles Railway and waterway 25% trafﬁc For night ﬂights, Air France and KLM apply the so-called CORAC and DEBATS. Air France-KLM Cargo and Martinair Cargo introduced 7% Road transport Continuous Descent Approach. the very ﬁrst “green dual-fuel truck” in its trucking network. 2% 2% 2% 1% Aviation activity This eco-friendly truck carries door-to-door shipments beNOx COVNM PM10 PM2,5 SO2 Minimizing our environmental footprint Waste, water and energy Throughout the supply chain Air France-KLM strives in the Netherlands. Similarly, KLM’s IT department to minimize the generation of waste and maximize the has moved into a new building, including “Cradle 2 FOCUS use of the waste that is left. Waste is also identiﬁed by Cradle” principles. KLM has also aligned the operatEnergy saving our customers as one of the main environmental issues ing time of ofﬁce ventilation with occupation time, measures we should take care of. The Group takes waste into resulting in 10% reduction in power consumption in account from product speciﬁcations to waste treatment several buildings. 83% of the electricity used in KLM Through energy saving such as recycling, upcycling or energy production. buildings is green energy from hydro-electric power. At measures in the context the beginning of 2013, Air France’s Equinoxe building of KLM’s energy Avoiding and recycling waste obtained HQE certiﬁcation. The building is also a pilot efﬁciency plan in 2012 Air France aims to increase the share of recycled waste for R&D for best environmental practice that could be a saving of 2.4% of by 50% by the end of 2013. Among the initiatives put extended to other Air France buildings. the building related in place in 2012, new reusable headphones will save Air France has committed to improving the energy energy consumption around 400 tons of waste per year. As part of its Opperformance of its buildings, by reducing their energy was achieved. In tiprint project, Air France reduced its printing by 40% consumption by 8%. This concerns industrial buildparticular, thanks to the between 2008 and 2012, saving paper the equivalent ings, such as the Cargo warehouses at Paris-Orly as installation of separate of 70 tons of CO2. well as ofﬁce buildings, such as the Altaï building at heating and hot water KLM also avoided paper waste by reducing the quanParis-CDG. boilers KLM was able to tity of newspapers carried onboard and has reduced switch off several large the number of languages the business class menu is Improving our activities central boiler houses during the summer of 36 available in, from 3 to 2. More than 70% of KLM’s non-hazardous waste at Air France and KLM operate an ISO 14001 Environmental Management System (EMS). This standard is 2012. This, along with 37 Schiphol is due to catering and onboard waste. This based on optimal control of all relevant environmental the installation of a represents around 15,000 tons annually, the equivalent aspects, proactive monitoring of regulatory requireheating control system, of 14,000 Dutch households’ annual waste production. ments, continuous mitigation of environmental impacts. resulted in an overall 5% In order to reduce the volume of transport and processIt provides a structured way to achieve the environreduction in the amount ing of cabin waste, KLM Catering Services introduced mental targets set. It acknowledges the Group’s comof gas used. a juice press to separate the fruit juices (600,000 kg) mitment to proactive environmental protection and the from cartons and plastic bottles. Juices and liquids are way it manages industry-related environmental risks. now being digested instead of incinerated. Air France is working with an “upcycler” to transform Air France achieved certiﬁcation in July 2008 and conAir France As part of its SCRAP program, Air France recycled 18 out-of-date jackets into travel bags. tinues its efforts through a coherent Corporate AcCORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Industries recycled tons of aviation scrap metal, avoiding the production of 162 tons of CO2. KLM has expanded its scrap metal program (ca. 50 tons) covering 4 other types of waste: furniture, equipment, pallets and blankets. A hand bag and luggage tags fashioned by top designer Omar Muni were made from upcycled KLM uniforms and were included in onboard sales offer (see opposite pictures). 3,000 tons of industrial waste, tion Plan. KLM's Environmental Management System (EMS) has been ISO 14001 certiﬁed for all its operations in The Netherlands since 1999. The certiﬁcate was renewed in 2011 for Air France and in 2012 for KLM 10% KLM aligned the operating In 2012, Servair reduced the amount of its waste that is representing for another three years. time of ofﬁce ventilation incinerated by 3.2%, compared with 2011. It achieved Saving water 60% of all waste Besides ensuring compliance with regulations, the EMS with occupation time, resulting in a 10% this by increasing the quantity of boxes it recycles by Air France saves 8 million liters of water annually, thanks produced. 900 tons is used as a tool to stimulate improving environmental reduction in power 150 tons and newspapers and magazines by 500 tons. to the “ECOSHINE” procedure, which uses pads to performance and innovation and to pay structural atclean the exterior of aircraft. Since January 2012, this found a new use, tention to the supply chain. consumption in several Giving waste a new life such as lifejackets buildings. procedure has been extended to the cleaning of aircraft In 2012, Martinair continued to implement the Air In November 2012, Air France organized the colleclanding gear. The product is biodegradable (96%), nontransformed into France KLM’s CSR policy. In order to obtain the ISO tion of 800 used mobile phones. Where possible, phones were reconditioned and sold on the second hand market. Air France also collects used uniforms, which are toxic, non-ﬂammable, and signiﬁcantly reduces the need to treat wastewater. Reducing energy in buildings travel bags. CLAUDE SANTIN, Quality Safety Environment 14001 certiﬁcate in 2013, several actions were initiated and new procedures were implemented. Maintaining ISO 14001 certification is part of Air France’s 2012 contract of objectives. The direction 83% Of the electricity used by KLM buildings is generated and Sustainable Development, turned into insulation ﬁber for vehicles. This initiative New buildings used by Air France and KLM are deof environmental policy in 2013 is both in line with the Air France Industries Manager by hydro-electric power. involved 35,000 employee uniforms. signed to take into account environmental criteria, company's new context, as well as the “Transform along with ergonomics and the well-being of those 2015” project. As such, initiatives to save resources who use them. (energy, fuel, etc.) and waste management will be Air France-KLM Cargo personnel have moved into continued. the new “TransPort” building at Schiphol, which was designed as one of the most energy efﬁcient buildings Minimizing our environmental footprint Research and innovation Biodiversity Air France-KLM supports research and innovation in Preservation of biodiversity is a major challenge, al35 million tons of CO2 over 20 years: the estimated order to better understand the environmental impact of though the impact of airline industry on it is indirect. potential for CO2 emissions reduction, according to FOCUS its businesses and to act on this effectively. It mainly occurs through the emission of CO2, which scientiﬁc studies contributes to climate change. Air France-KLM are Air France, GoodPlanet and WWF are working together, Future travellers Progressing on climate, noise involved with several initiatives that protect biodiversity. along with a number of experts and under the patronThe “Missing Chapter” and air quality age of the Ministry of Environment and Forests and foundation, brought Air France is a member of the Council for Research in Madagascar forest conservation the Ministry of Agriculture. The project partners are the KLM Board of Civil Aviation (Conseil pour la Recherche Aéronautique program working with authorities in Madagascar to ensure that Directors and children Civile CORAC). Based on the ACARE model, and led The Holistic Forest Conservation Program (PHCF) was achievements to date are sustained and to develop together for dialogue by the DGAC and GIFAS, the French aviation induslaunched in 2008 by Air France, the GoodPlanet founfuture ambitions. on sustainability issues. try, airlines, airports, ONERA, institutions and relevant dation and the WWF and covers an area of 500,000 As travellers of the government departments have come together with hectares. Four years in, the project’s results are very Supporting biodiversity future, the children the aim of ensuring the consistency of research and positive (see picture below). protection programs gave new perspectives innovation. A roadmap setting out a shared path until The Program’s ambition is to reduce deforestation and Air France-KLM supports the development of the REDD on sustainable aviation. 2050 has been drawn up and three groups of scientiﬁc degradation of forests, to participate in the developsystem (Reducing emissions from deforestation and forNew ideas about experts have been formed. These groups are focused ment of local communities whilst at the same time est degradation) which aims to reduce carbon emissions onboard weight on Climate Change, Noise and Air Quality. In 2012, the protecting Madagascar’s unique biodiversity. and protect forest species, whilst at the same time imreduction and new Air Quality network produced a report on current knowThe Program also aims to advance scientiﬁc underproving the living conditions of local people. technologies were ledge concerning air quality in French airports and their standing of forest carbon. KLM continued its involvement in IUCN Leaders for generated. The Pays All of the objectives set in 2008 have either been Nature Inspirational Programme for Ecosystems. Sig38 surrounding areas. The network went on to propose three topics for more extensive research, which aims reached or exceeded: natories to this program met throughout the year to de Roissy-CDG association, of which 39 to reduce aviation’s impact on local air quality. 34,000 households informed about alternatives discuss their experiences of various projects and also Air France was a to slash and burn agriculture, 5,000 of these have took part in “biobased ecoservices” workshops and founder member, Investing in biofuels already adopted at least one of the techniques sugcontributed to the work of the REDD. has also organized a More than 20 French partners, including Air France gested As part of its partnership with WWF-NL, KLM supports competition for schools have come together under the leadership of the DGAC 23,000 hectares of forests have been restored three nature conservation programs: The Coral Triangle close to Paris-CDG. 2,200 hectares reforested in Indonesia, green island economy on Bonaire and a 35% in a Group called Ini-FCA (Initiative Futurs Carburants), trophy was awarded to an innovation that reduces exThe theme “what will which inventories national projects and supports the cess kerosene purged on A330/340s. One of the yearly 470,000 hectares of new protected areas created large forest project in Brazil. planes look like in the most innovative among these, such as Probio3, which KLM innovation awards was given the Embraer turnato conserve forests and biodiversity KLM takes a proactive approach to protecting biodiverfuture” allowed children is studying lipids from microbial production. round project where reduction of 15 min turnaround 110 transfers of natural resource management sity within its business,through its sustainable catering to think about the future As part of a joint CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Together with Schiphol Airport, the University of Utretime created considerable cost savings. innovation project (TGRN) to populations covering 332,900 hectares, offer onboard (using sustainable ﬁsh, soya and palm oil of aviation, which they cht, DSM, SkyNRG, Imperial College London, KLM is with pallet supplier, of which 32 have already been formalized See pages 50-51). did by drawing and involved in the “Climate KIC” project, which aims to Evaluating electric taxiing Air France-KLM has making models. The identify and remove barriers to the structural use of Air France and KLM have begun work on evaluating developed the new 35% ﬁrst prize, a “ﬁrst ﬂight sustainable alternative fuel. This initiative is seeking to various electric taxiing systems for their medium-haul lighter “Herculight” cargo experience” was won implement an independent supply network for these aircraft. KLM has signed a letter of intent with a supplier pallet, which is made by two classes from fuels, which are sourced from sustainable European which is able to equip the front landing gear of its 737s of composite materials Goussainville, a city resources and could represent 20% of the demand with an electric motor, while Air France is working with instead of the traditional adjacent to Paris-CDG aluminum. for jet fuel in Europe in 2025 ( see pages 32-33). its suppliers on equipping A320s. Solutions currently airport. under consideration would enable 200,000 liters of fuel Researching airborn wind energy Together with Rabobank, Schiphol and TU Delft, KLM to be saved per year, per aircraft. 200,000 invests in the development of “Airborne Wind Energy”, through the Mainport Innovation Fund. The Airborne Co-development of solutions As part of a joint innovation project Air France-KLM liters 35 million Wind Energy system consists of a sailplane ﬂying patterns in the sky connected through a tether to a has developed the new 35% lighter “Herculight” cargo pallet, which is made of composite materials instead of Electric taxiing currently under consideration tons of generator on the ground (see picture above). the traditional aluminum. The replacement of existing pallets could lead to signiﬁcant fuel savings, which the would enable 200,000 liters of fuel to be saved CO2 Supporting internal innovation IATA estimates at around $3,000 per year, per pallet. per year, per aircraft. It is the potential for CO2 Through the Innovation Quality Program ( see page The durability and airworthiness of these pallets was reduction of Madagascar 59 ), Air France is involving its staff in its approach to assessed by KLM in 2012 and operational roll out is Air France's project over 20 years. progress and innovation. In 2012, the “quality process” due to begin in 2013. Society Objectives Main achievements 2012 Increasing customer satisfaction Increase of global customer satisfaction by 0.7 pt to 7.09 for Air France and 0.6 pt to 7.25 for KLM (10 pts scale) “Services signatures” training for 11,000 cabin crew and 1,300 ground staff in Air France's unique approach to provide customer service 24/7 with the best possible assistance in case of unforeseen events, Air France and KLM set up a dedicated multi-disciplinary team working within the Operations Control Centers of each airline To provide customers 24/7 with the best possible assistance in case of unforeseen events, Air France and KLM set up a dedicated multidisciplinary team working within the Operations Control Centers of each airline Real-time shipment tracking for Air France, KLM and Martinair Cargo customers The NF service certiﬁcation (European norm NF EN 15838) of Air France's subsidiary BlueLink has been extended in 2012 to all Customer Relationship Centres throughout the world. The audit certiﬁed BlueLink’s expertise in customer knowledge exceed the levels required by the audit Improving service quality for customers in our three Air France's new service and catering for “Business” and “Premium businesses Economy” class on medium-haul ﬂights Introduction of KLM “Economy Comfort” in Europe Opening of Air France's largest passenger lounge (3,150 m2), the Paris-CDG S4 Satellite Tablets for ground staff to improve service quality Opening of Self Service Baggage drop off points at Paris-CDG and extension of 6 new drop off points at Amsterdam Schiphol Deployment of “Heart for the customer & quality” project to increase 42 satisfaction levels of all partners in the Cargo service chain 43 €43 million investment by Air France Industries and KLM Engineering & Maintenance in the Zephyr engine test bench at Paris-CDG Social Media support 24/7 available in 7 languages, Flying Blue support Integrating integrated End 2012: 7 million fans on Facebook and 655,000 Twitter followers for Air France and KLM sustainability into Continue integrating CSR in products and services Eco-design criteria integrated in speciﬁcations for new Air France CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Long Haul Economy class crockery the customer 18 new products that meet KLM's sustainable catering commitments added to the menus served onboard Launch of KLM BioFuel Program for Corporate customers experience Strengthen its responsible purchasing policy: • Achieve a 70% sign up rate for CSR Supplier Charters in 2012 • 72% of charters were signed at the end of December 2012 AMBITION COMMITMENTS • Increase the number of CSR audits • 13 audits were carried out in 2012, an increase of 40% We integrate our CSR commitments To enhance customer preference Pursuing its CSR engagement in the customer experience by and build a sustainable by innovating and investing in its aiming for excellent service and relationship with partners and products and service; the development of high quality suppliers Air France-KLM is EXTERNAL RECOGNITION products. In cooperation with our committed to: Further integrating For the second year running, TTG China Travel KLM was awarded by SkyTrax World Airline 2012 the “Best Airline Staff Service in Europeà”, suppliers and partners we take sustainability in purchasing Awards has presented Air France the title of “Best European Airline in China”. among 18 million passengers of 200 airlines in sustainability effectively into account Listening to and co-creating policy; At the 9th National Marketing Prize at Anàhuac-Al 160 countries. throughout the entire value chain. with customers, making them feel welcome, and being Involving customers Ries in Mexico, Air France was named “Brand of the Year” in the Air Transport category. attentive to their needs; in its CSR initiatives. Integrating sustainability into the customer experience STRATEGY Alignment with the Air France and KLM brand values Product CUSTOMER RESEARCH AND ANALYSIS development Knowing our customers Customer behavior analysis Identiﬁcation of requirements SUSTAINABILITY IN PRODUCT Monitoring the competition AND SERVICE DEVELOPMENT Customer Tests Integrating eco-design in the product Quality follow-up Customer speciﬁcation process Customer satisfaction monitoring Embedding sustainability throughout the entire product development process involving: For further information, see pages 46 47. brand, marketing, technical input, procurement, etc. Call for tender: Integration of environmental and social criteria, signing of Sustainable Development Charter Application of CSR criteria in the selection of suppliers Inclusion of an ethical and environmental clause in the supplier contract EXAMPLES OF BEST PRACTICES Procurement Supplier follow-up: performance and quality 44 Digital innovation aimed at reducing paper consumption while checks, CSR audits, etc. 45 meeting customers’ needs For further information, see pages 48 49. Lighter cabin equipment, such as seats and trolleys to reduce its environmental impact Sustainable catering offer, notably by offering local food and organic or certiﬁed products Involve customers in the Group’s CSR initiatives, for instance Services by calculating and compensating their CO2 emissions and ﬂying on sustainable biofuel & Products For further information, see pages 50 51. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Suppliers t Red en u Rein ce v Our approach Eco-design cle PRODUCT END OF LIFE CYCLE items on a request basis rather than distributing them Service to our customers is key and we constantly want to improve. Customers R eu cy Reuse: Air France and KLM are giving a new automatically, such as ear plugs. expect Air France-KLM to live up to its responsibilities regarding the environment se e life to products that have reached the end of their R lifecycle: Air France life jackets and advertising Recycle: 80% of used onboard equipment is recycled, e.g. meal trays that are reused to produce and society. Therefore the Group is integrating sustainability step by step posters have been turned into travel cases or bags; new tableware equipment in Economy class; onboard throughout the supply chain, working together with a large number of partners. KLM has upcycled its uniforms into designer bags, catering waste is burnt in France and the Netherlands, Cooperation and innovation are essential to make it happen. among other things. in accordance with European regulations, and Reduce: reduce waste by providing infrequently used subsequently converted into energy. Integrating sustainability into the customer experience Customer dialogue Customer dialogue and taking into account feedback are key to At the “CSR meeting SkyTeam” event, Air France-KLM Cargo improve our services and products and at the same time making shared their CSR commitments with 250 customers. them more sustainable. KLM organized several product tests for customers to assess Some dialogue and research actions carried out in 2012: the new KLM World Business Class seat. In 2012, Air France-KLM centralised activities like customer Air France welcomed forty members of FlyerTalk, the largest satisfaction surveys, quality measurements and benchmaronline community of airline passengers, to spend 2 days at king in one department, Customer Insight, in order to put the Paris-CDG to express their opinions on Air France and its customer at the heart of product and service development. competitors. The event included meetings with product managers and the CEO, workshops and visits (Servair, Satellite 4). CUSTOMER INSIGHT SERVICE QUALITY AND BEFORE GROUND 46 CUSTOMER SATISFACTION FLIGHT SERVICES 47 STUDIES Several monitors are measuring the quality of Air France’s and KLM’s SCORE SURVEY sales and customer service centres. 500.000 Passengers evaluated For example by : the service by answering the score S@w study on the quality of websites inﬂight questionnaire in 2012. C3M study on the quality of afterResults: sales service. + 0.7 points of increase in overall CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 Results: satisfaction for Air France-KLM: 90% of customers who experienced the 7,15 of a 10 points scale. Making the difference Aside from having the appropriate knowledge, Group assistance for a problem during +0.11 points for KLM's European in customer relationship providing service requires, ﬁrst and foremost, an their journey stated that they would business class KLM World Master Class for cabin crew in choose Air France-KLM again. (C3M order to improve customer service for busiattitude which must be consistent with the brand +0.12 points for Air France's study result 2012). AFTER INFLIGHT medium-haul offer ness class passengers. In 2012, more than image and values. Regain the pleasure of pleasing FLIGHT SERVICES 2,400 cabin attendants followed the World and the pleasure of sharing. Business Master Class in which special attention was paid to the personal treatment NATHALIE SIMMENAUER, Customer Culture Project VP, Air France of the World Business Class passenger. The central theme was hospitality and how to achieve this in the best and safest way. FOCUS CUSTOMER ANALYSIS COMPETITOR BENCHMARKING Brand Image Monitor measures Customer feedback is systematically Market research and industry-wide studies Air France and KLM's brand awareness The Service Signatures training: In 2012, KLM Takes Care taken into account in product and service on customer satisfaction performed worldamong 5,000 of the Group’s customers 11,000 cabin crew, and 1,300 ground June 2012, KLM launched “KLM Takes Care”, bringing development via studies, customer panels wide by Airs@t, involving the product & and non-customers. staff and managers followed the training in together all CSR initiatives under one name. The website and on board tests: service experience of 50,000 air passengers Paris-CDG to share its unique approach to provides articles and videos and gives customers the Results: Among respondents from France, Around ﬁfty ad hoc studies per year annually on 27 major airlines and airports; The Netherlands, China and the UK, customer service. Air France is investing in opportunity to give ideas on sustainable topics. The KLM among 22,000 FB@home customers Monitoring information is shared within Air France and KLM scored 100% brand the talents of its staff to stand out from the Takes Care logo makes sustainable KLM initiatives visible and 500 InTouch members; the Group (‘Competitors box’ posted awareness and obtained good scores competition and win over customers. This and recognizable for customers, e.g. on menus on board and electric vehicles Online and social media dialogue; on the Intranet); in the rest of the world. ambitious project will be extended worldon the platform (klmtakescare.com). wide to all departments from 2013, jointly with KLM. Integrating sustainability into the customer experience Sustainable procurement FOCUS The role of purchasing in A proactive role of procurement is essential to remain Procurement is a gatekeeper of sustainability. local development frontrunner in sustainability. As a service provider Air However, not only our own actions count. We need Examples illustrating France-KLM is largely dependent on the procureto manage the process of integrating sustainability the volume of products ment of its products and services, working together purchased by the Group with approximately 4,200 contracted suppliers. The in the entire supply chain with great care. annually from local Group's main purchase streams are ﬂeet, fuel, airport PETER SCHELVIS, Air France-KLM Group Chief Procurement Ofﬁcer producers for their & navigation fees, onboard products and engineering service onboard: & maintenance. Given the signiﬁcant proportion of 2 Criteria for assessing the environmental and social Around 4 million bottles external expenses relative to total revenues, optiimpact of a product or service are integrated in the of wine and champagne mizing, innovating and ensuring sustainability prinspeciﬁcations where relevant. This impact is taken served on board ciples throughout the supply chain are priorities for into account when evaluating tenders submitted by Air France ﬂights are the Group's proﬁtability. suppliers, and forms an integral part of the calculation sourced from the main of the total ownership costs and life-cycle analysis. French wine producing Integrating sustainability 3 The supplier contract includes an ethical and enviregions (100% of in our purchasing policy ronmental clause. Involving suppliers During the call for tender process for Air France-KLM Air France’s wine cellars). Air France-KLM's Procurement Division has had a 4 Besides the regular monitoring system like safety in CSR initiatives Cargo road transport, suppliers were asked to pro8 million portions of sustainable purchasing approach in place for a numand quality audits, the Group started to carry out CSR Through its procurement policy and its purchase vovide information on CO2 emissions, which was taken butter and cheese, 237 ber of years. This aims to incorporate CSR principles audits for its suppliers in 2011. As a continuation of lume, Air France-KLM is able to make a difference in into account during the decision-making process. tons of biscuits, 250 tons 48 into relations with suppliers, and strenghtening the these audits the Group increased its number of audits FOCUS the supply chain by setting sustainable product criteIn the Amsterdam area a concrete example is one of raw and smoked ﬁsh 49 management of ethical, social and environmental performed in 2012 to 13. These audits are mainly ria. Dialogue and close cooperation with suppliers are supplier making use of the dual fuel truck, reducing and 3 million hot meal risks. Our approach consists of four steps: focused on suppliers in “high risk countries” which Involving buyers key in the Group's sustainability approach. The Group CO2 emissions. portions are produced in were identiﬁed by an analysis on environmental, corEach buyer of maintains an ongoing dialogue with suppliers through Engineering & Maintenance refurbished two Air Brittany. 1 Prior to the launch and / or during the tender: The ruption and human rights' risk indices. The follow up Air France-KLM has to performance management meetings, the events it orgaFrance B747s with the new Economy Class cabin. KLM Catering sourced supplier receives the “supplier questionnaire”, addresof the environmental ﬁndings identiﬁed that 60% of sign a code of ethics, nizes, and by taking part in forums and working groups. The supplier dismantled the old seats and recovered 14.4 million portions of sing CSR issues and a request to sign the “Sustaithem had been resolved thanks to corrective actions which includes rules It also provides information via a dedicated website components (frame, seating, electrical cables, etc) to cheese and butter and nable Procurement Charter”, based on the principles put in place by the suppliers. to be followed when ( www.af-klm.com/procurement). be recycled or scrapped in a proper manner resulting 465,000 liters of organic of the UN Global Compact. Alternatively, suppliers In addition to the onsite audit program, in 2013 the dealing with suppliers. Even if integrating sustainability in some areas is more in less environmental impact. dairy products from the may provide an equivalent document outlining their sustainable procurement program is going to be comThis document, along challenging than others; for example due to the product Thanks to its large purchase volume and in cooperaNetherlands. own CSR policy for checking and approval. In 2012, pleted with supplier assessments in order to create a with the Sustainable type, such as fuel, or a limited number of suppliers, such tion with partners, KLM brought one of its supplying Wine was also sourced CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 the percentage of contracted suppliers who have debetter insight on CSR performance and best practices Procurement Charter as aircraft manufactures, the 2012 initiatives below, companies to change their type of product (chicken) locally, with a wine monstrated their CSR commitment increased to 72%. for a larger scope of suppliers. is available on the demonstrate the Group’s commitments to encourage to a more sustainable alternative (“Better Life” chicgrower from the Dutch Procurement website. responsible practices in the supply chain. ken, a label initiated by the Dutch Society for the province of Zealand An internal system Air France made eco-design a selection criterion in Protection of Animals). Initially this was a challenge supplying 20,000 bottles. SUSTAINABILITY IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN has been set up to the tender for new Long haul Economy crockery. The for the supplier because of ﬁnancial investment, guide buyers in making supplier selected based its eco-design on the airline's product availability and the commitment of their Current 1 Supplier questionnaire and Sustainable Development Charter responsible purchasing new speciﬁcations and has developed a tool that calsubcontractors. process decisions: culates the amount of CO2 saved by this new product. Web links providing Air France-KLM and Alitalia have signed a 3-year 2 Integrating environmental and social criteria into speciﬁcations information on agreement with a towel manufacturer based in The environmental best Netherlands. During the production of towels unne3 Ethical and environmental clause in supplier contract practices. cessary waste is avoided as much as possible. Training and seminars Air France received the 2012 APF Innovation Award, The Dutch Society for the Protection of Animals, which is awarded by APF Entreprises for its re-usable } Country risk CSR audits for to build awareness deploying the Better Life hallmark, has managed to mapping risk suppliers among buyers and headphones in long-haul Economy Class. The project, 4 Monitoring which was developed with the sheltered sector, has improve the wellbeing of millions of animals through to develop their skills system Monitoring supplier performance, quality audit ensuring they take resulted in an annual 400 ton reduction in waste. cooperation with business partners and farmers. The environmental and social Air France is a signatory to the French government's active participation of reliable brands like KLM shows criteria into account charter “For sustained and innovative procurement policy and subcontracting with the sheltered secleadership on responsible sourcing, setting an example Current process wherever possible in Next step Supplier desk audits their work. tor”. In 2012, procurement from the sheltered sector towards other companies and consumers. 1 + 2 + 3 + 4 totaled €15 million. FRANK DALES, CEO of the Dutch Society for the Protection of Animals Integrating sustainability into the customer experience Services and products best practices 6 New lightweight seats Thanks to improved ergonomics, Air 7 Sustainable catering Air France was the ﬁrst airline in the world to launch the ISO 22000 food security certiﬁKLM’s sustainable catering policy is each year further developed by expanding the France's new Long haul Business Class cation in 2006. number of certiﬁed or labeled in-ﬂight seats are lighter and more comfortable. Air France and its catering subsidiary Servair products that involve the preservation of It provide three-fold beneﬁts: an increase take measures to favor local and seasonal biodiversity, animal welfare and the use of 1 Digital technology: an essential asset available in lounges at Paris-CDG since March 2013, their in customer satisfaction (+0.8 points products for example: sustainable soy and palm oil. In 2012, 18 Around the clock available availability is due to be extended. They make a signiﬁin SCORE survey), better economic Products which guarantee sustainable products were added to the list that meet Through social media, Air France-KLM staff is 24/7 cant impact in terms of reducing cabin waste and CO2 performance due to a weight reduction farming and animal welfare standards, these standards, e.g. 100% UTZ certiﬁed available for its customers, servicing in 7 languages and emissions because less weight is carried onboard (280 kg of 8%, a saving of 450 tons of fuel such as organic salmon, organic yogurts coffee and “Better Life” certiﬁed chicken including Flying Blue support. less for an A380). The shift to digital press will take place per year and improved environmental and Red Label farm chicken, etc. and veal. KLM is the ﬁrst airline to offer e-newspapers gradually and in close cooperation with all stakeholders. impact, due to lower CO2 emissions 100% natural jam and honey. A sheltered certiﬁed palm oil snacks and to carry the Air France distributes several million of newspapers and e-freight of 1,420 tons per year. Transavia.com sector supplier in France manufactures GreenPalm logo. Responsible sourcing has magazines to customers around the world every year The digitalization of cargo documents will eliminate more launched the “Boeing Sky concept” the 1.46 million portions of jam and honey been extended to international destinations in its lounges, departure areas and onboard aircraft. than 7,800 tons of paper, the equivalent of 80 Boeing with innovative seat covers of upcycled served onboard every year. with MSC certiﬁcation for ﬁsh in Paramaribo. Digital newspapers and magazines for tablets have been 747 cargo planes. E-leather, offering greater comfort, as A growing number of palm oil-free sweet OAT, a subsidiary of Air France, has been well as using LEDs for cabin lighting. and savory snacks served onboard. certiﬁed to manufacture organic meal trays. Customer BIOFUEL feedback Dialogue Label Eco 50 -design CO2 calculator 51 Innovating to improve Reducing environmental Involving customers customer service impact during ﬂights in CSR initiatives CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 10 Customer dialogue and feedback Since 2007, Air France-KLM 2 Commercial Desk 3 Co-creation 4 Infrastructure 5 SkyPriority has invited its customers to The Air France and KLM with customers modernization: Hub SkyTeam offers a common express their expectations of the Group, in terms of sustaiCommercial Desks provide 24/7 Regarding the fact that e2012 and consistent service 8 KLM BioFuel program 9 CO2 Calculation nable development and their ﬂight related support to passenservices enable customers Modernization of infrasstandard for both Business KLM has launched a new service for its business and Compensation gers, especially in case of ﬂight to be more independent in tructure is helping to Class Passengers and perception of initiatives in place. customers in The Netherlands, whereby corporate The Group's customers disruptions and delays, involving managing their own jourtransform the Group's SkyTeam Elite members Priority actions identiﬁed for the customers have the opportunity to ﬂy part of their have access to a CO2 all relevant departments. ney and less dependent business, enabling it (Flying Blue Platinum & Group in 2012 are: minimizing business travel on sustainable biofuels. This program calculator and offsetting on human “interference”, to offer more services Gold); the services include its environmental impact and is unique in the airline industry. Accenture, Ahold, programs, furthermore KLM ground staff launched to customers. These fast lanes for check in and promote socio-economic Nike, DSM, Philips, Heineken and Amsterdam CO2 emission reporting an ideas program in which include; a simpliﬁed security & dedicated boardevelopment at its destinations. Airport Schiphol were the launching customers in is offered to corporate they have discussions with customer experience, ding and baggage handling Air France-KLM provides its 2012. Through their involvement in this project, customers. customers at the airport the new S4 Terminal and at all participating SkyTeam corporate account managers they are able to lower their own environmental on how to keep a personal more attention to detail airports. SkyTeam is the ﬁrst with CSR training, to give footprint and contribute to the further development touch and to improve for Premium customers. global alliance offering such business customers a better of a market for sustainable biofuels. products and services. a broad service. understanding of the initiatives the Group has put in place. Objectives Main achievements 2012 Promote effective dialogue with employees Ground staff: Workplace agreement and Human Resources and Skills and their representatives Planning Agreement Pilots: Productivity agreement Central Works Committee and European Group Committee: respectively 26 meetings and 3 meetings Enhance mobility 1,381 employees changed jobs within the company and 102 ground staff gained executive status 304 announcements released on the Job Market Develop the way we welcome work-study students Proportion of interns doubling from 0.5% to 1% of employees, representing more than 1,000 apprentices welcomed Train staff members to develop their employability 95% of staff (100 % of cabin crew) have completed training 7.78% of the company’s payroll dedicated to training Personal training entitlements (DIF) represented 14.6% of overall training for ground staff (+0.6% compared with 2011). Cabin crew: 15% of training hours carried out as part of DIF Reduce the number of workplace accidents by 30% 3% decrease in the number of workplace accidents (frequency rate: -0.1%) between 2012 and 2014 2% decrease in the severity rate Pursue commitments to encourage diversity Third 3-year agreement on gender equality, payroll compensation for 474 women Employment rate of disabled employees: 4.42% (4.17% in 2011) 52 53 Objectives Main achievements 2012 Stimulate employability through mobility 394 employees took part in a career program and 453 employees in a workshop, Ensuring a 124 employees received coaching to improve skills responsible human Facilitate training and personal development Validation of Prior Learning: 91 participants in 2012 (100 in 2011). CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 In the past two years 164 employees received a diploma for intermediate vocational education through VPL (27 have not yet received a diploma) resources policy Health and safety in the workplace: ambition to reach zero accidents Total workplace accidents: Goal of less than 4 serious Approval received from the Works Council for a renewed policy on radiation Further implementation of a Safety Management System. 3 serious accidents involving hospitalization accidents involving hospitalization AMBITION COMMITMENTS Frequency rate for workplace accidents: Goal of remaining Frequency rate: 4.73 accidents involving time off work per million hours worked below the ratio of 4.1 “accidents involving time off work Through supporting the Air FranceAir France-KLM carries its Develop the employability of per million hours worked” KLM Group Transformation Plan ambition through the following staff by offering training, and by and maintaining a responsible social commiments: improving mobility and ﬂexibility; policy, we aim to create a motivating Decrease absenteeism rate Decline of absenteeism levels: percentage went down from 6.11% in 2011 to 5.24% in 2012 environment for our employees to Lead change through quality Promote and respect wellThe introduction of a tool kit for all managers supported by KLM achieve the best company results. We dialogue with employees and being at work and the work-life Works Council continue developing skills to ensure employee representatives; balance of employees; the professionalism and employability Support diversity CSR café on Diversity of our staff to meet the needs of Promote health and safety Encourage diversity and 2 sessions, open to all employees to exchange views on diversity within KLM internal resources linked to our overall at work; talent development. business goals. Increase flexibility New collective labour agreements to stimulate mobility and facilitate part time work Pilot New Way of Work at IT and Marketing department Ensuring a responsible human resources policy Social dialogue Facilitating training and mobility Training remains one of the ways to support change within the Group, and individual employees’ career development by strengthening their employability and development available to them. Programs to encourage mobility among employees are also in place, such as “Room for Growth” at KLM’s commercial division. The Asian Trail was introduced in 2012 and consists of 7.78% Of payroll is spent on improving their skills. a yearly Air France-KLM development program for 10 training at Air France. In 2012, Air France-KLM maintained a high level of talents within Asia. The selected employees received access to training. At Air France, training carried out workshops, training, the opportunity to share experiResponding to economic 2,939€ jobs. Among the measures adopted are a wage freeze within the scope of the “DIF” (Personal Training Entitleence with their counterparts from other countries. challenges and an increase in the number of days worked for all ment) rose slightly. Cabin crew were entitled to underDespite the economic climate, Air France and KLM As part of the Transform Plan, adapted within Air France staff. Additionally measures were included to reduce staff take this training during working hours, representing are continuing to fulﬁll their responsibilities towards and KLM, each airline is reviewing all collective labor within the framework of KLM’s commitment “Keeping a change to rules previously in force. young people entering the labor market. Internships Spent on training per agreements related to payroll, stafﬁng and working hours. the family together” in order to avoid layoffs. Equality of KLM continued its efforts to ensure more employees provide students with high quality professional experiKLM employee. As part of the ongoing workplace dialogue, a negotiation treatment between ground staff, cabin crew and pilots acquire a formal diploma through VPL (Validation of ence. In 2012, Air France reinforced its commitment to process speciﬁc to each company enabled the establishwas at the heart of the negotiations. Prior Learning). internships by doubling the number of interns (1,000 ment of a new labour conditions framework aimed to As part of Transform 2015, the job grade system at new apprentices), and KLM welcomed 801 interns, achieve the Plan’s objectives. Continuing social dialogue Air France has been streamlined. This has meant a a ﬁgure which has remained stable over the years. In addition to immediate measures, a series of more The transparency of social dialogue has been key reduction in the number of hierarchical levels, which structural measures were deﬁned at Air France via the since the Transform Plan 2015 was launched. During helps to simplify organizations, facilitates mobility negotiation process aimed at a 20% improvement in the 26 meetings of the Air France Central Works Combetween jobs and helps to keep payroll growth in economic efﬁciency by 2014 relative to the 2011 results mittee that took place in 2012, union delegates were check. This initiative is backed by tools to facilitate FOCUS using the different levers in the workplace agreements. consulted and informed about results and measures career guidance and mobility, such as a “Mobility unit”, At KLM, Transform 2015 HR related goals to improve intended to enable the company’s recovery. Three an “Observatoire des Métiers” and a “Job Market”. Air France-KLM: Recognition and ranking productivity and reduce costs, has led KLM to invite all European Group Committee meetings were organThe 255 employees of KLM’s Engineering & MainteOn the 19th December 2012, Air France CEO Alexandre de Juniac was awarded unions for several consecutive meetings to jointly discuss ized on issues such as changes taking place into the nance division who were faced with the reorganisa“Manager of the Year” by the magazine “Le Nouvel Économiste”. 54 the ﬁnancial situation of KLM and the future of the airline business in general. These discussions helped to create Group’s organization. At KLM regular monthly meetings were held with unions tion of the D-check, all found employment elsewhere within E&M. Supported by the works council and unHe dedicated this award to the efforts of all of the airline's employees. 55 the context in which negotiations took place. Additionally, representing Pilots, Cabin Crew and Ground Staff. In ions, the transition was accompanied and facilitated Air France and KLM regularly feature in rankings of the best employer to work a target was set to reduce overhead staff by 10% without 2012, 29 additional meetings were scheduled to reach through training and advice to individual employees to for. According to a survey carried out by Linkedin, KLM was in the top 5 Favourite compulsory redundancies. a common understanding on the ﬁnancial situation accommodate a successful change. This approach is Dutch employers. Universum ranked Air France in the top ten ideal employers for negotiations on the new collective labor agreements. considered to be an example for other divisions and in a survey carried out among 31,000 students. Setting out a new contractual As part of the collective labor agreement 2012-2014 departments within KLM on how to put KLM’s comVNU Media and Effectory of Best Employer awarded KLM second place in framework KLM and unions also agreed to discuss upcoming mitment to “Keeping the family together” into practice. the “Best Employer” category. This study involved 190,000 employees in The At Air France, the revision process conducted with the new pension legislation and the design of a future The KLM “Open Doors to Your Future” workshop inNetherlands who were asked to rate the company they work for. representative unions began in spring 2012. These neproof pension scheme. forms employees about the various options for career gotiations were aimed at enabling the implementation of CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 the measures required to achieve the 20% improvement in economic efﬁciency in return for the preservation of the airline’s scope of operations, the guarantee of no layoffs and no salary reductions. The negotiations resulted in the signature of a productivity agreement with pilots in November 2012 and, for ground staff, in a new Workplace Agreement signed in October 2012. A Human Resources and Skills Planning agreement for Ground Staff was also signed in October 2012, followed by an agreement on the organization of working hours, signed in January 2013. Following the signature of the agreements, and consistent with its commitment, Air France implemented measures to manage overstafﬁng: Voluntary Departure Plans and assisted measures. The discussions with Cabin Crew representatives were extended beyond December 2012. In December 2012, KLM signed new collective labour agreements with cabin, cockpit and ground unions, which will remain in force until 2015. KLM’s management and unions have agreed to take signiﬁcant steps to reduce labor costs while at the same time preserving Ensuring a responsible human resources policy Health and safety enables potentially dangerous situations to be detected and encourages preventative measures to be taken. KLM’s “SafetyF@cts” provides managers with bi-monthly online interactive training on Safety Air France-KLM has reafﬁrmed health and safety at work ment of the Executive Committee is apparent in each awareness. as a key priority within Transform 2015. The Group conbusiness through three-year contracts that include The annual Air France Health and Safety in the tinues initiatives already in place and builds further on speciﬁc targets. Workplace Conference recognized effective safety the results already achieved. No compromises will be initiatives implemented by managers of operational made on safety. Preventing accidents units. To place accident prevention and safety culture at Feedback systems to share experience of incidents Setting objectives the heart of its business, the Group is taking action in and how they were dealt with. In 2012, awareness building was continued. Air several areas: Air France’s new “e-care” incident management and France achieved a 3% decline in the number of ocIntegrating occupational safety criteria into project audit system is used by operational divisions to centralcupational accidents although this ﬁgure still remains management and in the development of ergonomic ize and handle all safety data. below target. procedures. To reduce the number of burn accidents by KLM cabin KLM, with 3 serious accidents, has met its target The Ergo-coach program was adopted by KLM’s attendants during ﬂights, measures were taken includof less than four accidents that require hospitalizaEngineering & Maintenance (E&M), training staff on ing improvement of hot meals packaging. Coffee maktion. However, the goal of remaining below the ratio health and safety in the workplace. Cargo increased ers were installed lower to make them easier to reach. of 4.1 “accidents involving time off work per million the number of ergo-coaches to 40. Sharing “Best Safety Practice” involves conferences hours worked” was however missed by 0.63 point. Air France’s “Central Ergonomics Unit” and its ergoand forums to build awareness and provide informaThese objectives are monitored at the highest level nomic experts work closely with operational users. tion on occupational health risks and their prevention. within the Group. At Air France, the ongoing involveThe involvement of ﬁeld managers and employees Risk prevention training for staff members is updated on a regular basis to keep pace with changes in regula56 tions and tools available. KLM’s Cargo and E&M have introduced a “Work 57 Permits” system, which guarantees compliance Never compromising with KLM safety standards for all employees of GLOBAL FREQUENCY RATE, AIR FRANCE suppliers and sub-contractors, making working ferent types of complaint schemes of KLM and will on safety is at the Number of lost-time injuries per million hours worked conditions safer for everyone. advise accordingly. Employees can contact the desk FOCUS heart of what we do anonymously. together. The KLM Safety REALIZED ACHIEVED IN 2012 OBJECTIVE Improving workplace quality Extending The New Numerous initiatives are in place to help employees Ensuring social protection World of Work Program focuses on with work-life balance and to improve their performance. Air France-KLM employs around 11,000 people at 40 26.2 At KLM, “The New World safety awareness by In 2012, Air France continued to implement the threedestinations who all beneﬁt from the values and comof Work” initiative, which CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 helping and challenging 30 year agreement on preventing psychosocial risks and mitments laid out in Air France-KLM’s Social Rights was tested in 2011 in the improving quality of life in the workplace. In this context, and Ethics Charter. each other. Part of IT and HR departments 20 an alert system enables data on psychosocial risks to The Group applies local collective labor agreements, was extended to other the program is “Just be collected. The Anti-Harassment Charter also includes which are made with unions or other relevant parties, departments such as Culture” where we learn 10 provisions for ﬂagging up and dealing with situations according to local standards. In the renewal process Marketing in 2012. Within from safety mistakes where employees are in difﬁculty. of collective labour agreements, the Group's salary a framework of conditions 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 As part of Transform 2015, a plan to support quality guidelines are applicable and take into account the by making them employees can decide of life at work was shared with unions at Air France. local inﬂation level and cost of living index. for themselves when to transparent. That is the To centralize the various existing initiatives a KLM AdThe majority of the Group’s local staff beneﬁt from social work and where to work, way to ensure that Safety visory desk was introduced, offering advice to emsecurity, including a decent standard of living during their with workplace options remains part of our FOCUS ployees on next steps to take in matters ranging from retirement. In addition, the Group offers complimentary ranging from individual disagreement with their manager to being confronted insurance where public provision does not meet the compartments, meeting business. PIQ idea is an “all round” success with sexual harassment or suspecting of fraudulent required standards. settings to laptop docking JORDIE KNOPPERS, At Air France Industries engines are mounted on a square frame during actions. The desk employees, who act according to In a joint Air France-KLM effort occupational safety regstations meant for a quick Program manager KLM Safety Culture standards of conﬁdentiality, are familiar with the difistration was addressed to ensure all accidents are remaintenance. Apart from the risk of impacts that may damage the engine, email check. The New maintenance using this frame is difﬁcult and can lead to musculoskeletal ported in order to take measures to prevent reoccurrence. World of Work aims to disorders. Also, a self audit tool was introduced to determine posincrease efﬁciency, reduce Philippe, an engineer, created a round frame, which is better suited to the shape sible improvements. Subcontractors are obligated by an ofﬁce costs and offer of the engine, and also to the ergonomic considerations of the workstation. This agreement to abide to safety regulations. employees a chance to is just one example of real improvements that reduce the risk of falls and injuries. For employee complaints, for example about working improve work life balance. conditions, the local HR manager is available to handle these adequately and in a conﬁdential way. Ensuring a responsible human resources policy Diversity Involving employees Listening to staff For the third year running, Air France has surveyed members of staff on their perception of CSR. The same survey has been used to monitor perceptions of Flying Blue customers since 2008. The 7,000 surveys collected enabled Air France to ensure that its CSR initiatives correspond with employee expectations. 60% of staff members feel that they are personally involved in the airline’s CSR policy. Almost 8,000 employees contributed to the anAt Air France nual “Boussole” survey on travel in the Paris region we ﬁrmly believe ( see pages 35 and 62). Thanks to suggestions that diversity submitted over a period of four years, Air France has expanded the number of open shared ofﬁces at its within our teams Paris sites, put in place an eco-driving course and and our spirit expanded car sharing. Consultation on expanding of solidarity are telecommuting is in development. a key strength, Increasing CSR awareness making us more 58 innovative and KLM organizes quarterly “CSR cafés” featuring guest speakers with the goal to inspire and inform em59 ployees about different sustainability topics. Guest bringing us closer speakers were for example WWF-Indonesia and a to our customers, member of the KLM Supervisory Board. Adhering to our commitments Respecting gender equality helping us to Air France and KLM took part in Sustainable Developthem to engage with their customers on CSR and to Comments In line with its Social Rights and Ethics Charter, Professional and wage equality between men and live up to their ment Week by building awareness and informing emhighlight the Group’s initiatives. from employees Air France-KLM's social policy is based on integration women has been a key issue and progress area in expectations. ployees on the numerous initiatives already in place. At Cabin crew within the Group are regularly updated who carried out through work, respect for equal opportunities, combatHR management at Air France for almost a decade. KLM Cargo a dedicated CSR day was organized with on progress achieved in optimizing ﬂight procedures, CSR training ing discrimination and promoting diversity. Under the third 3-year agreement on gender equality in CATHERINE LECLÈRE, presentations from executives from Cargo, transavia. reducing onboard weight, the sustainable catering on Equal opportunity rules apply in particular to recruitthe workplace, the company is committed to reducing Head of Diversity, Air France com and Martinair. In 2012 a new group of young KLM offer and waste reduction measures. Through regu—This training is CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 ment and internal selection processes. Air France any wage disparities between men and women. In 2012, professionals participated in the Leaders for Nature lar training, ﬂight operations staff are made aware of really important to employees involved in these processes are subject to 474 women received payroll compensation. Forum from the International Union for Conservation opportunities to further reduce fuel consumption. fully understand the the Recruitment, Selection and Redeployment Code In its Good Parenting Charter, Air France has made of Nature (IUCN-NL). Innovating continuously commitments made of Ethics. Air France has put in place a new e-learning a commitment to developing parental representaKLM Works Council set up a two-year working group training module on “Diversity and Management”. tion across the business, creating a positive environwith the goal to analyze in which way the Works CounAir France-KLM involves its employees in its approach by the Air France-KLM ment for employees who are also parents (particularly cil can play its role to further embed CSR within the to continuously innovate. At Air France, innovation initiaGroup. Furthering integration for pregnant women) and respecting the principle of nonorganization. In 2013 the working group will share its tives are in place in the airline’s various businesses, from of disabled people —All managers should discrimination in the career development of employees conclusions with KLM. ground operations to cabin crew. In The Netherlands, a person is considered legally with children. Air France Industries’ Innovation Quality Program (PIQ) take this course. disabled when after a period of sick leave, he or she KLM's commitment to respecting equality and reTraining staff in CSR has been rewarding the best ideas for a number of years. —I’m glad I took this is permanently unable to fulﬁll their contractual duties. spect for sexual orientations was highlighted durMore than 2,000 members of staff have already taken In 2012, almost 5,000 PIQ ideas were submitted, 75% course, it has enabled KLM makes it easier for disabled people to return ing the “KLM CSR week”. The “Over the Rainbow” Air France-KLM’s e-learning module on CSR. 96% of of which will be implemented, resulting in savings of to work by offering them a position compatible with social network for Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual and Transgenthose having followed the course said it was “satisfac€33 million. me to appreciate the their disability. In 2012, KLM employed 696 people der (LGBT) employees has grown to more than 300 tory” or “highly satisfactory”. Training is also available The Moonshine program at the KLM’s Engineering & efforts made by the with disabilities. members. to sales personnel at Air France and KLM, to enable Maintenance division aims to improve work processes, Group in favor of the Air France continued to stand by the commitments ergonomics and safety, thereby leading to reduce turnenvironment. made in the 8th 3-year agreement to promote the around time of aircrafts and fuel savings. Employees’ employment of disabled people with the recruitment experiences from their daily practices and their suggesof 20 new members of staff. The airline has set up tions for areas of improvement are major input sources. several partnerships to meet its recruitment objective, Results in 2012 include a multi service cart incorporating to promote the integration of disabled employees and all the equipment required for the quick and efﬁcient to change attitudes towards disability. change of Boeing 737 wheels and brakes. Objectives Main achievements 2012 Contribution to local development at hubs Participation of the Grand Roissy at an international level Cooperation between KLM, Schiphol and City of Amsterdam to set up long term Sustainability Agenda for Amsterdam Metropolitan region Contribution to skills development for young people: • Air France: 4,626 students involved in aviation careers discovery program with Airemploi, 724 young people trained or provided with guidance by JEREMY (including 179 at Air France) and 426 young apprentices at AFMAé (61% of whom are at Air France) • KLM: internships for more than 800 students; sponsoring education programs for 120 elementary school children Continuation of long-term dialogue with local stakeholders Involvement in working groups on the sustainable development of the Roissy and Orly areas Ongoing dialogue in working groups Alders Table and CROS Promotion of economic development at our destinations 2,500 local suppliers used by the Group in the countries served (excluding main hubs) Joint venture with Kenya Airways strengthened, involvement in the creation of Air Côte d’Ivoire Support for forestry conservation programs providing environmental and economic beneﬁts: • Air France & Good Planet in Madagascar (5,000 households have adopted sustainable and proﬁtable agricultural techniques, 500 nursery growers trained) • KLM supports the WWF-NL REDD project in Brazil 60 61 Maintain a strong commitment to development projects The Group provided €12 million in funding for social and environmental projects Air France Foundation: involvement in 102 projects KLM AirCares: support for several projects through 7 partnerships involving education, health and sanitation Contributing CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 to local development JOBS CREATED BY AIR TRANSPORT (1) Indirect jobs in France: 989,000 employees Indirect jobs in The Netherlands: 290,000 jobs (incl catalytic AVIATION’S CONTRIBUTION TO THE ECONOMY (INCLUDING DIRECT, INDIRECT, INDUCED AND CATALYTIC EFFECTS) (1) effects) In the Netherlands: 3.1% of GDP, representing €26 billion Air France: over 44,000 employees in the Paris region In France: 3.9% of GDP, representing €75 billion KLM: 34,617 KLM Group employees of which 30,401 in the AMBITION COMMITMENTS Amsterdam Schiphol area We strive to add economic and Air France-KLM carries out its Share skills and knowledge; TAXES, FEES AND CHARGES social value in the areas where ambition through the following Assist by providing human, Airport and navigation fees: €1.86 billion paid by the Group we operate, this begins with our commitments: logistical and ﬁnancial support SUPPLIERS to airports and ATC ﬂight services which connect Contribute to the local economy for development programmes; €225 million paid by Air France and KLM to State people and businesses around Air France-KLM: over 4,200 suppliers worldwide, around and local authorities, including local taxes (on noise, through its capacity to create encourage its employees to 2,500 of which are located at destinations the world. By working together apprenticeship, property tax, etc.) business and jobs, for example participate in development Air France purchases in France(2): €2.1 billion. In the Paris with local partners, we create by using local suppliers; projects. region: 500 contracted suppliers new business opportunities and Air France purchases from sheltered sector companies: support projects contributing Build long-term relationships €15 million, across 80 suppliers (2/3 based in the Paris region) to the long-term well-being of with local stakeholders through KLM purchases in The Netherlands: around €900 million local communities. dialogue and partnerships; from contracted suppliers (1) source: Aviation beneﬁts beyond borders – Air Transport Action Group – October 2012, The Netherlands ﬁgure source: Report BCG/McKinsey 2011 (2) 2011 Data. Air France Group. Excluding fuel. Contracted suppliers, as per company headquarters address. Contributing to local development Our hubs Impacting local economic neighboring districts. Air France and KLM both have and positioning on sustainable development in the development region. Students and entrepreneurs from The Amsterlongstanding commitments to facilitating access to As an jobs for young people from communities close to their The hubs at Paris-CDG and Amsterdam Schiphol prodam School for Creative Leadership have put forward operations; they do this through their involvement in international vide highly attractive business environments. various innovative ideas related to sustainable deveairline, Air France training organizations for careers in aviation, and assoWith 89% of the Group’s employees based in France lopment at the airport and in the City of Amsterdam. and the Netherlands, Air France and KLM contribute Air France is also involved with other organizations ciations and education programs for young people. is a major player signiﬁcantly to job creation at their hubs: KLM is the (Aerotropolis Europe, Hubstart Paris) to promote the As part of its commitment to ensure equal opporin Grand Roissy 3rd largest private sector employer in the Netherlands airport and its economic attractiveness at an intertunities, Air France runs an internship program caland is involved and employs more than 30,000 of the 60,000 people national level. For the second time, the airline has led “OPEN”. The program is aimed at middle school directly employed at Schiphol airport. Air France emparticipated in the international Hubstart seminar on students, some of who are disabled, who live in comin local initiatives ploys 44,000 people in Ile-de-France, making it the sustainable airport hubs. munities close to the airport, but mostly do not have for the development largest private sector employer in the Paris region. contacts in the company. This “discovery” internship of our territories. In 2012, the airline demonstrated its commitment Ongoing dialogue with local at the airline helps students to think about their future to mainland France with new investments such as stakeholders careers. In 2012, KLM offered internships for over 800 PATRICK RENAUD, President of the Association des Collectivités the Engine Test Cell at Roissy, where 400 employees Air France and KLM take a proactive, transparent students throughout the company, KLM Academy du Grand Roissy work, and the new maintenance center of Regional in approach on issues to mitigate noise and enhance is intensively collaborating with several schools and Clermont-Ferrand. quality of life with all local stakeholders. KLM contieducation centers in the region and organizing student The Group’s businesses also generate numerous indinued with its commitment to pursuing dialogue with events at universities to attract future talents. rect and induced jobs around the hubs: ground hanlocal residents through the Alders Table, which is a KLM supports the “Suitcase of Happiness” education program in four local elementary schools. 62 dling and catering services, cleaning and subcontracting necessary for aircraft operation. 60% of the Air consultative organization in which government agencies, neighboring residents and the aviation sector KLM has donated 1,617 computers and servers 63 France Group’s purchases in France are made in the take part to discuss the future development of Schito the Global Start program, which provides IT and Paris region, representing a total amount of €1.27 bilphol. KLM is also a member of CROS, the Schiphol Communications training to young people who have lion (excluding fuel). KLM spending in The Netherlands Regional Consultative Committee. dropped out of formal education, and the long-term amounts around €900 million excluding fuel. KLM regularly organizes visits to its facilities for stakeunemployed. KLM’s IT and Operations teams have holders and ofﬁcials giving them an impression of the worked with students from Technasium on concepts Efﬁcient ground transportation is vital to a leading global airline business and exchange views on a variety of for a faster and more secure boarding system at air transport network. The accessibility of our airports issues such as CSR and innovation. Schiphol. is also an important factor in the development and atAs part of the “Amstelveen Climate Group”, Amstelveen tractiveness of the areas where Air France and KLM’s local authorities, KLM and other local companies CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 main hubs are located, for the airlines, passengers organized an event for SMEs in order to share best and employees. practices in CO2 emissions reduction and improving KLM contributes with partners in various projects on energy efﬁciency. airport accessibility. The Paris Region Economic, SoThe Chairman and CEO of Air France has met with cial and Environmental Council (Conseil Économique the “Association des Collectivités du Grand Roissy” of 60% Social Environnemental Régional d’Ile-de-France) Conference in February 2012 in order to contribute elected ofﬁcials, which covers more than 50 municiasked Air France to contribute its know-how to the to regional development strategy. It also participates palities adjacent to the airport, to discuss major local FOCUS task of improving the accessibility of Paris’ airports. in “Grand Roissy Economique”, a commission that development projects and the airline’s economic and Following on from the Inter-Company Transport Plan aims to provide coordination to the business com60% of the Air France social challenges. Air France-KLM, committed to jobs (PDIE) at Paris-CDG airport, Air France along with 3 munity in the area. Group's purchases in Through the “Pays de Roissy-CDG” association, of for vulnerable people partners at Paris-Orly have come together to create The Dutch government continued the implemenFrance are made in the which Air France was a founder member in 2003, Over 7 years, Air France’s spending in the sheltered sector has increased a PDIE to take effective joint action on responsible tation of the air transport policy (“Luchtvaartnota”), Paris region, representing the airline works alongside local stakeholders to play more than ﬁve-fold, to €15 million in 2012. Sheltered sector companies transport. Air France has also contributed to setting adopted in 2011, and reasserted the major importance a total amount of €1.27 a part in local development. In October 2012, local are approached systematically for each call for tender. Two thirds of the up two on-demand transport links (Filéo), providing of Schiphol airport to the Dutch economy. Moreover, billion (exc. fuel) ofﬁcials, industry and government representatives 80 sheltered sector suppliers are located in the Paris region. 207 full time connections to the hub at Paris-CDG and facilitating the government has identiﬁed 9 sectors that are key attended a ceremony to mark the start of construction equivalent jobs have been created with 3 sheltered sector organizations in the access to jobs. The Group takes part in discussions on projects set to shape the areas surrounding its hubs over the to the economy, and has brought together businesses, scientists and government agencies to work together on boosting the international competitiveness of these sectors. 800 More than 800 of 61 apartments to house airport staff. Promoting skills development The aviation industry also contributes to training and Paris region. Since 2012 100% of economy class and crew blankets have been cleaned in these centers. KLM has set up a laundry service at Schiphol to centralize the cleaning of uniforms and linen used onboard. The contractor was selected in line with coming twenty years, such as the consultation KLM has actively contributed to this process. The airinternships at KLM helping people to access the labor market, particularly environmental and social criteria, as it employs people who have difﬁculty process on the Grand Paris and Grand Roissy proline also works with Schiphol airport and The City of for those people living close to airports: 50% of jobs accessing the labor market. jects. Air France took part in the Grand Roissy Area Amsterdam to strengthen international competitiveness at the Paris-CDG hub are held by people living in Contributing to local development Local partnerships Destinations Supporting economic alternative methods (beekeeping, aviculture, ﬁsh farBOUSSOLE Deals concerning Biofuels and a Waste development ming, cash crops), which increase agricultural yields For almost 10 Business travel plan to contribute to the to Energy project. The Group contributes to international and regional and crop diversiﬁcation. The program has helped to years, Air FranceAssociation Pays de Roissy-CDG reduction of emissions caused by Air France economic and social development by opening new train 500 nursery growers. KLM has been a Promotion of local social and employees commuting in Ile-de-France. Landschap Noord-Holland connections in Africa, Asia and the Americas and offeSocial tourism also has a signiﬁcant impact on the living economic development. fantastic partner. Involvement: Participation in an A nature conservation organisation ring passengers an ever-wider network. For example, standards of local communities. This is why KLM supInvolvement: Inter-Business Travel Plan (PDIE) at close to Schiphol. in 2012, Air France-KLM expanded its network in ports the Sustainable Tourism Chair at Wageningen Close the Gap Air France, founding member. Paris-CDG airport and at Paris-Orly. Involvement: 3.5-year partnership, Africa with the inauguration of 7 new destinations. University. In Brazil, KLM supports a forest project of beneﬁts from KLM More than 320 members take part in including ﬁnance for projects to protect The Air France-KLM Group has 42 destinations and WWF-NL rewarding ﬁnancially those who instead of 5 working groups (on jobs, housing, Cargo transport to Green Deal a vulnerable nature reserve. In 2012, 3,500 employees (including Servair) in Africa. cutting down trees, opt for their conservation. Until now economic development, transport and Dutch government support for sustainability development of a program to restore The Group shares capacity with local airlines, and is the program has engaged more than 1,000 families sub-Saharan-Africa, culture), coordinated by two Air France initiatives led by companies and government biodiversity on KLM Engineering & also forming partnerships with local airlines contribuwho have been trained, supported with technical skills as well as other employees. agencies. Maintenance site. ting to local economic development such as job creaand tools and received help by selling local products destinations around Involvement: Signature of two KLM Green tion. Air France-KLM is supporting the development of that all contribute to sustaining the environment and Hubstart and Aerotropolis national, publically-owned airlines, for example KLM’s habitat of the Amazon. the world. It is thanks Promotion of the area at an international joint-venture with Kenya Airways, or Air France’s involto this collaboration level to create the best possible vement in setting up Air Côte d’Ivoire. Contributing to skill transfer that Close the Gap conditions for businesses around Roissy. CCE and CCAR In 2012, Air France supported the re-launch of Air The Group participates in the transfer of skills in the Involvement: Active involvement in these is able to deliver 64 two bodies. om on nt ic En Environmental Advisory Committees and assistance for local communities Côte d’Ivoire by becoming a shareholder in the new airline. The two other major shareholders are countries it serves, through Air France Consulting, a subsidiary of Air France: training for civil aviation computers to the 65 ec ome vi Lo lp most remote areas c de al ent (soundprooﬁng housing). the government of Côte d’Ivoire and the Aga Khan authorities and airlines on the EU’s restricted lists, ve ronm ASK Involvement: Air France sits on Foundation for Economic Development. Air France is on-site support, coaching and other training. Partnership between KLM, the City of e.g. in land-locked committees at France’s 10 major providing the airline with its know-how and staff capaKLM has entered a partnership with social enterprise Amsterdam and Schiphol to develop the airports. Since 2012, 100% of the cost city. Air France Consulting has provided an economic ShareBusiness by posting three of its employees countries. long term Agenda for the Amsterdam of soundprooﬁng homes has been and operational feasibility study. temporarily in Africa and India where they shared Air France-KLM Metropolitan region on sustainability, Job sa ue covered ( see page 34). their experience with local entrepreneurs and at the makes the difference accessibility, economic development, nd lo g Air France-KLM contributes to the local economy same time developed their own knowledge and skills. employment and education. ai tr nin dia rs by gaining access to g o lde Alders Table by offering employment, sourcing local products in Following the success of this pilot project, KLM plans keh Involvement: KLM participation in Sta Advisory platform for discussion onboard catering and through investment. In 2012, to send between 5 and 10 employees on similar education, healthcare CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 various project teams/working groups. between government, local Air France’s subsidiary Servair strengthened its preprojects annually. and entrepreneurship representatives and residents on the sence in Africa with new facilities in Brazzaville and a with the use of new development of Schiphol. 3,270 m2 air catering center employing 50 people at Involvement: KLM involvement in its new Servair Benin operation. technologies. discussion and dialogue with local The GoodPlanet and the WWF forest conservation OLIVIER VANDEN EYNDE, Founder Information and training programs Val-de-Marne 2nd Chance Foundation stakeholders. project in Madagascar, which is supported by Air and Managing Director Close the Gap on aviation careers Scheme to help young adults who do not France, contributes to the development of local comInvolvement: Air France is a founding hold formal qualiﬁcations access the world Schiphol Regional Consultative munities, whilst at the same time protecting the island’s member of 4 associations of work. Committee (CROS) unique biodiversity. The project has already reached Airemploi provides information about jobs Involvement: Air France Industries, Forum for consultation with 34,000 households, 5,000 of which have adopted and training in aviation. founding member. Organizing internships communities living close to the airport. JEREMY promotes the integration of and site visits. Donation of reconditioned Involvement: KLM participation local young people who do not hold furniture from the airline. in various working groups (noise formal qualiﬁcations. reduction measures). FOCUS AFMAé trains apprentices for careers KLM Education Programs to in aviation at its training center. attract future talents on maintenance, Missing Chapter Foundation Kenya Airways Engineers for Schools (IPE): 8 Air France operations and hospitality Dialogue between schools and KLM offers extensive connections between Amsterdam and Nairobi and other African executives are made available to the Involvement: internships and practice businesses on CSR. destinations beyond, through a joint-venture partnership with Kenya Airways. This national education authorities, with the pathways at KLM maintenance and Involvement: KLM Board of Directors partnership was strengthened in June 2012 by a US$47 million investment. This capital objective of bridging the gap between operations. participated in a dialogue session with injection will enable Kenya Airways to invest in its ﬂeet, by purchasing Boeing 787s education and business. school children on sustainability topics. and Embraers, thus being able to expand its network and serve new destinations. Contributing to local development Community projects Air France / Urgence Afrique Trees for life Project Jakko No-Mori Collection of used mobile phones at Air France. The Around 100 trees planted, living Planting 19,200 trees over phones were reconditioned and sold on the second conditions improved and biodiversity three years in the town of hand market. The funds raised were used to open a restored in one of Amman’s oldest Ishinomaki, on the nearby health and education center in Benin. districts. coast and in ten partner areas in memory of the victims of the 2011 Tsunami. The Group has always played an active role in international development assistance, particularly through its support of NGOs and projects led by its own employees. In 2012, the Group’s total contributions Involving employees and customers Air France and KLM employees throughout the world take part in social, humanitarian and nature conser€12 million amounted to the equivalent of €12 million. vation projects. Air France-KLM provides assistance to development The Friends of Air France Foundation gets more Group contribution to projects in various ways: some examples are presthan 2,200 employees involved in various types of development projects. Japan ented in the opposite map. volunteer work in France, such as collecting 6,500 Jordan The Group’s programs and longterm humanitarian partnerships Air France works to help disadvantaged childtoys for the “Beating Autism” charity. More than 3,000 KLM and Martinair employees are actively involved with Wings of Support, which ran more than 100 projects in 2012 in 16 countries bene102 Projects sustained by the Air France Bonaire Benin Conservation ren through its Corporate Foundation, which was ﬁting more than 10,000 children worldwide. KLM Foundation. WWF NL BONAIRE Peru Volunteers Wild involved in 102 projects in 2012. The airline has had organizes fundraising events to ﬁnance the construcConservation of nature South Africa Australia Futures Program a partnership with the NGO Acting for Life for over tion of schools, wages for teachers and the running and the development Volunteers from 66 7 NGOs 67 30 years. The NGO promotes child protection, costs of schools. of a green island Air France-KLM economic development and sustainable tourism. Customers who are members of Flying Blue are economy. Australia involved In 2012, the organization supported 51 projects invited to donate their frequent ﬂyer miles to NGOs worldwide through 130 local NGOs. selected by Air France and KLM: in 2012, 64 million Partners for KLM. Argentina Medical Knowledge Institute in important wildlife Air France supported humanitarian air transport miles were donated. Opening of a dispensary and recruitment and environmental missions carried out by Aviation Without Borders for of 8 medical staff in townships. Provision protection projects. many years. of computers and IT Training. Air France passes on information to passengers Acting for Life and about the damage caused by child sex tourism by PEBAL association Air France Foundation, Fundacion Leer ﬁ nancing ECPAT International’s prevention camFOCUS Improvement of water Promoting literacy among vulnerable children. Training teachers and paign and by distributing literature onboard during resource management, creating “reading corners” in 6 community centers in Salta province. CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 AIR FRANCEKLM AIR FRANCEKLM CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY REPORT 2012 ﬂights to “at risk” destinations. Close the Gap sanitation, creation of KLM’s AirCares program supports 7 partners in the Close the Gap is a non-proﬁt organization that actively works to reduce the green spaces for recycling areas of education, health and sanitation. Close digital divide. KLM has supported Close the Gap since 2004, by donating a total wastewater. Employee Financial Cargo Donating the Gap, Medical Knowledge Institute, Aﬂ atoun, involvement support capacity equipment of 14,270 computers, reaching over 200,000 students. In 2012, 2,800 computers Doctor2Doctor, Aviation Without Borders, Wings of were provided to 23 projects in 10 countries. Local partners, the majority of Support and Get it Done. KLM analyzes the impact whom are African NGOs handle installation and maintenance of the computers on beneﬁciaries of programs at the beginning and and provide training on-site. at the end of each project. DISTRIBUTION OF GROUP'S CONTRIBUTIONS GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION OF PROJECTS KLM organized a workshop for the 7 partners to BY PROJECT CATEGORY identify new opportunities and to increase the involvement of KLM divisions in the various projects. FOCUS 19% Environment 26% 21% Sport, Art & culture, Europe (incl The 24% Americas Logistical support miscellaneous Netherlands & France) In 2012, 626 Air France tickets and free transport of The Air France Foundation celebrates its 20th anniversary additional baggage were donated to 35 NGOs, principally involved in providing medical assistance. 25 The Air France Foundation was created in 1992 and was a pioneer in the ﬁeld of corporate foundations. The Foundation supports projects for children. It studies, 18% Asia Paciﬁc other organizations approved by Air France beneﬁt selects and ﬁnances projects for sick, disabled and vulnerable children in the from discounted rates for transporting personnel countries where Air France is present. and equipment. In 2012, KLM donated 540 tickets, transported 1,400kg of cargo and 500kg of additioOver twenty years, the Air France Foundation has contributed to 856 projects in 80 countries, the majority of which were supported by the airline’s employees. 55% 26% Humanitarian & education Africa & Middle East 11% Caribbean & Indian Ocean nal baggage for its social partners. KLM’s logistical expertise is included in the KLM AirCares program. Annexes Dialogue with our stakeholders Group’s Main engagement Group’s Main engagement Main engagement pathways Outcomes 2012 Main engagement pathways Outcomes 2012 stakeholders topics stakeholders topics Shareholders Financial information Quarterly presentations to analysts R  eporting improvement as a result of questionnaires  ir transport and A Safety and security SkyTeam CSR working group C  SR best practices of SkyTeam partners collected Investors CSR performance Dedicated financial website of non financial rating agencies (such as Vigeo, SAM, industry bodies Airport accessibility Involvement Air France-KLM in SESAR JU and shared online EIRIS, CDP): more attention to role of human rights, Airports  ialogue on sustainable aviation Rio+20 including D Financial partners Shareholder Club customers are positioned more integral part in the G  round handling W  orking groups with FNAM and GIFAS on  ir Navigation Service A services environmental impacts contribution to ICAO’s Biofuel flight Rating agencies Advisory Committee for individual shareholders supply chain Provider New aircraft A  ir France partner of FCA (Future alternative fuels) 3 workshops Biofuel Flightpath in 2012 Y  early General Shareholders’ Meeting: presentation of Other outcomes: see chapter “Governance” financial and CSR performance S  ustainable biofuels for lead by the DGAC O  ther outcomes; see chapters “Governance” aviation Involvement of Air France in CORAC (Committee for civil and “Minimizing our Environmental footprint” Annual publications Climate change aviation research) Single European Sky Involvement of Air France-KLM in Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group (SAFUG) and support to the P  assengers and  ustomer satisfaction C  ustomer satisfaction studies, surveys, information C 5  00,000 answered in-flight questionnaires, Customer CSR involvement Roundtable on Sustainable Biofuels (membership distributors (BtoB, and service quality from crew and ground staff insight surveys, crew reports, customer feedback through SAFUG) BtoC, BtoT) Health and safety Information on Air France-KLM websites, social media, analysis committee  ir France and KLM members of the Biofuel Flightpath’s A  aintenance M video and information on board, anti-stress training C  ertification (SGS, ISO 22000), reporting, sustainable Core Team of the European Commission A  ssistance in case of customers unforeseen events  ir France-KLM Connect real time information service A catering policy Sustainability Board of SkyNRG Cargo customers Accessibility all along the journey by SMS, emails R  ecovery assistance service, customer assistance  ialogue with manufacturers and motorists to improve D Dialogue with associations of people with disabilities desk in the Operations Control Centers of each air quality and noise mitigation in line with ACARE Innovation, new company technologies Social media, e-services Dialogue and follow up of regulations Local authorities Noise Training and skills-sharing with local associations C  limate Event Amstelveen resulted in increased  ustainable S Meetings, events with customers knowledge on CSR among SME development A  dedicated team for social media dialogue and L  ocal residents Air quality R  oissy area development: 2 Air France staff dedicated Informing about sustainability initiatives via various assistance, new applications, events associations to Pays de Roissy-CDG  hildren’s event in Schiphol area to raise children’s C  educe of CO2 R communication channels Local dialogue  LM takes Care, CSR survey among Flying Blue K  ocal economic L International promotion of Roissy Area associations awareness on the environment emissions S  ocial and economic members, Focus group, meetings (example: SkyTeam players (Aerotropolis, Hubstart, CAREX, ASTEch) (Air France) 2 issues of the publication « Courrier Air France » development CSR cargo meeting)  etter knowledge of air B  ember of the CCE and CCAR of the 10 biggest M M  eeting between the Chairman of Air France and the  O2 calculator for individual customers, carbon C French airports “Association des Collectivités du Grand Roissy” transport issues reporting for corporate customers, KLM BioFuel K  LM involvement in Alders Table and CROS (Schiphol Participation in the Grand Roissy Area Conference Program Regional Consultative Committee) 68  orking visits and tours at Air France and KLM W International promotion Roissy Area associations (Aerotropolis, Hubstart); international Hubstart seminar 69 facilities in Atlanta Employees Working conditions Staff surveys  ollective labour agreement for cockpit, cabin and C  ooperation (“Samenwerkingsagenda”) KLM, C C  ompetition « The Plane of the Future », organized by Trade unions Training and mobility Materiality test ground staff (KLM) Amsterdam, Schiphol on sustainability the association “Pays de Roissy-CDG” with elementary  rofessional P  ealth and occupational H Intranet and internal newsletters and papers  orkplace HR and Skills agreement for ground staff W schools of the territory Stakeholder engagement events in airport areas associations and safety and productivity agreement for pilots (Air France) Dialogue with social partners  ther outcomes: see chapter “Minimizing our O bodies Non-discrimination IPSOS survey and IPM tool (Internal Perception environmental footprint” and “Contributing to local  egular meetings with governments on HR topics, e.g R Monitoring) to measure levels of employee satisfaction development” Diversity discrimination, occupation safety Introduction safety e-learning for all KLM employees Social dialogue Partnerships with universities Scientific community Climate change IAGOS Program (Air France) See chapter “Minimizing our environmental footprint”  ir France and KLM CSR week for employees to raise A N  egotiation and W  ork council Committees focused on working awareness and engagement Universities Operational procedures Research Technical University Delft (KLM) collective labour conditions, CSR and HR policies Launch of LGBT network website Research experts T  echnological M  embership in IDUT and supporting the chair Sustaiagreement Innovation programs for Air France staff at performance nable Tourism of Wageningen University CSR awareness-raising Maintenance (PIQ), ground operations, cabin crew O  ther outcomes: see chapter “Ensuring a responsible Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 AIR FRANCE-KLM AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 human resources policy” A  ir France reforestation project in partnership with Inter-company working groups (ORSE, ANVIE, IMS GoodPlanet and WWF in Madagascar, to improve etc) at Air France with disability groups and the French knowledge of forest carbon National Federation of Marchant Aviation (Air France) Environmental NGOs Climate change KLM Partnership with WWF-NL New steps taken in BioFuel program i.c.w. WWF-NL F  ight against A  ir France funds program to combat deforestation run  inancial support for specific Nature Conservation F I nternational, C  limate change and CO2 D  ialogue and joint actions with national air transport  ore knowledge to environmental and transport M deforestation by GoodPlanet and WWF in Madagascar projects of WWF (a.o the Coral Triangle in Indonesia) European and national reduction authorities ministries on ETS guidelines, and climate policies Air authorities France-KLM in France and The Netherlands P  reservation of  LM participation in IUCN (International Union for K O  ther outcomes: see chapter “Minimizing our E  nvironmental W  orking group on New European Regulations on biodiversity Conservation of Nature) and Leaders for Nature, environmental footprint”’ Certification authorities management passengers rights  ocial and environmental reporting according to article S inspirational program on ecosystem services 225 of the application decree of the French Grenelle II P  artnerships to Passengers rights D  raft proposals at AEA and IATA in particular for a challenge CSR P  artnership with ‘Landschap Noord Holland’ to global sectorial approach to climate change legislation of July 12, 2010  etter knowledge of air B improvements support conservation work in the Schiphol region transport issues Regular working visits of government officials  ther outcomes: see chapters “Our CSR approach O Public Positions and “Minimizing our environmental E  ngagement with various NGO’s on sustainable footprint” resources and climate regulations H  umanitarian and  umanitarian and H  ialogue and cooperation through humanitarian D  ore visibility on KLM CSR initiatives through KLM M Suppliers Environmental and  pplying the Sustainability Charter and environmental A Audit policy established development NGOs development programs projects: Air France Foundation, Acting for Life, Takes Care www.klmtakescare.com social performance clauses for tenders D  ialogue with suppliers resulted in light weight Cargo KLM AirCares  he Group provided €12 million in funding for social T C  SR integration in the Including suppliers in REACH (Registration Evaluation pallets and a dual-fuel truck at Schiphol for Air France onation of tickets and free transportation of cargo D and environmental projects supply chain and Authorization for Chemicals) monitoring KLM Cargo and additional baggage T  he Air France Foundation celebrates its 20th Eco-design Dialogue with suppliers  irborne Wind Energy i.c.w. TU Delft, Schiphol and A  mployees engagement: Friends of the Air France E anniversary: 856 projects sustained since its creation.  ocal economic and L  ainport Innovation Fund to invest in innovative M Rabobank to stimulate new technology to generate Foundation, Wings of Support, Aviation without New website. social development sustainable business ideas for aviation renewable energy. borders (France and NL) Air France Foundation: involvement in 102 projects O  ther outcomes: see chapters “Minimizing our  ialogue sessions in cooperation with the Missing D environmental footprint” and ”Integrating sustainability  ialogue with NGO’s resulted in revising KLM strategy D chapter foundation between the KLM Board of with social partners into the customer experience” Directors and the board of children Other outcomes: see chapter “Contributing to local  takeholder session with NGO’s for feedback S development” on social policy Annexes Group’s main subsidiaries Note on the methodology for the reporting of The table presents the Air France-KLM structure and main subsidiaries over which the Group has at least 50% control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full year and which have a significant number of employees. the social performance indicators In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Disclosure Committee, and validated the proportion of women employees and the percentage working part time. These Air France and Air France subsidiaries AIR FRANCE Brit Air by the college of Statutory Auditors, the Air France-KLM Group’s social indicators are consolidated at the level of the Air France-KLM Group. Note 2: Air France’s Group definition of work-related accidents is in line with performance indicators were defined in order to comply with the requireThe notes below refer to the references in the tables on pages 72 and 73. the definition under French law (at least one day of absence from work). Passenger transport, City Jet ACNA ments of the French New Economic Regulations law (Les Nouvelles ReguTravel-related accidents are not included in the indicator but are the subject Maintenance, Cargo VLM Airlines Bruno Pegorier lations Economiques, NRE, May 15, 2001) and the European Regulation Employees of specific monitoring and action plans. (EC 809/2004). Regional OAT In 2011, work to optimize these indicators was undertaken to align, as of Note 1: The number of people employed by the Group (expressed as Air France this year, the NRE social reporting with the requirements of article 225 of headcount) on both permanent (CDI) and fixed-term contracts (CDD) on Note 2: For 2011 the number of fatal accidents has been corrected because Servair GROUP Servair SA the application decree for the Grenelle II legislation. This update to the social December 31 of the reference year. of the refusal of the qualification occupational accident by the French performance indicators was submitted to the statutory auditors, KPMG Audit, health insuring administration (assurance maladie), after the date of stop Transavia CPA for review before the beginning of the 2011 NRE social reporting process. Recruitment on permanent contracts of figures for the reference document 2011. The corrected value is in acCRMA Base handling Since the 2007-08 financial year, the Group has chosen to have a number cordance with that published in the social audit 2011. of its principal social indicators verified by one of the Statutory Auditors, Note 2: The indicator concerns employees hired on permanent contracts (CDI). BlueLink Passerelle KPMG Audit. These indicators are shown by the symbol √ in the tables on KLM and KLM subsidiaries pages 72 and 73. They are the subject of verification with a limited level For Air France, the calculation of the number of employees recruited on Note 2: KLM’s Group definition of work-related accidents only takes into Sodexi Jet Chef of assurance(1). permanent contracts includes those initially recruited on fixed-term conaccount accidents with at least one day of absence from work. Travel-related The completeness of the environmental, social and societal information distracts (CDD) transferring to permanent contracts (CDI) during the year. accidents are not included in the indicator but are the subject of specific Aero Maintenance Group closed in the 2012 registration document with regards to the requirements For KLM, only employees recruited directly on permanent contracts are monitoring and action plans. KLM KLM Cityhopper B.V. of the article R225-105-1 of the Code of commerce have been reviewed by taken into account. AIR FRANCE KLM one of the Statutory Auditors, KPMG Audit. The statement attesting to discloNote 3: The frequency and severity rates are calculated based on: HOLDING Passenger transport, Transavia Airlines C.V. sure of the environmental, social and societal information issued by KPMG Departures Maintenance, Cargo Audit is available page 136 of the Group’s 2012 registration document. For Air France: KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. Note 3: The reasons for departure are detailed in page 72. For ground staff, the actual paid hours worked. Cygnific B.V. Reporting scope Note the significant number of departures in 2011, i.e. 11,612 employees, For flight crews, the hours of commitment. most of which were due to the non-renewal of fixed-term contracts. The Cobalt Ground Solutions Ltd. The Air France-KLM Group’s social reporting consolidation scope is based on other reasons include departures within the framework of the voluntary For KLM and KLM subsidiaries the number of employees (expressed as headcount) on the payroll at the end departure plan launched in 2010 (1,264 employees) and departures due For all staff based on the theoretical hours worked. KLM Equipment Services B.V. of the calendar year. to retirement, resignation, decease and termination of contracts during The reporting scope covers 96% of the average employees in the Air Francethe trial period. For KLM subsidiaries KLM Health Services B.V. KLM Group at the end of the calendar year, expressed in full-time equivalent. Only redundancies of employees under permanent contract are taken into For the KLM subsidiaries the increase of the frequency and severity rate The subsidiaries of Air France and KLM over which the Group has at least 50% account in the number of redundancies (including Economic). in 2012 is due to more accidents with absence of more than 24 hours KLM UK Engineering Ltd. control, whose acquisition dates back at least one full year and which have at reported for this year, for instance by Cobalt Ground Solutions. Some of 70 Martinair Holland N.V. least 300 employees are included in this social reporting scope. Note that the number of employees for Air France and KLM comprises their entire Percentage of women Organization of working time those accidents cause several weeks of absence, which explains the increase in severity rate. 71 EPCOR B.V. workforce including staff employed internationally. Note 4: These indicators enable the percentage of women to be evaluated relative to the workforce and the proportion of part-time employees on both Training International Aviation Services Ltd. F or the 2012 financial year, the Air France consolidated subsidiaries are: Aero permanent and fixed-term contracts at December 31 of the reference year. KLM Luchtvaart School B.V. Maintenance Group, Bluelink, BritAir, CityJet, VLM, CRMA, Regional, Servair Air France and Air France subsidiaries Group (ACNA, Bruno Pegorier, CPA, Jet Chef, Orly Air Traiteur, Servair SA, PasEmployees by geographical zone at December 31 Note 4: The Number of training hours by employee is calculated based on all serelle and Base Handling), Sodexi and Transavia France, representing 75% of the training sessions, independently of whether or not their nature requires Passenger Maintenance Cargo (logistic Ground Catering Aircraft Call center Medical Assistance to Training the employees of the subsidiaries in the Air France Group Note 5: In 2011 the few KLM employees in the Caribbean and Indian Ocean them to be included in the 2483 Regulatory Declaration. The training data transport or freight transport) services cleaning services passengers For the 2012 financial year, the KLM consolidated subsidiaries are: Cygnific, geographical zone have been included in the number of employees in the for the subsidiaries of the Air France Group are calculated without the data having limited Cobalt Ground Solutions, KLM UK Engineering Limited, KLM Cityhopper (UK and North and South American zone. related to the Transavia France subsidiary. mobility B.V.), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schiphol B.V. and Martinair, representIn 2012, the Air France Group employees in the French Overseas Territories ing 92% of the employees in the subsidiaries of the KLM Group. and Dominions, i.e. 754 employees, are included in the Caribbean and Indian KLM and KLM subsidiaries Ocean geographical zone. Note 4: KLM does not currently have a centralized reporting system solely Social, corporate citizenship In 2012, the reporting scope of the Air France subsidiaries and KLM subsidiaries remains unchanged. “Other social data” tables for the costs of training within KLM and its subsidiaries. Note that the disclosure of the total number of training hours is not required by Dutch law. Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 AIR FRANCE-KLM AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 and environmental information The reference number of employees for calculating the coverage rate of the social reporting is the average number of employees in full time equivalent during 2012 The indicators reported in the other social data tables are subject to different Number of disabled employees supplied by the BFC tool of the Management Control Division. qualification and legal reporting obligations in France and the Netherlands, The reporting period for the Group’s social data is based on the calendar year which means they are not comparable and need to be presented separately Air France and Air France subsidiaries Pursuant to article 225 of the application decree of the French Grenelle II legislation of July 12, 2010, the social, corporate citizenship to ensure consistency with the social performance indicators of other French for Air France and KLM. The subsidiaries concerned in these tables are listed Note 5: For Air France, the number of disabled employees reported are those companies. Note that, since 2011, the financial year has also been based in the Reporting scope section above. for whom a valid certificate, pursuant to French law (article L5212-2 of the and environmental reporting is shown in the Air France-KLM Registration document 2012 (see pages 97 to 138) and the CSR Report 2012 on the calendar year. The absenteeism rate is not communicated for the Air France and KLM French labour code), is available, whatever their ability to perform the tasks (see pages 71 to 77). Virtually all the reported indicators are subject to verification by one of the Group’s Statutory Auditors. subsidiaries in 2012, the follow-up measures being in verification process involved in their position. Note that the data for international employees is Reporting tools at the level of these entities. reported based on local legislation. The number of disabled employees recruited corresponds to the number of Registration document: see pages 99-115 Social information The indicators are compiled and consolidated using the Osyris (Operating Absenteeism Health and safety in the workplace permanent and fixed-term employment contracts signed during the year; CSR report: see pages 52-59, 71-73 SYstem for ReportIng on Sustainability) reporting software at the disposal an employee recruited on a fixed-term contract who then transfers to a Corporate citizenship information of contributors from Air France, KLM and their subsidiaries across the entire A significant portion of the work-related accidents reported by Air France is permanent contract during the year will be reported twice. reporting scope. Precise definitions of each indicator and user guides for due to cases of barometric otitis and musculoskeletal disorders which are Note that the rate of employment of disabled employees for 2012 was not Territorial, economic and social impact Registration document: see pages 117-119 contributors to the Osyris tool are available in both French and English. recognized as work-related accidents in France whereas they are recorded yet known on the date the figures for the reporting of the social indicaEmployment and regional development Local populations CSR report: see pages 60-67 Consistency tests have also been incorporated within the tool. The data is as sick leave by KLM in accordance with Dutch law. tors were produced within the framework of the Management Report and verified and approved locally at the level of each subsidiary by a local verifier Registration Document. Relations with stakeholders Registration document: see pages 116, 119 who is responsible for the HR statistical data. Air France Conditions of the dialogue with stakeholders Actions of partnership and sponsorship CSR report: see pages 16-17 and 68-69 This system is supplemented by a general reporting procedure which defines Note 1: The absenteeism rates are calculated on the basis of a ratio of KLM and KLM subsidiaries the process for compiling, calculating and consolidating the indicators, based the days of absence over the days theoretically worked (excluding leave). Note 5: For KLM, an individual is considered to be disabled if unable to Subcontractors and suppliers on an instruction memorandum circulated by the Air France-KLM Group’s carry out his or her work or any other work at an equivalent salary level. This Registration document: see pages 120-121 Integration of social and environmental issues into the Group’s procurement policy Finance Division. KLM and KLM subsidiaries requires the employer and the employee to look for another position with a CSR report: see pages 42-51 Importance of subcontracting and consideration in the relationship with subcontractors and suppliers of their social and environmental responsibility The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s social data is carried out by Note 1: In the Netherlands, there is no difference between the management salary as near as possible to the previous level and gives the employee the Air France’s Sustainable Development department. of absence following a work-related accident or due to illness. Absences due right to government benefits to compensate for any difference. Fair business practices Registration document: see pages 116-117 to illness or work-related accidents are handled in the same way. For this Action implemented against corruption Measures implemented to promote consumers health and safety CSR report: see pages 20-21, 51 Details and methodology/Commentary reason, all the days of sick leave or absence due to work-related accidents As of 2011, the number of disabled employees in the KLM subsidiaries Registration document: see page 116 on changes in the indicators are taken into account in the rate of absenteeism for illness. has been calculated including the data related to the subsidiary Martinair. Actions implemented to promote human rights CSR report: see page 22 “Consolidated social data for the Health and safety – work-related accidents Registration document: see pages 122-135 Air France-KLM Group” table 1. The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Environmental information There are significant differences in the definition’s criteria for work-related acStandard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000), specific to the verification CSR report: see pages 26-39 and 74-76 This table presents the indicators relating to employees, recruitment, departures, cidents between France and the Netherlands (see paragraph on absenteeism). of extra-financial data verification. Annexes Social indicators Other social data for the Air France Other data for KLM Group Group (according to local legislation) (according to local legislation) Air France (100% of the staff headcount, registered KLM ( 100% of the staff headcount, registered Consolidated social data Air France-KLM Air France Group * KLM Group ** and payed at the end of the calendar year) * 2011 2012 12/11 and payed at the end of the calendar year) * 2011 2012 12/11 for Air France-KLM Group Group Air France Group from which Air France KLM Group from which KLM Absenteeism 1 Absenteeism 1 2010 2011 2012 12/11 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 2011 2012 Due to illness √ 3.83% 3.74% -2% Due to illness √ 6.11% 5.24% -14% Headcount at 31/12 (permanent contracts and fixed-term contracts) 1 Due to work accidents √ 0.61% 0.54% -11% Maternity leave √ 0.63% 0.55% -13% Scope of reporting √ 96% 96% 96% 0.0% 95% 95% 100% 100% 98% 98% 100% 100% Maternity leave √ 1.15% 1.06% -8% Health and safety Total staff √ 105,928 106,618 104,130 -2.3% 71,028 69,513 58,065 56,893 35,590 34,617 29,424 28,698 Health and safety Total workplace accidents √ 2 217 219 1% Ground staff 70,747 71,277 69,516 -2.5% 49,472 48,337 38,957 38,066 21,805 21,179 17,501 17,043 Total workplace accidents √ 2 2,139 2,070 -3% Number of fatal workplace accidents 0 0 0% Cabin crew 26,144 26,380 25,863 -2.0% 16,187 15,941 14,988 14,762 10,193 9,922 9,175 8,973 Number of fatal workplace accidents 2 1 0 -100% Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 3 4.54 4.73 4% Flight deck crew 9,037 8,961 8,751 -2.3% 5,369 5,235 4,120 4,065 3,592 3,516 2,748 2,682 Frequency rate of workplace accidents √ 3 26.23 26.20 -0.1% Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 0.16 0.16 0% Staff under permanent contract 102,045 101,603 100,273 -1.3% 68,307 67,201 56,586 55,728 33,296 33,072 28,119 27,819 Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 1.07 1.05 -2% Training 4 Recruitment under permanent contract at 31/12 √ 2 1,383 2,481 848 -65.8% 1,409 707 773 309 1,072 141 1,007 103 Training Total training costs in K€ √ 69,422 60,777 -12% Recruitment under fixed-term contract at 31/12 √ 3,084 6,621 4,313 -35% 5,452 3,962 3,053 1,863 1,169 351 589 134 Number of training hours by employee √ 4 32 31 -1% Total training costs in € per full time equivalent 2,891 2,539 -12% Departures at 31/12 5 8,816 11,612 8,571 -26% 8,998 7,168 6,194 4,315 2,614 1,403 859 935 Disabled staff 5 Disabled staff of which redundancies (incl. Economic) √ 662 995 640 -36% 338 542 149 247 657 98 54 71 Total staff with disabilities √ 1,634 1,691 3% Total staff with disabilities √ 5 656 696 6% Percentage of women at 31/12 √ 4 42.5% 42.8% 42.8% 0% 42.9% 43.1% 44.6% 44.5% 42.4% 42.1% 43.6% 43.3% Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 30 20 -33% Collective agreements √ 0 3 Percentage of part time employees at 31/12 √ 4 24.4% 24.5% 25.5% 4.2% 18.4% 19.0% 20.5% 21.1% 36.7% 38.6% 38.3% 39.9% Collective agreements √ 18 40 Breakdown of staff by age at 31/12 KLM Subsidiaries 2011 2012 12/11 29 year and less √ NA 10,052 8,222 -18.2% 6,353 5,254 4,696 3,807 3,699 2,968 2,445 1,994 Air France Subsidiaries 2011 2012 12/11 Scope of reporting for KLM subsidiaries 93% 92% -1% Between 30 and 39 year included √ NA 33,065 30,305 -8.3% 23,456 21,422 19,478 17,802 9,609 8,883 7,827 7,206 Health and safety Scope of reporting for Air France subsidiaries 76% 75% -1% Between 40 and 49 year included √ NA 37,101 37,255 0.4% 23,834 24,266 19,507 19,857 13,267 12,989 11,263 10,999 Total workplace accidents √ 2 70 92 31% 72 50 year and more √ NA 26,400 28,348 7.4% 17,385 18,571 14,384 15,427 9,015 9,777 7,889 8,549 Health and safety Total workplace accidents √ 2 870 993 14% Number of fatal workplace accidents 0 0 0% 73 Breakdown of staff by geographical area at 31/12 Frequency rate for workplace accidents √ 3 5.88 8.46 44% Europe (except France and The Netherlands) √ NA 5,072 4,607 -9.2% 2,661 2,346 1,913 1,652 2,411 2,261 988 931 Training Severity rate of workplace accidents √ 3 0.08 0.15 88% North & South America √ NA 2,255 2,013 -10.7% 1,862 1,655 1,549 1,369 393 358 392 357 Number of training hours by employee √ 4 21 20 -4% Training 4 Caribbean/Indian Ocean (including French overseas territories) 5 √ NA 1,118 1,109 -0.8% 1,118 1,047 878 839 0 62 0 62 Disabled staff 5 Total training costs in K€ √ 21,206 19,736 -7% Asia/Pasific √ NA 1,710 1,678 -1.9% 776 744 771 739 934 934 934 933 Total staff with disabilities √ 481 543 13% Total training costs in € per full time equivalent 2,961 2,939 -1% Africa/the Middle East √ NA 1,594 1,607 0.8% 1,118 1,048 1,101 1,025 476 559 476 559 Total staff with disabilities recruited during year √ 32 27 -16% Disabled staff The Netherlands √ NA 31,533 30,562 -3.1% 178 161 26 24 31,355 30,401 26,613 25,814 Collective agreements √ 43 23 Total staff with disabilities √ 5 81 88 9% Continental France √ NA 63,336 62,554 -1.2% 63,315 62,512 51,827 51,245 21 42 21 42 Collective agreements √ 4 7 √ Indicators verified by KPMG for 2012 (moderate level of assurance). √ Indicators verified by KPMG for 2012 (moderate level of assurance). nA: Not available. * Data in italics concerns only Air France in Continental France and the French overseas territories. √ Indicators verified by KPMG for 2012 (moderate level of assurance). Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 AIR FRANCE-KLM AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 * Air France Group: Air France and Air France subsidiaries. * KLM: Data concerns KLM without international staff. Air France subsidiaries: Aero Maintenance Group, Blue Link, Brit Air, City Jet, VLM, CRMA, Regional, Sodexi, Transavia France and Servair Group : ACNA, Bruno Pegorier, Jet Chef, OAT, Servair SA, CPA, Passerelle, Base Handling. The scope was extended to two new subsidiaries in 2011: Aero Maintenance Group and Jet Chef (in the Servair Group). ** KLM Group: KLM and KLM subsidiaries. Women in the Group (in %) KLM subsidiaries: Cygnific, Cobalt Ground Solutions, KLM Cityhopper (UK and BV), Transavia, KLM Catering Services Schipol B.V., KLM UK Engineering Limited and Martinair. 2012 Board of Directors 20.0% Group ( GEC) 0% Executive Committees AIR FRANCE 13.3% Breakdown of staff by age (in %) Breakdown of staff by geographical area Breakdown of departures by cause KLM 8.6% AIR FRANCE 26.7% Continental France The Netherlands Senior managers/executives air france-klm group air france group klm group KLM 21.3% AIR FRANCE 31.2% Ground staff managerial 40% 7% Redundancies 7% (incl. 24% economic) KLM 24.5% 4% Europe (except Cabin crew 51.9% 2% France and The 13% 13% Resignations AIR FRANCE Cockpit crew 3.2% 30% Netherlands) 25% Other Flight crew managerial departures (of which Cabin crew 71.3% 2% Americas KLM 2% 47% employees who Cockpit crew 3.2% 60% 11% 4% 1% Caribbean, Indian Ocean 43% are not present and 20% unpaid, other causes: AIR FRANCE 40.4% (including Ground staff non managerial 1% French overseas end of probation KLM 30.6% territories) 25% time, death) 10% Cabin crew 65.5% 2% 2% Africa/the Middle East 12% Retirements AIR FRANCE Cockpit crew 7.2% 2% Asia/PACIFIC Flight crew 29% 12% 43% End of fixed term contracts Cabin crew 85.9% KLM 29 year and less Between 30 and Between 40 and 49 50 year and older Cockpit crew 5.0% 39 year included year included Annexes Note on the methodology for the reporting of Environmental indicators the environmental indicators In 2005-06, under the aegis of the Air France-KLM Group’s Disclosure When the data is not available, the figure reported for the year is estimated J et fuel A1 for testing engines. Committee, and validated by the college of Statutory Auditors, the Group’s based on the value reported for the previous year. In 2012, this estimation Domestic Fuel Oil (DFO) for power generators. Flight Operations Air France-KLM Group Air France Group 1 klm Group 2 environmental performance indicators were defined in order to comply method was not used.. Off-road diesel fuel for a portion of the Air France runway equipment. Unit 2010 2011 2012 12/11 2010 2011 2012 12/11 2010 2011 2012 12/11 with the requirements of the French New Economic Regulations law (Les Petrol and diesel fuel for Air France and Servair vehicles and Air France Nouvelles Regulations Économiques, NRE, May 15, 2001) and the European Flight operations and KLM ground support equipment. Consumption Regulation (EC 809/2004). Consumption of raw materials: fuel √ √ ktons 8,534 8,950 8,956 0.1% 4,860 5,047 5,078 0.6% 3,674 3,903 3,878 -0.6% As of the 2007-08 financial year, the Group chose to have a selection of CO2 emissions The decline seen between 2011 and 2012 for the Air France Group is partly environmental indicators (indicated by the symbols √ and √√) verified by The Air France-KLM Group’s CO2 emissions remained stable between 2011 explained by the energy efficiency measures in place. emissions one of the Statutory Auditors, KPMG Audit, with the highest level of assurand 2012, activity having seen little variation from one year to the other. Emissions from ground operations (CO2, SO2 and NOx) ance, reasonable assurance( ), for fuel consumption and the related CO2 Note that there are differences between the scope of the CO2 emissions CO2, SO2 and NOx emissions and their trends are linked to the energy Greenhouse gas CO2 √ √ ktons 26,879 28,193 28,210 0.1% 15,308 15,899 15,997 0.6% 11,571 12,294 12,213 -0.7% emissions for air operations (√√) and a limited level of assurance (1) for the reported and those of the European Emissions Trading Scheme for greenconsumption listed above. emissions other verified indicators (√). house gas emission quotas (EU-ETS), which do not enable a comparison. For Air France, the sharp reduction in SO2 emissions is due to the change in fuel for runway equipment. The domestic fuel oil which was used until Emissions of NOx low altitude (< 3,000 ft) √ ktons 8.7 9.0 9.2 2.2% 6.1 6.2 6.3 1.6% 2.6 2.8 2.9 3.6% Scope covered and scope N-1 SO2 emissions 2011 has been replaced by off-road diesel fuel whose maximum sulphur substances contributing SO2 ktons 10.2 10.4 9.9 -4.8% 6.6 7.2 6.4 -11.1% 3.6 3.2 3.5 9.4% The calculation of the SO2 emissions from flight operations is based on the content is 100 times lower. to acidification and For the flight operations, the environmental consolidation scope covers: average sulphur content of the fuel loaded, respectively, on the Amsterdam NOx emissions related to engine testing are calculated based on a metheutrophication SO2 low altitude (<,3 000 ft) √ ktons 0.7 0.8 0.7 -12.5% 0.5 0.6 0.5 -16.7% 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.0% All the Air France commercial flights operated under the AF code by Air and Paris platforms which is applied, respectively, to all fuel used during the odology similar to the one used for flight operations which reflects the Occurences of fuel jettison √ number 39 29 41 41.4% 27 23 27 17.4% 12 6 14 133.3% France and its subsidiaries Brit Air, Régional and CityJet. The flights operyear by KLM, Air France and the Air France subsidiaries. actual testing conditions. In-flight fuel jettison ated by Transavia France have also been included since 2011. The fall in SO2 emissions from the Group’s flight operations between 2011 Fuel jettisoned √ tons 1,671 1,152 1,839 59.6% 1,180 945 1,210 28.0% 491 207 629 203.9% All the KLM commercial flights operated under the KLM code by KLM and 2012 is mainly due to the 11% reduction in the average sulphur VOC Emissions Other emissions HC low altitude (< 3,000 ft) √ ktons 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.0% 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.0% 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.0% and its subsidiary KLM Cityhopper (KLC). The flights operated by KLM’s content in the fuel. VOC emissions are calculated based on the direct emissions of solvents Transavia and Martinair subsidiaries were included as part of the KLM For the KLM Group, the increase is due to the rise in the average sulphur contained in the products used; VOCs contained in evacuated waste are Noise impact Group as of 2010. They are not included in the indicators for low altitude content of the fuel used. excluded. Global noise energy indicator √ 1012 kJ 1.65 1.65 1.69 2.4% 1.10 1.11 1.16 4.5% 0.55 0.54 0.53 -1.9% emissions of HC, NOx and SO2. For the Air France Group, the increase between 2011 and 2012 is mainly NOx and HC low altitude emissions (LTO) due to more aircraft being painted in 2012 (22 aircraft in 2012 versus For the ground operations, the consolidation scope for the environmental The methodology used for the calculation of low altitude emissions, which 9 in 2011). √ Figures verified by KPMG for 2012 (limited level of assurance). √√ Figures verified by KPMG for 2012 (reasonable level of assurance). reporting is unchanged on that of last year and covers 100% of the sites is to say below 3,000 feet, is common to Air France and KLM. It is based 1. Air France Group scope: all flights under AF code operated by Air France, Brit Air, Régional and CityJet, and flights operated by Transavia France from 2011. in France and the Netherlands. The international outstations are not taken on the LTO (Landing-Takeoff) cycle and on engine data communicated HC Emissions 2. KLM Group scope: all flights operated by KLM and KLM Cityhopper. Transavia and Martinair are included for fuel consumption, CO2 and SO2 emissions (exception of low altitude emissions of HC, NOx and SO2). into account. by the ICAO (2). The taxiing time taken into account is the actual taxiing Hydrocarbon (HC) emissions include the emissions from vehicles and ground Air France consolidated subsidiaries are: Brit Air, Régional, CRMA, Sodexi, time, which is more precise than standard values recommended by the support equipment, engine testing and aircraft fuelling. BlueLink and Servair and its subsidiaries (only for the activities in France). ICAO methodology. Note, however, that the actual taxiing time not being Transavia France and CityJet are not included in the reporting scope. available for Transavia France, the standard ICAO values have been used Hazardous industrial waste 74 Furthermore, for Air France, the indicators in the domestic outstations are not reported when there is no detail available on the fixed charges invoiced for this subsidiary. Note: Following a review of the materiality of the reported indicators in the When the quantity of hazardous waste has not been communicated by service providers at the end of the reporting campaign, the quantity mentioned 75 by airports. The contribution of the domestic outstations affected by this light of the Grenelle II legislation, it was decided to no longer report total NOx in the specification slip is taken into account. This is, however, estimated issue is, however, marginal compared with the reported data. and HC emissions but to concentrate on low altitude emissions impacting to be marginal. Concerning the Air France Group, the reporting scope is based on worldwide mostly air pollution around airports. The reprocessing channels taken into account are those in the European premises representing around 87% of the Group. KLM consolidated subsidiaries are KLC (KLM CityHopper), KES (KLM Equipment Services), KCS (KLM Catering Services) and KHS (KLM Health As a result, starting from 2012, Air France-KLM has reported only NOx and HC low altitude emissions. regulation. The significant increase in the quantity of hazardous waste since 2011 is due to the evacuation, as hazardous waste, of water infiltrating into a KLM Air France-KLM’s fleet Services), and Transavia NL and Martinair (for a portion of the indicators). In-flight fuel jettison Cityhopper building. An exceptional operation (less than one flight in 10,000 in 2012) involvOperational aircraft as of December 31, 2012: 573 Since 2011, the reporting period for the Group’s environmental data has ing the jettisoning of a quantity of fuel in flight to avoid an overloaded Effluents been changed to a rolling twelve months from October 1 N-1 until Septemplane on landing whenever a flight is aborted. Each operation is effected in Both Air France and KLM entities are required to comply with the French Average fleet age: 9.9 years ber 3 N. This results from the change in the reporting period for the financial close coordination with air traffic control under strict conditions governing and Dutch legislation on effluents. Each relevant site has regulatory limits statements from the IATA year (April 1 to March 31) to the calendar year. geographical location (avoiding urban zones) and altitude (generally at or on effluents and the frequency of measurement. The national figures for greenhouse gas emissions will be published at a above 2,000 meters). The reported data reflects the number of times a regulatory threshold is later stage and remain based on the calendar year. exceeded relative to the number of measurements for each type of effluent. Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 AIR FRANCE-KLM AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 Total noise energy For 2012, the results, expressed in terms of the number of times regulatory Air France Group KLM Group Reporting tools This indicator was established by the Air France-KLM Group to manage the limits are exceeded as a proportion of measurements were, respectively: evolution in the noise footprint of its activity. The total noise energy indicator For Air France, 0/4 for Nitrogen compounds, 1/50 for Phosphorus comAverage age AIRCRAFT Number of Average age AIRCRAFT Number of The environmental indicators are assembled at local level via two reporting is calculated according to the methodology defined by the DGAC (3). It applies pounds and 14/742 for metals. (years) TYPE aircraft (years) TYPE aircraft tools: Osyris (Enablon software) for Air France and CaeSaR for KLM, which to all flights with the AF or KLM Commercial Code operated, franchised and For KLM, 0/52 for Nitrogen compounds, 0/52 for Phosphorus compounds A318, A319 737-700 are available, respectively, at each Air France and KLM subsidiary. chartered, code share excepted. and 0/280 for metals. Short and medium-haul 10.2 140 6.7 46 A320, A321 /-800 / -900 The reliability of the reporting process is supported by definitions of each The noise energy calculation for the KLM Group excludes the B747-400 indicator and user guides for contributors available in both French and ER aircraft operated by Martinair. Note that the metals reported are Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. A380, A330-200 A330-200/-300 English. Consistency tests have also been implemented. The trends in noise energy and traffic are determined by comparing total Long-haul 9.2 A340-300 103 11.7 777-200/-300 64 The consolidation of the Air France-KLM Group’s environmental data is noise energy calculated for the calendar year with that of 2000. 777-200/-300, 747-400 MD11, 747-400 carried out by the Air France Environment department. Ground operations 747-400ERF Details and methodology, comments Cargo 7.4 5 8.6 747-400ERF 4 777F on variations Water consumption The consumption of water is taken into account for all ground activities. Regional fleet Embraer, At Air France-KLM Group level, the regulatory requirements and the reportWater used on board flights is not included. AF: Brit Air, Régional, CityJet, VLM 10.8 Bombardier, 118 10.4 F70, EMB190 48 ing and consolidation principles are outlined in a document entitled the KLM: Cityhopper Avro, F50 Instruction Memo Environment, which is updated annually. The modalities Consumption of other energies for the assembly of the data, calculation methodologies and operational The indicator includes the different sources of energy consumed: Other fleet 737-700/-800 consolidation are defined in procedures which are specific to Air France Natural gas for heating buildings, aircraft painting workshops in MainAF: Transavia France 7.4 737-800 8 9.8 37 MD11-F and KLM, and which are harmonized whenever possible. tenance and cooking (the catering activity in particular). The conversion KLM: transavia.com, Martinair Within the framework of an approach based on continuous improvement, factor of the quantity of gas used as energy is calculated by taking Total 10.0 YEARS 374 9.8 YEARS 199 the methodologies used for some performance indicators are constantly into account the quality of gas specific to France and the Netherlands. being improved and, notably, the precision of their definitions. When these Superheated and iced water for climate comfort. For Air France, superchanges have a significant impact on the data, comparison with the figures heated and iced water is supplied by ADP (Aéroports de Paris) at the Orly for previous years is not meaningful. and Roissy sites. The KLM facilities do not consume this type of energy. 1. The review work was conducted in accordance with the International Standard for Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000) specific to the verification of extra-financial data. 2. International Civil Aviation Organization. 3. French Civil Aviation Authority (Direction Générale de l’Aviation Civile). Annexes Environmental indicators Statutory Auditor’s Assurance Report on a Selection of Environmental and Social Indicators of Air France-KLM Group for the year ended December 31, 2012 Ground Operations Air France-KLM Group Air France Group 1 klm Group 2 Unit 2010 2011 2012 12/11 2010 2011 2012 12/11 2010 2011 2012 12/11 Consumption As requested and in our capacity as Statutory Nature and scope of work tables ‘Environmental indicators’ and ‘Social Water consumption √ Thousands m3 951 886 812 -8.4% 749 694 624 -10.1% 202 192 188 -2.1% Auditors of Air France-KLM S.A., we have perWe conducted our procedures in accordance indicators’ of Air France-KLM Group’s 2012 Electricity consumption √ MWh 416,149 408,408 392,223 -4.0% 321,818 309,655 293,406 -5.2% 94,331 98,753 98,817 0.1% formed a review in order to provide: with International Standards on Assurance EnManagement Report and 2012 Corporate Other energies consumption √ MWh 470,552 543,749 513,562 -5.6% 367,748 316,650 295,757 -6.6% 102,804 3 227,099 217,805 -4.1% a limited level of assurance on the environgagements (ISAE 3000) and in compliance with Social Responsibility Report, identified by the Emissions mental and social indicators for the year the professional guidelines applicable in France. symbol √, have been prepared, in all material Greenhouse gas ended December 31, 2012 selected by Air respects, in accordance with the above-menCO2 √ tons 92,569 89,841 85,680 -4.6% 47,850 38,975 36,841 -5.5% 44,719 50,866 48,839 -4.0% emissions France KLM Group and identified by the Limited assurance tioned Protocol. Emissions of substances Emissions of volatile symbol √, We conducted the following procedures in ortons 167 129 146 13.2% 132 90 102 13.3% 35 39 44 12.8% contributing to organic compounds VOC √ a reasonable level of assurance on the indider to obtain limited assurance about whether Reasonable assurance photochemical pollution Emissions of HC tons 161 167 145 -13.2% 106 108 86 -20.4% 55 59 59 0% cators ‘Fuel consumption’ and ‘CO2 emisthe Data identified by the symbol √ are free from In our opinion, the indicators ‘Fuel consumpsions’ relating to air operations for the year material misstatement. A higher level of assurtion’ and ‘CO2 emissions’ relating to air operaEmissions of substances NOx √ tons 879 810 773 -4.6% 605 541 508 -6.1% 274 269 265 -1.5% contributing to ended December 31, 2012, identified by the ance would have required more extensive work. tions, identified by the symbol √√ in the 2012 acidification and symbol √√. We assessed the Protocol used for reporting Management Report and 2012 Corporate Soeutrophication SO2 √ tons 13.2 19.6 16.1 -17.9% 9.8 16.6 12.9 -22.3% 3.3 3.0 3.2 6.7% This selection of indicators (‘the Data’) is preenvironmental and social performance indicacial Responsibility Report, have been prepared, Waste sented in the tables ‘Environmental indicators’ tors with regard to its relevance, reliability, obin all material respects, in accordance with the Quantity of non-hazardous and ‘Social indicators’ of the 2012 Managejectivity, understandability and completeness; above-mentioned Protocol. tons 58,756 58,964 57,060 -3.2% 42,309 42,155 40,236 -4.6% 16,447 16,809 16,824 0.1% industrial waste √ ment Report and the 2012 Corporate Social We conducted interviews with Air France’s Quantity of hazardous Responsibility Report of Air France-KLM Group Environment and Sustainable Development Paris La Défense, February 28, 2013 Waste production tons 5,914 7,000 7,009 0.1% 4,569 4,748 4,474 -5.8% 1,345 2,252 2,535 12.6% industrial waste √ (“the Group”). division in order to update our knowledge of 76 % of hazardous industrial waste recovered √ % 47% 45% 58% +13 pts 36% 28% 43% +15 pts 84% 81% 85% +4 pts Management’s responsibility the reporting process and system in place, and ascertain that the reporting Protocol had KPMG Audit 77 Effluents The Data were prepared under the responsibility been applied correctly; Department of KPMG S.A. Compliance rate of Nitrogen compounds √ % 100% 100% 100% 0 pt 100% 100% 100% 0 pt 100% 100% 100% 0 pt of Air France’s Environment and Sustainable We performed tests on the implementation effluents with regulatory Phosphorus compounds √ % 100% 100% 99% -1 pt 100% 100% 98% -2 pt 100% 100% 100% 0 pt Development division, in accordance with inof the Protocol, based on a sample of entilimits ternal performance reporting procedures (hereties (‘the Entities selected’). For the Entities Metals4 √ % 100% 99% 98% -1 pt 100% 99.5% 98% -1.5 pt 100% 98.5% 100% +1.5 pt inafter ‘the Protocol’), which may be consulted selected, we verified that the Protocol had Valérie Besson √ Figures verified by KPMG for 2012 (limited level of assurance). at the Group’s head office. The method used been understood and implemented correctly, Partner 1. Air France and subsidiaries : Régional, BritAir, Servair and its subsidiaries (France only), Sodexi, CRMA and BlueLink. CityJet and Transavia France are not included. to collect the data and calculate the social and and we performed arithmetic tests, on a sam2. KLM and its subsidiaries : KLM CityHopper (KLC), KLM Equipment Services (KES), KLM Catering Services (KCS) and KLM Health Services (KHS). Transavia and Martinair are partially included. environmental indicators is explained in the ple basis, on the indicator calculations and Michel Piette 3. Diesel for vehicles and ground support equipments, and jet A1 for testing engines were not included in 2010. 4. Cr, Cd, Ni, Cu, Pb, Sn and Zn. notes accompanying the tables ‘Environmental reconciliations of the Data with supporting Partner Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 AIR FRANCE-KLM AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 indicators’ and ‘Social indicators’. documents; We performed consistency tests on the conIndependence and quality solidated Data at Group level. Breakdown of the Group's energy Type of energy consumed in 2012 control 1. Environment: Air France Industrial Division (Roissy, Orly and Villeneuve Le Roi), Air France Operations Division (ground vehicles), Servair group and consumption in 2012 Our independence is defined by regulatory The Entities selected represent an average of subsidiaries (Servair 1, Acna Roissy), KLM Schiphol for ground operations. requirements, our profession’s Code of Eth81% of the consolidated environmental Data Air France and subsidiaries CityJet, BritAir, Regional and Transavia France, KLM, KLM CityHopper, Transavia and Martinair for air operations. ics and Article L. 822-11 of the French Comand 75% of the consolidated social Data. Social: Air France in France, KLM and Cygnific in the Netherlands. mercial Code. In addition, we have set up a 6% 7% 6% 32% Engineering comprehensive quality control system, includReasonable assurance & Maintenance ing documented policies and procedures, to We conducted the above-mentioned proce9% 15% ensure compliance with ethical requirements, dures with a greater number of tests in order to 32% 18% Subsidiaries 43% Electricity professional standards and applicable legal and obtain reasonable assurance that the indicators 18% Ground 18% Diesel oil &Service Equipment regulatory requirements. ‘Fuel consumption’ and ‘CO2 emissions’ relat18% Natural gas 11% Corporate/ 43% Statutory auditor’s ing to air operations, identified by the symbol √√ 11% buildings 15% Superheated/ were free from material misstatement. cooled water responsibility 6% Engine test runs 18% 7% Others Our responsibility is to issue conclusions on the Conclusion 6% Cargo Data, based on our work. The conclusions given Limited assurance 18% 18% 9% Other below relate solely to the Data and not to Air 18% France-KLM Group’s 2012 Management Report Based on the procedures performed, we did and 2012 Corporate Social Responsibility Report not identify any material misstatements that as a whole. call into question the fact that the Data in the Annexes Global compact on Communication on Progress International non-financial indexes and ratings Air France-KLM established a Corporate Social Responsibility Statement which covers the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact. Below an overview of where the information can be found in the report regarding these principles and where additional information can be found. Air France-KLM is assessed annually by the major international non-financial rating agencies, including SAM, Viego, Eiris. Extra information available For the 8th year running, the Group has been ranked leader in the aviation sector by the two DJSI indexes, DJSI World and DJSI Europe. In Global Compact principle Pages Source 2012 the Group was also named Supersector Leader ‘Travel & Leisure’ for the fourth time. This recognition places the Group in the world’s 19 outside the CSR report most sustainable companies listed on the DJSI. Human Rights 14, 16, Air France-KLM Social and Ethics Charter In-house documents, 22, 48, http://www.af-klm.com/procurement/en/ Thanks to this performance the Group retained its listing on the Vigeo indexes (World 120, Europe 120, France 20), ASPI Eurozone, Ethibel Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of  ontract clause on labour protection, and Sustainable Procurement C internationally proclaimed human rights; and 57, 58 Charter for suppliers Air France: http://corporate.airfrance.com/ Sustainability Index (ESI) Excellence Europe and FTSE4Good Index Series. Air France-KLM is included in the CDLI 2012 (Carbon Disclosure Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. en/sustainable-development Leadership Index) which ranks the best 20 French companies on the SBF 250 (the largest 250 companies by market capitalization in France). KLM: ww.klmtakescare.com Labour Law 52-59 A  ir France: Charters for the prevention of harassment at the In-house documents, Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the workplace, for Occupational Safety and Accident prevention, Air France and KLM CSR websites effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Agreement on psychological and social risks. Air France-KLM Registration Document Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour;  LM: preamble of the Collective Labor Agreement, Occupational K 2012 (pages 91,97-115) Health & Safety Policy Statement. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 24-39 G  EP Code for Good Environmental Practices In-house documents, Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to Air France and KLM CSR websites E nvironmental protection clause for suppliers environmental challenges; Air France-KLM Registration Document Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 2012 (pages 122-135) responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 78 Fight against Corruption 14, 18, 22, 45, Air France-KLM Financial Code of Ethics In-house documents, Air France and KLM CSR websites 79 Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Code of Ethics to be signed by Air France and KLM buyers including extortion and bribery. 48, 57 Air France-KLM 2012 Registration Whistle blower procedures, Document 2012 (page 19-21, 91, KLM Code of Conduct 116-121) GRI correspondence table GRI3 principles and recommendations were taken into account for the writing of this report. GRI has performed the Application Level Check to show to Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 AIR FRANCE-KLM AIR FRANCE-KLM Corporate social RESPONSIBILITY report 2012 which extent the GRI guidelines have been utilized in the report. The check confirmed the A level. The complete GRI indicators table can be found on the Air France and KLM website: www.klmtakescare.com and http://corporate.airfrance.com/en/sustainable-development. Management approach and performance indicators Governance, Commitments Labor Practices & Decent Pages of the report Strategy and Analysis Organizational profile Report Parameters Product reponsibility Sector supplement This report is printed using the most environmentally-friendly process at each step: 100% FSC and EU EcoLabel (n° FR Environmental 011/003) recycled paper, vegetable inks, biodegradable acrylic varnish, recycle proof glue. The report is printed by Print and Engagement work Human rights Alliance, ISO 14001 certified. Economic Society indicators Main chapters of the report Foreword 3 x Using 100% recycled Igloo Silk paper, rather than non-recyclable paper, resulted in the saving of: Interview 4 x Financial results 7 x Sector context and Group's strenghts 8 x x x x x 173 kg CSR main accomplishments 10 of CO2 41,789 liters 3 934 kWh 2 601 kg 1 600 kg Our CSR approach 14 x x x x x x x x x x Minimising our environmental footprint 26 x x x equivalent to 1,734 km of water of energy of wood of waste in an average sent to landfill Integrating sustainability into the customer experience 42 x x European car Ensuring a responsible human resources policy 52 x x x x x Contributing to local development 60 x x x x Source: The estimate of the carbon footprint of this report is realized by FactorX according to the methodology of Bilan Carbone®. Calculations arise from a comparison between recycled paper used and virgin fibers paper according to the last Annexes 68 x x x x x available data of BRIEF European (for virgin fibers paper). The results arise from technical information and are subject to modification. Document produced by Conception, rewriting and execution: BETC Content – Art direction and artwork production: Dot Studio – Infographics: Studio.v2 – Photo-engraving: Compos-Juliot – Cover: Harrison & Wolf Air France KLM Royal Dutch Airlines Environment and CSR Division CSR Office 45, rue de Paris Postbus 7700 Photographs: Air France and KLM photographic libraries, Patrick Delapierre, bilum, Edward Paker / WWF-Canon, Laurence Cuisance, Rob de Bie, Close the Gap. This document has been printed by Print Alliance on 100% FSC recycled paper. 95747 Roissy-CDG cedex 1117 ZL Schiphol France The Netherlands For more information please visit: http://corporate.airfrance.com and www.klmtakescare.com If you have any question, you can send an e-mail to: mail.developpementdurable@airfrance.fr and csr@klm.com www.airfranceklm.com www.airfranceklm-finance.com
